 While all states have some form of federal-state unemployment program, the limits placed on this program can vary from state to state.


Check with your State Unemployment Insurance Agency as soon as you lose your job to learn more specific information about whether or not you qualify for unemployment benefits.In most states, you will need to be fully unemployed before filing for unemployment compensation. However, some states, like California, do allow you to file for unemployment if you become partially unemployed.Typically, you will only qualify for unemployment if you have lost full-time or part-time work. Self-employed individuals do not often qualify for unemployment upon losing their source of income, but you should check with your state in order to verify that no unemployment aid is available.;
, You should file in the state that you were originally employed in.


Note that moving to or living in another state may not completely disqualify you from receiving unemployment benefits. If you worked in multiple states or currently live in a state other than the one you were employed in, contact the Unemployment Agency in the state you currently live in for more information. That agency should direct you on how to file claims with other states.
 A "base period" refers to a state-established period of time you must be employed during before receiving benefits.


In most states, the base period refers to the first four out of the last five calendar quarters prior to the time of your unemployment claim.Note that unemployment benefits are usually determined by the amount of earnings made during the base period. Weekly benefit amounts may be figured by the calendar quarter in which you earned the most.
 The reason for your job loss greatly impacts whether or not you qualify. Under most circumstances, if you quit your job or were fired for just reasons, you will not qualify.


For example, in New York, you likely qualify for unemployment if you were released from your job due to lack of work, the end of an employment season, the elimination of your job position, an involuntary reduction in work force, downsizing, company restructuring, or a lack of company funds.Your unemployment application might be denied if you were fired for violating a company rule or if you quit your job without reason.
If you quit your job, you will have to prove that you did so for good reason. "Good" reasons can include unsafe working conditions, abuse, or harassment.
These qualifications can vary from state to state, but they are usually similar.
 You must be physically and mentally able to work in order to qualify for unemployment.


Your application for benefits might be denied if you have a physical or mental ailment that prevents you from rejoining the workforce.
 Unemployment benefits are only available for those who are actively seeking work, available to begin working immediately, and willing to work once hired.


If you have obligations or other reasons that prevent you from rejoining the workforce at the time of your application, you might not qualify for unemployment.
 The State Unemployment Agency will ask you for information about your former employment.


This information can vary from state to state, but it usually includes addresses and dates of your former employment. Phone numbers, names, and other contact information for former employers may or may not be required.
Make sure that you provide information that is both complete and accurate.



The frequency of these claims will depend on your state as well as the conditions of your claim.
When filing a regular claim, you will need to respond to questions concerning your eligibility. You will need to report any earnings from work you performed during the week as well as any job offers or refusals you received during that week.
File these claims by mail or telephone according to your state's instructions.
 In order to be eligible for continued unemployment, you will need to prove that you are still seeking work.


Reports of job offers or refusals made during your weekly or biweekly claims serve as some form of proof.
You might also be instructed to register for work through your State Employment Service. These offices provide re-employment services and information on the labor market. They may also refer you to job offerings and training programs.
You might also be advised to test or receive counsel to determine if there are jobs in other fields that you might be able to perform.
 At any point in time, you might be required to report to a local Unemployment Insurance Claims Office or Employment Service Office.


If you do not report to the office when scheduled for an interview, you might lose your benefits.
 If you have exhausted regular state unemployment insurance, you might qualify for extended benefits.


Note that you must have had an initial unemployment application in effect as early as May 5, 2007, if not later.
You must also have used all regular state unemployment benefits and have no rights to regular or extended benefits under any other state unemployment compensation laws.
The Extended Benefits program provides an additional 13 weeks of benefits during periods of high unemployment within your state. Some states also have an additional 7 weeks of extended benefits, for a grand total of 20 additional weeks., Special unemployment compensation is available for qualifying ex-servicemembers.You must have been on active duty within a branch of the U.S. military.
You must also have been separated under honorable conditions. In other words, a "dishonorable discharge" may disqualify you from this program.
Ex-military personnel, former members of the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, and former members of the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps may all be eligible.



These benefits are usually available to both unemployed and self-employed workers whose employment has been lost or interrupted as a direct result of a major disaster.
You must not be eligible to qualify for regular unemployment benefits if applying for this program.
You may qualify if the disaster has caused you to lose your job or place to work, has prevented you from reaching your place of work, or has injured you in a way that prevents you from working. You might also qualify if your workplace has been damaged or if you become the head of a household because the former head of household died during the disaster.
 Regular unemployment benefits are available to Canadian residents who have had no work or pay for at least 7 days in a row and who have worked for the required number of insurable hours in the last 52 weeks.The regional unemployment rate can vary. You will usually need to work for a minimum of 420 hours to a maximum of 700 hours within the last 52 weeks. In some rare instances, you might need to work a minimum of 910 hours within the same qualifying period.
You cannot qualify for benefits if you were fired for misconduct. Similarly, you cannot qualify if you chose to quit without just cause.
If you lost your job due to downsizing or other conditions that were out of your control, you may qualify.
If you quit due to harassment, discrimination, unsafe working conditions, major changes in workload, or pressure applied by your boss or co-workers, you may qualify. Likewise, if your boss is breaking the law, if your family is moving, or if you saved someone else's job by quitting, you may also qualify.
Note that regular benefits last from 14 to 45 weeks.
 Jobseeker's Allowance is the UK equivalent of Unemployment Insurance in the US. It is available to anyone who is currently seeking employment under certain conditions and is not necessarily dependent on the loss of a prior job.In order to qualify, you must work an average of 16 hours a week or fewer. You must also live in England, Scotland, or Wales.
You must not be enrolled in full-time education.
You will usually need to be 18 years old or older. There are some exceptions made to 16 and 17 year olds who rely on their own income.
After 6 months, you may qualify for less aid if you have earnings from part-time work or some form of pension.
If you have a partner, he or she must work less than 24 hours a week on average. Combined, you and your partner must have less than £16,000 in savings.
In order to continue qualifying for benefits, you will need to report to a Job center Plus every two weeks to indicate how your job search is going.
 In Australia, you job seekers can be eligible for Newstart Allowance or Youth Allowance depending on age. These benefits are not necessarily dependent upon the loss of a prior job.


In order to be eligible for Newstart Allowance, you must be 22 years or older and under age-pension age.Age-pension age for women born after January 1, 1949, and men born any year is 65 years. For women born after July 1, 1947, to December 31, 1948, age-pension age is 64 1/2 years.
In order to qualify for Newstart Allowance, you must also be looking for paid work and not involved in industrial action. You will also need to enter into an Employment Pathway Plan and meet test requirements within that plan. These requirements usually include applying for jobs, training or studying, and working part-time.
In order to qualify for Youth Allowance, you must be between 16 and 21 years old and looking for full-time work.You may also qualify if you are between the ages of 18 and 24 and studying an approved course full-time, or if you are between 16 and 24 and undertaking a full-time Australian Apprenticeship.
If you are a dependent, your guardians' income and assets will determine your eligibility. If you are over the age of 22, support yourself through your own employment, or are unable to live at home, you may qualify as an independent.

