 This is a free cheating program that allows you to modify the code of a variety of games. You can download Cheat Engine directly from the developer's website.


Cheat Engine comes bundled with OpenCandy, an adware service. If you don't want this, there is a link on the Cheat Engine Downloads page to download the program without the automated installer. This is the recommended way to install it.

Extract the RAR file into a folder on your desktop.
 The game will need to be running to allow Cheat Engine to make any changes. Start the level that you want to cheat on and note how much Sun you start with (usually 50). Pause the game.
 If you are playing in fullscreen mode, you will find it much easier to cheat if you play in windowed mode. Open the Menu and uncheck the "Full Screen" box. Click "Back to Game" and Plants vs. Zombies will change display modes. You will be able to see your desktop behind the game.
 Open the Cheat Engine folder on your desktop and run the CheatEngine.exe file. When the Cheat Engine window opens, click the computer icon in the upper-left corner of the window. Find the "popcapgame1.exe" file in the list of processes that appear. Click the Open button once it's selected.
 Return to the game window and restart the game. Wait for one Sun to appear and click it to collect it. This should change your Sun value from 50 to 75. Pause the game again and return to Cheat Engine.
 Click the Next Scan button to pull up a list of matching values in the game on the left side of the window. If your Sun value is different than 75, enter it instead, but know that it is tough to match 50. 75 should only return a single match.
 Select Add selected addresses to the address list. The value will get added to the bottom frame of the window.
 In the list at the bottom of the window, check the box next to the entry you just added. The "Address" column should match the Address in the match list.
 With the entry checked, right-click it and select Change Record → Value. Enter the amount of Sun you want and click OK. 999999 should do the trick!


You will see your new Sun amount appear in the game immediately.

