 Please understand this meeting is just a formality designed to provide assistance if needed and verify your job search efforts. As long as you come to the meeting prepared and honest it will be quick and painless.
 Remember the purpose of this meeting is to provide you with resources and insure the office that you are actively seeking and applying for jobs. It is important to stay on topic and strictly discuss your current job search and any needs you may have to successfully find a job.
 As you probably already know, there are factors that can jeopardize your unemployment benefits.


Examples of these include:not actively looking for a job, taking on a 1099 (contract) position or the manner in which you were terminated. Of course you should not collect unemployment if you are not legally entitled to this benefit.
However, even if you are legally entitled to unemployment benefit, making a simple comment or even a joke can lead a counselor to decide to investigate your claim and further cause you grief. Therefore, it is recommended to stick to discussing the steps you are taking to find a job as soon as possible.
 Bringing any necessary documents will allow for the meeting to go on as scheduled and will prevent you from having to reschedule after you have already made arrangements to be at the office.


Check with the unemployment office to verify which documents are required to attend the meeting. These documents are covered in Part 1 of this article.
 As mentioned previously, you should use this meeting as an opportunity to ask any questions you may have on conducting a job search, interviewing for a job and what the process may be moving forward with unemployment.


Asking questions now will prevents you from calling the office later on and allows you to take advantage of the counselors’ extensive knowledge.
 During your meeting you may be provided with several resources and important information to help you find a job. Some of this information will be presented to you in general handouts, such as a list of top job search websites.


In addition, it is important to take additional notes during your meeting for future reference. Your notes can include any answers to questions you may have had, recommended job sites, interviewing tips and helpful classes.

