 There are both free and paid versions of Angry Birds, plus an occasional seasonal special. Try the free version first; that way you can determine whether you even enjoy the game or not (it's very likely that you will).;
, The goal in each level is to get rid of the pigs. The complacent pigs are usually blocked by wood, glass, stone or another material arranged into creative structures. You will need to use the angry birds to get rid of both the obstacles and pigs.


You can now get Angry Birds on a MacBook if you have the MacBook App store. Likewise, the PC version can also be downloaded from the official website (in the form of a trial, similar to the free versions on handheld devices). You have to purchase an activation key in order to fully unlock the game. You can also download the game through the Google Chrome web browser's app store.
On an Android device the full version is available for free.
 Moving it up or down will determine how high or low the bird flies. The further back you pull the slingshot is how far or short the bird flies. Through practice, you'll become more skilled at aiming both at the right angle and at the right spot where the pigs are.


If you have a computer version, you'll be using your mouse rather than your finger.
 The bird should bump into an obstacle and cause some damage to it. Repeat this process until all of the pigs are gone or you've used up all of your birds.
 As you progress, you'll notice that there are different kinds of birds and they create different results when tapped. (You have to launch the birds first before tapping.) Here is what each bird does:


Red bird: The most ordinary bird; it doesn't have any special effects other than being able to be catapulted into the pigs. In the Red's Mighty Feathers update, his new power is when you tap somewhere on the screen, he goes to that place.
Blue bird: Tap the screen and it becomes three mini birds. This bird is best for breaking glass.
Yellow bird: Tap the screen and it goes very fast. This bird works best on wood.
Black bird: Tap the screen and it explodes instantly. Let it hit an obstacle and after a short time delay it will explode. This bird works best on stone. In the Short Fuse update, instead of exploding, he sends out a very deadly shockwave that electrocutes pigs nearby.
White bird: Tap the screen and it will drop an explosive egg. The corpse, if done right, will fly off and potentially cause additional damage. This bird also works best on stone.
Green bird: Tap the screen and it will fly back. This bird is similar to a boomerang.
Big Brother bird: Similar to the red bird, but bigger in size and more powerful.
Orange Bird: Very small, but swells up to big proportions. Try to squeeze it into tight spaces.
Pink Bird: Small, but levitates objects with bubbles. Use her to disrupt the bottoms of tall towers.
Mighty eagle: Press the button at the top of the screen and a sardine can appears. Launch the sardines and the mighty eagle will appear. You have to pay for this feature and once you use it on an unsolved level you have to wait another hour before using it on the next level. You will not get any stars for using this bird.
 Use Strategy to Eliminate Enemies. As you know, eliminating all the pigs is your ticket to clear a level in Angry Birds. Regardless of the environment and structures where the pigs are, using the correct strategy will help you get rid of these pesky pigs and progress forward.
 Before launching your feathered army, have a clear look of the entire stage. See how many pigs are there, where a structure’s “weak” point, what are the obstacles, and such. Point is, don't just go rushing your way to finish a stage - observe first.
 In cases of structures which are kind of protecting the pigs, most of the time, you don't attack the pig or the structure's walls directly - you go for the base! Every structure will eventually collapse if you target on its basal support. Also look out for thin layers on a structure’s built for it may be an entry for your army birds.
 Most of the time, Angry Birds stages have TNT’s or explosives. These explosives can be of good use to you for they can clear obstacles when triggered. These TNT’s are strategically located where they can affect the environment when triggered so consider targeting them sometimes when an obstacle seems impossible to be destroyed by mere birds.


Explosives usually have boulders near them or other explosives for maximum effect to the structures around them. If this is the case, it is most likely that you need to target this TNT to clear a stage.
 When you launch one of your birds, it will leave a trajectory line. You can use this trajectory line as a guide on the correct direction where you should launch your next bird. This is very helpful to make every bird land on the target you’re aiming at.
 It is almost sure that you won’t be able to clear all stages in just one try. You will surely fail especially on the later stages of the game. If this happens, don’t lose heart and try again. Angry Birds has no limit when it comes to continues so take advantage of this. Learn from your mistake and do better on your next try.


Sometimes when it’s obviously impossible for you to clear the stage, it’s advisable to just hit that Try Again button just to save time and try again.
 You pass a level once you get rid of all the pigs on that level. If you don't pass the level on your first try, you can easily try again.


There are seven different groups of levels in the game. Complete a group of levels and unlock another group of levels in the game. In the Angry Bird seasons version there are ten groups of levels. You can also get Angry Birds Rio which has two groups of levels.
 This can take quite a while (fortunately, as who wants all the fun to end?). There are guides available either as separate apps or videos on sites such as YouTube and these can be of great help.

