 If you witness someone saying or writing something about PTSD that is incorrect or ill-informed, politely let that person know that they're wrong. Don't be aggressive over the issue. Instead, be a calm, polite, and informative spokesperson for PTSD awareness.


Let the individual know that PTSD is a complex condition that can affect anyone who survives a traumatic event.
Inform the individual of any inaccuracies or misconceptions they may have about PTSD.
Suggest resources where misinformed individuals can better educate themselves on PTSD. For example, the National Center for PTSD is a good resource for educational material and options for getting help.
 Social media allows you to spread your message to a larger audience well outside your group of friends. You can use social media to distribute up-to-date information, or to ask and answer questions about this condition.Some sample posts you might make to help spread awareness, which are available through the National Center for PTSD, include the following:


"June is PTSD Awareness Month. Help raise awareness of PTSD and its effective treatments by sharing this post! Help discover ways to connect with others and spread knowledge and awareness by learning all you can about this condition."
"Take the mystery out of PTSD: learn what it is, who is affected, and how treatment can help. Visit the National Center for PTSD website or the Mayo Clinic website for more information and to learn ways you can help raise PTSD awareness."

, Much of the stigma people have towards PTSD comes from its negative portrayal in the media. People with PTSD are often depicted as being unstable, violent, and capable of devastating violence at the drop of a hat. They are also occasionally depicted as being unproductive invalids. Neither of these depictions is fair or accurate. One way you can actively change the information people receive about PTSD is to voice your concern when you see PTSD being portrayed inaccurately in the media.Send letters or emails to television and radio networks that falsely depict PTSD.
Encourage your local media outlets to broadcast public service announcements related to PTSD. You can find sample petitions at the National Center for PTSD website.
 An organized campaign is a great way to build awareness of PTSD in your community.You can join an existing event or organize your own to help educate as many people as you can.


The National Center for PTSD has ongoing awareness campaigns that you can join. Check their website for more information.
Organizations like the Real Warriors Campaign strive to educate the public and rely on community involvement. Find out more information by visiting their website.You can search online for smaller, local organizations that raise awareness of PTSD in your area. You can also join or start local branches of larger, national campaigns.

