;
,, When you are consistently not late, your boss will know he/she can count on you as a trustworthy and reliable employee.
,, If you cannot get over there that fast, stop by and smile and say, "Hi folks, I will be right with you," so they feel welcome and acknowledged.
 If a table wants to chit chat, that's fine, but keep it short and sweet because you do have other things to do. Most tables don't want to talk to their server much, so this really isn’t an issue most of the time. Be available to help them, but not in their personal space.
 Reason being, they may have told you something wrong, this way you can get the order incorrectly.
 When you see a glass halfway empty, get a new glass of their beverage out to them or refill their glass. Don't make them have to ask you.
 If they order something that takes a long time, tell them it will take a little bit longer, or if something is taking way too long, get your manager involved. It is not your fault if the kitchen messes up. That's why you want to get your manager over there to basically cover your situation on that problem, and so they don't base your tip on a mistake made by the kitchen.
 Having a great attitude helps a lot, also in helping you have a better day sometimes.
 You never know, your next table may leave you a whopping tip for you just being friendly. A guy in the bar who isn’t even your guest might give you $20 just for bringing him a basket of bread.
 Every time you interact with a guest, the way you come off to them will affect what they tell their friends about their experience at your restaurant.
 If your manager says to do things a certain way, don't try to make a shortcut! You will seem more professional if you do things the right way the first time, plus it will give you some job security if you ever have any crazy guest complaints, because sometimes people will complain just to get something free. If you do everything by the book, your table can't write a complaint letter about you, literally.
 Everybody helps the shift run smoother by helping however they can. Do all you can to help out your co-workers and guests, even if they are not your guests. Just think -- they may be your guest next time.
,, Do not turn down a table because you want to text on your phone (better yet, leave your cell phone at the host stand.) The more tables you can turn, the more money you make.
 You will make a lot of money there.
, If you eat a heavy meal, you won’t want to work.
 Take a deep breath and ask for help.
