 A jump serve is the most advanced of all the serves, and should only be done when you are sure of your ability to successfully perform the other three.
 If you are playing on a court, a jump serve must be performed from outside the line, although you can land inside after having jumped.
 Place your feet shoulder width apart with the leg on your non-hitting side placed forward slightly.


You will be taking a few steps forward, so be sure that your stance is comfortable for doing so.
Hold the ball in your shelf hand, and prepare to draw your hitting arm back for the swing.
 Take two steps forward, beginning with your left foot.


Don’t take steps that are too wide, as they will throw you off balance when you go to hit.
To practice you can take these steps slowly, but in a game you will want to take these steps in quick succession.
 At the beginning of your third step forward, throw the ball into the air 12–18 inches (30.5–45.7 cm) high with your shelf hand.


Throw the ball straight in front of you, not off to the side, to improve your chances of hitting the center and getting a better serve.
Be sure to toss the ball slightly forward, not directly above you. This is because you will be moving forward with your jump, and don’t want to have to reach back to make the hit.
 You want the jump to be as powerful as possible, to add momentum to your hit.


Bring your arm up and back, with your elbow just above your ear.
Use your momentum to push your body forward in time with your hit; you want the ball to be around eye-level before you make your swing.
 You can choose either a float serve or a topspin serve to hit, using the same techniques for both except for in the air.


For the floating serve, bring your arm back and push forward with an open palm, like a punch. You may have a little follow-through with this because of your jump.
To do a jumping topspin serve, hit the ball downwards flicking your wrist in the process. You will have a lot of follow-through with this because of the jump.