 Polo requires a particular uniform, which helps to protect players. There are also safety requirements for the ponies.


Helmets are a must for safety. They offer protection in various scenarios, including falling off the pony and getting hit with a mallet or ball.
The outfit includes a long-sleeved jersey with riding pants and boots. In many cases, players are not allowed to wear sharp spurs or gear with protruding buckles or studs.Ponies must wear boots on all four hooves and bandages on all four legs for protection from the ball.Players are not allowed to use a bridle with blinkers on their ponies. Blinkers obstruct the view of the pony., The rules are meant to keep play safe for both players and ponies, and there are some key rules to highlight.


Players may not touch another player or pony, including tack (e.g. saddle, blanket, et cetera), with his/her mallet.Polo must be played right-handed because left-handed players are thought to have less accuracy.It is important that polo ponies are well-trained and easily controlled. If a pony misbehaves and gets out of its rider's control, it is a danger not only to its rider but also to other players and officials.
Swing the mallet at an appropriate distance from other players or officials. Swinging it in close range could cause a foul., For obvious reasons, this inhibits a player's judgment and puts himself/herself at risk, as well as the other players and officials.
 This includes a variety of issues, and it mainly refers to incidents that happened before or during play.Broken or fractured bones
Dislocated joint sockets
Concussions
Illness, such as a virus, infection, or influenza

, Many players learn how to ride while learning how to play polo, but it is best to have a basic understanding of how to ride.


Take riding lessons with a polo club or at a stable that offers lessons.
Understand how polo ponies are trained, which is to be reined with one hand and to be highly responsive to leg cues.Become familiar with all ponies that you will ride during polo matches. Each pony has its own temperament.
 Dangerous riding is worthy of a foul and could cause disqualification from the match, in addition to putting other players and officials at risk.Riding an opponent's pony into the side or end walls
Riding the head of a pony into an opposing player
Interfering in the right of way of another player with the potential to cause a collision
Bumping off, or riding off, at an unsafe angle or speed
Riding into the hindquarters of another pony
Zigzagging in front of another player

