 There is great benefit in making something with your hands, but cooking offers the added advantage of helping you support your health, too. Consuming nutrient-rich foods is important for managing bipolar disorder, so find a cookbook or download recipes that allow you to discover new healthy foods from around the world.


Exploring new cuisines makes eating healthy less of a chore and more of an adventure. Just be sure to include the right dietary choices. Go for fresh fruits and vegetables, lean sources of protein, fish, legumes, whole grains, low-fat dairy, and nuts and seeds.
Stay away from simple carbohydrates found in cereals, white bread and white rice. Also, reduce intake of red meat, saturated fats and trans fats., There is no greater source for creativity than the great outdoors. Nature has inspired numerous paintings, sculptures, songs, clothing designs, and so much more. Since physical activity is a necessary part of maintaining good physical and mental health, why not boost the benefits by moving your workout outdoors?


Research shows that being in nature influences both our health and happiness by reducing stress, decreasing rumination, counteracting burn out, boosting creativity, and promoting generosity.Strap on your hiking boots and hit the trails. Go for a swim in a nearby lake. Or, simply lace up your runners and complete your morning run outside.
 Sleep is another staple for managing your bipolar disorder. Lack of sleep is linked to manic episodes, and may even stimulate them. Therefore, having a consistent bedtime routine can help balance your mood. Take your sleep ritual to the next level to boost creativity, too.


Come up with an interesting routine for winding down at night and waking up in the morning. Consider lighting candles, doing yoga, meditating, and listening to soothing music each evening before bed. When you rise, do some gentle stretches, open your blinds to experience the sunshine, and take a few minutes to review your inspiration board before taking on the day.
For improved sleep, shut off technology devices at least an hour before bed. Lower the temperature in your bedroom. Use black-out curtains. And, try to go to bed and wake up at the same times each day.
 A heightened sex drive or risky sexual behaviors are often associated with manic episodes in bipolar disorder.However, once you begin treatment, you will likely find that these symptoms decrease. Still, sex is a natural and healthy part of life when you practice safely (i.e. with the same partner, using protection).


Furthermore, sex has been shown to fuel creativity. So, schedule in a roll in the sheets for a great workout and inspiration to boot.

