 Put your boots on first, then fasten the snowshoes over them one at a time. Position your foot so the ball of your foot is located over the pivot point. Check the entire length of the snowshoe for straps, making sure to tighten each one firmly.;
, You will probably have to widen your stance a bit to accommodate for the width of the each snowshoe, which may give your hips more of a workout than you are used to.Walk at your normal pace, leading with your heel and rolling over the ball, then the toe.
 If the snow is fresh and powdery, rather than packed down, lift the nose of the snowshoe above the level of the snow with each step.Do not lift your legs higher than you need to, as fully removing the snowshoe from the snow can be tiring.
 One or two poles can be used to help you maintain your balance and provide additional power, along with an upper body workout. They are especially helpful if you go snowshoeing in deep snow, but some snowshoers who stick to prepared trails don't bother using them.


It does not matter whether you use ski poles or snowshoe poles, as long as they are a comfortable length for you to use.
 This will dig your snowshoe into it, giving you more leverage to climb. If your kicking creates a deep hole rather than a firm step, find a different way up the slope.Many snowshoes have a "heel lift" which can be flipped up between your boot heel and the snowshoe. This provides a more stable support for your legs during steep ascents.
 Some snowshoes have heel crampons, which dig back into the snow as you lean backward. If you only have crampons or cleats further forward, however, you should keep your weight directly above your feet, so the support digs into the snow as you descend.


Try not to swing your legs in long arcs when descending. If you lose your balance, sit down rather than run down the slope., When traversing a slope at the same elevation, rather than traveling up or down, hit the side of the snowshoe into the slope for more support with each step. Lean in the uphill direction to keep yourself balanced.Poles may make traversing much easier.

