 The basic Facebook app for mobile devices (as well as the mobile browser page) does not give the option to schedule posts. For this, you need a separate mobile app called "Facebook Pages Manager." This app, created by Facebook, is available for free download from the major mobile app stores.


For iOS users, the app is available here.For Android users, the app is available here., If your Facebook account is already synced to your mobile device, you should see an option that says "Continue as (Your Name.)" Click this to proceed. If you don't see this option, you may need to log in manually with your email and password.



Note: The instructions past this point are for the Android version of the app. The iOS version should be very similar, though there may be some minor differences.
 Once you log in, you should automatically see your first group's page. If not, simply select it from the list of groups. You can also find your group at any time by tapping the blue menu icon in the top right corner and selecting it from the list.
 This is the circular blue button at the bottom of the screen. Select Text, Photo, Video, or Event from the list of options. Use the keyboard on your device to type a message. Don't make the post yet.
 Click the menu button in the bottom right of the post screen. Select "Schedule" from the list of options. In the pop-up window, choose a date and time. Select the date, hour, minute, and AM/PM by scrolling through each column.
 When you return to your post, you will see that the "Post" button in the top right has been replaced with a "Schedule" button. Underneath the text in your message, you will see the date and time your post is scheduled to go live, and the clock icon should now appear blue. Tap "Schedule" to finalize your post.
 At any point, you can use the Pages Manager app to edit or delete upcoming scheduled posts. To do this, access the app home screen, then tap the "More" tab at the top of the screen (to the right of the globe icon.) On the next page, click "Scheduled posts." Find the box for the scheduled post you want to edit, then click the arrow in the top right corner of the box and use the menu options to edit your post.

