 This helps because you won't be scrambling the next morning gathering your things and you can get as much rest as possible. Pack things such as towels, two pairs of goggles, two swim caps, fruit, nuts, water, and an energy beverage that contains electrolytes to resupply your/the swimmer's lost minerals.;
, For example; ask your coach what time warm ups are, what events your swimming, and whether or not the meet has positive check in. (Positive check-in is when you have to write your initials next to your name on a sign in sheet. This lets the officials know that you are there and so they write out the heats so that there are no empty lanes.)

, Eat plenty of carbohydrates and proteins but don't eat something to heavy or completely out of the norm. Stay away from acidic foods (including tomato and tomato sauce) for they will upset your stomach and cause cramps. The best plan is to eat something simple, easy to digest. Although pizza, chicken wings, and plates of pasta may seem like "Power food," the reality is that they will sink you like a rock.


Carb loading is a technique that is outdated and since been proved inefficient and unhelpful unless in special circumstances only usually encountered at an elite level.
 If it is a multi day swim meet, warm down after every event. If a warm down pool is unavailable, conditioning exercises such as jogging, jumping jacks, and wall push ups then follow with static or dynamic stretches.
 If you go to bed at midnight every night for a week and get 5 hours of sleep every night for a week, getting 10 hours of sleep the night before is not going to help you. You will still be exhausted the day of the swim meet.
 If you're swimming in the afternoon, eat a big breakfast and a light lunch. Eat one or two hours before the event. Bananas, crackers, and plain toast with no butter in modest amounts are good food. The best foods are pasta, cereals, bagels, breads, fruits, and vegetables. These are out of the stomach in two hours, therefore should not be eaten more than three hours before swimming or they could override the energy in time for the race. Bananas are great because they have potassium which makes you more resistant to fatigue. Remember, no sugar.
 If you have school, do not rush between classes. Take your time walking up and down the stairs. Do not over-exert yourself, save your energy for the race.
 Don't put Fastskins on until after warm up and you are dry. Be sure you have water and healthy snacks. If you are swimming both trials and finals, you are going to need up to five towels; however, you can hang up your towels to dry to save space in your bag.
 Remember, it takes 30 minutes to soak in. You don't want goggle tans, that's for certain.
 Plug in your iPod or phone and listen to your favorite mix of tunes. Dance if you want but don't wear yourself out.
 Electrolyte drinks and water are the best liquids. Many people think that Gatorade is good but it is high in sugar (but can still help). Only drink this five minutes before an event. Drink plenty throughout the day and during the meet. Lack of liquids do affect your performance as well, even before you feel thirsty. But make sure to go pee before you swim!

, Your coaches should have a sheet with your events, or check your team website. The Trumbull Pisces website has a tab where you can look up your events, so see if your team does that too. When you figured out what you are swimming, relax. The next part will boost your confidence and calm your nerves.
 Having already thought about how to react quickly will help to calm you and reassure you that you're ready.



What will happen if my goggles fall of when I dive? - Relax for that. Just tighten the straps of your goggles. When you dive, tuck your chin to your neck. Therefore, the water will not apply direct pressure to the goggles, and they will stay on you.

What if I come in last place? - It happens. What you should know is that your coach entered you in the meet because he has faith and confidence that you can handle it. If swimming a 200 free, don't panic. If your coach believes you can do it, you should believe you can do it!

What if my time becomes worse? - to avoid that, give your races every thing you've got. Every single ounce of energy left in you should show in that race. If you do come last, know that you tried hard and give yourself credit for that. Plan out your race. For anything 25-100 yards/meters, sprint! You don't need to pace yourself because it is a short distance. For 200 yards/meters and above, pace yourself. If swimming 200, your first 50 should have a strong pace. the second 50 should have a harder pull, and the third 50 should have a faster kick. The final 50 should be all out.
Think about your times. Set a goal. If swimming a 50 free, imagine your time on the board being 35.99! If you believe it'll happen, it will happen. For a 200 free, pace yourself. First 50- 43 seconds. Second 50- 45 seconds. Third 50- 45 seconds. Fourth 50 - 43 seconds.
 You can control your start and your turn, you cannot control the size or speed of your opponent. You can control what you eat before your race, you cannot control the traffic on the way to the meet.
 Sit down somewhere quiet, and visualize the race from the moment you're up on the block to the moment you hit the wall. Visualize the exact time that you want to see on the time board. This helps keep a positive attitude.
 Depending on what kind of person you are, you may want to get pumped. Do a high intense set of 60 jumping jacks, stretch, or anythings that suits you to get you going, 5 minutes before your race.
 Don't tire yourself out, or go too fast. Get in and stretch out and get a feel for the water. Drills are great for this.


If you do feel the need to go fast, do a short hard set but don't go over 80 percent of your maximum speed. Make sure your intervals give you a good amount of rest. This will get the blood flowing, you will get a feel for your stroke, and you will remain rested for your big meet. The point is you need to conserve your energy while keeping your body conditioned at the same time.

