 Body squats help you build your core and hip muscles. Body squats help back pain by strengthening your muscles so you can do actions, like lifting. Better muscle definition can help lessen the chance of future back pain.To do a body squat, make sure your feet are shoulder-width apart. Lower down and push your hips back as your bend your knees. Your weight should be in your heels.
Make sure your knees don’t push forward past your toes. Your chest should be lifted instead of rounded. Keep your lower body parallel to the floor.
Hold for a few seconds, then raise back up.
 Doing partial crunches helps reduce lower back pain by strengthening back and core muscles. Lie flat on the floor with your knees bent. Cross your arms over your chest and raise your shoulders by tightening stomach muscles. Don’t use anything but your core muscles to lift up. Hold for a moment, then release.Do 10 reps.
Make sure your lower back remains flat on the floor during the exercises.
 Wall sits can help you strengthen your hip, core, and leg muscles. Stand a few inches away from the wall and then lean back against the wall. Slide down along the wall until your knees are bent. Press your lower back against the wall.Hold for 10 seconds. Then slide back up. Repeat 10 times.
 Pelvic tilts strengthen core muscles, increase flexibility, and help support the spine. To do a pelvic tilt, lie on the floor with your knees bent. Lift your hips slightly to raise your bottom one to two inches off the floor. Hold for a few seconds, then slowly return.Don’t move your head, neck, or shoulders. Make sure not to arch your back.
Do five lifts to start with. As your fitness level increases, continue to add reps until you get to 20.
 A pelvic lift is similar to a pelvic tilt. Instead of just tilting your hips up, you lift your hips and back off the floor for a deeper stretch.Lie on your back with your knees bent and your arms at your sides. Lift your hips up slowly. Make sure not to arch your back. Your body should be a straight line from your shoulders to knees.
Hold for five seconds. Repeat five times.
 The plank exercise is one of the most effective exercises to strengthen the core muscles. Once you've mastered the basic plank, you can try different variations of the exercise, such as side planks or incorporate an exercise ball.


Begin on your hands and knees. Your palms should be flat on the mat, directly beneath your shoulders.
Keeping your spine straight and engaging your abs (think of pulling your bellybutton toward your spine), extend your legs straight out behind you. Balance your weight on your toes and your hands on the mat.
Hold the position for 10 seconds. Do not let your back sag or let your butt pop into the air. It should appear as though you are about to perform a push-up, with your arms straight and your feet shoulder width apart.

