 Taking boxing classes can help you improve your technique by receiving expert instruction. Check online, your local newspaper, and local gyms to find classes. You can train on your own, but you will become a better boxer if you are being formally trained. Formal training will also help you meet other boxers that you can train with.;
, A heavy punching bag can be used to practice all of your punches. Exhale as you throw each punch and tighten your body and fist as you throw the punch. Always return to your fighting stance after each punch. Always protect yourself with your non-punching hand.If you are not a member of a boxing gym, you can purchase a punching bag online or at a sporting goods store.
 A speed bag will help you with rhythm, timing, hand-eye coordination, and endurance. The speed bag will go back and forth 3 times for every one time you hit it. Hit the bag with your right hand twice and then hit the bag with your left hand twice. Use the front of your fist for your first hit and the bottom of your fist for your second hit.Stand directly in front of the bag; not in your boxer's stance. You should also be eye level with the bag.
Start by practicing a single punch. Complete 3 sets of 10 punches., In the orthodox boxing stance, your left foot is in the lead. Keep your chin down with your rear hand (usually your right hand) guarding your chin. Your lead hand should be about 6 to 8 inches from your chin, and your elbows should be tucked in. Stand slightly sideways so your entire chest is not facing your opponent. Your knees should be slightly bent, and your feet should be a little wider than shoulder width.If you are left handed, you will lead with your right food instead. Your rear hand will be your left hand, and your lead hand will be your right hand. This is called the southpaw stance.
 A jab is the most important punch. It help keep your opponent away from you and sets up your other punches. A jab is a quick punch that you throw with your lead hand. Keep your chin down and protect your chin with your rear hand as you punch. Extend your arm fully and quickly and then bring your arm back to the original stance position.You should never lean in or lunge to jab your opponent. If you feel the need to do this, you are not in a good position to throw a jab.
 A cross is a punch thrown with your rear hand and is more powerful than a jab. Guard your chin with your lead hand and then fully extend your rear hand. As you throw your cross, pivot your rear foot so that your heel is up and your toes are still on the ground. Rotate your body counter clockwise as you extend your arm and lean forward just a little bit. Rotate your fist as you punch so that the palm of your hand is facing the floor. Bring your hand back to protect your chin after you throw the punch.
Remember to keep your knees bent so you do not lose your balance.
 A hook is a punch that is used to punch your opponent in the side. You can use your rear or lead hand to throw a hook. Bend your arm to a 90 degree angle and rotate your body in the direction that your punch is going. Pivot your foot as you throw the punch as well and bend your knees. Protect your chin with your opposite hand as you throw a hook.If you throw with your lead hand, pivot your lead foot. If you throw with your rear hand, pivot your rear foot.
 You will usually throw an uppercut if your opponent puts his or her head too low. This is a power punch that you throw from your waist. You can throw one with your lead or rear hand. To throw with your lead arm, dip your head to the outside of your lead foot, twist your hips, and rotate your body in an upward motion as you throw the punch. An uppercut with your rear hand usually follows a jab by your lead hand., Use your rear hand to throw an overhand punch. Arch your rear elbow to a 90-135 degree angle and lean to the outside of your lead foot. Bend your knees as you throw and aim for your opponent's head. Pivot your back foot as you throw this punch as well.This punch takes a longer time to reach your opponent than the other punches. Do not wind up too much or your opponent will know what is coming.
 Once you are able to do all five punches, practice throwing combinations. You should practice these punches until they become second nature to you. The more you practice them, the faster and more efficient you will become. You can also begin to string together multiple combinations. The basic combinations are: The 1-2 (jab -right cross)
The 1-1-2 (jab-jab-cross)
The 1-2-3 (jab-cross-left hook)
The 1-2-3-2 (jab-cross-hook-cross)
The 1-2-5-2 (jab-cross-left uppercut-cross)
The 1-6-3-2 (jab-right uppercut-left hook-right hand)

