 Consider the following before donating:


You no longer estimate the value of the car on your taxes. If you are seeking a tax deduction for your generosity, then donations worth more than $500 must include a sales receipt from the 501c(3) charity of your choice.
Vehicles worth less than $500 can quote the Kelley Blue Book price, and they do not require you to include a sales receipt from the charity. You are not required to fill out an IRS Form 8283 on your taxes either, so check the Kelley Blue Book price now.
Understand the hidden fees. Car donations can require delivery fees, if you do not drop it off yourself. You will also need to pay for title change fees.
Understand the hidden risks. Donating your car will require you to change the title over to the charity. You are liable for parking tickets and other delinquent activity associated with the car, if you still own it in the eyes of the law. Any charity that asks you to keep the title is unlikely to be a good donation choice.;
, They may or may not accept vehicle donations, but choosing a local charity will cut down on fees and direct your aid to your favorite organization.
 Ask for their tax ID number. You can only deduct a donation from this type of charity.


If you don't know whether your charity is a 501c(3) designation, search the IRS charitable organization database at http://www.irs.gov/Charities-&-Non-Profits/Organizations-Eligible-to-Receive-Tax-Deductible-Charitable-Contributions.
 Some businesses make money by selling cars for charity. Your charity is likely to receive less than 50 percent of the profit in this case.
 Many communities have yearly auctions for large items, like cars and boats.


During these auctions, 50 percent of the profits may go to the organization that puts on the auction. You are likely to receive a portion of the proceeds, which you can then gift to charity. You can get rid of drop-off fees and help two organizations through this method.



Choosing a state charity may mean that you can drop the car off yourself and avoid drop off fees.
 Knowing their intentions should help you to evaluate how far your donation will go.
 Charity Navigator rates these charities, so that you can get a good idea of how much of the value will be used for administration costs.
 Get a contact at the charity that will provide the following:


Official information for the title transfer. You will need to transfer your title immediately upon donating the car.
A charity auction receipt. If your car is worth more than $500, you will need paper proof of the money the car made at auction. If your car is worth less than $500, you will need an acceptance receipt from the charity.
Further documentation, if the charity has decided to use the car for other purposes. You can deduct fair market value (FMV) if the charity has decided to use the vehicle for their transportation needs or if they have sold the car to a person in need. Consult your tax preparer about how to calculate and prove the FMV.
 Although there may be delivery fees, you may want to target your donation.



You can also find a list of these charities at donatecarusa.com/charities/nationwide.
 Keep in contact until you receive the necessary receipts required for taxes.
 You should have proof of the title change, proof of the receipt of the car and the car sales receipt, if applicable. These will become necessary in an audit.
 Submit this with your yearly tax return.

