 You'll need cavaletti poles, jump standards, boots to protect your horse's pasterns, and a suitable saddle for jumping. If you don't have a cavaletti just use wood poles or tree branches.


Use heavier weight poles (not PVC pipes or bamboo) so if your horse hits one of the poles he will realize that hitting them is uncomfortable.;
, Warm your horse up around them. Don't ask him to go over them yet.
 Dismount and walk the horse around them. Allow him to smell them and check them out.
 It's good if his hoof knocks into them once or twice so he gets used to the sound.


Head for the first pole and walk over it as if it's no big deal.
Praise him once he walks over it. This reassures him that going over the pole was the right answer.
Do this until your horse walks over the poles comfortably. He is familiar enough with the poles once he can walk over them without pausing to look at them and ask himself what they are doing in his way.
 You may need to adjust the distance between them to allow freedom of movement. (See related topics.)


Ask the horse to do this about five times.
 Make sure you always do this so he doesn't pull anything.
 Do this until the horse is comfortable and familiarized with it. Don't forget to praise him for doing what you ask

, This will come easier to some horses than others; make sure you don't overwork the horse till he hates you -- instead, teach the horse one or two things a session and end the session on a good note.


Once you can walk, trot, and canter him over the poles easily and without hesitation, move on to the next step.
, Do this a few times so your horse is used to it.
 Once you and your horse get comfortable, raise it a little higher each time.


When cantering your horse over the cavaletti, find the correct distance from the jump to remind your horse when to jump.
Soften your hands (as in hold the reins less tightly) when you are about 2 strides before the poles, so that it is easier for the horse to jump (they actually need to stretch their necks to jump properly).
If your horse is going too slow towards the jump, ask him/her for more momentum.
If they are going too fast, shorten their stride to get the right distance.
If the horse has never jumped before (or you are trying a higher jump), it may refuse to jump (rear up, dodge the poles,...), and so you have to be quite experienced so that you don't fall or get hurt.
 Contrary to what many believe, horses generally jump better if you don't apply pressure and instead stay of out their way. Horses know how to jump, and they don't want to get hurt. When riders apply pressure to "make" the horse jump, the pressure limits the horses' freedom of movement.

