 Self-employed individuals generally must pay estimated taxes throughout the year if they expect to owe $1,000 or more when they file their taxes. If you don’t pay estimated taxes, then you will be hit with a penalty.You don’t have to pay estimated taxes for the current year if you had no tax liability for the prior year and were a U.S. citizen or resident for the year. The prior tax year must have covered 12 months.
 Use Form 1040-ES to calculate your estimated tax. You can download it from the IRS website.You should take out your prior year’s tax return, which contains helpful information.


Follow the directions on Form 1040-ES. Generally, you must estimate your adjusted gross income for the current year, using your income from the previous year. Remember to take the self-employment tax deduction. A worksheet is provided to calculate this amount.
 You must pay your estimated tax four times throughout the year. For 2017, the due dates are as follows:First payment: April 18, 2017
Second payment: June 15, 2017
Third payment: September 15, 2017
Fourth payment: January 16, 2018. However, you can include this payment when you file your annual tax return, provided you file by January 31, 2018.
 The IRS provides many different online payment methods. For example, you can pay with a debit or credit card (convenience fee applies). Alternately, you can pay by electronic transfer directly from your checking or savings account.If you don’t have all the money, you can fill out an online payment agreement at https://www.irs.gov/payments.
 You can pay using a debit or credit card by calling a service provider. Phone numbers are provided on the Form 1040-ES instructions. A convenience fee applies.You can also pay using the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS), which you must enroll for. However, once enrolled, you can pay by calling 1-800-555-4477.
 To pay by mail, you must fill out a payment voucher for that month. Make sure to use the correct voucher by checking the upper right-hand corner. You should include the completed voucher with your check or money order, made payable to “U.S. Treasury.” Include your Social Security Number and “2017 Form 1040-ES” on the check. Don’t send cash.Payment vouchers are included with Form 1040-ES. Fill out all information requested on the voucher.
 If you want to pay cash in person, then you need to register online at https://www.officialpayments.com/fed. You can then make a maximum transaction of $1,000 a day at a retail partner.