 There is any number of programs that you can use to launch an email advertising campaign. The one for you depends on several factors. How many contacts do you have? How much are you willing to pay? Some services are free while others feature limited trials. Pricing is at times based on number of subscribers, at other times on how many messages you send per month.Consider how much you plan to grow, as well. Growing in size may well affect your costs – programs like iContact and Constant Contact push you into large-volume pricing at 15,000 and 10,000 subscribers, for example.
Also consider that some programs offer more in the way of support, contact management, and statistical tools to help you analyze your advertising.;
, Before starting your campaign, and if you have more than just one product, you should decide what to feature in your advertisements. Think carefully and strategically. Pick items that are popular or in-demand. Then, get images to use in your emails, write up descriptions or summaries for your website, and compile links that will route potential customers to each product’s page.Don’t go overboard with selection. Consumers may be overwhelmed if you bombard them with emails about a large range of products. Keep it at ten items or less.
 Be mindful of your service provider’s policies regarding emailing. Some, like AOL and Yahoo, will limit emails that are sent in duplicate to many recipients. Find an advertising-friendly service instead. Providers like MailChimp, Campaigner, Vertical Response, or Constant Contact,for example, may allow you to send duplicate emails to potentially unlimited recipients.


Some companies, like Benchmark, will allow you to send emails to many recipients, but they also have special features. For instance, you can find providers that supply ready-made templates for emails, which you can then alter to suit your needs. They can also help you manage your business’ social-media presence.
 Service providers constantly update the algorithms they use to identify and block spam. However, there are certain things to avoid if you want to make sure that your emails don’t get lumped together with those of malicious spammers. As a rule, there are some factors to consider.Have you been blacklisted? Service providers often keep “blacklists” of email addresses that are automatically blocked. Although these lists are for big spammers, if you’ve somehow ended up on one you will probably have to start from the beginning, with a new address.
Are you on a white list? Unlike black lists, you want to be on a white list. These are addresses that service providers have preapproved for delivery to inboxes. Major service providers often require you to file an application to get on one.Do you have an active email list? Service providers are more likely to flag emails that go to inactive accounts, or that have a very low rate of being opened. Keep your email lists updated!Avoid using common “spammy” phrases like “Click here!”; using excessive exclamation points; using all capital letters; or using colored fonts.
Provide an unsubscribe link. Make sure to include an option in your emails for recipients to unsubscribe from your list. Otherwise, you can be subject to anti-spam policies. Recipients can report you for sending unwanted emails and your email address or website may be disabled.
The federal CAN-SPAM Act has strict guidelines for letting customers unsubscribe. You can face up to $16,000 in fines for each violation. Make sure that you are following the law.