 Observe your challenger’s movements, and pay attention to how he reacts to your motions. Watch for times when he gets off balance or exposes himself by raising his center of gravity.Move around the mat keeping a constant eye on your opponent.
Test your opponent’s reactions by moving towards him from different angles.
Look for weaknesses in the way he responds to your movement.
 Depending on the type of wrestler you are facing, different moves may provide more success for a takedown.A “Duck Under” requires you to move under your opponent’s arm as he approaches and quickly grab him around the waist from behind. Keep one arm straight out in front of your opponent as you move behind your him; wrap your other arm around his waist from behind. Once you have a hold on your opponent, flip him onto the mat by falling back and swinging him with you.
A “Double Leg” takedown involves grabbing both legs of your opponent around mid thigh and pulling them up and towards you to force your opponent onto his back. Approach your opponent from the front and grab both legs at once. Be careful not to lower your head or you become vulnerable.
Use a “Single Leg Takedown” to quickly take a shot at your opponent’s front leg as you face each other, lift it off the ground and knock him down by attacking the other leg. Grab the leg that is closest to you and pull it up. Use your feet to sweep his other foot off the mat while you push him off balance with the leg you are holding.
 Move fast to prevent your opponent from having time to counter your move. Slow, hesitant motions are easier to anticipate and block.


Commit to the takedown, and follow through with your attack.
Don’t stop your move until the referee calls the point or a penalty.
 After a takedown you need to reset your stance quickly. Expect your opponent to counter attack to score against you after a takedown.


Set your legs in a defensive position.
Be ready to take a shot at your opponent if he provides an opening.
Prepare yourself to counter any aggressive moves by your opponent.

