 In order to manage your embarrassment, you first need to own it and understand it. Embarrassment is the feeling of awkwardness or humiliation when we believe we are being negatively evaluated by another. Learn why you get embarrassed about buying sexual items in order to fully grasp what may need to change (thoughts or behaviors) in order to reduce your embarrassment.


Identify what thoughts result in you feeling embarrassed about buying personal or sex-related items. Is it because you are worried about what other people are thinking about you? Is it because you are afraid you will run into someone you know? Understanding the specific components that produce embarrassment or fear for you will be helpful in developing ways of coping with the situation.
 For example, most individuals who purchase condoms do so by going to a store. Only about 5% of people get them from a medical clinic, and even less (.4%) purchase them online.Additionally, one study showed that approximately 55% of men and about 69% of women found condom purchasing to be embarrassing.This means it is quite common to feel embarrassed when buying personal or sex-related items.


When you are worried about the situation, remember that most people who buy personal products such as condoms, go to a store to do it. If they can do it, so can you!
When you are worrying about feeling embarrassed while buying a personal product, remind yourself that others feel similarly in your situation.
 Acceptance of your emotions is crucial to becoming motivated to better yourself and make positive changes, such as confidently buying personal items. Also, as previously stated, over half of shoppers report feeling embarrassed when buying items like condoms.Accept that embarrassment is a normal and natural emotion, especially when dealing with buying private items.


When you are feeling embarrassed, think to yourself, “It is okay that I am feeling this way. Many people feel embarrassed in this very situation.”

, Studies suggest that the more comfortable and familiar you are with the particular product you are buying, the less embarrassed you will feel.This also reduces the amount of lingering time you spend in the aisle trying to find your product. Know where it is and how to easily get it.


Research the product online, read the instructions, side effects, etc.
Pick a particular type, brand, and specific store that stocks the product.

