 You should prepare for a colon cleanse by drinking at least two liters of water a day. Add slices of lemon or fresh mint to your water for added natural flavor. Staying hydrated will ensure your body is not at risk of dehydration, especially in the days leading up to your colon cleanse.You can also have six to eight cups of herbal teas like peppermint, fennel, licorice, and chamomile. Make sure the teas are not caffeinated, as you do not want to consume caffeine leading up to your colon cleanse.;
, You should also stick to foods that are low in fiber, especially a few days before the colonoscopy or colon cleanse. Go for vegetables that are cooked, especially green vegetables. Avoid whole grains, nuts, seeds, dried fruits, and raw fruits and vegetables, as you do not want to become bloated or have digestion issues leading up to the colon cleanse.Go for vegetables like asparagus, peas, kale, Swiss chard, watercress, fennel, celery, cucumber, lettuce, and bok choi. Have fruits like apples, strawberries, blueberries, and oranges.
 You should avoid foods and liquids that are going to dehydrate you, such as caffeine and alcohol. Try not to drink sodas and beverages high in artificial sugars.You should also avoid having fast food, as it is high in processed ingredients and sodium. Try to eat at home instead of eating out and prepare healthy meals low in fiber. Having food prepared at home, rather than at fast food joints or restaurants means you know exactly what you are eating at every meal.
 A few days before your colonoscopy or colon cleanse, you should have low-fiber foods only. The day before the colonoscopy, you should stick to liquids only and have no solid foods. Have clear liquids like clear broth or bouillon as well as herbal tea, clear juices like apple or white grape, and lots of water.The day of the colonoscopy or cleanse, you should have clear foods only. Avoid eating or drinking anything at least two hours before your colon cleanse at the doctor’s office or in the office of the colon-cleanse practitioner.

