 Once you have collected all of your information, it is time to make a presentation to your parents. It is important to choose a time that works for everyone. You want to make sure that you have enough time to clearly make your point.Ask your parents to schedule some time to hear your presentation. Try saying, "Mom, Dad, do you have some free time Wednesday after dinner? Could I talk to you for about 30 minutes?"
Avoid trying to have an important discussion when your parents are busy. Don't try to bring up the subject when they are heading out the door or trying to make dinner.
Choose a time when there will be few interruptions. For example, don't ask your parents to listen to you right before it is time for your mom's friends to come over for book club.
 Make sure that your organization is well-organized. By now, you will have a lot of information about dog breeds, adoption, costs, and time. Make note cards for each topic.Notes will help you remember all of the facts that you have collected. Don't be afraid to refer to them while you are talking.
Make some visual aids. If you are good with computers, you can make a Power Point presentation.
Include pictures of the type of dog you would like to get. You can also make a chart that describes the breakdown of costs.
If you don't know how to make a Power Point, that's ok. You can use poster board to help show your information. Use brightly colored markers to highlight some of the most important facts.
 Make sure that your parents can understand all of the good points that you are making. Talk in a clear, confident voice. Don't talk too fast. You want to make sure your parents have time to process what you are saying.Practice your presentation. Take some time to run through your information the day before you speak to your parents.
Rehearsing will help you feel and sound more confident. Try asking a friend or other family member to listen. They might be able to offer you some helpful advice.
Don't worry if you get nervous. Just pause for a moment, take a deep breath, smile, and keep going.
 Part of making an effective presentation is listening to your audience. It is possible that your parents might have some questions for you. If so, listen to what they say and give a thoughtful response.For example, your parents might say, "How are you going to fit this in around soccer practice?" You can say, "That's a great question. I plan to start getting up earlier in the morning to spend quality time with the new dog."
When it is your parents turn to talk, show them that you are listening. Make eye contact and nod your head when they make an important point.
Let your parents know that you are happy to answer any questions that they have. This shows that you are willing to have a mature conversation.
 If you make a very persuasive argument, it is possible that your parents might give you an immediate and enthusiastic "Yes!" However, you should be prepared for other reactions. Your parents might need some time to think it over.Demonstrate that you are patient. Say, "I know this is a big decision, so I understand if you need to take some time to discuss it with each other."
Your parents might have other requirements. For example, they might say, "You will have to let your sister help you choose the dog." Be prepared to compromise on these sorts of qualifications.
You can suggest your own compromises, too. For example, you could say, "If you let me get a dog, I will be happy to have my allowance reduced. I understand dogs are expensive."

