 Pudding is still consumed in many varieties across the Commonwealth, but people in the United States have simplified the term to mean a cold, custard-like dessert. This recipe is streamlined to be as simple as possible without sacrificing deliciousness, but there are dozens of alternate methods out there if you decide to explore variations in texture or flavor.


This recipe can be made with or without melted chocolate. If you decide to skip the chocolate you may wish to up the vanilla extract to 2 tsp (10 mL) for a stronger flavor.
This pudding will take at least an hour to chill and thicken. Allowing at least four hours is recommended if you plan on serving it as dessert, as individual variation can cause some puddings to take longer.;
, You only need one of these ingredients to thicken the pudding. Cornstarch is easy to use, and a great option for beginner or time-pressed chefs. Egg yolks are finicky and can ruin a pudding if overcooked, but will provide a richer texture. Both methods are described in this section.
 Use a saucepan, but leave it off the heat for now. Combine ½ cup (100 g) sugar and ⅛ tsp (a small pinch) salt. If you are using cornstarch, mix in ¼ cup (30 g) of this as well. Use a whisk if you have one, since it will be useful in the next step.


While cornstarch is sold as "cornflour" outside the U.S., do not confuse it with actual flour made from corn! You're looking for pure starch, an almost tasteless, white powder., Pour in about ¼ cup (60 mL) of the milk in a thin stream to avoid forming lumps, whisking it in with the dry ingredients. Once the mixture has no lumps, pour in the remaining 2 ¾ cups (660 mL) milk and whisk until smooth.If you have a food processor, you can pulse this mixture until smooth instead., If you are using two egg yolks, separate them from the egg whites, then beat for 30–60 seconds in a separate, large bowl.


Remember, there is no need for egg yolks if using cornstarch.
 Heat the mixture over medium-low heat on the stove top. Stir and scrape the sides occasionally, to avoid forming a skin or burning the milk. After approximately ten minutes, the mixture should be thick enough to coat the back of your stirring spoon. If you want to add 6 ounces (170 g) chocolate, do so and continue to heat and stir until smooth.Otherwise, just continue to the next step.
 This step varies depending on which thickener you are using:



If using cornstarch, continue to heat and stir until boiling. Reduce heat and simmer for two or three minutes or until slightly thickened, then remove from heat.If using egg yolk, remove the milk from heat once thickened, then add it in a very thin stream to the egg mixture, whisking constantly. If you add too much of the hot mixture, or stop stirring, the egg will cook — and no one wants scrambled eggs in their dessert. Once all the ingredients are combined, return them to the saucepan and heat until thick, but do not allow to boil., 1 tsp (5 mL) vanilla extract will add a nice flavor, whether or not you are using chocolate. Stir it in well, as the stirring will also prevent skin from forming while the mixture is still hot.
 Spoon the pudding into a large bowl or individual custard ramekins, or simply leave it in the saucepan. Refrigerate for one to three hours before eating, or until thick. Keep it in the refrigerator until ready to eat.


Optionally, stretch plastic wrap over the surface to prevent a skin from forming.