 Prepare a roasting pan by lining it with a large sheet of aluminum foil.


The foil needs to be at least three times as large as the bottom of your roasting pan. You will need enough foil to wrap completely and securely around the brisket, so if necessary, you can test the amount by wrapping it around your brisket before you use it the line the pan.;
, In a small saucepan, whisk together the ketchup, vinegar, brown sugar, soy sauce, Worcestershire sauce, mustard, ginger, garlic, oil, and water until combined.


Alternatively, you could use your favorite prepared barbecue sauce instead of this sauce recipe. Use roughly 3/4 cup (185 ml) of prepared sauce and mix it with 1 cup (250 ml) of water. No simmering is necessary if using prepared sauce.
 Heat the sauce on your stove over medium-high heat until it reaches a simmer. Let cook for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, so the flavors blend.Pre-heating the barbecue sauce separately allows the flavors of the sauce to blend more thoroughly before you add it to the beef brisket. If you do not pre-cook the sauce, you may end with a brisket that is unevenly flavored, with some tastes being stronger on one side of the meat than they are on another.
 Place the beef brisket on the aluminum foil and spread the sauce over it, covering as much of the meat as possible. Wrap the foil around the brisket when done.


By wrapping the brisket, you seal the liquid in and keep that liquid in full contact with the meat. This leads to a more even, more rapid, and more flavorful cooking process.
Make sure the foil is wrapped around the brisket tightly so no liquid can leak out through the corners of the foil packet.
 The beef brisket should be roasted for roughly 1 hour per l lb (450 g) of meat. In this case, the brisket should cook for 3 to 4 hours.Do not unwrap the brisket during the cooking process unless you are checking for doneness. Unwrapping the meat can cause some liquid to be lost, which can upset the cooking time and lead to a brisket that is drier than ideal.
You should also watch the brisket to make sure that liquid is not leaking out from the corners of the foil. If liquid does seep out, carefully refold the corners of the foil down using oven mitts to prevent additional liquid loss.
Check the internal temperature of the brisket with a meat thermometer. The temperature should be between 190 and 200 degrees Fahrenheit (88 to 93 degrees Celsius) when safe and tender enough to eat, and the meat should be easy to pull apart., Remove the beef brisket from the oven and let it rest for 30 minutes before you carve and serve it.


Slice the brisket across the grain to produce more tender slices of beef.
You can also serve the brisket with its cooking juices for a more intense flavor. Skin the fat from the surface of the cooking liquid using a spoon before ladling the liquid over carved slices of meat.

