 Most plastic Easter eggs will open widthwise. These are great for simple designs, like zigzags and stripes. If you are using an image, like a flower or a butterfly, the seam will only get in the way. An egg that opens lengthwise will work much better., Find a simple image online, print it, then cut out. If you can't find an image that you like, you can use a sticker instead, or even draw one.The template needs to be a little smaller than your egg. Don't go too small, however, or it will be hard to embroider.

Flowers, tulips, chicks, and bunny faces are great options.
If you want a simpler pattern, like zigzags or dotted lines, skip this step.
 Double-sided tape would work the best here. If you can't find any, roll a strip of tape into a loop with the sticky side out, and use that instead.If you are using a sticker, simply place it onto the egg.

If your egg opens lengthwise, make sure that the template doesn't cross the seam.
If you want a simpler pattern, like zigzags or dotted lines, skip this step.
 Space the dots as evenly as you can, about ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters). The bigger your egg is, the further apart the dots should be. You will eventually be threading your string through these.If you want a simpler pattern, like zigzags or dotted lines, make the dots where the lines would connect.
 You can do this using a dremel with a small bit. Make sure that the holes are big enough for your desired cord to fit through.You can use embroidery floss, thin yarn, or baker's twine.
 This will stiffen the end of the string and make it easier to thread through the holes.You can also thread the string though a plastic, flexible yarn needle. Don't use a metal one; it won't bend enough to fit the curves of the egg., Thread the string through one of the holes on the egg, starting from the inside. Weave the string over and under through the holes until you are back where you started. Work one egg half at a time.

Leave a long tail of string inside the egg. You'll use this to tie the two ends together.
 Weaving the string back and forth through the holes will leave gaps, just like sewing a straight stitch. If you want a solid line, instead of a dotted one, simply go over your design one more time, this time, making sure to go under and over, so that you fill the gaps in., Finish your first color inside the egg. Cut the strong so that it is a few inches/centimeters long. Thread your second color through the next hole, starting from the inside of the egg. Weave a few stitches to secure the strong, then tie the two ends together in a double-knot. Continue weaving with your second color until you want to change it.

Trim off the excess strings after you tie them together.
 Once you are back where you started, tie the two ends of the string together into a double-knot. Snip off the excess string. If the knot is not secure enough, cover it with a drop of glue. Hot glue will wok the best., If you want to close the eggs permanently, run some super glue along the rim of one of the halves before you push them together. Let the glue dry completely.