 Long paragraphs of dialogue can overwhelm readers, so make sure the dialogue that you write is full and vibrant, but not too dense.


Keep the dialogue as exchanges between characters, not overly long monologues.
Dialogue should always move the plot along.
The dialogue should serve the plot, not the other way around.
Take out any unnecessary dialogue, especially if it is long-winded.
 When you're writing, think actively about the vocabulary you are using.


Avoid using contemporary words.
You can use your dictionaries to help you determine what words are contemporary.
 Think about using accurate syntax, which is a bit more difficult than choosing the proper vocabulary.


Syntax is the way sentences are structured, and it does change over time.
One way to think about syntax is to think about historical dialogue as its own dialect (a sub-section of a language, with different inflections and words), which it essentially is.
Look at this example of a southern American dialect from Flannery O’Connor:

“He and the girl had almost nothing to say to each other. One thing he did say was, 'I ain't got any tattoo on my back.'
'What you got on it?' the girl said.
'My shirt,' Parker said. 'Haw.'
'Haw, haw,' the girl said politely.”


Of course, words like “ain’t” and “haw” stand out as southern slang/dialect.
However, the structures are different from standard English as well.
For instance, the sentence, “What you got on it?” leaves out the "being" verb, as normally “have” would go before “you.”
Historical dialogue can also have different structures, and the only way to learn those structures is to read primary texts and even secondary texts from the time period.
In fact, the best dialect writers rely more on syntax than on trying to make words appear accented by changing spellings and shortening words.
 An idiom is a phrase the meaning of which is not directly derived from its actual words.


Idioms are often phrases that don’t necessarily make sense, like “It’s raining cats and dogs", or "He kicked the bucket".
They are often metaphorical in nature, though not always.
Like looking for vocabulary, you can read older sources to find common idioms of the time period.
Similarly, idiom dictionaries can help you find out-of-use phrases, as well as the slang dictionaries mentioned above.
 Using only dialogue bores readers over time, so keep the action going between exchanges.


Monologues, especially when they are in hard to understand historic phrasing, can lose your readers attention.
 Although language may have been spoken more formally in the past than today, not all language in the past was formal and there were still divisions between formal and informal speaking.


In other words, if your character is talking to a close friend, their language needs to be less formal than when he or she is talking to a complete stranger, even in historical fiction.
Also, dialogue doesn’t need to be—and shouldn’t be—in complete sentences all the time.
When writing formal language, remember “formal” does not necessarily mean “stilted.”
For example, if you’ve ever read Jane Austen or the Brontë sisters, you will realize that even formal language can have wit and punch.
Try speaking the dialogue aloud, and make sure that you don't stumble over it.
 While you don’t want your text to sound modern, you don’t want it to be so “historical” that readers have a difficult time understanding it.


Your text should still be enjoyable to read, and not require too much "translation".
This will allow your readers to move through your book at a fairly quick pace, and avoid losing interest.

