 Another way to keep a clean driving record is to fight any tickets before they get on your record. This is particularly important if you’ve been charged with a DUI or other offense that will stay on your record for a long time. Begin by documenting the circumstances surrounding your arrest:


What were you doing?
Where was the officer?
What did the officer say?
Did you consent to any search, including a breathalyzer test? Did the officer ask for consent or immediately start searching your vehicle?

, Serious offenses like DUI need serious legal help. However, you will also benefit from a traffic attorney even if you are fighting minor tickets. You can find a traffic attorney by contacting your nearest bar association.Ask for a referral.


You’ll have to pay for a lawyer, so calculate whether the money is worthwhile. If you are set to lose your license because of a DUI, then paying several thousand dollars might be worth it. However, paying that kind of money to fight a speeding ticket might not.
Ask whether a lawyer will help coach you through the process. Most states let lawyers offer “unbundled” legal services. Under this arrangement, the lawyer will do discrete tasks, such as draft a discovery motion or give you advice about the strengths and weaknesses in your case.You then do all other tasks.
 You should be able to get certain documents from the police to help you prepare for trial. In particular, request the officer’s notes. These notes should contain information about why the officer stopped you.The process of requesting these documents is called “discovery.”


Usually, you’ll have to file a motion with the court. Check to see if there is a form you need to fill out. If you don’t know how to request discovery, consult with a traffic attorney—or hire the attorney and let them handle the case for you.
 In some states, you can get the case dismissed if the officer doesn’t show up to testify against you.In other states, however, the judge will reschedule the case if the officer doesn’t show. Regardless, you should still ask for a dismissal.


You can increase the chances of the officer not showing up by rescheduling your hearing date. Often, an officer will schedule all of their hearings on the same day. If you reschedule, they are less likely to show since it is an inconvenience.
If possible, choose a date close to a holiday or school vacations.
 You can attack the state’s evidence in a variety of ways. Carefully analyze your evidence and choose the best approach based on the facts:Attack the officer’s observations. The officer might not have been in a good position to accurately see what you were doing. For example, if the officer was hidden behind a tree at night, then they might not be 100% sure your car was speeding.
Question the validity of any speed reading. The officer might not have used the radar or laser properly. Question their training and whether they carefully calibrated the machine so that it would record speed accurately.
Justify your actions as necessary. You might have swerved into another lane to avoid a pedestrian or an erratic vehicle.
 Some defense theories won’t work on a judge, so don’t try them. For example, avoid making any of the following arguments:The officer is lying. The judge won’t believe you unless you have proof.
You claim everyone else was speeding. That won’t get you off the hook.
You argue no one was hurt so you shouldn’t be held responsible. You’re being prosecuted to deter you from potentially harming someone in the future.
You claim you don’t know what the law is. Ignorance of the law isn’t an excuse.

