 It can be hard to send out application after application on your own. A temp agency will take your resume and review your skill set. They can then help you find temporary jobs that fit into your schedule. Not only will this earn you extra money, you will have a chance to diversify your resume.You can find local temp agencies online. You may be able to submit your resume through their website. Other times, you may have to go in in person. If you're unsure how to register, call up the agency during operating hours.
Many temp jobs include administrative work, as well as data entry. This work can be easy to fit into a college schedule, especially if hours come at night or on the weekend.
Make sure you ask the agency about taxes. Some temp agencies will not take taxes out of your paycheck, and you will be responsible for paying state and federal taxes.;
, If you miss your pet, pet-sitting can be a great way to make some extra money. If you're free on weekends or holiday breaks, offer your service as a pet sitter. If you have free time during the afternoon, you can also offer to walk dogs for people who work during the day. As a college schedule does not run on a traditional 9 to 5 routine, people who work during the day will be grateful for your pet sitting services.You can look for jobs online. Websites, such as DogVacay, can help you locate and apply for pet sitting jobs near you.
You can also simply advertise your services yourself. Put flyers up around places like veterinary clinics and dog parks. Post something on Craigslist advertising your services.
Be safe, however. If you're meeting anyone from an online job board, always meet them in a public setting first.
 If you're a college student, you probably write a lot. There are many websites where you can claim small freelance writing jobs. Writing, say, a blog post for $50 a few times a week can help earn you extra money.Sites like Fiverr, Upwork, and Freelancer can help you get started. You will build a profile and then be able to locate and apply for writing jobs.
You can also talk to a career counselor. The career counselor at your school may be able to point you in the direction of freelance writing work.
 If you have a car and a clear driving record, Uber or Lyft can be great ways to make money as a college student. You will set your own hours, so you'll be able to work when it's convenient for you.You can work on weekends or before and after classes.
If you live in a college town, you may make a lot of money working weekends. Students out at the bars will be requesting rides home.
 Students with disabilities may need people to take notes for them in class. Your school may hire student workers to do so. In college, you're already adept at attending class and taking notes. Look into doing it for money.Check with your college advisor about note taking opportunities. You could also ask other students who have previously worked as note-takers how they got their positions.

