 Run a tape measure from wall to wall and from floor to ceiling. The resulting numbers will give you an idea of exactly how much space you have to play around with. Record these dimensions so you can refer to them later when browsing different types of fixtures.Measure the room in feet and the light fixture in inches.
One helpful guideline is to add together the room’s length and width and pick out a fixture with an equivalent measurement in inches; a chandelier for a 20’x25’ dining room should therefore be no larger than 45” in diameter.;
, As you look over your various options, picture how they would look hanging in your home. Overly large fixtures tend to feel cramped in averaged sized dining rooms. A chandelier that’s too small, on the other hand, may be dwarfed by the rest of the room’s furnishings.Since you can’t give chandeliers a tryout, it will help to stick closely to the measurements you took down.
In the end, you may have to eyeball and use your best judgment.
 A single fixture may be all you need to set the mood in a cozy nook. If you’re attempting to brighten a larger area, opt for a model that features multiple bulbs or reflects light in many different directions. The chandelier you settle on should enhance visibility without being harsh or glaring.You also have the option of choosing between conventional bulbs and powerful LEDs that give off more light in a smaller space.Connect your chandelier to a dimmer switch so you’ll have full control over the amount of light it gives off., Exquisitely decorated homes deserve chandeliers with just as much taste. Look for fixtures with eye-catching embellishments, such as the classic dangling crystals or clusters of blown-glass globes. They’ll provide the finishing touches for dining rooms with an air of sophistication.The more complex the chandelier’s design, the more you can expect to shell out for it.
Neutral tones like silver and chrome will mesh with other items more naturally than bright or oddly-colored finishes.
 Try out a light ring molded from brass or a similar material, or an impressive centerpiece of rustic wrought iron. An unobtrusive chandelier will allow the rest of the room’s decor to speak for itself.You can find more practical lighting solutions at most home improvement stores.
Sturdy fixtures with one-piece construction are often much easier and less costly to repair or replace.
 These can range from basic minimalistic shaded lamps to more artistic installations that double as functional sculptures. Contemporary accessories will arguably give you the greatest variety of options to match up to your home’s unique character.Unlike elaborate vintage chandeliers, modern fixtures won’t stand out awkwardly in newer homes.
 No matter what type of piece you choose, it should fit in with the furnishings and ornamentations that you already have in place. Take in the room as a whole—the “perfect” chandelier is the one that ties it all together effortlessly.A vibrant bronze fixture, for instance, will clash with decor decked out in warm hues.
Similarly, a stripped-down industrial fixture can create confusion in a dining room inspired by classic Victorian sensibilities., This is the most common placement, as it emphasizes the room’s purpose by keeping attention focused on its most important piece of furniture. Centering the chandelier over the table will offer a tasteful spotlight for rich holiday meals, light afternoon luncheons and even the occasional game of cards.For a more organic setup, have your chandelier measured, lined up and hung in relation to the position of the dining table, not the other way around.An overhead chandelier will look best when it’s about a foot smaller than the table on all sides., If your dining room is bordered by a vestibule or includes a short walkway, you may prefer to place the chandelier there. That way, it can be seen by your guests immediately upon entering.This arrangement will look most natural in rooms with long, open layouts.
Mounting a chandelier in another area of the dining room can act as a sort of visual welcoming.Change the focal point of the room by placing the chandelier over another prominent object, such as a buffet, wet bar or piano.
 Ideally, it should be low enough to cast light in a wide radius, but not so low that it gets in the way. Try suspending the fixture at different levels until you find one that allows the eye to transition seamlessly from floor to ceiling.A good rule of thumb is to find the height of your ceilings in feet, then multiply that number by 3 and convert it to inches: for example, a dining room with a 9' ceiling will accommodate a chandelier up to 27" high.
Chandeliers are generally mounted to hang 30”-36” from the top of a table or other surface., If the chandelier is going to serve as a primary source of illumination, it should go as close to the center of the room as you can get it. Otherwise, it can bleed together with nearby ceiling lights and floor lamps, resulting in a washed out glare. Find a sensible spacing between individual lights so that no part of the room is either too bright or too dark.If you’re using a lighted chandelier, turn off some of the surrounding lights so they don’t end up competing.
Chandeliers comprised of lots of small crystal or glass pieces are designed to diffuse light with a sparkling effect, which means they often don’t even need an integrated light source.

