 To get your courage going, start with stores that are more likely to get your point and try to accommodate it. The kinds of stores that might be more willing to give using-your-own-container a go include:


Health food stores and health-oriented/eco-friendly supermarkets

Local stores where the people know you already
Places that already have some green shopping practices in place, such as not giving out plastic bags, etc.;
, It is important that whatever container you are using is clearly suitable for the purpose. Make sure that it is:


Obviously clean
Can be easily weighed
Can effectively and safely contain the item of food or produce that you want to purchase.
 Ask if it is OK to use your own container and show it to the person in question.


If they cannot provide an answer, ask who can and then ask to see that person. Always seek the person who can say "yes", or who is at least in a position to consider changing a store policy.
 For example, if an item needs to be weighed, suggest that they weigh your container first, keep a record of that, and then have you return for a new weigh-in with the item inside the container. From there, you can detract the weight of the container and just pay for the item's weight.


Have the container weighed, then multiply the weight of the container by the cost per pound or kilo of your bulk item.
 Nobody wants a lecture about the way the world is going to the dogs because of waste, and being angry, irritable, or grumpy about it won't win you any favors. Instead, be confident of your request, and ask politely, assuming nothing but feeling confident that your request is able to be accommodated.
 Your fear of being embarrassed or of coming across as an awkward or bizarre customer may be what is holding you back from making the request to use your own containers. Try not to think of it that way. Instead, consider the following important realities:


You are laying the groundwork for the next shopper who wants reduced/no packaging. You might be a trailblazer but you will be alerting the store to a new and future possibility that it will need to come to terms with eventually, as more and more people demand less and less packaging.
If you're feeling embarrassed, realize that other people probably are feeling that way too, and that by asking now, you are helping to educate retailers and their staff how to handle this request effectively and with respect.
 Tell the store that it is important to you that you don't use excess packaging, particularly plastic products. You can provide particular examples of why it is so important, if wished, such as the ocean trash gyres, but don't go into excessive detail!

, Too few people do, perhaps because we still feel constrained to "not make a fuss". Yet, we have so many amazing tools to help us communicate better while still being considerate of others. Rely on assertive language and give it your best shot.

