 For variety, choose two different colors of paper, or even pick several different colors. Pick colors that are appropriate to the season or occasion -- red, green, and yellow for Christmas, or pastel colors for a baby shower or bridal shower.;
, Use a sturdy pair of scissors to cut equally-sized strips of paper from each piece of paper. You can adjust the size a bit according to your preference -- adjusting the width of the strips will make the garland loops wider and adjusting the length will make the loops longer.
 Simply create a loop by making the flat strip round, and touching the edges of the paper so that they are overlapping by at least 1 inch (2.5 cm). The most dependable way to make the strip stay in loop form is to glue the ends of the strip together and wait for the glue to dry before you move on. But if you don't have the time or patience to individually glue each garland, you can also tape the loops together using clear masking tape.









If you're really pressed for time, you can even staple the ends of the loops together twice. Remember that if one loop falls apart, the garland will disconnect.
 Now take another strip of paper and run it through the first loop until you connect the ends of that strip to form a second loop. Connect the ends of the second loop just as you did with the first loop. If you're going for alternating colors, make sure you pick a different color for the second loop.
 Continue running each strip of paper through the previous loop and then connecting it to make a loop until you've connected all of your loops and have created a paper garland of interlocking loops. If you'd like your garland to be a bit longer, just cut more strips of paper and create more loops until you're satisfied with the length.
 Once your garland has been created, all you have to do is hang it up. You can drape the garland over a tree, a back patio, a column, or any piece of furniture. If you want to hang your garland up on the wall, hang the loops over a sturdy protruding nail.








