 Cut red clover leaves or flowers early in the day before the plant's mid-bloom. Mid-bloom is when half of the plants in a location are blooming. Make sure to cut flowers above the leaf growth and cut leaves in clumps of three.


Avoid discolored leaves or flowers, as the plant could be sickly and have an odd taste.;
, Place the leaves and flowers in a colander and rinse them with cool water. Make sure you rinse off any dirt or any debris. Pay special attention to the flowers, as they might contain dirt or bugs.


Spread your leaves and flowers in one layer on a clean paper towel.
Allow the leaves and flowers several hours to dry.
Gently pat the leaves and flowers with a cloth towel if you want them to dry quicker.
 Whichever part of the red clover plant you decide to eat – whether it be the leaves or the flowers – you’ll need to remove them from the stem. While the stem contains fiber, it is not as nutritious as the leaves or flowers and should not be consumed. In addition, it does not taste very good.
 As an edible flowering plant, you can choose to eat red clover flowers or leaves uncooked. The plant’s natural sweetness will complement a wide variety of dishes. Consider adding red clover flowers or leaves to:


Salads
Soups
Sandwiches and wraps, Place clover leaves or flowers in a medium saucepan. Cover the bottom with a quarter inch of water. Put the heat on low, and allow the clover to steam.Add steamed red clover to spinach or other leafy green side dishes.
Steam a small amount of red clover leaves to serve with a side of fish or chicken.
Consider steaming red clover flowers or leaves and adding them to a stew or soup.
 Red clover leaves and flowers make a great garnish for just about anything. This is because the sweet fresh flavor of the uncooked leaves compliment many other flavors. Consider:


Sprinkling red clover flower over ice cream or other deserts.
Garnishing chicken or fish dishes with red clover leaves., You can also dry and ground red clover flowers into a fine powder/flour to be used to prepare baked goods. Red clover flour is very popular for desserts, due to its sweet aftertaste. Like other flowering plants, the process is somewhat simple.


Place the flowers on an elevated rack and place them in a cool and dry location for several days. If you want them dry quicker, you can place them in a dehydrator. They are dry when they are crisp and crumble to the touch.
Ground the flowers with a mortar and pestle or similar device. Make sure that you turn the flowers into a very fine powder.
Once you have a fine powder, incorporate the flour into an existing recipe of your choice. Feel free to substitute an equivalent amount of red clover flour for all-purpose flower.