 It is important to assert your leadership over your dog early on in your relationship without using physical force. Dogs need structure and consistent discipline to feel secure and comfortable in your home. Without this discipline, a dog's behavior can become unruly and unpredictable (e.g. aggressiveness, hyperactivity). Some ways to establish dominance in a non-violent way are:Make you dog earn treats instead of spoiling it with them
Eat your own meals before feeding your dog
Walk through doorways and enter rooms before allowing your dog to follow
Take charge on walks by setting the pace and controlling the direction you go in;
, Training your dog to respond to commands is a great way to bond with it and ensure smoother communication with it. Teach these commands by using the (non-violent) correction and reward method- correction should involve speaking firmly, but no anger or physical force. To begin, make sure that your dog grasps the five basic commands:"Sit”,"Stay", "Lay down”, ”Heel”, and "Come here.” For details and instructional videos, visit the American Kennel Club website at http://www.akc.org/content/dog-training/articles/teach-your-puppy-these-5-basic-commands/.
 As a means of encouraging your dog's good behavior, strongly reward it to create positive associations with being obedient. Rewards should include praise, petting, toys, and treats. Avoid harsh punishments for bad behaviour; reprimanding your dog will be effective if you catch it in the act of doing something bad.If you do catch your dog in the act of doing something bad (e.g. chewing on a shoe), simply say "No!" in a clear, firm way. Overreacting and scaring your dog will make it lose trust in you and harm your relationship with it.
 Exercise improves mental and physical health for both dogs and owners and promotes better sleep, digestion, and behavior. How much exercise a dog requires depends on its breed but as a general rule, your dog should be getting at least 30-60 minutes of exercise a day. In addition to daily walks, try jogging with your dog or playing fetch outdoors., Playing games with your dog is an excellent way to have fun and maintain a good relationship with it. While fetch and tug-of-war are simple options for games that dogs play almost instinctively, try to branch out to keep things fun and varied. For instance, play hide and seek with your dog, which plays on its bond with you, recognition of your voice, and desire to find you. Other options could include:Setting up an obstacle course for your dog to run through (e.g. with hurdles made out of rolled up blankets)
Playing Simon Says, which can play off of your dog's understanding of basic commands

Playing frisbee, which requires focus and agility from your dog

, Petting your dog regularly can enhance your bond with it and reduce stress for the both of you. Being pet has been shown to reduce heart rate and cortisol levels in shelter dogs. Use praise and petting as often as possible to reinforce your dog's good behavior and improve its confidence., Food intolerances are common in dogs, particularly to commercial dog food high in preservatives and additives. In addition to physical signs (e.g. digestive upsets, skin irritations), food allergies or nutritional deficiencies can have behavioral effects (like aggression or hyperactivity) which can compromise your relationship with your dog. Purchase dog food with natural ingredients, and consult your vet if you have any concerns about your dog's digestive health., Grooming your dog is an excellent bonding opportunity and can contribute to a healthy relationship between you. Most breeds of dog benefit from a weekly brushing, which improves the health of your dog's skin and coat, while breeds with thicker coats may require more through brushing and clipping. While a professional groomer can take care of more demanding grooming tasks such as clipping your dog's nails or cleaning your dog's ears, you can try brushing your dog's teeth, which should be done on a regular basis to maintain your dog's dental health., As your dog's caretaker, it is your job to ensure its health and happiness. Bring your pet to the vet for regular check ups- once a year for dogs 1-7 years old, and twice a year for puppies and dogs older than 7 years old. Ask your vet to ensure that your dog is up to date on all vaccinations and tested for heartworms and intestinal parasites., Dogs are very responsive to human emotion and often reflect it back in their own behavior. For instance, a dog who is around excited people at a party may become overexcited by association. Be conscious of your emotions and try to be as calm as possible in all situations, whether in response to positive or negative behavior from your pet.