 The average American spends 608 hours a year on social media and 1642 hours watching television. At an average reading speed, you could read hundreds of books a year if you simply devoted the time that you currently spend on Facebook and TV to reading.The first step toward doing this is changing your environment. Keep books near you at home. Don’t keep a television in your room. Keep your cellphone far away from you and erase distracting apps.;
, Habits are self-reinforcing. If you get accustomed to a schedule, you are likely to stick to it. So, schedule an hour or two every evening to do some reading and decompress after a hard day.Consider taking an hour to read just before going to bed. Watching TV and being on your computer before bed can make it harder to sleep. Spending the last hour of the day reading instead can both help you grow intellectually and get a better night’s sleep., If you make up thirty minutes earlier than you normally would in the morning, you could use that time to get some reading done. Cracking a book in the morning can be a good way to way to clear your mind before starting your day., If you always have a book available, you can read in short spurts for 10 to 30 minutes when you have some downtime. If you can find a few times throughout the day when you can devote a little bit of time to reading, it’ll ultimately add up.


Consider, for example, keeping a book in your backpack. That way, when you have a few spare moments at work or school, you can get some reading done.
Also, keep a book in the bathroom., While it isn’t quite the same as reading, audiobooks do allow you to experience some of the great books of classical literature, without taking any time off from what you’re doing. You can listen to an audiobook in the car or while walking. This can make your commute both more edifying and entertaining., There are several tablets and specialized reading devices on the market. With these, you can bring an entire library in your backpack and always have something interesting to read when you get a spare moment.


Tablets, however, can also have apps that will distract you when you read. If you need help focusing, delete these apps.
 You shouldn’t try to read while driving, but public transit is a different story. Taking the train or the bus frees up time that you can use for reading. Bring a book with you and try to get some reading done on your commute., Reading books to your children is a great way to expand their creativity and literary abilities. But, reading time can double as both good parenting and an opportunity to expand your own knowledge. Consider literature like the works of Mark Twain, which can be as enriching for adults as it is for children.

