 Since uterine cancer affects the uterus, every woman is at risk for contracting this type of cancer (unless you’ve had a hysterectomy). However it is most common for women over the age of 50 who have gone through menopause.One major risk factor for developing uterine cancer is taking hormones or other drugs.These hormone risks include using estrogen without also using progesterone, or taking Tamoxifen – a drug used to treat certain forms of breast cancer.
There are also certain physical factors that can contribute to an increased risk of contracting uterine cancer. Major bodily factors include being obese, being a smoker, or having a history of uterine, colon, or ovarian cancer in your family. You are also a greater risk if you have had problems getting pregnant or if you had fewer than five periods a year before beginning menopause. Another risk factor is suffering from endometrial hyperplasia.;
, Abnormal bleeding or postmenopausal bleeding is the most common early symptom of endometrial cancer. If you notice any vaginal bleeding that is not normal for you and your monthly cycle, you should be mindful of your symptoms so that you can recall them for your doctor.If the abnormal bleeding continues for any considerable amount of time (more than a few days) or if it happens during several monthly cycles in a row, consider notifying your doctor.
Check for bleeding between periods. If you notice bleeding between periods, this can be a symptom of uterine cancer.Be wary of bleeding that last longer or is heavier than normal. If your menstrual cycle changes in any way, this can be a symptom of a problem with your reproductive system, including uterine cancer. Look for changes like heavier periods than normal, longer periods than normal, or increased PMS symptoms (cramps, fatigue, etc.).
Keep a journal recording these occurrences.
 Bleeding, even a small amount (also known as spotting), after having gone through menopause can be problematic for many reasons. One of these reasons is the possibility of uterine cancer. If you are vaginally bleeding after menopause, you should consult your doctor immediately.Since menopause eliminates your body’s need to go through the menstrual cycle every month, any bleeding after menopause can be problematic and should be taken seriously.
 Take the time to notice if your menstrual periods last longer than seven days. A longer than average menstrual cycle can be indicative of problems with your reproductive system, including uterine cancer. Keep track of how many days your period lasts for several cycles in a row so you can tell your doctor.


A doctor can help you regulate your periods so that they are more manageable and make sure there are no underlying problems causing the longer periods.
 Pain is actually somewhat rare in early uterine cancer. It does not usually occur until later in the disease’s progression. Any kind of recurring pain in your pelvis can be a sign of a various number of potential health problems – including uterine cancer, pelvic inflammatory disease, endometriosis, and ovarian cysts. You should notify your doctor and get it checked out if you are experiencing any kind of pain or pressure in your pelvis.A feeling of pressure in your pelvis can also be a sign of uterine cancer.
The intensity of the sensation can vary from person to person. You might feel a sharp, stabbing pain in your pelvic region or perhaps a lighter, more continuous feeling of pressure.
 It should never hurt when you urinate. If you are experiencing pain during urination, it can be a symptom of several problems including uterine cancer or urinary tract infection. Regardless, you should see your doctor immediately if you are experiencing this problem., For the most part, sexual intercourse should not be painful. If you are experiencing pain during sex, especially if it is a recent development, consider letting your doctor know just to make sure nothing is wrong.Your doctor may also be able to recommend something to alleviate the pain.
 See your health care provider if you have any of the signs or symptoms listed or are concerned that you might have uterine cancer. It’s always better to be safe than sorry.


It might be a good idea to ask a friend to go with you to your appointment. They can be there for moral support, to help you remember the information the doctor gives you, and to ask questions that you may forget in the moment.
Make sure you prepare for your appointment ahead of time by researching your symptoms, keeping track of your symptoms, and writing down any questions you may have.
 It is important to ask your doctor questions when you consult with him or her about your concerns regarding uterine cancer. Doing research on your own is a great way to find out some preliminary information, but getting information directly from your doctor is more beneficial.


If you often have trouble remembering all of the questions you want to ask, write your questions down ahead of time as you think of them so you’ll be sure to ask all the right things when you’re discussing it with your doctor.
You can also take notes during your appointment with the doctor so that you will be able to accurately recall all of the information later.
 There is also no simple and trustworthy way to test for uterine cancer in women who are symptom-free. The Pap test (also known as Pap smear) does not check for uterine cancer. If you do have signs or symptoms of the cancer, your health care provider may perform one or more of the following tests:


Pelvic exam
Transvaginal ultrasound
Endometrial biopsy
Pap test (to test for other possible causes)

, Once you have tracked all of your symptoms, discussed your symptoms with your doctor, and undergone any testing your doctor deems necessary, your doctor should be able to give you an accurate diagnosis about whether or not you have uterine cancer.


Keep in mind that your doctor may need to do some tests on your before they can make a definitive decision about your symptoms.

