 Writing about how you are feeling may help to stimulate your creativity and get you unstuck. Keeping a journal can also help you to make sense of your feelings and use them to improve your situation.This can help you identify patterns and reflect on places where you can make positive changes. By writing in your journal daily, you may be able to uncover what it is exactly that is keeping you stuck.


Record your thoughts about feeling stuck every day for at least two weeks to look for patterns and identify the source of your feelings.
Try writing for a few minutes any time you are feeling stuck throughout the day as well.
 Try to make good use of your time and prioritize your most important tasks. This will help you feel productive and inspire further creativity.


Do one thing at a time. Focusing your attention on completing something before moving on to the next has major benefits psychologically and can help maximize feelings of progress.Practice the four “D’s – Delete, Do, Delegate, or Defer.Delete or eliminate tasks that are unnecessary. Do task right away that can be done quickly or easily. Delegate any task that can be done better someone else. Defer task that don’t need to be performed immediately to a more convenient time.
 By doing one small thing, you might be able to motivate yourself to accomplish even more. This can be something as mundane as washing up the dishes, clearing a pile of clutter, drinking a glass of water, or taking a walk.


Setting small objectives is often more effective than trying to achieve large, overwhelming ones. Attaining manageable goals will enhance your productivity and motivate you to try other tasks.Visualize what you need to do in order to move forward and meet goals. Keeping focused can help you navigate toward the successful achievement of your plans., Being organized leads to feeling more in control and improved mental energy.A neat, clean space can eliminate the feelings of frustration and helplessness that impede motivation.


Try taking a few minutes to tidy up your space and get organized. Clear your work space, put away items you don’t need, and get out anything you do need.
 Seeing or experiencing art or natural beauty can spark new ideas.Try doing something you enjoy that will spark some creativity and get you moving.


Read a new book, visit a museum, go for a walk outside, or listen to some music.

