 Laser hair removal is not considered a permanent method of preventing hair growth, but it can greatly reduce the amount of hair you see growing in specific areas after a number of treatments. Laser hair removal can be rather expensive and will require repeated visits for each portion of your body you hope to treat.Laser hair removal procedures can be quick. One laser can treat multiple hair follicles at once, and requires only an instant to work.
Your skin may feel sunburned after the procedure for a few days, but there are few risks otherwise.
 In some states, this procedure can only be done by a physician. You can often find certified laser hair removal practitioners or physicians at cosmetic surgery practices. Use the internet to research local practices and look for reviews and credentials listed online.Ask questions about the physician overseeing the procedure and their credentials when looking for a laser hair removal clinic.

Look for membership in professional organizations like The American Society for Laser Medicine and Surgery (ASLMS) or the National Council on Laser Excellence (NCLE).
 Discuss how many treatments you can expect to pay for before you see long-lasting results. It may take between three and seven treatments to permanently reduce hair growth. Laser hair removal is often not a completely permanent solution, so be wary of any clinic making such promises.Keep in mind that cost varies by the size of the treatment area and, depending on the luxury of the location, a session could cost several hundred dollars., Laser hair removal requires the targeting of hair follicles, which may be removed by waxing or plucking. Allow your hair to grow naturally for six weeks in order to ensure the laser can properly target and kill hair follicles.Do not wax or pluck hairs between laser hair removal sessions either.
 Laser hair removal can remove hair for up to six weeks, but the hair will continue to grow back. After three to seven treatments in one area, hair growth can be permanently limited, but you still may experience limited hair growth in those regions.Wearing a cold compress after each procedure can soothe the affected skin and limit irritation.
Anti-inflammatory creams or lotions can also increase comfort immediately after the procedure.

