 Simple honey is used in a lot of natural face masks. Some people think honey has a hydrating effect on the skin due to antimicrobial properties. Honey may help moisturize the skin. To make a honey face mask, all you need is a single tablespoon of raw honey.Simply take a tablespoon of raw honey and spread it on your face. Wash your hands with antibacterial soap beforehand to avoid getting bacteria on your skin. Avoid getting honey in your eyes.
Let sit for 5 to 10 minutes. Then, wipe off the honey with warm water and a wash cloth. Honey is sticky, so it may take a few minutes to get your face clean. Try doing this a few times;
, Olive oil has a wide range of health benefits, but research is limited in regards to how it affects the skin.However, many advocates of natural face masks find that olive oil, when combined with other ingredients, hydrates the skin. You can make an olive oil face mask with olive oil, egg yolk, baking soda, and honey.Mix one large egg yolk, a teaspoon of honey, a teaspoon of extra virgin olive oil, and a teaspoon of baking powder together in a bowl.
Wash your hands and then gently apply the mask to your face. Leave it on your face for about 15 minutes or until the mask begins to dry.
Rinse your face with warm water. Use your fingers to massage your skin as you wash. Then, pat dry the skin and apply your regular moisturizer. Do this a few times a week and see if you notice an effect on your skin.
 Bananas can be mixed with honey to create a refreshing homemade face mask that is believed to help moisturize dry skin. You will need half a banana, two tablespoons of honey, and half a teaspoon of cinnamon.To start, mash the banana with a wooden spoon until it forms a thin paste. Then, add the honey and cinnamon.
Wash your face and hands and then apply the mask. Leave on for 30 minutes and then rinse.
 Making a batch of guacamole and using it as a facial mask is a simple way to moisturize your skin. Take half a ripe avocado and mash it up with 2 tablespoons of honey. Apply to your skin. Let sit for 20 minutes and then rinse.