 Sparkling water has become a very popular soda replacement over the last few years. Sales have nearly doubled in the US of sparkling waters, seltzer and even tonic water.Try replacing your favorite soda with sparkling water instead.


Plain, unflavored sparkling water is a great alternative to sodas. It's naturally sugar-free, calorie-free and can help keep you hydrated during the day.
There are flavored sparkling waters available as well. Always read the nutrition label to make sure they do not have any added sugars or sodium to them.
If they are zero calories, but flavored, they may still have added artificial sweeteners. If you're OK with consuming artificial sweeteners, these sugar-free flavored beverages are a great alternative.
Sparkling water should be OK for most people; however, health professionals note that if you suffer from IBS or chronic bloating, sparkling water can increase feelings of bloating.;
, Another great option for soda lovers is to make your own sodas at home. You can purchase all-natural ingredients and make flavorful sparkling beverages that are the perfect soda replacement.


If you really crave a flavored, bubbly beverage, consider mixing together either tonic, seltzer or sparkling water with your favorite fruit juice. Fruit juice contains a lot of sugar (even 100% fruit juice), so limit your intake to 4 oz.
Make sure to choose 100% fruit juice. Fruit juice cocktails or fruit juice mixes may have added sugar to them and will be much higher in calories.
To keep total calories and sugar low overall, only mix in about 1/4 cup 100% fruit juice in with about 8 – 10 oz of sparkling water.
 If you enjoy those flavored bubbly beverages more often, consider purchasing an at-home soda maker. These little machines can be convenient and help you make more nutritious beverages right in your own home.


There are many different brands of soda makers for home use. They require a carbonation capsule and specialty bottles; however, you just use regular tap or bottled water for your sodas.
Most of the companies sell soda-flavored syrups and other flavorings to make your sodas, though you may wish to avoid these, as they may be loaded with sugar and other artificial sweeteners. Be careful of what you buy as some are still full of chemicals like "caramel coloring" or high fructose corn syrup.There are some brands of these syrups that are all-natural and do not contain any artificial sweeteners, preservatives or flavorings.
You can also just use your soda machine to make homemade carbonated water. Then you can use it along with 100% fruit juice or homemade simple syrups to make flavored beverages.
 Another fun option to replace sodas is to make or purchase sparkling iced tea. This is a newly available product in stores, but also easy to make at home.


Sparkling iced tea is just like soda; however, instead of a sugar syrups and other additives, it's just iced tea that has been carbonated.
If you do purchase a sparkling iced tea in the grocery store, make sure to read the food label. Some may have added sugar — like a sweetened tea would — where others are unsweetened and do not have any added sugars.
If you want to make sparkling iced tea at home, you can try steeping tea bags in carbonated water. Make sure after placing your tea bags in the sparkling water, you reseal it to keep it from going flat.
You can also brew cold unsweetened iced tea and use that in your soda maker as well to make it carbonated.
 One reason that some people do not enjoy drinking water and choose a flavored beverage like soda is for the flavor itself. Water doesn't really taste like much; however, if you get creative and spike or infuse your water with flavor, these can be a great and nutritious alternative to sodas.


Infuse your water with fruit, vegetables or herbs. This allows natural flavors and even some vitamins to seep into your water. Leave a pitcher of water in the fridge with your favorite sliced fruits or herbs.For example, you can mix together sliced strawberries and basil or cucumbers and mint. It gives your water a hint of flavor without any added sugars or calories.
You may also consider adding some of those powdered or liquid flavoring agents. These typically do have artificial sweeteners, but do not contain any added sugars or calories. If you're OK using some artificial sweeteners, these may be a good option as well.
 You may not think that coffee or tea would be an acceptable replacement for sodas; however, when these items are decaf, it's more or less just flavored water and can help hydrate you throughout the day.


Although caffeinated coffee is something you shouldn't drink unlimited amounts of, decaf coffee is a great and flavorful alternative to sodas.
Coffee has natural compounds and antioxidants that have been shown to lower depression and even help prevent cardiovascular disease or diabetes.Like coffee, tea (especially green) tea has been associated with some great health benefits — like cancer, diabetes and heart disease prevention.As long as tea and coffee are served decaffeinated and without any added sugars, both are great alternatives to sodas.
 Although you might not consider milk as a hydrating beverage, it's actually a great drink to have. It's full of nutrients and protein and can help you stay hydrated.


Studies have shown that milk is actually about 87% water. If you're not in the mood for plain water and need to limit soda, you might enjoy a glass of milk instead.In addition to being a good source of water, milk is also high in protein, calcium, Vitamin D, phosphorus, potassium and Vitamin A.
There's been some back and forth between the types of milk you should drink. If you're watching calories, a lower fat milk will be the lowest calorie choice.
 Kombucha is a more uncommon beverage. This slightly sweet and sour fermented tea does have a bit of carbonation to it. If you want a bubbly sensation, try kombucha.


Kombucha has had many positive health effects associated with it. A few studies show that it has antioxidants in it as well as probiotics (which are great for your digestion).Try looking for kombucha in your local grocery store or in a health food store.
Kombucha does have added sugar in it (to help the yeast and bacteria ferment), so it contains calories; however, it's usually a natural form of sugar and not an artificial sweetener or high fructose corn syrup.
 Last but not least, there's always water. Although it might not be the most exciting alternative to soda, it is the most recommended beverage by health professionals.


If you're trying to find a healthier beverage alternative, water is always something you should try to include more of. It's a naturally sugar-free, calorie-free beverage that has no chemical additives or preservatives.Although there are a lot of flavorings or other things you can add to water, the best option is to drink it plain.
 If you're trying to replace sodas with a more nutritious beverage alternative, it's also important to make sure you're drinking enough fluids in general. It's important to aim to be hydrated everyday.


Most health professionals recommend that you consume a minimum of eight glasses (64 oz or 1.9 L) of clear fluids daily; however, this is just a general guideline.Some people may need more or less fluid. For example, if you're active, you may need up to 10 or 12 glasses (2.4 or 96 L) of water a day. Or if you're pregnant, you may need at least 10 glasses (2.4 L) of water daily.
Also, only certain types of fluids will count towards your eight or 10 glasses. Things like caffeinated coffee, soda, alcohol or other sweetened beverages do not count.
 One important tip to help you stay hydrated is to keep water or some other hydrating beverage on you at all times. This can help cue you to drink.


Consider purchasing a reusable water bottle. These plastic or stainless steel bottles are convenient and allow you to carry water and fill up anywhere.
You may also want to keep a water bottle with you in the car and even leave one on your desk at work. That way there's always a source of water near by.
 Soda definitely has gotten a bad reputation of the years for being a cause for childhood obesity and type 2 diabetes; however, sodas not the only beverage you should be wary of.Any beverage that has added sugar will be higher in calories. In addition, these beverages do not count towards the recommended 64 oz (1.9 L) of fluids daily.
All sweetened beverages, including sodas, can increase your risk for type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure.
Also try to limit beverages like: sweetened coffee, sweet tea, alcohol, fruit juice (blends and 100%), energy drinks and sports drinks.
 Although drinking soda in large quantities or on a regular basis isn't recommended, that doesn't mean you have to avoid it completely. If you truly enjoy soda, having it every once in awhile hasn't been proven to be harmful.If you want to include some soda in your diet, decide whether or not you want to drink regular or diet soda. Regular soda has added calories and sugars, and diet soda has no calories, but does have artificial sweeteners. Pick whichever one fits into your diet plan most successfully.
You may also want to consider drinking all-natural sodas. These are ones that do not have any artificial flavors, colors or preservatives. In addition, they generally use a less processed form of sugar, like cane sugar.
Also decide what moderation is for you. Is it one soda a week? Or is it just a few times a month? Stick to whatever definition of moderation you decide.

