 Start by removing the cap from the needle on the syringe. The syringe should come with a plastic cap to ensure it is sterile.Once you remove the cap, pull the plunger back to the appropriate dose mark on the syringe. Your vet should tell you the dosage required for your dog.;
, Insulin is a suspension, not a solution, so it needs to be mixed before you give it to your dog. Roll the insulin bottle or tube between your hands quickly a few times. Then, turn the bottle upside down to make sure there are no white insulin molecules at the bottom of the bottle.If there are still white insulin molecules at the bottom, roll the insulin again until it is mixed.
Do not shake the insulin as this will cause it to foam, making it difficult to measure it accurately when you draw it out.
Insulin that has been refrigerated should be left out at room temperature for an hour before it is injected. Cold insulin can be painful when injected.
 After the insulin has been mixed, insert the needle into the insulin bottle. Then, push the plunger on the syringe down to inject the air from the syringe into the bottle.The air will replace the liquid you will draw out of the insulin bottle.
 Pull the plunger back up to draw out the insulin. Draw out more insulin than you need. Then, inject the excess back into the bottle by pushing down on the plunger. This will remove any air bubbles from the syringe.Always measure the dose at the edge of the plunger, where it is closest to the needle.
 Always give the dog insulin as it is eating or right after it has eaten. This will ensure the insulin is absorbed properly into its bloodstream. Time the insulin shots for the dog’s meal and be ready to give the dog insulin during meal time.You may want to record the time of the injection on a calendar so you can keep track of the insulin you are giving the dog.
 If you are right handed, hold the syringe in your right hand. Then, wrap your left hand around the dog’s neck towards its back. This will allow you to then hold the dog still while you inject the insulin.Alternatively, you can ask a friend, partner, or family member to hold the dog from behind with both hands. This will make it easier for you to administer the insulin properly without worrying about your dog moving or shifting around.
 Use your nondominant hand to lift up a fold of skin along your dog’s back or shoulders. You can also choose a fold of skin on the sides of the dog’s chest or abdomen.Make sure you use a different injection site every time you give the dog insulin.
 Push the entire needle into the dog's skin. Be careful not to push the needle into your finger.Keep in mind you do not need to sterilize the area with alcohol before you insert the needle. It is not an effective way to remove bacteria and is not necessary.
 Pull back on the syringe plunger slightly and check that no blood enters the syringe. Then, push the plunger with your thumb to give the dog the injection.If blood enters the syringe, this means the needle is in a blood vessel. Remove the needle and start again at a different injection site.
 Once the insulin has been injected, remove it from your dog’s skin at the same angle. Put the cap back on the needle., Most insulin needles are one use only and must be disposed of properly after they have been used. Put the needle and syringe in a puncture-resistant container. Do not simply throw it in the garbage, as this can be a health hazard., Praise your dog after the injection by scratching its head or giving it a treat. You can also use verbal praise like “Good job” or “Great going.”