 One of the first steps you should take in choosing cosmetics with less chemicals is to read the label. Even if you don’t know what the ingredients are, choose products with less ingredients or less ingredients you can’t pronounce.Learning which products to avoid can help you be a smarter label reader.
Ingredients are listed from highest concentration to lowest concentration on the label. If you have to buy products with chemicals, make sure the chemicals are located at the bottom of the list., Going chemical-free may be difficult, but you can reduce the toxic or dangerous chemicals in the cosmetics you buy. Knowing what to look for when you read labels can help you make smart choices when buying cosmetics. There are a core set of chemicals that should be avoided at all costs. If you are unable to learn or remember all these chemicals, print yourself a list to take with you to the store. Avoid the following:BHA or BHT
Coal tar dyes, labeled as p-phenylenediamine, CI plus numbers, or names like Blue 1
DEA, MEA, or TEA
dibutyl phthalate
diazolidinyl urea, imidazolidinyl urea, or methenamine
parabens
parfum or fragrance
petrolatum
siloxane or methicone
sodium laureth or laurel sulfate
triclosan
PFCs, PFOA, PFOS, or perfluoroPABA
octinoxate or oxybenzone
Silica
toluene
lead acetateboric acid, Cosmetic packages may say a variety of different things. They can say natural, organic, vegan - which all may sound like they offer a good product. Though the words may be on the package, they may not all be as good as you believe.Products containing the word natural are not regulated by the government. All natural or 100% natural may be better, yet they still may be hiding chemicals. Check the label to make sure. Just don’t forget some natural substances sound like chemicals, like sodium chloride.
Organic products do not have to be 100% organic to be labeled as organic. The percentage varies from state to state, with some states requiring higher percentages than others. The USDA organic seal means that the product is 95% organic.
Chemical-free doesn’t necessarily mean organic, or vice versa.
Vegan means the product is free of animal products, yet it can have chemicals in it.
 Multiple websites provide searchable databases that allow you to check the safety of your cosmetic product. The databases also let you search by the potentially harmful chemical and find a list of products that contain it.


Try The Campaign For Safe Cosmetics, Household Products Database, or Skin Deep.

