 Don’t be mean or cutting, but you can definitely tease the person a little bit to flirt. It lets the person know that you’re comfortable joking around with them and that you’re paying special attention to them.For example, you could give your crush an endearing or dorky nickname. You could say, “Oh, you horseback ride? I think I’ll call you Saddle Club!”
You can also challenge your crush to a contest, like a race or arm wrestling. Some type of competition gives you the opportunity for flirty “trash talk.”
You could also pretend to be angry or annoyed with them. If your crush loves football, say, in a clearly joking manner, something like, “Ugh, another football fan? I’m not sure I can talk to you anymore!”,


For example, say, “I love your jersey. Are you a soccer player, or just a fan?”
Or you could try, “I liked your article in the school newspaper! Have you always been interested in organic food?”
Or say, “I love your outfit today. Who’s your style inspiration?”

, Ask them a question just to show that you’re interested in them. Something like, “What was the math homework?” does not count as an unnecessary question. Instead, try asking some of these questions:“How was your day today?” This one shows that you care about how the person is feeling.
“How did you feel about that movie?” This question demonstrates your interest in the other person’s opinion.
 This helps to build more comfort and intimacy with the other person.


For example, if the person you’re flirting with starts talking about how moving in the sixth grade was really hard, you can talk about how switching from middle school to high school was a tough transition, too.
However, if the person you’re flirting with is talking about the weather, don’t go into the details of your parents’ divorce., Negative things certainly happen (and will happen) in your life, but, for the purposes of getting to know someone, make an effort to keep your complaints to yourself. Consistent negativity is unattractive to other people.