 Even if your business has not yet taken off, you should file for a provisional patent via the US Patent Office Website. This allows you to say that your invention is "Patent Pending" and protects your claim to it.The US Patent Office can be accessed at: http://www.uspto.gov/






You can file for a patent for any process, machine, article of manufacture, composition of matter, or improvement on any of the former, as long as it is new, non-obvious, and useful.The invention must also be adequately described or enabled and claimed by the inventor in clear, definite terms.
If desired, contact an attorney before completing the patent paperwork.





;
, As with all reality shows, there are certain eligibility requirements you must meet before you can be considered. In order to be eligible:


You must be at least 18 years of age.
You must be a legal resident of the U.S.
You, your immediate family, and anyone in your household must not have worked for or with any company, investor, or affiliation connected to Shark Tank within the past two years.
You must not be a candidate for public office or become one until one year after the first broadcast of the last episode you appear in if selected.
You must not have been convicted of a felony.
You must be willing to submit to a background check.
 You can technically send in an application at any time of the year, but you will have a better chance of being accepted to the show if you apply during an open casting call.


To determine if the show is open to future casting, check the casting website.






If the “Click Here to Apply” button is visible and active, you should be free to make your submission.
 You will need to familiarize yourself with the terms and conditions put forth by ABC/The Walt Disney Company. You will also need to know the general terms of use for applying to and appearing on Shark Tank.


To review the ABC/Walt Disney Company Terms of Use, click here: http://corporate.disney.go.com/corporate/terms.html






When applying to the show, you must:

Understand that your submission is not confidential in any manner.
Understand that entities associated with the show are diversified companies who may possess information already similar to your submission.
Agree that any similarity will not lead to any claim or entitlement.
Release entities associated to the show from any and all claims related to your email submission, including misdelivery or misdirection of the message itself.
 The casting email is: SharkTankCasting@yahoo.com.Structure the email in business email format for best results.
 Your email should be fairly brief, but at minimum, you should include your name, age, contact information, and a recent photograph.


Include your full name and title.
State your age directly instead of providing an approximation. In other words, do not simply state, “I am over 18 years of age and therefore meet the eligibility requirement.”
Your recent photo can be included as an attachment or within the body of the email.
Your contact information should include your business phone number, fax number (if applicable), business email address, and business mailing address.
 The final piece of information you should provide is a brief description of the product or business you want to pitch for the show. Understand, again, that this description is non-confidential.


Focus on pitching your dream rather than the figures. Facts and figures are important, of course, but what really sells an idea to the casting directors is your drive, determination, and passion.
Consider including a bit of background information about how you came up with your product or business as well as a brief outline of your business model or intended model.
Also mention any notable challenges you face as well as any reasons you can think of for why your business or idea stands out well enough for reality TV.
 Casting calls are usually held at about five different locations nationwide. You will need to check the schedule, posted on the show's official website, to determine the best date and location for you. This schedule with provide an address, a time at which numbered wrist bands are distributed at each event, and a time that interviews begin at each event.


The casting call schedule can be accessed at: http://ww2.abc.go.com/site/casting-shark-tank?nord=1






In 2013, open casting calls were held in Georgia, Texas, Illinois, Pennsylvania, and California. Note that these locations are subject to change from year to year.
 When you arrive for your open audition, you will need to bring a completed, official application with you. Hand the application to the casting team when you arrive.


The official application can be downloaded online at: http://a.abc.com/media/primetime/sharktank/SharkTank4OpenCallApplication.pdf






Print the application out and fill it out as accurately and completely as possible.






The application will ask you basic questions about you and your business.
You will have to fill out a variety of interview-like questions, such as "describe your biggest accomplishment" and "describe your most disappointing moment."
You will also need to discuss the background of your business and how you plan to invest any money gained from making a deal with the sharks.
 You should arrive as soon as numbered wrist bands begin being distributed, if not a little before then.


Only the first 500 applicants are guaranteed to be seen. As such, the earlier you arrive, the better your odds.
You will need to find your own parking.






Your belongings may be checked by security before you can enter the premises.
 When you are called for your interview, you will have 60 seconds to pitch your idea to a member of the casting team. The pitch should be focused on selling your “dream” and showcasing your motivation. Do not simply showcase your past success.


Depending on the nature of the audition and the effectiveness of your pitch, you may receive an answer about whether you are accepted or rejected on the spot.
Alternatively, it is also possible that you will not be given an answer on location and will, instead, need to wait to hear back from the casting team at a later date.
 Regardless of how you applied, you should be contacted with an answer about your application within a few weeks to a month. You may be contacted via phone, mail, fax, or e-mail.


You will need to keep all lines of communication open throughout the entire casting process. There are two rounds or interviewing: the initial application and interview, and a secondary phone interview. You will be contacted after each round.
If you are accepted, you will likely receive some form of written communication as well as notice via a phone call.
If you are rejected, you will likely only receive written communication.



Expect this phone call to come several weeks to a couple of months after your initial application.
Prepare to answer questions about your business background, the experiences that have shaped you, and your current driving motivation.






You will also need to answer questions about where you got your original idea and the steps you have taken thus far to make the idea a success.
 If you hear back from the casting team with a congratulatory statement proclaiming you to be a semifinalist, you will need to fill out a second round of release forms and informational forms before you can officially accept the semifinalist nomination and prepare for the show.


This second round of forms is often due a month or two after your phone interview takes place.
 If you are accepted to the show, one of the best things you can do to prepare yourself is to watch past episodes and take notes.


Study successful entrepreneurs to determine why their pitches earned them a deal. Also study entrepreneurs who failed to get a deal to determine at which point their pitch got messed up.






Carefully watch the reactions and remarks of each “shark.” Doing so will help you to understand how they respond to different ideas and approaches.
 You will be put into contact with one of the show's producers, but you should also seek advice from professionals you know and trust in your own experiences.


Live-stream and film rehearsal pitches with the producer assigned to you. This producer will be able to offer you practical advice from the perspective of someone intimately familiar with the show.
Ask for advice from business associates, contacts, and others within your network for additional opinions, as well.
 Once you fine-tune your pitch, practice making it as often as possible.


You will likely have a few months to practice. Practice in front of your business associates, friends, family, and even in front of the mirror. The more you practice, the more comfortable you will be with what you need to say when the time comes for you to film.

