 You can do a spinal stretch on the floor, or while sitting in bed before you even get up in the morning. This yoga pose will help you wake up and give you steady energy throughout the day.Sit cross-legged and gently press down on your knees, lengthening and stabilizing your spine. If you need cushioning, sit on a pillow or a folded blanket. As you inhale, reach your left hand over to your right knee. Lift from the crown of your head and breathe, lengthening your spine.
As you exhale, twist your torso to the right. You can hold this stretch for several breaths, focusing on lifting with every inhale and twisting more deeply with every exhale. Release to center and then repeat the twist in the other direction.
 Cats spend a lot of their time sleeping, so it stands to reason they would understand how important it is to stretch after a long period of inactivity to keep your muscles loose and maintain flexibility and agility.One way to give your back and core a good stretch is to do the yoga pose known as the cat tilt. Get on your hands and knees, with your wrists directly below your shoulders and your knees directly below your hips.
On an exhale, round your back upward, pulling your chin toward your navel. Then inhale and arch your back, lifting as you arch your back. On exhale, round your back again. Repeat the entire sequence three to five times.
 Puppies sleep just as often as cats do, and these yoga poses will help you stretch like a puppy does to maintain and increase your mobility, as well as decreasing the stiffness in your muscles after a long night's sleep.On all fours as you were for the cat tilt, press your fingers and palms firmly into the floor and lift your hips toward the ceiling, rising to your toes. Keep your knees bent and shake a little, then straighten one leg behind you, reaching your heel towards the floor.
Complete a breath, then bring your legs back together and extend the other leg using the same process.
You also can add downward facing dog here. From the same position, simply reach upward with your hips, lengthening your back. Keep your heels raised off the floor, but push through them, as though trying to lower them to the floor.

