 A school pencil will give you a good medium shade line and a medium width of the line. If you want a darker pencil use a B pencil. Most craft and art stores sell drawing pencils. The best drawings use a variety of pencil shades.


The higher the number, the darker you can go. For example, 6B is much darker than 2B.
If you want a really light line use an H pencil. The higher the number the lighter the line. For example, 6H is much lighter than 2H.;
, The sharper the point, the better you can draw. Sharpen it often as you draw.
 Bristol Board is by far the best drawing paper on the planet.The smoother the finish, the more awesome the drawing.
 This prevents smudges and stains. If you get up to grab a snack, wash your hands again before getting back to your drawing.


Never rest any part of your hand on any part of your paper that has pencil on it. In other words never rest your hand on your actual drawing. Try to keep your hand on the blank parts of the paper. This prevents blurring your lines.
 These are special erasers which will erase pencil lines without scratching the paper.
 Before you start, picture the image you want to draw in your head first. Planning ahead allows you to work out what particular techniques will work best with the chosen subject. Some examples of good drawing subjects include people, animals, still life (still objects) and landscapes.


It might help to warm up first. Sketch without judging the outcome, to loosen up before you start on your picture.
 Try to break it down to basic shapes or forms. Use circles, squares, triangles and rectangles to represent the largest parts of the object. Pay special attention to relationships; for example, one object is two and a half times taller than the one beside it and twice as wide. When sketching, use small, fine lines with a pencil to draw quickly and lightly.
 This can be done as often as you like, until you are satisfied that the basic shapes look good.


The more effort you make to draw the forms correctly, the more convincing and impressive your drawing will look. No amount of detail will compensate for unintentional inaccuracies or laziness.
 Add small, wispy lines to increase detail and to show light and shadow.
 Go over the lines with a fine tipped pen or sharp pencil. At this point, you can add details to the darker areas using solid lines.


If you used pen, take an eraser (a rubber eraser is better than the standard pencil eraser) and erase all of the original fine lines you made with the pencil.
 This is optional. If you do color, use the technique of making wispy lines.
 Whether or not the drawing turned out as you wanted it to be, keep learning, keep improving. No artist sits still and thinks they've reached a pinnacle; art is an ongoing journey of improving and changing throughout life.


The best artists are those who try hard, have patience, take their time, and have pride in their own work.

