 It is quite common to choose your horse’s name based on their lineage. If you have access to the information, look for the names of the dam (the female horse) and the sire (the male horse). See if you can combine the names in an interesting way, or if these names inspire you.


For example, if one horse was named “Midnight Lady” and the other was named “Crown Jewel,” you could call your horse “Midnight Jewel” or even “Crown Lady,” if your horse is female.
 If your horse was born in a notable place, then consider using the name of the town or city in their name.For example, if they were bred in Sligo, then why not call them, “Sligo Spot On” or “Sligo’s Star.”

, Many horse breed names refer to where in the world that breed comes from. You can use the breed name or the name of the country as inspiration for your horse’s name.For example, an Arabian could have a name that has something to do with an Arabian sheik or the desert.
A Mustang could have a name like “Wild” or “Heart of America.”
An Andalusian horse could be called something like “Andalusian Surprise” or “Spanish Beauty.”
You can also add a bit of the language of that country to the name. For example, if you have a French bred horse, they could be called something that starts with “Le …” (for a male horse) or “La …” (for a female horse).
 Many horses are named for something that makes them look unique. Spend time thinking about what physical features make your horse interesting. Maybe they have mane that falls in a unique way, or markings that form a shape, or maybe they have a beautifully colored coat.


If using your horse’s coat color as inspiration try to be creative. Rather than choosing a name like, “Chestnut Boy” for your chestnut colored horse, try names like “Firebird” or “Dark Star.”
With markings, you can always use common names of markings (star, snip, blaze, stripe, etc.) to add to your horse's barn name. This is a fairly common practice though, so your horse’s name is unlikely to be especially unique.

