 Make it nutritious. One idea is to give them their favorite cereal (nothing extremely sugary or fatty) with low-fat or fat-free milk and fruit. For fruit, put in bananas, blueberries, raspberries, and/or strawberries depending on what they like.


Muffins. Ask the children if they want chocolate chip, orange, cranberry, or blueberry and make some muffins. They'll be sure to love them.
Waffles. Make some waffles with fruit. If you know how, make waffles in a certain shape (e.g. their initial, a basic shape). You could also make pancakes.
Parfait. Get berries, vanilla yogurt, and granola to make a delicious fruit parfait!
Fruit salad.If nothing else can be made or you're in a hurry fruit salad is always good.;
, Play princess or whatever games they like. If they want to go outside make sure they are properly dressed for the weather. More games to play are ball and tag if they'd like to play those, or just run around for a little bit.Crafts are great as long as safety precautions are taken.
 Be sure to carefully watch children as they may touch a hot stove or other dangers. Ask them what they would like. Suggest PB & J, chicken fingers, or hot dogs.
 Make sure that they sleep so they won't be tired. Give them a pillow or two and a nice blanket.
 Make sure that they watch age-appropriate shows, and change the channel if something inappropriate/violent comes on. Sit with them and watch the show with them if they want.
 Feed them a yummy but healthy meal, like soup, chicken, or pizza. If it's not time to eat or if they aren't hungry, play until it is.
 Stay out there until it gets cold\dark or it's bedtime. You could take a walk with them or just play.
 This doesn't have to be every day, just three or four times a week is fine. Get some play toys they like (like a rubber ducky) and give them a bubble bath if they want. Never leave a child this age alone in the bathtub.
, It will help them fall asleep.Make sure it isn't overly exciting or scary.
 Make sure they brush their teeth!

, If they can read a little bit, have them read every couple pages or read with you at the same time.

