 Work on enhancing and enriching your natural hair color instead of introducing an entirely new color. For example, dark brunettes should keep their rich tones and warm blondes should stick to golden tones. These tones compliment your skin’s complexion, helping you look younger and more natural.Making a drastic hair color change tends to be aging.
A drastic color change can end up looking brassy, as well.;
, Warm tones can brighten up your complexion and help you look more youthful. The warmer the shade, the more youthful it tends to appear. If you are blonde, avoid icy and ashy tones. Opt for warm, golden shades of blonde. Brunettes should stick to caramel and honey tones. Avoid ash brown shades. If you’re a redhead, opt for copper tones and avoid burgundy.


Cool tones can appear "frosty" and make you look older., Very dark hair colors can wash out your complexion. They can also make your hair look one-dimensional and flat, and the opaqueness will emphasize greys and regrowth. If you’re determined to have dark hair, go for a medium or dark chestnut brown. If you’re unsure which shade you should choose, go one shade lighter than the color you want. It’s better to err on the side of lighter color rather than going too dark.When coloring your hair at home, don't leave the dye on too long.
If you’re getting a professional dye job, ask for a single-process color close to your natural shade and subtle highlights one shade lighter than your natural shade.
 Very light blonde dyes can make your hair look nearly gray, especially if they are cool-toned ashy shades. They can also make your complexion look dull and washed out. Stick to warm, buttery blonde shades, which tend to look the most youthful. Don’t go more than two shades lighter than your natural hair color. Anything beyond that can have a very aging effect.Make sure there’s some contrast between your skin tone and hair color. For example, if you’re very pale, avoid dyeing your hair a similarly pale shade.
 Avoid experimenting with extreme colors like bright pinks, blues and purples as you get older. The older you are, the harder these colors can be to pull off. Extreme hair color dyes are usually made with very strong chemicals and often require a bleaching process before the bright color can be added.


Since hair becomes more delicate and dry with age, processing your hair with extreme colors can severely damage it., Doing this will keep your hair color looking natural and youthful. Since the fine hairs around your hairline soak up dye quickly, you could end up with a stark, wig-like line around your face if you don’t go a little lighter.


Whatever the shade is at the back of your head, use a dye that’s two shades lighter for your hairline.
Your hairline is the fine hair closest to your face and stretches from ear to ear., One-dimensional, monotone hair color is unflattering and aging, regardless of the hue. Multidimensional hair color looks youthful and more natural. Adding subtle highlights can give your hair more dimension. Go for warm, buttery and caramel tones, not cool or ashy tones, to create a sun-kissed, youthful look.Avoid stripy, conspicuous highlights, which look very unnatural.Super light highlights should also be avoided, since these can create a “frosty” effect and add years to your appearance.
 Lowlighting is the exact opposite of highlighting – the process involves dyeing darker streaks into your hair, which creates even more dimension. A good approach is to have the majority of your hair dyed a very rich hue that’s close to your natural color. Then add highlights that are one shade lighter than that hue and lowlights that are one shade darker.Lowlights should be done by an experienced hair stylist, since the process isn’t easy to replicate at home.
If you aren’t sure how to choose the right highlights and lowlights, bring three pictures of hair color you like to your next salon appointment. Your stylist can work with you to choose the right shades.
 Highlights and lowlights will add lots of dimension to your hair, but for best results they should be placed strategically. The brightest highlights should frame your face and “kiss” the top of your head. The darkest color needs to be underneath the majority of your hair.


Face-framing highlights will look more youthful because they add brightness and warmth to your complexion. They also look very natural., Brittle, thin hair that’s been damaged by over-processing can be extremely aging. If you’ve been coloring your hair frequently and it is starting to feel a bit like brittle straw, skip your next color session. Give your hair a few weeks of recovery time before coloring it again.


In the meantime, use plenty of hydrating hair products and protein treatments to get your hair’s strength back up., These can severely damage color-treated hair, especially professional-grade tools. Try to limit the use of heating tools to three times per week. Whenever you do use these tools, always use heat protection hair products along with them. Invest in a good heat protection spray, which should be applied before you use the heating tool.Hold your blow dryer no closer than 24 inches from your head during use.
Consider buying an ionic blow dryer, which can dry your hair very quickly and cause less damage then a traditional one.
Avoid wet-to-dry straightening irons, which are very damaging.
 Use sulfate-free shampoos and conditioners, since these ingredients can damage the hair cuticle, especially color-treated hair. Avoid alcohol-based hair products completely, since these are very drying.Use deeply hydrating products to keep your hair moisturized and in good shape.


Look for products with hydrating ingredients like glycerin, keratin, Argan oil, coconut oil, vitamin E, Moroccan oil and avocado oil.Use a deep conditioner or hair mask at least once a week., Each time you shampoo and condition your hair, color and moisture are being stripped out of it. The less you wash color-treated hair, the better. Try to make it a day or two in between washings to extend your hair color. Invest in a good dry shampoo, which you can use on the days you don’t wash your hair.Dry shampoo wicks away oil and leaves hair lightly scented.
Avoid dry shampoos with a powdery finish. These can leave a visible film on your hair, especially if you have dark hair.

