 Sometimes the best way to get over feeling left out during a conversation or at an event, it to make others feel welcomed and included. Doing this helps to take the focus off of how uncomfortable or hurt you feel due to the situation, and gives you power to actively change your experience at the event. You can make others feel included by doing the following:Smile and greet others
Start conversations
Ask questions about people and try to get to know them
Be a good listener
Be kind and thoughtful
Show genuine interest in what others have to say

, If you think that part of being left out may be due to your own situation (for example, a heavy study schedule, long work hours, home responsibilities, hobby or sports commitments, etc.), then help your friends by making suggestions that fit in with your schedule. Your attempt to make plans and meet them halfway will be appreciated.


If your busy schedule has interfered with doing things with your friends, ask a friend to run errands with you or join you in something you do every day, such as going to the gym.Do your best to make plans with your friends, but know when to stop asking. If your friends refuse your suggestions several times, then they might not want to continue the friendship. Don’t keep asking if your friends always say no or often back out at the last minute.
 In the case where you keep getting left out, you may have to accept that you can't count on these people as friends and have to make some new ones. Make a decision to find people who respect and care about you. While this may be hard, it's a much easier choice than sticking around with people who keep bringing you down and treating you like a doormat. You deserve much better than that.


Consider volunteering, joining a club in your area for people who share your interests, and attending local events that interest you. Surrounding yourself with people who share your interests and passions will ensure that the people you meet will have some things in common with you, which can lead to new friendships.