 Logotypes are the stylized and graphic illustration of a name or a group of letters. Logos differ from abstract symbols because logos include text. Logos are usually associated with brands or products, but some people have personal logos as well. You might want to create a logo for your business or just for your name or initials.


Before you get started, think about why you are creating a logo. For example, do you want to include a logo on your job application materials or personal website to help you stand out?Or will this logo appear on your products?
You should also consider who will be viewing your logo and for what purpose. What might appeal to this audience? For example, will the intended audience respond better to some modern-looking or something more traditional?

, Your logo can be a full or partial part of your business name or personal name. If you are creating a logo for your business, then you may want to have the full business name in the logo or just abbreviate it. If you are creating a personal logo, then you may want to use your full name or just your initials.


If you decide to use an abbreviation, then you may need to add a symbol or a design element to make sure that your audience knows that the symbol represents you or your business.
 Some fonts can evoke powerful emotions and feelings, while others may appear bland and emotionless. The font that you choose is central to your logo so make sure that you choose one that is striking but also easy to read.


Try checking the fonts that are available in your word processing software or check out online databases of fonts for ideas and inspiration.If you decide to use more than one font, try to keep the number of different fonts to a minimum. Experts recommend using just one or two., There are many design programs available that can help you to perfect your logo. You can use a design program to produce your logo as a jpeg, tif or png file which can be easily circulated and added to different kinds of documents.



Adobe Illustrator is one of the most popular graphic design software programs.
You are usually required to pay for these programs, but it might be a worthwhile investment if you need a high-quality logo or if you are planning to produce multiple logos.
 In order to make your letters into a recognizable, original and striking logo you will have to use your imagination and think creatively.


As with symbols, color is important. For example, if you are designing a logo for an all-natural face cream, then you might choose earth-tones to communicate to your audience that the product is natural and free of artificial ingredients.In contrast, bright neon colors might send your audience the message that the product is more artificial or high-tech.
Try joining the letters together in an aesthetically pleasing way. For example, you can use shared strokes to link the letters together., Clarity is important when you are designing a logo. Make sure that the logo still looks the same when it is re-sized. It should be easy to read and look good no matter what size it is. Remember your logo may be printed on different sized materials, like on a small business card.


Make sure that the image is still recognizable if it is inverted as well.If you are using the logo for printed materials then print out the logo and look at it as it would appear on paper. This might help you to identify flaws easier than when you look at it on your computer screen.
 If you are struggling to design an effective logo, consider hiring a professional designer. The top firms charge thousands of dollars for logo design but there may be a freelance designer in your area that will charge less.


Try to find a designer who specializes in creating logos for your particular purpose. He or she may have some great ideas about what will work best for your needs.