 When you're not sure if the dog is house trained, it's a good idea to take the dog out every hour to try and use the bathroom. When the dog does use the bathroom outside, praise it extensively. You can also offer the dog a treat and praise, right after the dog goes. That way, it will connect the praise with the action of going to the bathroom.Praising the dog when it goes outside is the main way to toilet train it. However, while you're supervising the dog, you can also watch for signs that it needs to go to the bathroom, such as circling, squatting, or barking/scratching at the door. If you notice these signs, take the dog out right away, then praise and reward it if it used the bathroom.
If you catch your dog going to the bathroom in the house, make a loud noise, like clapping or yelping. Then say "outside," and take the dog outside. If the dog continues outside, reward it. If you find a place the dog soiled in the house, punishing or yelling after the fact won't help. The dog won't associate your anger with the earlier act of going to the bathroom., A crate gives your dog a space in your home that's its own. Pick a crate with enough space for your dog to stand up, sit down, and lay down comfortably. If you put the crate in a part of your home where the family goes often, the dog will feel more included.The first step is introducing your dog to the crate. Have something in the bottom, such as a pillow or blanket. Let your dog explore on its own. If your dog doesn't seem interested, try using treats leading up to the crate, then put some inside.
Next, try feeding your dog in the crate. Start with the food as far in as your dog will go. Eventually (over several days), you'll want to move it all the way in, so your dog is eating in the crate. Once your dog is eating comfortably in the crate, close the door while it's eating. If it complains, don't let it out until it stops.
Crate your dog at other times. Use a treat to lure it over and inside. Try using a word, such as "crate" or "bed," to associate with the crate. When it goes inside the crate, offer the treat and praise. Close the door. Start by sitting nearby, then move to another room. Only leave the dog in the crate for about 10 minutes the first time.
Slowly up the time the dog is in the crate. When the dog gets more comfortable, you can leave it in the crate while you're gone, starting with short periods.
 Your feeding routine depends on how you want to divide up the dog's food. You may prefer just morning, just evening, or morning and evening. However, if you already have a dog in the house, keep the same routine, so you don't upset that dog more.The general recommendation is to feed larger dogs once a day and smaller dogs twice a day.All you need to do to get the dog on a schedule is to offer the food about the same time each day.

