 House plants can add visual interest and a vibrant feel to any room in your house, but their green, bright colors can be particularly striking in the kitchen. Pop a cactus or fern on the windowsill where it can get plenty of sun, or hang a potted plant from an empty patch of ceiling space.If you have pets, be careful about which plants you put in your house. Aloe vera, American holly, and tulips, for example, are all toxic to cats and dogs., Unless your rental kitchen sports unusually lovely floor tiles, chances are that your floor isn’t the prettiest part of the room. Fortunately, it’s easy and affordable to cover up this eyesore with cotton rugs or outdoor mats.International household goods stores, such as IKEA, offer a wide variety of kitchen-ready rugs and mats.
 No matter what your kitchen looks like, chances are that cabinets take up a lot of the physical and visual space. This means that you can make a big, refreshing change to your kitchen’s aesthetics by covering your cabinets in shiny or matte contact paper or temporary wallpaper. Unlike paint, it’s easily undone and won’t make your landlord unhappy.For an alternative look, unscrew and remove all the doors from your cabinet so that all the contents are visible. Just be sure to keep all the detached parts safe and sound so that you can reattach when moving out., Decorating your kitchen doesn’t require a costly or permanent renovation. Instead, take some pretty wine glasses, platters, or vases from your cabinets and put them out on display, or buy some brightly colored mason jars and line them up in an eye-catching arrangement on a shelf or cabinet top.Clear or colored mason jars can be particularly striking if you showcase them against under- or over-cabinet lights.
 Colored or patterned washi tape is endlessly versatile for sprucing up any room in your house, and it’s easily removable for ensured landlord approval. Simply make patterns on your walls with washi tape, or take some metallic or bright duct tape to create stripes or patterns on your refrigerator.If you think colorful washi tape and patterns are too flashy, use some stainless steel contact paper to cover your appliances instead. It will make your appliances look new and shiny while also protecting them from further stains and damage., Personal accents can be a great way to add flair and interest to your kitchen without altering it in a permanent or costly manner. Put a twist on the classic fridge magnet décor by spreading temporary, adhesive wallpaper over the refrigerator door or covering it in old photos.If you don’t have any Polaroids or photo prints handy, use a website service, such as Sticky 9, to make square print magnets out of your favorite Instagram pics.
 Many rental kitchens sport less-than-lovely laminate countertops instead of more expensive materials, like granite or marble. If these surfaces create an eyesore in your kitchen, cover them up with some chunky, statement chopping boards that you can take with you when you move out.Just be sure to properly sanitize your cutting boards after use. Plastic cutting boards are dishwasher-safe, but wooden ones will need to be hand-washed. If possible, color code your cutting boards so that you use one color for raw meats, and another color for fruits and veggies.