 All of our laws in the U.S. regarding search and seizure begin with the 4th Amendment to the Constitution. It says, “The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated.”, It is important to understand what the Fourth Amendment says, and what it does not say. Notice that it allows people to be searched and seized, but it does not allow “unreasonable” searches and seizures. Many lawsuits have been tried to decide what “unreasonable” means.


The Fourth Amendment also protects certain things and places (“persons, houses, papers, and effects”), but not everything and everywhere. There are times and places when searches are allowed.
 The phrase “search and seizure” is usually used just to talk about searches, but the “seizure” part of it applies to arrests. When you get arrested, your body is being seized. You cannot be arrested without a warrant or probable cause that you are doing something illegal.Probable cause can be based on a police officer’s direct observations. If an officer sees someone commit a crime, the officer has probable cause for an arrest without needing to get an arrest warrant.
Probable cause can be based on information that the officer receives from a reliable source. This may lead directly to an arrest, or the police may use the information to obtain an arrest warrant separately.
 If you treat yourself and your belongings in a way that demonstrates that you expect to be private, then courts will be more likely to rule in your favor if the issue arises.


Something closed in a glove compartment of your car is more private than something that is sitting in plain view on the front seat. If the police see something illegal in plain view, that is generally not considered a “search,” but something locked in the trunk or glove compartment demonstrates a higher expectation of privacy, and a search warrant is probably required., In the electronic world that we live in today, it is increasingly difficult to protect our expectation of privacy. Posting pictures on Facebook or Snapchat and tweeting messages on Twitter about where you are and what you are doing are all voluntary actions that give up bits of your privacy. If you want certain information to be treated as private, then you need to treat it privately as well.For example, if police or school officials view pictures posted on social networking sites that show underage students drinking alcohol, it is not illegal for those officials then to punish the students for that behavior. The students effectively forfeited their right to privacy by posting the photos online.
 Cases have turned on certain facts, like whether some piece of evidence was kept in a locked cabinet as opposed to an unlocked drawer. Securing property in a locked cabinet or safe indicates an even higher level of privacy., If you are in a situation in which a police officer is about to search you, you can try to limit the search by stating out loud that you do not consent to being searched. If there are witnesses around, say it loud enough so that you are heard. If the matter gets to court, you may be able to argue against admission of the evidence if you made the attempt to prevent the search.If the police officer continues to proceed with the search, do not physically oppose the search. If you do, your action could be determined an obstruction of justice or assault of an officer, and you could only make your situation worse. Just object verbally and leave it at that.
 Your home, for most people, is the place where you have the greatest expectation of privacy. Whether you own a mansion or rent a studio apartment, that space is yours and should not be searched without a warrant.If a police officer shows up at the door and asks to come in to talk with you, you should politely refuse unless the officer has a warrant. If you allow the officer in your home, you have just given consent. If you happen to have something illegal sitting out on the kitchen counter, the officer would be able to take it and charge you, without any further warrant., If the police show up at your home, business or anywhere else and say they have a search warrant, ask to see it. You have a right to read it. Check the warrant for the following information, which is required to make a search warrant valid:The warrant must be in writing.
The warrant must sufficiently describe the place and items to be searched.
The warrant must describe the probable cause that the warrant is based on.
The warrant must describe the items to be seized, if found.
 If the warrant appears to be lacking any details, tell the officer that you object to the search. Most of the time, the police will continue their search anyway. Do not try to stop them physically. Make a clear statement that you object, so they will not be able to claim later that you consented, and then step out of the way. Call your attorney as soon as you can and have the attorney review the warrant., If the police show up at your door with a warrant that says they are allowed to search your home for possession of drugs, they would not, for example, be allowed to turn on your computer and search your files and communications.If the warrant authorized a search for drugs or any evidence of drug-selling activity, then a search of the computer files may be justified to look for records of sales and other illegal transactions.
 If you are out on a public road, operating a motor vehicle, you already have a lowered expectation of privacy than if you were sitting at home. You are sharing a public road, and the police have more reason to need to protect public safety. Your car may be searched, generally, under one of the following circumstances:if you consent to a search;
if the officer has probable cause to expect that you have something illegal in your car;
if the officer believes a search is necessary for immediate safety (that is, if he or she believes you have a concealed weapon); or
if you are under arrest.
 The court system tends to assume that if you were really, truly concerned about keeping everything about yourself private and concealed, you would stay indoors all the time. (This does not sound very reasonable for most people.) When you go out in public, you receive certain benefits from being part of a society, but in exchange for those benefits you accept a certain reduction of privacy.You or your car may be photographed or recorded on public security cameras. This is considered an allowable invasion of your privacy.
 A frisk is considered a brief pat-down, and is conducted to protect the officer’s safety, to be sure that you are not carrying a weapon. However, if the officer goes beyond that and asks you to empty your pockets, or if the officer reaches into your pockets, that is considered a search, and is not allowed without a warrant.In Terry v. Ohio (1968), the Supreme Court ruled that a “stop and frisk” search on a public sidewalk, when a man was acting suspiciously, is considered reasonable and is allowed.If a police officer goes beyond the level of a "frisk" by asking you to empty your pockets, for example, you should repeat that you do not consent to a search and question the officer's right to continue. If the officer insists, you must comply with his or her instructions, but carefully note what the officer does and says. This may provide grounds to suppress any evidence in court. Do not get physical or fight the officer's efforts, or you may be charged additionally with interfering with the officer's investigation.
 The Supreme Court, in a few noted decisions, has ruled that, although the Constitution does apply to everyone, students in a school setting have a lower expectation of privacy, and school administrators have a heightened responsibility to care for everyone. As a result, school administrators may conduct searches without search warrants, if they have what is called “reasonable suspicion.”


In the 1985 case of New Jersey v. T.L.O., the Supreme Court ruled that students in school have a reduced expectation of privacy, and school administrators have a heightened responsibility to care for the school, so a lower standard of reasonable suspicion is sufficient for a search in school. Administrators do not need probable cause or search warrants in school. A girl who was seen coming out of a bathroom with two other girls, who admitted smoking, provided reasonable suspicion for a search.In 2002, in Board of Ed. v. Earls, the Supreme Court decided that it is not unreasonable for a school to conduct drug tests of all student athletes. The drug problem is a compelling concern, and student athletes are on notice not to expect privacy in this area., It has become fairly commonplace to expect searches at airports. In exchange for the privilege of air travel, people are considered to give consent to these searches. Following the terrorist attacks of 9/11/2001, the level of searching for all passengers increased and is generally allowed, without the need of a warrant., When you choose to attend a large public event, such as a movie, play, or sporting event, you are considered to be giving consent to a search of yourself and your belongings. It is common for security guards to check all bags and backpacks. Again, this is a trade-off, where you are exchanging some privacy for the right to attend the event. As long as you realize this, you can be careful not to carry with you anything that could get you into trouble., Most employers these days make their employees aware that they do not have an expectation of privacy at the workplace or in communications sent through work computers. You need to realize this and limit what you take with you to the office, or what you communicate online. Usually, the company is considered the owner of the location and the technology, and as the owner can give consent to a reasonable search of your desk, work area, or electronic communications.


If you work for a company and have a desk that you use, the employer generally will retain the right to search the contents of the desk with reasonable suspicion. If the police arrive and ask to conduct a search, the employer’s consent would be sufficient, even if you, the employee, object.The employer generally cannot search your workspace at any time for no reason. However, the standard for an allowable search is much lower than a police search warrant would require.
 If you are dealing with issues regarding search and seizure, you are probably facing the possibility of criminal charges. Nobody should face this without legal help. If you can afford an attorney, you should hire an experienced criminal attorney. Ask if he or she has dealt with Fourth Amendment issues before. If you cannot afford to hire an attorney on your own, the court is required to provide you with a public defender., In criminal procedure, the arraignment is the hearing when the defendant has the opportunity to plead “guilty” or “not guilty” to the charges. If you believe that your charges are based on an illegal search, you should plead “not guilty” and preserve the right to challenge the evidence., You, or your attorney on your behalf, can file a motion to suppress evidence. A motion is usually written, although sometimes it can be raised orally at trial, and presents the facts and argument to explain why you believe the evidence was gained illegally. The judge will usually hear arguments on motions like this separately, before the trial begins.The “exclusionary rule” is the doctrine that courts apply to prevent the use of evidence that was obtained illegally. This comes from two U.S. Supreme Court decisions, Weeks v. U.S. (1914) and Mapp v. Ohio (1961).
The “fruit of the poisonous tree” doctrine means that any evidence that came directly from an illegal search, or any further evidence that resulted indirectly from an illegal search, is inadmissible. For example, suppose the police conduct an illegal search of your car and find the key to a storage locker. They get a search warrant for the storage locker and find further incriminating evidence. Even though they got a search warrant for the locker, they would not have known about the locker in the first place without the initial illegal search. As a result, all the evidence is inadmissible.
 If the only evidence against you was obtained from an illegal search, and if you are successful with a motion to suppress the evidence, you should immediately request that the case against you be dismissed. Without legal evidence, the prosecution has no case against you and you should be released.Understand that the suppression of some evidence does not always lead to dismissal of the case against you. If the prosecution has enough other evidence that was obtained legally, they may still be able to proceed with the case.
 If you and your attorney truly believe that the evidence used against you was obtained illegally, and if the court rules against you on that point, you may have to appeal. An appeal takes your case to a higher level court, where the argument focuses on just the legal issue of the suppression of evidence. If the appellate court rules in your favor on the search and seizure question, there are two different possible outcomes: The appellate court could directly dismiss the charges against you or rule that you are acquitted.
The appellate court may return the case to the trial court with an order to suppress the evidence in question. The trial court then has to make the decision, based on the remaining evidence, whether a new trial should be conducted or the case should be dismissed.

