 Both free and commercial video editing software exist. Professionals generally choose commercial software. Home video can be done with free software. Some camcorders come with software.;
,,,,,



Windows Movie Maker is no good, it has way too many limits and tends to freeze due to an overabundance of factors.

AviDemuxis a free video editor designed for simple cutting, filtering and encoding tasks. It is available for Linux, BSD, Mac OS X and Microsoft Windows

Pinnacle Studio(by Avid) - This is very easy to get started with and grow into later. Uses the Avid rendering engine for pristine looks. It's one of the only programs you can drag and drop AVCHD files from Sony hard-drive camcorders and begin editing right away. Works real smooth with standard def, but hi def will run your PC to it's limits. One disadvantage is that it uses a tremendous amount of hard drive space for rendered files. Rough Price - $50 for the basic, $100 for HD capability and $130 with tons of extra bells and whistles.

Sony Vegas- A very solid editing program. Not the BEST, but it has a lot of solid components. Good editing structures. Overall not bad, however could be better. Rough Price: $550

Adobe Premiere- Solid software. There are many different versions, if you get the best then you're in good shape! It has a lot of good video transitions and many audio overlaying options. The only downside is there are limits to text animations. Rough Price- $799

SmartPixel Producer- An easy to use editing software for beginners. It is not powerful, but it has an effects library for the unskilled users to add subtitles, background music,effects, etc. Rough Price- $23.9

Apple Final Cut Studio- Very Very reliable software. It is rumored that Napoleon Dynamite was edited on this software. This program is only for Mac OS so keep that in mind. Very professional looking, many advantages. The only downside is the price which is well over $1200.


Apple Final Cut Express is another option and is considerably cheaper.

Apple iMovie is a popular and free consumer-level editor which comes with new Macs as part of the iLife suite.



