 M can handle the entire reservation process for you through the Messenger app. If you're part of the M beta program, you can find M in your People list. You may also be able to find M in your Recent tab if you've used it recently.;
, M works best when you engage it in a natural conversation. Think of it like the concierge service at a hotel. Start by asking for suggestions based on what you want to do using natural English.For example, you could text, "Hi M, could you suggest some top-rated Italian restaurants downtown that would be good for a romantic date?" M may ask to clarify your location, and would then return a few suggestions on top-rated Italian restaurants nearby.
If you're looking for some entertainment for the evening, you can ask M about events going on downtown. Type something like, "M, are there any plays happening in town tonight?" M will respond with some of the popular plays that are going on tonight.
If you want to book a flight, type "M, I'd like to book a flight to Destination from Departure Date to Return Date. What are the cheapest options for a direct flight?" M may suggest alternate dates or multi-leg flights to save more money on travel., For example, M might text back that there are no highly rated Italian restaurants in your area. You can reply, "Can you recommend any other fine dining?" M will search again and list off a few recommendations.


Take this time to go back and forth with M until you find just what you want. Treat it like a conversation, and ask for more information if you need it. For example, M may tell you that the flight you want would be cheaper if you left on a different date. You could then text, "What would the cost be if I left on the same day but came back a day earlier instead?" M will find you a new price.
 Once you've settled on what you want to make a reservation for, you can ask M to place the reservation. M may ask you for some additional details in order to place the reservation for you.


To place a reservation at a restaurant, just let M know how many people you want to make a reservation for and when. For example, you could text, "Book me a reservation for two people at 6:30 tonight" and M will call the restaurant and attempt to make a reservation under your name.
To buy tickets to an event, tell M how many you'd like to buy and for what showing. You can text "I'd like two tickets to Show Name tonight, in the Orchestra section if possible." M will check for available seats and let you know if your request is possible. Payment will be handled using your Messenger payment method.
To book a flight, type "OK, book that flight for me" when M provides you with the flight you want to take. M may ask for additional information such as your birthday and frequent flyer number.
 If you're doing something like getting concert tickets or booking a flight, M will process the payment directly in the conversation. You'll need to have a credit or debit card added to your Facebook Messenger account, which M will prompt you to do if you haven't yet.


Tap the "Pay" button when prompted to agree to pay.
 The time it takes to process your request will vary depending on what you're doing. For example, it may take longer for M to book a flight than to make a reservation at a restaurant. Usually M works pretty quickly, but you may have to a wait a while in some cases. M will inform you when the reservation has been made., You can ask M to create an event on your calendar for the new reservation. By default, it will add it to your Facebook calendar, but you can also ask M to send you an event invite for your Google, Outlook, or iCloud calendar. For example, after the reservation has been made, you can text, "M, send me an invitation to add this to my Google Calendar." M will comply and you should receive an invite after a moment.

