 Do not treat your psoriasis without contacting your doctor first. Your doctor will be able to diagnose the disease and prescribe an appropriate treatment. In emergency situations, your doctor will advise you to go to the hospital to get adequate treatment., Bed rest is needed to allow your body to fight off the infection and recover. It is recommended that you keep your room warm, i.e., 30 to 32 degrees Celsius (86 to 88 degrees Fahrenheit). This is because the disease prevents your skin from insulating your body.Your doctor will prescribe how many hours of bed rest you need per day.
 Your doctor will prescribe emollients and topical treatments, like topical steroid creams, to treat the psoriasis. Spread the cream as directed over the infected areas. Apply wet dressings after you apply your topical treatments., Place disposable towels in a bowl full of room temperature water. Wrap the wet towels around and on top of the infected areas. Then, use crepe bandages to secure the towels in place.Wrap the crepe bandages firmly, but lightly. Do not let the bandages touch the areas of the skin that are infected.
 In addition to wet dressings, oatmeal baths are used to soothe pain and itching. Oatmeal also helps the skin maintain its natural barrier function and has anti-inflammatory properties. You can purchase oatmeal bath treatments from your local pharmacy.Fill a bath with warm water. As the water is filling the bath, dispense the treatment into the water. Step into the bath and soak for 15 to 20 minutes. The treatment may leave a slippery residue on the bottom of your tub, so be extra careful when standing and exiting the tub.
 In severe cases you will be hospitalized, especially if there are complications. IV fluids and electrolyte replacement will be used to keep you hydrated. Additionally, antibiotics will be prescribed to help you fight these infections.Medications for itch, sleep, or anxiety may also be prescribed if appropriate. Options include Benadryl for itching and benzodiazepines for anxiety and sleeplessness.

