 People like to be near people who are clean and that smell good. So brush your teeth twice a day, take a shower everyday or as many times as it's healthy in the climate of where you live, and always use deodorant and a cologne or perfume.;
, What type of message are you sending to people through the way you dress? You like wearing plain clothes, larger clothes or plain colors? Well, try to dress more joyful, then. People are more drawn to people that look like they have joy in their lives. You do not have to change completely, but try to improve a few things.



Brighter colors. Instead of going for pales, beiges, dark or grayish tones, go for baby blues, pastel greens, pinks or any color that transmits happiness.

Get updated in fashion. Make a research on the internet, Google about what types of shoes, jeans, shirts and accessories are fashionable right now. There are thousands of websites and blogs out there that can help you.

Do not try too hard. You do not have to wear everything that they say it's fashionable, but do take note of what would look better for your body type, skin color and personal taste. People look much cooler when they dress in style yet look like it's effortless.
 Go on Google and search for what types of haircuts and hairstyles are in right now for your face shape and go for what suits better your personal taste. Once again, you must not look like you've been trying too hard. A subtle look is the best. If you want to wear makeup, you can go on YouTube and search for makeup tutorials.
 Do not slouch! It's not only bad for your back, but it's also bad for how people perceive you. Stand up straight, swing your arms a little as you walk and always look people at their face and make eye contact. This shows people you aren't afraid of life and they will instantly respect you much more.
 Go up to someone you do not know or that you barely talk, and ask anything. "What time is it? I want to know if the time on my cell phone/watch is right", for example. Then, you can smile and say thanks. You can also take the chance to pay a compliment on the person, like "By the way, that shirt looks cool on you". Try doing it to a different person everyday... people will feel more familiar to you when they see you next time after this, which can lead to more interaction and then friendships.
 Get out of the house, simple as that. Get dressed your best, put on your improved attitude and go take a walk and eat something nice at the mall, or take a walk somewhere that's crowded. In these places you can practice speaking to new people, like asking them about anything. It's a great way to show people how cool you are and also practice your communication skills.
 Read about celebrities news and also politics news, learn what's happening in the world and in entertainment. The more you know about popular culture, the more subjects you will have and more things you will have to ask people in order to strike a conversation.

