 One way to remove pollutants in your home is to refuse to let people smoke inside. If someone in your family or visitors smoke, ask them to only smoke outside., Mold grows in just about every indoor area. You can reduce the likelihood of mold and the growth of new mold by reducing the moisture level in your home. One easy way to do this is to keep the humidity level low, under 50%. Use a dehumidifier if you have to, or run your AC.Fix any leaks or sources of moisture in the home. Standing water increases pollutants.
 Lessen the presence of pests like cockroaches, ants, and mice in your home. Don’t leave food out, sweep your kitchen, and wipe down counters. Cover trashcans and don’t leave food inside them for long periods of time., Don’t burn wood indoors, either in a fireplace or a wood burning stove. This can release pollutants into the air., By vacuuming and dusting your home, you help eliminate dust, dirt, and other allergens from the air. Make sure to not only vacuum the carpet, but also furniture, rugs, and even drapes. Dust regularly, too. Use a damp rag instead of a dry one to help remove it instead of pushing it around.If you can, get a vacuum with a HEPA filter.
Vacuuming and dusting can help remove dust mites.
 Carpet can hold dirt, dust mites, pet dander, other allergens, and pollutants. Consider switching to hardwood floors to reduce the prevalence of these pollutants. If you switch to hardwood floors, don’t place a bunch of rugs. They hold allergens just like carpet., Pet hair and pet dander can cause problems with allergies and put impurities in the air. If you have a pet, you can still purify your air. Make sure to vacuum or sweep hair up often, so it doesn't end up in the air.Brush your pet often. This helps get rid of loose hairs. If you do this outdoors, you can get rid of the hair outside of your home, which will help keep the air clean.If your pet is covered in dirt or other debris, wipe them off or brush them before they come inside. Clean their feet if they have mud or other things on them.

