 Instead of continuously checking to see if the mask will fit on your head, you can just use the mannequin to check. If the cat head will slide over the mannequin head, it should do the same to yours.

It's best to check at least once or twice when making the head in case the mannequin head got squished somehow.;
, This should lift freely over the mannequin head. If you want the head to narrow closer to your neck, the base can be smaller but you will have to add a zipper or flap to get the head on.
 To do this, you can make another aluminium foil impression of your head, just the front this time, and use it to make a papier-mâché mask. Mix PVA glue and water in a two:one ratio, and brush it on tissue paper. Once dried, this mask is stronger than the alfoil, and provides an anchor for the cat head to stay fast on yours. The mask should not go past your nose, you want to breathe.
 You don't need it once the mask is dry, and it will be uncomfortable if left there.,, Not so tight it hurts, but tight enough so that when you run around in the mask it won't slip down or sideways on your head. You can use two straps, one to go over my ears around the head like goggles, and another under your chin, just to secure the mask further.
 The papier-mâché, with the weight of the full head, might irritate you. The foam will make it more comfortable.
 A wrapped up pillow may be more stable than the light alfoil, but if you use a pillow, the mask was slightly larger than it needed to be. Stuffing the alfoil head so it is stable might be a better idea.
 You need a frame to start shaping the head, and newspaper is more readily available/cheaper than wire. Roll a sheet of newspaper on the diagonal and twist it into a tight 'rope'. Start the frame around the head ear to ear and forehead to this horizontal piece. Tape it together, or staple if you wish. Add as many more of these frames as you wish; verticals from the top to the cardboard base are good.
 Sticky tape is your friend. Then we start making the cat shape.
 It's good to have either reference photos or your own cat for this. You can draw a concept picture - or several - and use those to help. Start with a rectangle of folded newspaper for the nose. The nose is small in this mask to allow for sight through the tear ducts.
 Pieces of cardboard are better than paper. The tear ducts are large and unpainted as this area will be where you see through. If you can make eyes you can see through, the tear ducts can be smaller. The whole head could be smaller in fact, but to see out of the tear ducts the whole head must be large.
 Newspaper and sticky tape in bulk are necessary.
 No Cheshire cat is complete without a winning grin. Make it wide. In the film the Cheshire Cat's mouth opens almost 270 degrees.
 The ears are triangles of newspaper, with the ends of the triangle overlapping so they make a cross. This makes an uneven cone shape. Stick the cross end of the cone down on the head, directly above the eyes and facing just slightly outwards; also stick down the end of the cone. It’s okay if the ears are loose, they will be stuck in place by the papier-mâché.
 Again, use 2:1 PVA glue to water and tissue. You can wet the tissue and put it on, but placing it on and brushing the glue mix with a paint brush is likely easier. No need to keep it smooth; it'll be covered in fur.
 If you spray some expanding foam and let it dry, you can carve it very easily. You can use this for the nose and teeth. Use a picture or a cat or just go for it.
 If you can't find anything spherical, try melting some plastic bottles with a hairdryer over a bowl. If you've looked at a cat, or anyone, form the side you'll see this clear dome before the iris. This dome imitates that and gives the painted eyes shine., Once the papier-mâché of the mask dries, you can remove a lot of the newspaper framework. This will make it lighter. You may want to support the smile though, as the weight of half of the mask rests it while your working on it. You can use skewers for this.
 Use black fabric you can see through, but when viewed people can't see your eyes. Cut off the cardboard tear ducts from your painted cat eyes. With hot glue, stick the black fabric to the clear done over the eyes and to the mask.

Don't worry if the black fabric goes too far on the nose, it will be covered in fur. Make sure the fabric is as stretched as it can be, so you'll be able to see easier.
, The same grey fake fur used for the costume is used on the head. You can use several scrap pieces if necessary, but whole pieces will make it look neater., Thin pink fabric is good, so you can get air through it and the hole for your neck.
 They don't have to be the same size. Having four larger ones for the incisors is good though. Hot glue them onto the fabric "gum" on the mouth.
 Lay down the pieces of fabric, hot glue, and cut if you need to neaten it up. Again, use bigger pieces for less "seam" lines between two bits of fur.






Prepare for a game of "Tetris" if you're making the head after the costume and trying to conserve the fur.
 Otherwise you have your cat head. You can just wear the head if you want, or you can make the full body suit.

