 One of the most easily observable aspects of French fashion is the pared-down aesthetic so common to Parisian streets. Rather than bathing in bright colors, or rushing out to buy the latest fast-fashion trend, French women stick to the basics, both in cut and color.A flattering cut will outshine a trendy item. When purchasing clothing, make sure it fits your frame well.
When in doubt, opt for neutrals. Neutrals are universally flattering, pair well with each other, and constitute wardrobe classics.;
, Although you want to wear basics, you should curate your closet so that each item you own matches or works well with at least two other items. This will make getting dressed in the morning easier and will give you a uniform, of sorts, to work from.Staple items typically include a well-fitting pair of jeans, a classic-cut coat, a pair of black flats, and a well-fitting button-down shirt.
Your staple items should reflect your lifestyle. If you need office wear, for instance, tailor your closet to accommodate office wear.
 Whether you have a ring you wear every day, or you place a pin on your lapel every morning, French women use a single item to draw interest. You could also use color for your signature piece, such as a bright yellow scarf, or a red nail.Your signature piece should be one you love, and that makes you feel great. Use your personality and likes to determine what you’d like your signature to be.
 One of the greatest ways French women achieve the effortless effect so commonly attributed to France is through pairing feminine and masculine items. A lace cocktail dress can be paired with a pair of moto boots and a leather jacket. A nice blouse could work alongside a pair of men's slacks. The mix of masculine and feminine keeps your outfit interesting.This takes some practice, so don’t be worried if you feel a bit silly at first. Pairing male and female items can have a learning curve.
Try pairing an oversized men's tee with a pair of skinny jeans and heels, or some oxford flats with a miniskirt and blazer.
 Although they’ll likely go unseen, you should never settle for ratty, unmatched undergarments. You can keep it simple, sticking to a color palette of white and black, or you can branch out and get some color into your wardrobe in the form of your lingerie.When your undergarments have become worn, get a new set--no exceptions.
Opt for quality over quantity. A quality bra and panty set will boost your confidence and improve the fit of your clothing.

