 Each state decides what kind of information it will release and the circumstances under which it will release that information. To access adoption records, the relevant state law is that of the state where the child was adopted. This might not be the state where the child was born or where you currently live.


Summaries of every state’s adoption laws are available at The Child Welfare Information Gateway website.
Generally, some states are “open records” states. In these states, you can simply get access to the your birth certificate. However, most states limit the kind of information you can receive.;
, The adoption file contains various kinds of information. The information can generally be divided into “identifying” and “non-identifying” information. Some states will release only “non-identifying” information but will require a court order to release “identifying” information.


“Identifying information” includes the names and addresses of the birth parents as well as the adoptive parents. If you want to actually find and talk to your birth parents or your child, then you will need identifying information in order to find them.
“Non-identifying information” does not identify the people involved in the adoption. Examples include:health information on the child’s biological family
whether the birth parents had other children
a medical summary of the child’s birth
the place and date of the child’s birth
the birth parents’ education
descriptions of the birth parents (such as race, hair color, and eye color)
the ethnicity or religion of the birth parents
the reasons for the adoption



, Thirteen states have opened their adoption records. If the adoption took place in one of these states, then the child can get his or her original birth certificate. The birth certificate will list the name of the birth mother and possibly the birth father.


To get the birth certificate, the child will need to be a certain age (typically 18 or 21). In some of these states, you cannot get the birth certificate unless the birth parents consent to its release (or don’t veto the release).In alphabetical order, the following are “open records” states: Alabama, Alaska, Delaware, Hawaii, Kansas, Minnesota, Montana, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Vermont, Washington, and Wisconsin., More than half of all states maintain “mutual consent registries.” These registries allow biological parents and adopted children to find each other while providing the option of maintaining anonymity. With a mutual consent registry, the adopted child or birth parent files an affidavit with the registry. This affidavit states whether they consent to or refuse to consent to the release of information to the other party if it is requested.A mutual consent registry does not release information until and unless each party agrees to the release. For example, a birth mother might submit an application to the relevant mutual consent registry seeking information about the location of her birth child. After receiving the request, the registry will look for a consent affidavit signed by the child. If the child has submitted the affidavit already, then the registry will release the information to the birth mother.
However, if the child has not given consent, then the registry will not automatically release information to the birth mother. Instead, the state registry might contact the child and ask if he or she agrees to the release of information. In other states, the registry will not even call the child but will instead wait for the child to contact the registry on his or her own.
 States that don’t have a mutual consent registry might have created a confidential intermediary program. Here, a third person (the “intermediary”) can look at the records.


If a birth mother is seeking information about her child, the intermediary will tell the child that someone wants to contact them. The intermediary then checks if the child consents to the release of his or her identifying information.If the child agrees, then information is released.
In some states, you need to file a petition in court before you can access the intermediary program.
As with a mutual consent registry, both parties must agree to be contacted before a confidential intermediary program will release identifying information.
 To begin the search for your adoption records, you need to know the state where the adoption took place. Ask your adoptive parents if they remember the state in which they adopted you.


If you were the birth mother, then you should remember where you gave up the child. If your memory is hazy, then look through your records, or ask friends and family if they remember where you were during that period of time.
 You might only have the name of an adoption agency. If so, search online to see if you can find a phone number for the agency.


Some agencies might have gone out of business. However, if you know the state then you can contact the Secretary of State and see which counties the agency was registered to do business in.
 You can also get a copy of your birth certificate. This copy will have your adoptive parents’ names on it. However, you can see which county issued the birth certificate. This might be the county where the adoption records are kept.
 Once you know where the adoption took place, you need to contact the appropriate state’s registry to see about getting whatever information is available.


You can find the registry by performing an Internet search. Type the state and then “adoption registry” or “mutual consent registry” into a search engine.
If the adoption records are located in an “open records” state, then type “state” and “adoption open records” into the search engine. In this way, you can find the agency to contact.
 Not everyone can request information from a state registry. Typically, you need to be a blood relation of the adopted child. Often, adoptive parents are also given permission to access adoption information so that they can find the birth parents. Each state’s statute should list who can gain access.


In Maryland, for example, only the following people can get “identifying information”: birth parents, any siblings, and the adopted child if 21 or older (provided he or she does not have a sibling under 21)., You need to fill out an application to access information in the registry. There may be a separate form for birth parents, adoptees, and siblings. In some states, however, each party uses the same form.


In New York, birth parents should complete the “Adoption Information Registry Birth Parent Registration Form.” This form is available for download at the New York Department of Health website.
Adoptees can complete the “Adoptee Registration Form.”
Siblings should complete the “Adoption Information Registry Biological Sibling Registration Form.” Siblings will also have to attach to the application a photocopy of their current birth certificate., You should return the completed form to the address provided. Some states charge a filing fee. The fee can vary, depending on the state. In Arkansas, you have to pay a $20.00 fee. New York charges no registration fee., Currently, Arkansas, Mississippi, South Carolina, and Texas require that a person undergo mandatory counseling before they can register with the state’s registry. The counseling seeks to inform applicants about the potential effects of reconnecting with a birth family., You probably need a lawyer to help you unseal adoption records. If your state is not an open records state or if the birth parent/child does not consent to release identifying information through a state registry, then your final option is to petition the court to unseal the records. This is a complicated process which requires a lawyer’s assistance.


To find a qualified family law attorney, see How to Find a Good Family Law Attorney.
You might be worried about the costs of hiring a lawyer. If so, then you should realize that most states now allow lawyers to offer “unbundled” legal services. With this service, a lawyer might draft a petition for you but do no other work. Alternately, you might agree to meet for a half-hour of advice. With unbundled legal services, the lawyer only does the work you give him or her., You need to file a petition with the court in the county where the adoption took place. The sealed adoption records are held there and only a judge in that county can unseal them.


Many states have prepared “fill in the blank” forms that you can fill out and file. Check with the court clerk to see if there is a form you can use.
If there is no “fill in the blank” form, then you need to draft a petition and an order. You should have your lawyer do this. You can use the sample petition and order at the adoption.com website. Revise it according to your circumstances.
Your petition is critical. You need to explain to the judge why you have “good cause” to unseal the adoption records. Typically, a state that seals adoption records will not unseal them simply because you want to find your birth parents. Unfortunately, there is no standard definition of “good cause,” and some states find “good cause” in very few circumstances. Your attorney will know what circumstances a local judge would consider “good cause” to unseal the records.
 Wait to sign the petition until you appear before a notary public. You can find notaries at the courthouse as well as at county offices. You will probably be charged a small fee to have your petition notarized. Be sure to bring sufficient personal identification (valid driver’s license or passport).


You can also find a nearby notary public by using the locator at the American Society of Notaries website. Search by your zip code.
 Make a copy of the petition for your records, then take the original petition and any attachments to the court clerk. State that you would like to file the petition.


The court might require a filing fee. Call ahead of time and ask. Also ask what payment methods they accept. Not all courts will accept personal checks or credit cards. Should you be unable to pay the fee, then ask the clerk about a fee waiver form and complete it.
 After you file your petition, the court will schedule a hearing. At the hearing, you need to show the judge by “clear and convincing” evidence that the need for unsealing the adoption records outweighs the maintenance of confidentiality.You should not expect the judge to simply rubber-stamp your petition and unseal the records.


Bring evidence to bolster your argument. As an example, if you need to reach your birth mother because you need to know her family’s medical history, then you should get an affidavit from a doctor. This affidavit will explain to the judge why you need the medical information.
 If the judge agrees to unseal your records, then you should get a certified copy of the judge’s order. You will want a copy for your records.If your state uses an intermediary system, then you might need to give a copy of the certified order to the third-party intermediary. Ask the clerk for how to get your copy and whether you need to contact the intermediary yourself.