 If you are new to growing perennials from seed, you may want to start with an easy, low-maintenance variety. Examples of perennials that are easy to grow include catmint, armeria, black-eyed Susan, purple coneflower, and yarrow.;
, You will need a shallow container with holes in the bottom for drainage; a well-suited choice is an egg carton. After poking some small holes in the bottom (a pencil works well for this), fill each section with a potting mix designed for seed starting.
 Place 3 or 4 seeds directly on top of the soil in each section of the egg carton. Consult the seed packet to determine whether the seeds should be covered with additional soil. If they need to be covered, add a very thin layer of vermiculite over them.
 Sprinkle water over the soil with your finger tips, moistening the soil thoroughly. Be careful not to let the seeds wash away. Place plastic wrap loosely over the entire egg carton to keep the moisture in. Position the egg carton in a relatively warm part of your home; consult the seed packet for specific temperature requirements.
 When the seedlings germinate, take the plastic wrap off the carton and position it in the sunniest spot in your home. As soon as the plants have a few leaves each, transplant them gently into a larger container (the plastic cell packs in which seedlings are sold work well for this). Use regular potting mix in the larger container, and keep the mix moist and in bright sun.
 After the last frost has passed, you can plant your perennial seedlings outside. In their first growing season, the plants will do best if they are planted in a nursery bed, cold frame, or green house. Keep the plants watered and weeded throughout the growing season, and cover them with mulch in the fall and winter.
 Once the plants show green growth the following spring, dig them up and move them to their permanent position in your garden. Take extra care to water adequately and prevent weed growth around the plant for a few weeks until it is firmly established.

