 Though you may be desperate for your woman to fall in love with you, you can't try too hard, at first, or you'll scare her off. Take it slow and let things progress naturally.If you've only been together for a few weeks, or a month or two, then you should keep things light and fun. Don’t say “I love you” yet, or it may not have the effect you're hoping for.


Of course, every relationship moves at its own pace. If you think you're both really approaching love after a few months, then dive in! But make sure that you're looking for love with this specific woman, not just love in general.;
, Demonstrate your great personality to the woman you are interested in. By being positive, kind, funny, and thoughtful, you can show her that you are a great guy who would make an excellent boyfriend.Try making her laugh by telling jokes.
Remember to be kind to people.
Try to maintain a positive and upbeat attitude.
 You don't have to ride up on a horse to pick her up for a date, but you should make an effort to treat her like a lady. Part of being a gentleman is having stellar manners and treating people well. If you do this, then she will take notice and will be on her way to falling for you. This doesn't mean that you should not be yourself and have to start acting formal all of the time. It just means that you should try a bit harder to be polite and considerate of her needs.Here are some things any old gentleman can do:


Give her your coat if she's cold
Use proper table manners
Put her needs before your own when it comes to having the best seat, the last bite of food, etc.
Hold open doors for her
Pull out her chair for her
Be attentive to her needs in general

, If you want a woman to fall in love with you, then you have to show her that you see her as more than just an object or a trophy to be won. Show her see that you care about who she is as a person, about what she wants, what her dreams are, and what her experiences have been. You shouldn't interrogate her, but at the same time, you have to make an effort to know who she really is besides the fun-loving, beautiful woman you see in front of you. Here are some things to ask her about:


Her childhood
Her favorite memories
Her friendships
Her relationships with her family members
Her hopes for the future
Her job or her career goals
Her passions or hobbies

, Always hanging around and calling and texting a woman will not make her fall in love with you. In order to evaluate her feelings about you, she needs some distance and space to think about you. If you're always around, asking what she's up to, or telling her how amazing she is 24/7, that won't increase her feelings of love for you. If you let her know you care but give her space at the same time, then she'll be much more likely to fall for you.Just like guys are turned off by women who come on too strong, so are women. Find a balance between letting her know how much you like her and giving her space.
 If you want a woman to fall for you, then you have to make her see that you're a person who is worth falling for, not just a puppy dog she can keep on a leash. Maintain your hobbies and work hard at a job that means something to you. The happier you are on your own, the more the woman will want to be around you.For example, you could hang out with your guy friends, spend time training for a marathon, play guitar, or pursue your favorite hobby.
 Another way to win a girl over is to give her compliments that actually mean something. This means you should go beyond telling her how pretty she is, and dig deeper to let her know which attributes really mean something to you.Of course, complimenting her looks will make her feel good, too, as long as it's not the only thing you're complimenting. Look for unique aspects of her personality or her life that are really worth complimenting, and she'll see that you really care. Here are some things you can say:


"You always know how to crack me up, even when I'm having a bad day."
"You're so good at talking to almost anyone. My Grandma Pearl could have talked to you for hours! What a gift."
"I've never seen eyes that are the same shade of blue as yours."

, If you want to deepen your bond, then you have to open up as your relationship progresses. Don’t tell her everything about yourself at first, or she may feel like there's no mystery there. But once you've been together for a while, slowly let her know about the things that matter to you. This could mean talking about your real dreams for the future, discussing a complicated friendship from the past, or even revealing your biggest fears.


Try asking for her advice about things now and then to show her that you value her input., If you want a woman to really fall in love with you, then you have to be there to support her when she needs you. This means anything from going to support her in the school play or building her up before a job interview. You'll need to be there for her when she's nervous about something, having a bad day, or just figuring out her life. Women look for this quality in a life partner, and if you want her to really fall for you, then she has to see that you'll be there for her through the good times and the bad.


Try leaving an encouraging note in her lunch bag, sending her a confidence boosting text message, or just congratulate her on her accomplishments.
 Trying new things now and then will help to keep things interesting and exciting in your relationship. This doesn't mean you should get a motorcycle and start doing backflips in your living room, but it does mean that you should keep an eye on the unconventional and exciting things that would take your relationship to the next level. If you do the same old thing or talk about the same old thing all the time, then the woman may begin to get a little restless.


Ask your girlfriend what she has always wanted to do, but never has. Then, plan an outing so that you can try that activity. For example, maybe she has always wanted to learn how to surf. You can arrange for the two of you to take a surfing lesson together.
Vary your conversation topics as well. If you're always talking about sports or the same old thing, it may get old. Read the news, read literature, watch documentaries, and just do things that make you a more interesting person -- so that you can keep her interest.
 If you want a woman to really fall in love with you, then you have to work hard to make sure that her friends and family also like you.Be kind and polite to her family, be fun and sweet around her friends, and most importantly, show that you really care about her. In the end, that's the biggest thing they're looking for -- not how much money you make or how cute you are.


Avoid getting in heated fights or political debates with her friends and relatives. It's just not worth it.
If you really don't like one of the woman's relatives or friends, it's best to keep your mouth shut, in most cases. The woman won't like it if you're threatening one of the relationships she's had much longer than she's known you.
 Surprising your girlfriend and doing thoughtful little things will show her how much you care. Though you shouldn't be her love slave, you should take the time to do little things that make her really feel loved and cared for.For example, you can send her flowers on a random day, send her a text to say you're thinking of her, cook her a meal when you know she's had a long day, or massage her feet if she's feeling tired.
 If you want a woman to fall for you, then you have to make her see you as more than just a hot, exciting prospect who is perfect for right now. Let her see that you're responsible, caring, smart, fun to be around, and an all-around good long-term bet. Be your best self and show her that you're Mr. Right, not just Mr. Right Now.


Being responsible is a big plus. If she sees that you can balance your checkbook, cook dinner, and do what needs to get done, she'll be very impressed.
 Listening is crucial to the success of a relationship. When she needs you to listen to her, drop your distractions, look her in the eyes, and take in what she's telling you. Don't try to solve her problems or give an opinion on everything -- just be there and listen when she wants to talk.


Demonstrate that you are listening by summarizing what she said and checking to see if you are understanding. For example, you could say something like, “If I’m understanding you correctly, you are feeling frustrated about your boss and the way she handles meetings. Is that right?”
Ask questions to show her that you are interested in hearing more. Stick to who, what, when, where, and how questions. Avoid “why” questions because they may cause her to become defensive., Good communication is essential for maintaining a long-lasting, loving relationship. If you find that you and your partner are not communicating very well, take the initiative and try to find out what’s been going on. Ask her how she's feeling, ask about her day, or just ask if there's anything in particular that she wants to talk about.Tell your girlfriend how you are feeling and when you want (or do not want) to talk as well. For example, if you are having a bad day and need some space, let her know.
 Forgiveness is essential to a long lasting relationship. All couples argue from time to time and your girlfriend is bound to make mistakes sometimes. If you hold a grudge and refuse to forgive her for mistakes, then your relationship will suffer. Practice forgiveness when she does something that upsets you and your relationship will stand a better chance of survival., Looks are not everything, but maintaining a healthy lifestyle is good for you and good for your relationship. If you want to ensure that you feel your best and she continues to enjoy the way that you look, you have to keep taking care of yourself. Make sure that you eat well, exercise daily, and get plenty of rest and relaxation., If you really want her to fall in love with you -- and to stay that way -- then you always have to keep making the effort. You've got to bring her flowers on random days. You should dress up for date nights. Come up with new things to do together. Never give up on trying to make her laugh.Don't quit on her if she's in a bad mood. Just keep working your charms and working hard to keep her.
Don't think that, once you've both said you love each other, you've got this in the bag. You always have to keep making an effort, whether you're 20, 30, or 80.
 Assess your relationship every so often to see what has changed or what needs to change. Research has shown that people undergo significant changes every 7-8 years and you will need to account for these changes in your relationship. Whether it is a new job or a new interest, it is important to address these changes in order to maintain a good relationship., If you want your relationship to keep going strong, then you should build a list of things that you do together. You have to have a few things that are just for the two of you, which you love doing together as you build your relationship.Consider taking some Sunday morning hikes, reading together near the fireplace, making Italian meals together, going wine tasting, or running races.
Keep in mind that this doesn't mean that you have to share all of the same interests -- you don't have to go to yoga just to please her, and she doesn't have to watch your favorite TV show with you if it's not her thing. Having your own interests that you maintain will help you grow stronger, too.
 While you should work on doing things together, it's important to stay focused on your own goals and pursuits, too. If you're always together, one or both of you may begin to feel smothered. Keep on doing the things you love while making time for the person you love.Try setting aside a day or night where you spend time with your friends and she spends time with hers.
 If you want to make a woman fall for you, and make it last forever, then you have to tell her that you love her. Do it at least once a day and say it like you really mean it. These three words can make a big impact on your life -- and your relationship.No matter how secure a woman is in her relationship, she will always like to hear that you love her.

