 A man is presumed by law to be the father of a child if he was married to the mother when the child was born, or any time during the 300 days before the child was born.The presumption applies even if the couple got divorced before the child was born. Divorce proceedings that are started while the woman is pregnant typically address the paternity of the unborn child.
The marriage certificate and the child's birth certificate can be used to establish paternity by presumption in this case.
Provided the presumed father does not deny paternity, this is the simplest way to establish paternity in Texas.
 If you were not married before your child was born, the man who you marry after the birth of your child is the presumed father under Texas law provided he signs a written record acknowledging his paternity.You typically will be provided with an acknowledgement form by the hospital when the child is born.
If the presumed father cannot be present at the child's birth, the form can be completed and signed after the child is born by following the instructions to establish paternity by voluntary acknowledgement.
 Even if no marriage has taken place, a man can be considered the legally presumed father of your child if he lives continuously with the child during the first two years of that child's life and tells other people the child is his.Regardless of whether the couple ever marries, a man is considered the presumed father of the child if he actively participates in the parenting of the child.
This is similar to common law marriage, wherein a couple lives together as husband and wife and holds themselves out to the public as married. Here, the man lives with the child as the child's parent and holds himself out as the child's parent to others.
If the presumed father is not the genetic father of the child, he can challenge the presumption in court. However, absent any challenge the law presumes he is the child's legal father.
You also can rebut the presumption of paternity if the child's true genetic father signs an acknowledgement of paternity, and the presumed father signs a denial of paternity.

