 Open your web browser and go to the homepage of the company with which you have a rewards account. If you don't know the homepage address, do a keyword search for the name of the company, and then click on the company's homepage.


Frequently you can find the issuing company's web address on the rewards account card or with your awards account signup information.
If you find the the web address for the rewards account homepage on a rewards card or with the rewards account information, navigate to this, and then continue to deactivate the account.;
, Depending on which rewards program you belong to, this process may vary. You may have to log into your account on the issuing company's website. If so, you can usually find the account cancellation page on your account's homepage. If not, you may need to:


Navigate to a page on the website labeled "Rewards" or something similar. On this page, there may be directions or a login for your account. Login if necessary.
Find the rewards account FAQ on the company's site. These kinds of pages generally have a section answering the question "How do I cancel my rewards membership?", There should be information on the rewards account homepage. Find the related section or link to account cancellation. Here you should find specific instructions to cancel the account (like "call phone number ### - ####" or "send an email to Stop@Rewards.com" ) or an interface allowing you to cancel the account.Some interfaces may require you to input your account information and confirm that you want the account deleted. After that, your account is generally deactivated.
Often, you will to need to reply to an email to confirm the cancellation of your account. Read incoming email related to closing the account to be sure you do not miss this and accidentally keep the account active.
 You should receive some kind of confirmation that the account is no longer active. Usually this comes in the form of an email. In some situations, your browser may navigate to a page that informs you "your account has been canceled," or something similar.


If you have not received notification that your account has been canceled or closed, it may still be open. In this case, you may want to inquire by calling the issuing company's customer service line or visiting a brick and mortar store.
Save and print the cancellation confirmation email or the screen that indicates that your account has been canceled. This may be useful for future reference, like if you decide to reopen the account.

