 As soon as you notice any urine spots on your lawn, you should pour several cups of water on the spot to dilute the urine. Diluting the spots with water can help them to fade faster.Another option is to give the entire lawn a watering if there are multiple urine spots on the lawn. Most dogs will go to the bathroom in the same spots in the yard so you may check these areas periodically and water them well if there are urine spots.;
, You can also address this issue by creating a bathroom area for your dog that is made of gravel, mulch, or artificial turf. This could be located on one side of your yard or in the area where your dog usually goes to the bathroom. Having your dog go on this area will save the rest of your lawn from damage due to urine.You should make this area appear more appealing to your dog by placing greenery like potted hostas or ferns around the perimeter of the area.
 For a more permanent solution, you should put in grass that is urine-resistant or that can tolerate dog urine. Put in fescue and perennial ryegrass, as these are more resistant than other grasses. As well, any diluted urine on these grasses actually act as fertilizer and help them grow.You should avoid Kentucky Bluegrass and Bermuda grass, as these are the most sensitive to urine and will spot easily.
 Making sure your lawn is healthy and maintained on a daily or weekly basis will help to keep it more resistant to urine damage. You should make sure you use nitrogen fertilizer when you fertilize your lawn, as the nitrogen can help to neutralize the urine.If you notice the urine spot appears green and there is no browning in the area, you should increase the frequency of fertilization (with nitrogen fertilizer) or the amount of fertilizer to mask the urine spots. You should also make sure you water the law on a frequent basis so the grass stays healthy.If you notice the urine spots have turned brown and the grass appears to be dying, you should water the area more frequently to help dilute any salts from the urine that have accumulated in the soil. If the grass eventually dies, consider replacing the dead sod with new grass that is urine-resistant., Fences and motion-sensor sprinklers can be used to keep neighboring dogs from eliminating on the lawn. Put up a wooden or wire fence to protect your lawn from unwanted urine patches.You can also use chicken wire to fence around the damaged area so your dog cannot relieving himself on the same spot again.
 Another way to prevent urine on your lawn is to post a sign at the front of your yard asking dogs and people to “mind the grass”. This could encourage people walking by with their dogs to not let their dogs relieve themselves on your yard.


You can also politely ask your neighbors to keep their dogs off your lawn. Stop by your neighbors, and let them know that you've been getting lawn damage from their dogs. Politely suggest that they walk their dogs in nearby parks or areas away from your house.

