 In the case of mirrors or glass tabletops especially, you may be able to give the object to a friend or even donate it to a charitable organization. By giving the glass away, you can get rid of it, help someone else, and keep the glass out of a landfill.;
, Ultimately, whether or not you can recycle your specific piece of glass depends upon the area where you live. Mirrors, window glass, and other large pieces of glass have a different chemical composition than standard bottle glass, and many recycling plants may not accept them.If your municipality does accept window glass, etc., then they'll likely have a specific process for it. Contact them and follow any specific instructions.


This process will most likely involve taking the glass down to a recycling center since the trucks that run recycling routes aren't typically equipped for nonstandard items.
 If it looks like sending your glass to the dump is the only option, then you’ll want to start by contacting your area’s waste management service. Different companies will handle waste of different sizes. For truly large pieces of glass, your waste management company may not dispose of it in a single piece. You'll likely find information with weight and dimension restrictions on the company's website or by calling.


If they tell you you’ll need to break up the pane first, then the second method will be more suited to your needs.
 If your piece of glass is small enough to dispose of whole, you can trash the glass by taking steps to prepare it for disposal first. Since multiple waste management personnel will have to handle the glass, you want to help ensure that it doesn't break and become a hazard in the process. Start by covering the surface of the glass with duct tape.Tape across the glass will help keep the pieces in place and limit splintering in the event that is does break.


Tape both the front and back surfaces of the glass.
The more of the surface you cover the better, but if you don't want to waste a large amount of tape, then you can simply place a large X across the front and back surfaces., Use bubble wrap or even an old blanket that you don't mind discarding to wrap the glass and tape the wrapping shut.This way even if the glass does break and some of it breaks free from the tape, it will still be held in place by the wrapping.
 Once you have the piece of glass properly wrapped, label the exterior of the wrapping, so that anyone who handles it knows to do so with a bit of care. A note as simple as "Glass for disposal" will suffice.Make sure the writing is both clear and large enough to read.
 Since throwing the piece into a dumpster would defeat the purpose of labeling it, simply place the glass beside your personal or community receptacle.You should also ensure that the labeling faces outward and can be easily seen.

