 Often you can salvage undamaged parts from a recent-vintage PC, as long as you are very careful to avoid static discharge. (Touching a piece of conductive metal every once in a while should do the trick). From older PCs, you may only be able to salvage the case and the PSU. Many old motherboards have the CPU built in.;
, If you're planning to use a new motherboard and an old hard drive, you may have to get an IDE controller adapter card (if your motherboard has an empty PCI express slot). You can probably grab one at Newegg for $20. Also check if the CPU and the motherboard use the same socket (such as AMD FM2 or Intel LGA1155). Make sure your PSU has enough watts for all of your computer parts. Check if your motherboard supports the type of RAM you're using. New motherboards tend to use DDR3 RAM while older ones tend to use DDR2.
 For parts installation, you could watch a video or read the motherboard's manual (if you have it). Carefully remove the motherboard and set it on a non-conductive surface.


If you have a CPU cooler (a good thing to have), you will have to read the instructions on how to install this part, since AMD and Intel vary.
 Make sure you do not touch the pins on the bottom. Lift the lever on the processor socket, align the golden arrow on the corner of the processor with the golden arrow on the socket. Carefully put the CPU in place and pull the lever down to lock it in place.
 Pull the two clips on the RAM sockets down. Then align the RAM with the socket and firmly press the RAM in place. The clips should snap in.
 Before you mount the motherboard into the case, you should mount the PSU, place the optical drive in 5.25 bay, and place the hard drive into the the hard drive bay. Installation may vary with model.
 Push it into place in the rectangular opening in the case.
 To know where to place the standoffs, put the motherboard on a piece of paper and put dots where there are holes in the motherboard.
 Screw the motherboard screws into the standoffs.
 Screw the cards into the back of the case.
 Plug the wires from the case into the plugs on the motherboard.
