 A person with bipolar disorder cannot control their mood. Your child may have waves of mood swings. If they're experiencing a manic episode or depressive episode, they can't control themselves and snap out of it. The ups and downs can last for weeks at a time. A child can find it difficult to cope with this. Because of the BD, your child may display different limits compared to other children. The best way to deal with this is to accept it.Avoid trying to reason with your child. Don't tell them things like, "Stop acting crazy," or, "Look on the bright side".
Validate your child's feelings and accept how they feel. Tell them, "Your feelings are valid. There is nothing wrong with feeling what you feel.";
, Everyone experiences stress from time to time. However, increased stress can make bipolar disorder worse for your child. This stress may occur at home or school. Even though you can't get rid of all the stress for your child, try to take steps to prevent added stress, such as working with them to properly manage their time.Ask your child how you can help if they feel stressed out about something, and try to help them the best you can. Say, "I know stress upsets you. What can I do to help you manage your stress?" If your child is not old enough to understand this, you can keep a behavior journal to try to track various triggers or circumstances that lead to them getting stressed.
When you learn your child's limits, pay attention to them. Avoid pushing your child to their limits unnecessarily.
For example, if your child gets overwhelmed by a certain chore, give them a different chore; however, don't just eliminate all the chores. You still want to make sure to teach your child responsibility, but your child just may not be able to do as much or certain things.
If your child feels stressed by school, you can try talking to the teacher. For example, if too much homework stresses your child, try to talk to their teacher to see if they can lessen the amount.
 Consider creating a routine for your child to reduce stress in their life. Routine will help your child get used to responsibilities and know what to expect so that they don't get overwhelmed. Chaos and instability may make their bipolar disorder worse. An established routine can help your child avoid stress and cope with daily life. Doing the same thing at the same time every day gives them a sense of security in knowing what comes next.The routine should include when your child wakes up, mealtimes, study/homework time, chores, playtime, and when they go to bed.
Most children with bipolar disorder function best in a structured routine. Many also have short attention spans. Be patient and ready to move on to another activity when they are.
 Always try your best to validate your child's feelings and truly listen to how they're feeling. When your child tries to talk to you about something, give them all your attention. Really listen to what they have to say, even if you don't understand how they feel. Communication is key to help your child with bipolar disorder.If your child approaches you, turn off all electronic devices and focus on them. Tell them, "I am listening to you." You may want to repeat some of the things they say, ask questions, or respond to let them know you are listening to them.
If your child doesn't talk to you, try to open the lines of communication. Tell them, "I know that your bipolar disorder may be confusing or overwhelming at times. You may not know how to talk about it. I am here to listen without judgment to whatever you are feeling." You may want to try a prompt, such as, "Give me two feeling words for how you're doing right now."
When you notice your child is not in the best mood, be honest about it and ask how they're feeling in a loving manner. You may say, "How are you feeling today? You seem a little upset." Or, "It's okay that your mood has shifted. I'm here for you and will listen to you."

, When your child is having a rough time, your words play a big role on how they'll react. Avoid covering up their feelings and acting like their feelings are easy to cope with. This will end up making them feel worse, as if they're emotions really don't matter.Be aware of saying statements, such as "It's not so bad;" "Be positive;" "You're over-reacting. It's not that bad;" or "It's okay. Be tough."
Instead, validate their feelings and show that you do care. Say things like, "You're not alone. I'm right here for you," or, "I may not be able to understand how you exactly feel, but I'm always here to listen and help you." You can also say, "You are very important to me and your life matters a lot to me," and, "I know it doesn't feel like it now, but the way you feel will change."

, Your child may feel embarrassed, ashamed, or guilty for having bipolar disorder, especially if they're the only one in the family who has this disorder. Support your child and tell them that it's okay and that having bipolar disorder is not their fault. If your child continually says that they're a hassle to deal with, firmly tell them that's not true and that you're always there for them, even if you don't know exactly how they feel.You can talk to them about various famous people who struggled with bipolar disorder in order to normalize their situation. Examples include Carrie Fisher, Demi Lovato, Vincent van Gogh, and Virginia Woolf.
Tell your child, "You are not to blame for your disorder. You didn't cause it, and there are things we can do to help you feel better." You can also say, "It's not your fault that you have bipolar disorder; that's how you are and there are treatments that can help you." Or try, "You shouldn't feel guilty about your disorder. There are ways to feel better."

, Your child may need special allowances when they go to school so that their needs are met. Your child may need to take breaks during classes, be assigned less homework during difficult times, delay important instruction until they feel alert, and reduce some assignments, projects, or tests. Start by discussing your child's condition with their teacher.Consider forming an Individualized Education Program, or IEP, to help your child cope and deal with school without feeling stressed. To set up an IEP, start by talking to the school. Guidance counselors can help get you started.

