 Just like people, dogs can get bored easily. Your dog may be acting stubborn on walks because it is bored. Take a different route on your walk, or go to another park or neighborhood altogether for your walk. Even walking the same neighborhood but in a different pattern may be enough to make the trip exciting again for your pup.Try taking the route that you normally take but in reverse, if possible.
 Another way to mentally stimulate your dog is to take it to a new place for a run or walk. Introducing your dog to new sights, sounds, and smells stimulates your dog mentally and physically, and should make them eager for that walk that they’ve been resisting.Check if your county or city has a dog park.
There might also be a state or national park nearby that allows dogs.
Even if you take your dog to a designated off-leash area, make sure that you have a leash on hand at all times.
 Your dog may expect that they know exactly how this is all going to happen: you’re going to put the leash on them, you’re going to start walking, and you’re going to take that same boring route that you always take. Instead, give your dog the stay command and make them hold the position. Then, tell your dog to go, rewarding them for moving. This simple “reboot” in your walking routine might be just the trick to getting your dog to walk without issues.You will need to decide early on what commands you’ll use with your dog, including what you’ll use for “stay” and “go.”

, Your dog may be a stubborn walker because they fear some part of the experience, be it the leash, passing cars, or simply walking around outside their home. Desensitization is a lengthy process in which you introduce your dog to graduating levels of the stimuli that they fear. The idea is that as they become comfortable with a low level of the stimuli, you add a bit more until they are again comfortable. Desensitizing your dog may be the key to your dog becoming happy to go on walks.Desensitization takes a lot of patience. Don’t expect results overnight and don’t lose your cool if your dog doesn’t respond right away.
Make sure that you don’t overwhelm your dog and that you introduce small, graduating levels of the stimulus.
For example, if your dog is uncomfortable with unfamiliar people, invite someone to come over to your house and sit in the yard, maybe in a chair while reading a book.
Keep your dog on leash away from the person and allow them to smell the air. As they get comfortable, take a step toward the person, moving slightly closer every time your dog appears comfortable.
Ultimately, your dog should be close enough that you can introduce your friend to the dog without a fear response from your pup.
Don’t force your dog to approach the person. You follow their lead, not the other way around.

