 If you want to try to make others happy, then you'll need to start with yourself. What makes you happy? What brings you joy? Thinking about these questions will help you start to figure out how you can spread happiness to others.


Make a list of the times you've been happiest in your life. It may help for you to go through a photo-book for this. Pay attention to the photos where you look happiest or at peace: What were you doing then? Who were you with?
Do you still manage to find time to engage in these activities? If not, try to make it a priority to set time aside for you to do things that truly make you feel happy.
Even if you don't have the time to go on long off-trail runs every weekend like you used to, for example, perhaps you can manage to fit in a jog around your local park once or twice or week. You may be surprised at how quickly you start to perk up after returning to the activity you once loved so much.;
, It's hard to help others effectively if your own life is a mess. If you really want to make a positive impact on the world, you'll be better at it if you aren't too distracted by your own problems.


Maybe you'd like to help people who are unemployed find meaningful work that provides them with a steady income. If you struggle to keep a job, though, you won't be able to offer much in the way of advice, and you certainly won't be taken seriously.
However, you shouldn't give up on this goal just because you haven't (yet!) held down one good-paying job for a long stretch of time. Indeed, once you manage to figure things out, you'll be in an excellent position to help others who are in positions like yours.
You will truly be able to understand their situation and will be able to offer solid, proven advice once you manage to overcome your own obstacles.
 While one of the first steps towards helping others is helping yourself, be careful not to put off the start of your new plan for too long. You will never be perfectly happy, perfectly content, perfecting employed, etc.


If you wait for the time to be perfect (and for you to be perfect) before you begin to try to make your mark on the world, you'll never get started.
Maybe you aren't yet in a position to be a career counselor, but perhaps you can work to provide people who are homeless with interview outfits.

