 This might be the hardest thing you will have to do to recover from gaslighting, but it is also one of the most important.When you are gaslighted you begin to ignore your inner voice and tune your intuition out.


Start with small things. For example, listen to yourself about whether you are hungry or tired or not. Say to yourself, “I can trust myself to know when I need to rest. It’s small, but it is trusting myself.”
Don’t feel as though you need to rush to make a decision or give that power to someone else. Tell yourself, “I can take my time and see how I feel about my options before I make a decision.”
Tell yourself, “I can trust myself and listen to my own judgment” when you start to doubt yourself.
 One of the effects of gaslighting is that, over time, you begin to doubt yourself and you also doubt others.Even when someone else tells you something, when you are being gaslighted you reach the point where you only trust what your partner is telling you. When you are recovering from gaslighting you can rebuild your trust in other people by verifying the truth of what people tell you.


Try to re-establish trust with one or two people close to you first. Pick people that you know have always been there for you and who support you. For example, you might turn to a family member.
Use these people as fact checkers. For example, if your sister tells you that you look nice, you can ask your mom if your sister is telling the truth or not.
 You can recover from gaslighting by writing it down when you have an experience that rebuilds your trust in yourself and in other people. Keeping a journal of trust-building experiences can help you see that you do have good judgment and that you can put your faith in other people.


Write it down when you make a decision and it turns out to be the right choice. For instance, you might write it down if you decided to bring your umbrella on a sunny day that turned into a major rain.
Make a journal entry when other people do things that re-affirm your trust in them. For example, if your friend follows through on what he said he would do, then write it down.
 People that have been gaslighted may find themselves feeling worthless, hopeless, or worse because of the manipulation of someone else.You can recover from gaslighting if you improve your self-esteem by using positive self-talk.


Make a list of the good things about you in your journal and use some of the words on the list when you are talking to yourself.
Instead of calling yourself forgetful, crazy, stupid, or pitiful, say things like, “I’m a worthy person. I have a lot of good qualities and I can trust myself.”

, When you have been gaslighted you have probably not had the opportunity recently to do things that bring a smile to your face. Often, in situations like this, you are only allowed to do what the other person wants. You may even forget what things you enjoy doing. You can recover from gaslighting if you make an effort to do things that you enjoy.


Take at least five minutes each day to do something just because it puts a smile on your face. For example, do some mirror karaoke as you are getting ready in the morning.
Make an effort to try things you used to enjoy but haven’t been able to do in a while. For example, if you used to love playing the piano, go take a couple of refresher classes and see if the love is still there.
 Gaslighting may result in you neglecting your health and well-being because you are manipulated into thinking it’s not important. You will find it easier to recover from gaslighting if you feel well, have energy, and can focus. Take the time to do things that will keep you healthy.


Participate in physical activity like yoga, martial arts, or even going for a daily walk.
Eat nutritious meals and snacks each day to give your body the energy you need to recover from gaslighting.
Make sure you are getting enough rest. It will be easier to trust your own judgment and begin making your own decisions again when you are well-rested, energized, and able to focus.

