 You should perform a basic background check on interested parties to make sure that they do not have a history of animal abuse, irresponsible breeding, or selling puppies for profit. Ask for a copy of their driver’s license or ID.Verify that they live at that home address, and perform a basic internet search to see if any unsavory details pop up.
 Before you agree to hand over a puppy to a stranger, you should thoroughly investigate them to make sure that they are capable and willing to raise the puppy properly. A good home will be one where the owners provide the dog with enough attention, exercise, food, and medical care. You also want to ascertain that the candidates are absolutely aware and dedicated to the time and effort that raising a puppy requires.You can ask:


What do you want a puppy for? Are you looking to have a family pet or do you want to breed the puppy?
Have you ever owned a dog before? If so, can you tell me about them?
Are you aware of what type of care this dog needs?
What is your job? How many hours a day will the puppy be alone?
Do you live in a house or an apartment? Do you have a fenced-in yard?
Are there children in the home? Are there other pets in the home? If so, how do you plan on introducing them to the puppy?

, Puppies are not an ideal choice for first-time dog owners. To make sure that the adopter is an experienced and loving owner, you should ask for references from their vet. This will inform you how well this person cared for previous pets.


If you have a litter of purebred puppies, you might want to ask adopters if they have a reference from the breeding club. This reference will let you know that they have successfully owned a dog of this breed before and that they are aware of the breed’s specific needs. If they have never owned the breed before but have experience with other dogs, a vet’s referral may still be adequate., Some adopters might lie to you about their address, home, or living conditions. To make sure that the puppy does not end up in a puppy mill, shelter, or otherwise bad home, ask the adopter if they would be willing to let you do a home check. Schedule a time when you can visit.This will allow you to make sure that the address they provided you is accurate. You can also see the size of the home, whether or not there is a yard, and whether the home would be safe for a puppy. A quiet, clean home is ideal for a puppy.
Apartments may be fine for smaller or more inactive breeds of dogs. Larger or energetic dogs may need a bigger home and a fenced-in yard.
Do not do a home visit by yourself. Always bring a friend along when you are visiting a stranger’s house.
 Once you have a few potential adopters who you think might be suitable, you should schedule a time when they can come to visit the puppies. This will let them experience the temperament of the puppy while letting you see how well they handle puppies. It will also give you another chance to ask them questions about their suitability to own a puppy. You should always have another person home when strangers come to visit.If the puppies are old enough, you should let them play with their potential new owners.
This may be a good opportunity to have the candidates sign a contract and finalize their commitment to the puppy.
If something seems wrong about the adopter or if new information pops up that makes you reconsider, do not be afraid to tell them that you will not give the puppy to them. You can say, “After some consideration, I do not think you would be a good candidate for this dog.”