 Not so STYLE oriented. They are "wash and go" people. It has nothing to do with brand names or the high price tag. Just what feels good. But it is best not to look like slobs either.;
, It's not about the makeup. A person should be able to accept you as you are beneath the cover. Nobody is perfect.
, They are the mid-range common-life with a universal style.
 Stick to a basics! Being a floater is more about your personality, not what you wear.
 Play a sport, participate in band/choir, be a part of a school play, have a part time job, and be in many clubs that you are interested in. This way you can be social & meet many people and have friends from different cliques. It doesn't matter if you don't excel in sports or are a good actor or could sing or play an instrument well. Just join in to be as active & healthy as can be and feel free spirited. Even if you think it's a sport you may not like, you just might. Also new experiences introduces us to things we may do well but never would have known without taking that opportunity.
 Use your own filter- Some songs you may like, others you may not. Remember it's not about the group or the label. You may actually like a couple of those opera songs, a few country, a lot of psychedelic.. Who knows! Don't just think, "If it's not labelled soft or hard rock" I won't like it. Mix it up & listen to a broad selection. Don't just say you like the music just because it's what your friends like or is the latest fad. If you like it and others say it's geeky or uncool well SO WHAT! Don't let that make you give it up, just listen to it on your own time. Listen to the music for the music, not for the social aspects of it.
 Be very nice to everyone. Be very confident.Be polite and considerate.*Give people the benefit of the doubt. Don't give in to gossip or rumors. Draw your own opinion in person. Never use the phone-line system. Always confront people in person with issues at hand and never bring in a third party person unless required as safety measure.
 It's not important the number of friends you have. What you consider is the quality of that friendship. Having 3 friends that treat you well is better than having 20 "friends" who disrespect you and others.
 That doesn't always require schooling and books either. We often learn more about people by observation and listening. We can learn new skills through hands on. Also, feed the mind. Inform yourself of history, politics, religion, psychology, geography, science, art, cooking.. Many different things. You can learn much of history, psychology, and sociology from that lonely old man in the coffee shop. Never feel "because I'm a girl/guy" that you shouldn't learn these things. Girls can learn mechanics, guys can learn about cooking and about other things that seem female related. In fact, wise guys would benefit in 'understanding' the female reproductive system.
 Your friends don't have to be the "popular ones" or the "attractive ones". They don't have to be the top athletes etc.
 If you wouldn't like something done to you, don't do that to them. Always be honest- No need for lies. Don't cheat on anything. That's the same as a lie. Who can ever trust cheaters and liars?

, Your friend can be that lonely child that gets picked on or that child in special ed or that old lady you pass each day. Everyone is your friend until they become your enemy. Strangers are potential friends.
 Things are just things. People are not just about the car they drive or the job they hold. To know others true self is to get to know them - quality time. All of the toys mean nothing in the end. What is here today can be gone tomorrow.
 Remember others are less fortunate than you are. We all have something to give of our time. Some of that knowledge you hold can benefit others and in turn improve our world. NO MAN IS AN ISLAND UNTO HIMSELF

, That's how "cliques" are formed.
 If you can get access to the internet or your parents allow you, get involved with sites such as Facebook, YouTube, Myspace, Twitter, Minecraft, etc. To keep up with friends and to make new ones too.

