 It is hard to get four or five musicians with individual lives to commit to each other and the musical project. One band member who is never available to rehearse or do shows can kill a band. This "contract" will offer some protection for what a member can do with the name, payment, ownership of songs, equipment, etc., if/when he/she leaves the band.


Solving this now will help to avoid disputes in the future. Keep in mind though, it's common that these kinds of issues will turn off potential band mates. So, make sure they are in agreement and vested before forcing a contract on them.
Have it drafted by an unbiased third party (or take templates off the Internet). If one person writes it, it may seem like a power trip. If the members agree, you may choose a single person to write the contract, but have all members agree on the rules of the contract, and be in unanimous agreement before signing.
 Will it be in someone's basement? Garage? Will you keep all of your equipment there? Get permission from whoever owns the property you and your band choose for your practice space.
 Becoming a good band takes time and effort. Practice will also ensure that you and your band-mates develop a rapport. In addition, recording time is expensive. The better practiced you are the quicker you can get in the studio and out the door. As an artist, you're probably not made of money.


A good work ethic is important to success. If someone is unwilling to practice, they may be dead weight that needs to be removed. Make practicing a routinely thing -- the band needs to be a priority if taken seriously.
 Write as many as you can, without sacrificing quality for quantity. However, know that to have a headline at a show you'll need to have a repertoire of at least 11 or 12 songs to get through your time slot.


An opening band can have as few as 4-5 songs, so try to get your very best 5 songs together and open for more known bands at first to ease into the scene.
You also may want to copyright your work. You can copyright them at copyright.gov. It is a fairly simple process. All you need to do is fill out a PA (performing rights) form (not an RA (sound recording) form; that will come later, when you sign a record deal).
 You could pick something meaningful...or just one that sounds cool. Typically the entire band will decide on the name. The best names are usually short and easy to read and spell; that way it's easy to remember. It's called branding! On another note, do NOT use a name that is already trademarked, unless you plan on being a tribute band.


Do research on other bands. If you're a band based out of Seattle by the name of "Hockey Scientists" and there's a band in Portland called "Golf Doctors," you may want to go another direction.
If you really get stuck on a name, have everyone come up with 5 adjectives and 5 nouns, then try to agree on a band name using one of each.
 This will be your best piece of promotional material. It can be sold at shows, used to get record deals, agents, managers, etc., and used to promote to fans online.


As always, utilize Facebook, Twitter, and other social networking sites, too.
Consider recording a small snippet of a few songs to send to bar managers and the like. You'll be able to shoot them a short email telling them you'd love to play at their venue -- and for thirty seconds of their time and the click of a button, they can hear your sound. Foot in the door!

