 Find out what time of day you do your best work and structure your to-do list around those hours. If you’re a morning person, wake up and get busy before you stall out and lose motivation. Night owls can divide their chores up between regular working hours and free time after everyone else has gone to bed. Most people are realistically only able to stay focused for a few hours a day, so be sure that you’re making the best use of that time.Develop a habit of working at the same time every day, and make yourself stick to it.
If you keep odd or irregular hours, let others know when you’re working to keep from being bothered.
 Have a clear idea in mind of what you need to get done and take care of the biggest challenges first. That way, you’ll at least be assured that the most crucial tasks have been dealt with. Be able to prioritize wisely so that any leftover work can be knocked out with minimal time and energy. After a while, the anxiety of facing a mountain of unfinished work will disappear.When you have a proposal to outline, meetings to schedule and emails to answer, it can be easy to start feeling overwhelmed. By completing the outline first, however, then using the rest of your day to get your schedule in order and follow up on correspondences, you can save yourself a lot of rush and stress., Rather than looking at everything you need to do at once, assign yourself one or two daily goals to achieve. Keep these goals small and attainable. You might find that you have a hard time motivating yourself go out and build a fence around your backyard if you can only think of how much time, effort and expense it will take. If you instead tell yourself that you only need to dig the holes for the posts one day, then plant them the next day, and so on, your responsibilities will no longer seem so daunting.Start with modest, specific daily minimums and build them up as you grow more confident. You’re much more likely to exceed your expectations if you resolve to spend ten minutes on the treadmill, rather than simply saying “I have to exercise today.”
With few exceptions, most goals will take time to accomplish. Break yourself of the habit of thinking you need to get everything done immediately or all at once. Plotting manageable short-term goals keeps you from biting off more than you can chew., Take frequent, short breaks and use them to take care of your physical needs and renew your motivation. A good guideline is to break for 12-15 minutes after every hour of work you do. Use that time to go to the bathroom, drink a glass of water, have a snack or rest your eyes. Don’t succumb to the temptation to send personal texts or see what’s on TV. The more you let your thoughts stray, the tougher it will be to return them to the task at hand.Most people can only maintain their focus for about an hour at a time or less. It can be counterproductive to force yourself to keep working beyond this point, as it becomes more likely that you’ll start making mistakes or miss important information.Go for a quick walk or do some light stretching during your breaks to keep your blood flowing. This can help you stay mentally sharp and ready to jump back into things.
 Aim to get a full night's sleep every evening. Exactly how much sleep you may need will vary, but most people require at least six hours a night to function at their best. When you’re rested, your ability to think and perform goes way up. Sleeping puts your mind at ease after obsessing over productivity all day, and gives you a much needed break from thinking about what all you have to do tomorrow.Turn off all electronic devices at least an hour before bed—these can keep you wired.If you’re extremely busy, supplement the amount of sleep you get with short naps throughout the day.

