 There is a river on the east side of Lumbridge. Find a bridge and go across it. You should see some level 2 goblins. Continue north. You will pass chickens (west) and cows (east). Follow the path until it splits into a fork.;
, Continue on the path. Soon, you will see level 21 guards. Don't worry, they won't attack you. Enter the gate and go north until you see a fountain. You are now in Varrock.
 Follow that path. Soon, you will see dummies . Do not go inside and hit the dummies, it is too tiresome. start attacking goblins perform this till you are level 10 you can buy armor or smelt but do not buy bronze go for iron right away so it can help you in the future. then go through the gate to al kharid . attack the al kharid guards in the palace. note that they are lvl 8 so if you are not willing to lose items leather armor is fine

, Go west to the bank. Get some money. Now continue west until you see some barbarians. Go to the helmet shop and buy a bronze helmet. Put it on. Now, go back to Varrock's bank and get a pickax. Go to the village and mine copper and tin.
 Then, you will see anvils.
 Make a bronze ax, a bronze square shield and a bronze chainmail. Smelt a bronze sword, too.
 Put the bronze dagger and the wooden shield in your bank.
 Cross the river and go north until you see a gate to the cow pen. Start fighting the cows until your level is 12.
 After you've reached level 17, go down the barbarian village dungeon. The gates will speak and ask you questions. Pick the correct answer to pass. You will see minotaurs, goblins and wolves. Train on the wolves until you are level 23. Now you can train on the guards of Varrock. Do so until you are level 26. Go into the Varrock Palace and fight a woman warrior until you are level 30.
 Train on jail guards you find if you go west (a lot!). They attack you automatically, so watch out! After you are level 35 or so, go to the Barbarian Village dungeon and train on level 27 minotaurs until you are level 39.
 Chop down some trees. Now go east of the palace and north, into the wilderness, the most dangerous part of RuneScape. Go north until you see level 28 hill giants. Fight them until you are level 44. Now go out of the wilderness. You will see black knights. Attack them until you are level 50. Now check the map and go to Falador. Train on level 36 and 38 white knights until you are level 59. Now go to Varrock again and take of your armor and shield. Don't remove your sword, though. Get your wooden shield and ask for a leather body. If you can't get it, just continue. Go south. You will see dark wizards. Go and fight with them until you are level 63. Now train on moss giants in the varrock sewers until level 80. Now go and train on lesser demons until you are level 100! Congrats you are a level 100!

