 According to research, it may be somewhat safer to buy grass-fed and/or hormone free beef as opposed to commercially raised beef; the latter type of ground beef was about 20% more likely to contain multiple potentially harmful bacteria strains. However, the same testing revealed that 300 out of 300 packages of ground beef of all types contained at least one potentially harmful bacteria.No matter how it is raised, prepared, packaged, or stored, all beef contains bacteria, and some of it can potentially harm you. There is no such thing as bacteria-free beef, although most of the time the bacteria that is present is harmless.;
, Buy beef that is displayed in a cold setting and feels cold to the touch, and keep it that way until you are ready to cook it. Bring a cooler to store your purchased raw beef if you cannot refrigerate it within an hour or so of purchasing it.Bacteria of all types thrive in temperatures ranging between 40 and 140 degrees Fahrenheit (4-60 degrees Celsius). This range is known as the “danger zone,” and your beef, raw or cooked, should stay out of it as much as possible.
 Don’t just pitch a package of raw meat into your shopping cart, on top of the cereal boxes and bag of apples. Bacteria from the meat may have made its way onto the wrapping during the packaging process, and any leaking juices can transmit bacteria.Place meat packages into individual plastic bags (such as the rolled produce bags found in supermarkets) before placing them into your cart. Wash or sanitize your hands after handling the package, if possible. Separate meat packages into their own bag(s) when checking out. Take extra care if you utilize reusable shopping bags — double bag your meat packages in plastic first.
Isolate raw meat in your home refrigerator as well. Place it in a sealed container on the bottom shelf of your fridge, where juices are less likely to drip onto other foods., The “sell by” date is just a recommendation made by the retailer; it makes no guarantee regarding safety or freshness. To reduce the risk of bacteria development, ground beef in particular should be used or frozen within two days of purchase; whole cuts can be kept for a couple days longer if necessary.Only high heat can kill bacteria; cold can only make them dormant, and the colder, the better. Set your refrigerator at 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 C) or below, and your freezer at zero degrees F (-18 C)., During any stage of the process, and whether or not the meat is raw or cooked, you should limit as much as possible its time in the 40-140 degrees Fahrenheit (4-60 C) range. Keep it cold, or keep it hot — not in between.It is safest to thaw frozen beef in the refrigerator. If you need to thaw it faster, place it in a container of cold water in the sink, and change the water every half hour or so. Thawing in the microwave is another option. Do not just let frozen (or refrigerated) meat sit on the counter.Serve cooked beef while it is still hot, and refrigerate any leftovers before they get to room temperature. Never let beef sit out for more than two hours, and never more than one hour at between 90 and 140 degrees Fahrenheit (32-60 C) — this is the extreme danger zone within the “danger zone.”

, Other than thorough cooking, proper cleaning is your best defense against beef bacterial contamination. Immediately after handling raw meat, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with warm water and soap. Turn on the faucet before handling the meat, or use your elbows instead of your contaminated hands.Wash any utensil or preparation surface that comes in contact with raw beef with soap and hot water. For example, don’t put raw burgers on a tray, cook them on the grill, then return them to the same tray without thoroughly cleaning it first.
Take special care with cutting boards. Whenever possible, dedicate a separate cutting board to meats. Wash the used board immediately, and consider sanitizing it with a solution of one teaspoon of bleach to one quart of hot water. Discard well-used, rutted cutting boards (or sand down wooden ones); ruts offer ample hiding places for bacteria., If you choose to have your steak rare or your burger deep pink and cool in the middle, you simply have to accept that you are increasing your risk of acquiring a bacterial illness. High temperatures are the surest — and really, only — way to kill bacteria in beef.Cook steaks, roasts, chops, etc. to an internal temperature (based on a probe placed into the center of the thickest part of the meat) of at least 145 degrees Fahrenheit (63 C). Let the meat rest for three minutes or more before serving.
Cook ground beef to an internal temperature of at least 160 degrees F (71 C). Bacteria tend to collect on the surface of meats, so ground beef is a greater risk (and thus requires a higher cooking temperature) because the grinding process spreads any surface bacteria throughout.Reheat any type of cooked, refrigerated beef to an internal temperature of 165 degrees F (74 C). Test several spots if using a microwave, since the heating can be quite uneven., Truth be told, you may well eat the majority of your beef outside of your home. As such, you have to rely on the safety measures taken by the food preparer. Whether eating at someone’s house, a restaurant, or a roadside stand, seek out clean locations that clearly prioritize food safety.Especially when dining abroad at a food cart or similar location, eat only meat that has been freshly cooked upon your order and is still hot throughout. Ensure that all plates and utensils are clean — use antibacterial wipes if necessary.
 Simply put, all food contains bacteria. Not all bacteria is bad for you, and most of the time you won’t fall ill from the bacteria in your beef or any other food product. You can significantly reduce, but never completely eliminate, your chances of developing a foodborne illness caused by bacterial contamination.The bacteria found in the beef you buy at the store or restaurant can come from the animal source (the cow), production machinery, contamination during packaging, shipping, or display, or any number of other sources. You can’t see, smell, or taste bacterial contamination; beef doesn’t have to have “gone bad” or be rotten to make you sick.
 Numerous bacteria can cause foodborne illnesses in humans; see a list of common culprits at this USDA webpage. In beef, the most common (but not only) contaminants include salmonella, e. coli, and listeria.If foodborne bacteria such as these make you sick, you will typically experience flu-like symptoms of varying severity. These can include vomiting, diarrhea (sometimes bloody), abdominal pain, fever, and chills. Symptoms can start a few hours to a couple of days after contamination, and can last for hours or several days.
 For the vast majority of healthy adults and older children, a foodborne illness caused by contaminated beef is likely to be nothing more than a very unpleasant experience for a few days. However, people in higher-risk groups need to take greater precautions if a foodborne illness is suspected. And, even the healthiest of individuals needs to know when to contact the doctor when experiencing a lingering or severe foodborne illness.People at elevated risk for severe complications from foodborne illness include: infants and young children; pregnant women and their fetuses; the elderly; and those with weakened immune systems (due to illness, disease, medication, heredity, or another cause). Persons in these categories should contact a medical provider immediately if a foodborne illness is suspected.
No matter your age of level of overall health, contact your doctor if you experience any of the following: signs of dehydration; prolonged vomiting that prevents keeping liquids down; diarrhea for more than 2 days in adults or for more than 24 hours in children; severe pain in the abdomen or rectum; a fever higher than 101 degrees F (38 C); stools containing blood or pus; stools that are black and tarry; nervous system symptoms; signs of HUS (see this link for details).

