 As you start seventh grade in middle school, you may start to get acne. Acne is normal, so do not be afraid! For some people, acne can be really bad and they have to see a dermatologist. For others, it's not as bad.


Do not try to pop them acne blemishes. You may think "Oh, I know what I'm doing..." but odds are you don't. Popping your pimples can  cause the puss inside to leak all over your face or it may find it's way into your other pimples. Also, don't let anyone else to do it either. In the experience of some, allowing other to squeeze pimples, even those who claim to know how to do so safely, can result in pain and small scars.;
, Try these methods:


Before you go to sleep, tie your hair back in a ponytail or behind your face. Sure, you may like your hair loose and flowing, but no matter how many times you clean your hair, it still has oils and possibly dirt. The oils irritate your face, causing acne to breakout.
Wash your face, but not too much. Maybe twice a day, before school and before bed but if you wash your face too much, it may dry out causing more pimples and breakouts!
Get tons of sleep. Eight or more hours. Sleeping often reduces stress, and stress may cause your face to breakout.
 You may want longer hair, or a hair-cut. It's your decision, here are some important steps:


For African-American Hair: African Americans often have thick hair. This means unlike Caucasians, your hair can't be just loose and flowing all the time. Your hair is often more oily and because it is thick, it may take hours for your hair to be nice long and flowing. There are books which will advise you how to care for your hair, just for them Try to find a style you like. Another thing , a lot of girls school who are African American have weave. If they have long hair, it is never natural and one week they have long long hair then the next, it's short. They always have excuses like "I uh- donated it to cancer." (It may or may not be true.). If you are thinking of getting weave/extensions, rethink it. It takes hours for it to be applied and sometimes your real hair is a lighter or darker color than the fake hair.
For Caucasian/Asian Hair: Your hair is often thin. Sometimes you can get away with a bed-head or not. It is usually easy to brush and wash. So first of all, don't fidget with your hair! If it is in a pony-tail, and your hair slips out then it's fine to fix it. But if not, don't keep taking it out every ten minutes, it may fall out or break off. This actually happens to all hair types. Also, don't wash it too much. Washing it a lot can make it thinner. One last thing, don't dye your hair or dye it too much. This can make you loose hair. It you dye it, keep it. But don't dye and re-dye over and over. As a result, it can end as a wrong color or it can make/cause your hair to fall out!

, As you grow up, your skin can be smellier, oilier etc. Here are ways to keep it healthy:


Wash up or take a shower daily. Every morning take a shower. Not once a week. You may have gotten away with that in second grade, but now you sweat more and it skin needs to be cleaned.
Another thing: wear deodorant! As you sweat more, you get smelly under your pits. So it's time to buy some deodorant girls.
Try using cold water. It make may skin softer. You do not have to do this, but it's just something to throw out there.

