 Your hair doesn’t have to be freshly washed,but it must be clean, moisturized, and completely dry before you begin. If your hair is dirty, oily, or has styling products in it, give it a wash with a mild shampoo. Condition with your favorite conditioner, rinse, and let your hair air dry completely.For healthier thick hair that will be easier to curl, look for anti-frizz shampooing and conditioning products that contain avocado or jojoba oil, aloe, honey, and other moisturizing ingredients. These ingredients (plus the anti-frizz) will make your thick hair softer and more manageable, which will make it easier to work with.
It can be very easy to use too much shampoo when you have thick hair, but this can strip your hair of natural oils. Instead of using more shampoo, use the recommended amount and dilute it with water to help work it through your hair.;
, The type of curling iron you use is important on two counts: the material and the barrel size. Irons made from certain materials will be better than others for thick hair, while the barrel size will help you achieve different curl styles.


Ceramic and titanium curling irons are preferred by most professionals because they evenly apply a great deal of heat in a short amount of time, meaning they can penetrate thick hair better than other curling iron materials.For loose curls and waves, choose a curling iron with a thicker barrel, somewhere between one and two inches (2.5 and 5 cm). For tighter and smaller curls and ringlets, opt for a smaller barrel, like one around three-quarter inches (1.9 cm)., To prevent heat damage, you should always use a high-quality curling iron with an adjustable temperature gauge. For thick hair, start around 200 to 300 F (93 to 149 C) and see how your hair responds to the curls. If your hair is healthy and needs a bit more heat, increase the temperature, but never exceed 400 F (204 C)., Comb your hair with a wide-toothed comb or plastic-tipped brush. Use the tops of your ears as a reference to divide your hair into an upper and lower section. If your hair is extremely thick, divide it into three or four sections. Clip up the sections of hair separately, leaving the bottom section loose and down.Once you curl all the hair in the bottom section, you can let down the other sections of hair one at a time and begin working on them.
 Even thick hair is prone to heat damage, so it’s important to protect it. Regardless of what type of curl you want to achieve, divide your hair into smaller sections that are about an inch (2.5 cm) wide before you curl each section.Working with small and thin sections will reduce the amount of time you need to apply heat, and help curl thick hair more easily.

Before you curl each section, apply a heat-protecting and setting spray or mist that will both protect your hair from heat damage and help it hold the curls.Hold the bottle at least six inches away from your hair to prevent it from soaking your hair. Comb the spray through before curling., Now that your hair has been prepared, you can use a number of different techniques to achieve different types of curls. One such curl is the flat curl, which will result in a full and voluminous curl.

Starting at the top near the root, begin wrapping the hair around the barrel, always keeping a hold on the tip of the section. Be sure to keep your hair smooth as you wrap, and don’t twist it.Making the curl near the root, rather than the tip, will help thick hair hold a curl longer.
Close the blade, and while still holding the tip of the section, pull the iron away from your head as you rotate the barrel so that the hair feeds through again. Do this for five to ten seconds, then release the blade and let your hair out.Instead of letting the curl fall immediately, cup it with your hand and let it cool for a few seconds. This will prevent the curl from dropping, stretching, and losing its shape.
 Beach waves are a loose and wavy curl style that’s modelled after hair that’s been exposed to fresh, salty air all day. To achieve this look, wrap your first section of hair flat around the vertical barrel the same way you did for the flat curl. Close the blade and let it sit for five to 10 seconds.

For the next section of hair, repeat these steps, but instead orient the curling iron horizontally. Continue alternating between a vertical and horizontal barrel for each new section., Take your section of hair and gently twist it until you’ve twisted the full length of the section. Wrap the twisted section around the vertical curling iron barrel. Release the blade and hold it there for a few seconds, and then put two fingers on top of the hair. When the hair starts to feel hot, gently let your hair out without destroying the curl. Cup the curl in place until it cools.Because your hair is twisted in the iron for this curl, the amount of time it takes to heat the curl will depend on how thick your hair is, which is why you should go by how it feels rather than a set time.
 Regardless of the curl style you've chosen, you should finger comb and spray your curls once they've cooled. Finger combing will loosen the curls and make them look more relaxed and natural, and the hairspray will set them for a long-lasting style.

Simply run your fingers through the curl once or twice, then apply a light layer of hairspray to help set the curl for the day.If you don’t have hairspray or don’t want to use it, you can clip or pin the tip of each curl to your head instead of letting it fall as you go. This will help the curls to set and stay. When you're finished curling all the sections, release them in the same order in which you curled them, combing through each curl with your fingers.