 Medication is one of the most essential parts of managing Lyme disease. Take all your antibiotics and other medications as directed, and check in with your doctor frequently to make any necessary changes.If you are taking antibiotics, make sure to also take a probiotic daily to reduce the risk of yeast infections.
Keep a daily log of your activities, the medications you take, and how you feel. Bring it to your checkups to help your doctor determine which meds are working for you and which, if any, aren’t.
 It can be helpful to talk to your doctor about supplements and other alternative treatments. Many people have successfully incorporated herbal and nutritional supplements into their Lyme disease treatment plan. Ask your doctor which supplements are safe and appropriate for you to take.Do not try to use supplements as a replacement for medications prescribed by your doctor.
 A Herxheimer reaction occurs when Lyme disease bacteria die off faster than your body can process them. This can make you feel sick for a few days. Drinking plenty of water, consuming lemon juice, and exercising are a few ways to ease the discomfort of a Herxheimer reaction, or “herx.”Dry brushing your skin before a shower and rinsing your mouth out with vegetable oil can also help you detox during a Herxheimer reaction.
When you rinse your mouth with vegetable oil, swish it around for about sixty seconds before spitting it out.
 Processed sugar, dairy products, and foods containing gluten can all contribute to inflammation and feed the Lyme bacteria in your body. Stay away from these foods and eat a nutrient-dense diet with plenty of vegetables, fruits, legumes, and lean protein.Consider avoiding coffee and energy drinks, too. Caffeine can disrupt your sleep cycle, which may make your Lyme disease symptoms worse.
 Build up your strength and immune system by exercising gently when you feel well enough. Some simple stretching, light resistance training, or walking can help you feel better and prevent Lyme relapses.If you have lost a lot of strength during your battle with Lyme disease, a physical therapy program can help you recover.
Many doctors recommend avoiding aerobic exercise until Lyme disease symptoms are in remission.
Listen to your body and go more slowly than you think you need to. It’s easy to overdo exercise when you have Lyme disease.
 Aim to get seven to nine hours of sleep a night, and make time to rest during the day. On days when you feel well, resist the urge to jump back into your regular activities. This will probably just wear you out, and it might even cause a relapse.If you have trouble sleeping at night, work on your sleep hygiene. Several steps you can take include establishing a regular sleep schedule, turning your electronics off an hour before bedtime, and creating a nightly ritual that helps you relax.

