 A traditional oven has heating elements on top and bottom of the oven. A convection oven differs by having a fan in addition to the heating elements. The fan continuously circulates air through the oven as the food cooks. This process of blowing hot air over the food as it cooks makes the food cook more evenly.Traditional ovens can leave your food uneven in some places, or cause you to have to switch racks.;
, Convection ovens cook your food much faster and at a lower temperature than in a conventional oven. The reason for this is that the fan circulates the heat around the food more quickly, so the food cooks in a shorter amount of time and more evenly., In addition to cooking faster and at a lower temperature, convection toaster ovens have other benefits. Toaster ovens are smaller, which take up less space in your kitchen. This might be important if you live in a small apartment or are cramped for space. They also release less heat into your home, which can be a benefit during the summer when turning on the oven can significantly increase the heat in your home. Now, convection settings are available in toaster ovens instead of just larger ovens. This gives you the convenience of a toaster oven, with the benefits of a convection oven. The heat in your home is reduced, while you save time and energy costs by the shorter, more efficient convection setting and the use of a smaller appliance., Because the air circulates around the food, the temperature should be lowered from a traditional recipe when cooking with a convection oven. Most baking recipes suggest lowering the temperature by 20-25 degrees when cooking in a convection oven., Since convection ovens cook much faster, reduce the time you would use for a conventional oven. Start by reducing the time by 1/3 of the original recipe.


You can use a convection calculator to get a more precise estimate if you can't find a recipe geared towards a convection oven., Since convection ovens cook just a bit differently, you want to use different pans to maximize the benefits of your convection toaster oven. Use cookie sheets with no sides. Make sure your baking and roasting pans have low sides. This helps the airflow reach your food.Rimless, non-insulated pans lined with parchment paper work well for cookies.Place the baking tray on the rack that is under the rack the food is on to catch drip. This allows airflow to reach the food while still catching the drip.
 When cooking in a convection oven, don't cover your food. Since airflow is part of the cooking process when using a convection oven, covering the food blocks this flow. Refrain from covering your food with foil or a top., Just like with a conventional oven, keep an eye on your food as it cooks in a convection toaster oven. Check it about 3/4 of the way through, or 10 minutes before it should be finished. This will help you make sure you don't overcook and undercook food in the toaster oven.
 You can cook most foods in a convection oven, but some foods work better than others. A convection oven cooks drier than a conventional oven, which can sometimes be more humid and steamier. Because of this, these foods work best in a convection oven:


Meat. Because of the dry heat, meat is roasted much better in a convection oven. The process can give you perfect, crackling skin but a moist inside.
Pies and cookies. Cookies will end up brown and uniform, while pastries will be flaky and fluffy. Cakes and bread don't do as well because of the dry heat; they could end up dry instead of moist., Once you understand what a convection oven is, cooking with one is relatively simple. Just about every recipe can be adapted. Just remember the above steps: lower the temperature, shorten the cook time, keep an eye on it, and lower the sides of your pan. Everything else - the ingredients, the preparation of the dish - is just like a traditional recipe.