;
, When the game starts, each player can throw shuriken at their opponent in order to "hit them out"(similar to dodge ball), in an open area. Players must stay in the boundaries of established "open area" for the duration of the game, as they are free to move in it.


First player to get hit by a moving(thrown) shuriken loses. By throwing your shuriken, if a launched shuriken connects with your opponent's body then lands elsewhere, you win.
 This is a special move which allows a player to trump a hit. However it requires the player to see ahead and "costs" 2 shuriken. To do this move, you must have at least 2 shuriken in your hand, both ready to drop on the ground. For instance, a player sees they are about to get hit by a shuriken. Taking one shuriken, they drop it on the ground, BEFORE getting hit. Then, the player is hit by the shuriken. Finally, the player drops another shuriken on ground, thereby successfully accomplishing a "substitution".


Note: the pattern must follow "drop-hit(s)-drop" and flow consecutively, otherwise, it is considered a fail substitution(and that player loses). For a legal substitution, the first shuriken can only be dropped immediately after the shuriken you believe, will hit you, was launched. A player finishing a substitution must drop the last shuriken within a second after getting hit, otherwise it's also a fail substitution.






The element of substitution voids shuriken hits in-between the first dropped shuriken and the second dropped shuriken. So, it is possible to get hit by more than 1 shuriken during a substitution and still be in the game.(For example, you drop a shuriken, then you are hit by one. Not even a second later, you are hit by another. You see that this would be the last in the "chain" of shuriken in the current situation, so you drop a shuriken within a second after the 2nd shuriken that hit you.) In addition, it is perfectly legal to be moving during a substitution, as long as the dropping portion is not interfered.
 The definition of "catching" means any 2 body parts of a player quickly come together so that the shuriken is lodged in between and stopped from its path of motion. Catching shuriken with your hands is just as legal as catching one between your knees or just as a shuriken touches your body, you slap the shuriken against your body so that it stops. All this is considered catching and you are not out. However, the shuriken cannot fall out of its lodged position for at least a second, thereby proving you have "caught" it. There are not "hot potato" catches allowed nor second catches(meaning you catch it, it falls, then catch it again). The shuriken must come at you, then stop when it connects to your body.
 If not permitted, shuriken from the hand is exhausted via throwing and stays on the ground for the duration of the game. Note the number of shuriken in the "starting hand" should be more. If permitted, players may pick up shuriken off the ground and into their hands. Once a shuriken leaves contact with the ground, it is considered "in the hand", thereby legal for substitution, for instance.
