 Choose a thin paper like plain copy paper or newspaper. While your strips do not have to be a certain size, they should be smaller to make them easier to form into a sphere.Start with strips that are 1.5-inch (3.8 centimeters) by 3-inch (7.6 centimeters). You can cut more strips if you'd like a different size.
Smaller strips will allow for a smoother surface.
 You may need to under-inflate the balloon to ensure that you get the right shape. Before you tie it, make sure that it's approximately the right size for your sphere., Pour ¼ cup (59 milliliters) of school glue into a bowl. Add ⅛ cup (30 milliliters) of water. You will need a lot of papier-mâché paste to complete your project, but you don't want to expose unused glue for long because it can start to dry.You can adapt the recipe to change the quantity by maintaining a ratio of 2 parts school glue and 1 part water.
You will need to make more papier-mâché paste as you work on your sphere.
 You want the entire strip of paper to be covered in glue on both sides. Give your paper a moment to soak in the glue. More glue is better than less, as a generous coating of glue is what will help you create your papier-mâché.Your hands will get covered in glue while you work on this project, so keep a towel handy to wipe off the drying excess glue.
 It doesn’t matter which direction you apply your paper strip because you will be covering the entire surface of the balloon with multiple layers. Smooth down the edges of the strip to create a flatter surface. Your paper mâché sphere will have some bumps because of the process, but you can keep it relatively smooth by carefully applying the paper.Keep your balloon in place by sitting it in a bowl while you work. This will prevent the balloon from rolling or slipping away.
 Dip and apply paper over the entire surface of the balloon, overlapping your paper strips to create a solid layer over the balloon., Once you’ve fully covered your balloon with paper, repeat the process twice to add two more layers of papier-mâché. You will need three layers in order to have a stable sphere.

To keep track of your layers, it’s a good idea to use different types of paper for each layer., It will take about 2-3 days for your sphere to fully dry. You can hang it by the end of the balloon to allow the air to better circulate., To remove the balloon, you will need to puncture or cut near the exposed end. After you make your cut, pull out your balloon. Once the balloon is removed, you can add one more piece of paper to cover the hole if you prefer. Your final product will be a paper sphere.

Alternatively, you could just remove the end of the balloon.

