 A pair of jeans, a sexy t-shirt, and a sexy pair of heels will do. The point is not to let your wardrobe take attention away from your beautiful face or body. You don't want to look overdone. Heals, as opposed to flats, will not only enhance your height, but they will improve your walk and add style to your simple wardrobe.;
, Try to avoid wearing foundation at all, if possible. This will keep your skin clean and healthy. If you have acne, see a dermatologist right away. Realistically, acne may take months or even years to clear up, and at this age, you have very little time to waste on experimenting blindly with products. Also, consider switching to mineral make-up. It is much lighter than heavy foundations, it does not clog pores, and can help oily complexions. Avoid drugstore brands, unless that is financially your only option.
 If you do not know how to do the natural look, see a professional make-up artist and ask for a natural look. If you feel you need heavy eye make-up, you may not be cut out for modeling, or you may lack the confidence needed to succeed in the field. If this is you, try going cold turkey by slapping on some mascara, some light concealer only where it's absolutely necessary, and some lip gloss with a natural tint. You WILL get used to it, and you will probably get compliments from your friends and family, which can only help. Chances are they've been hoping you'd chill with the heavy make-up. Also, make sure to stick to the daytime and nighttime make-up rule.
 Keep your shoulders back, and your head up, regardless of how odd this feels. Keep one foot in front of the other as you walk. Your feet should follow one another in a straight line.
 Be sure to keep your weight down, but be careful to stay healthy. See a nutritionist and discuss your goals with him/her. Lets face it- as a professional, you should take advantage of all of the sources available to assist you. Think of it as tuition, and as an investment in your future success as a model.
 Substitute soda and juice for water if this is difficult for you. You'll avoid sugar, and keep your body hydrated and your skin aglow.
 Avoid hot irons, blow-dryers, and curling irons whenever you can. Try working with the natural texture of your hair, whether you like it or not. Invest in a high-end salon and ask your stylist to create a style that would work with the natural texture of your hair. Straightening iron addicts- put those straighteners down! These tools should be reserved for special occasions ONLY! As a model, you will be exposed to these frequently anyway, so it would help to allow your hair to rest whenever you can. Also, try finding styling products that can achieve the look you're going for. ALWAYS use heat protection sprays and the appropriate products for your hair type. DO NOT wash your hair daily. Try using dry shampoo instead.
 Keep them relatively short (no hooker/acrylic nails, ladies!) and polished with a clear polish or a natural toned polish.

