 If the choking child (between ages one and eight) has become unresponsive, you should first assess the situation.Quickly look around for food, toys, or whatever else may have caused the choking. See if the unresponsive child shows any signs of breathing—chest rising or hearing breathing when you place your ear close to the child’s nose and mouth.
 If someone other than you is around, have that person call 911 while you begin taking first aid steps for the child. Note that if you’re the only person around and the child isn’t breathing at all, you should begin CPR before calling 911, ensuring that the child receives circulation and oxygen.If you’re the only person around, but others are within earshot, then proceed through the next steps while periodically yelling for help. Ideally, someone else will be able to call 911 as you attend to the child.
 With the child flat, tilt his head back and open his mouth. If you can see the object, remove it, but only if the object is easily removed. If the object is lodged, you don’t want to risk pushing it farther into the child’s throat., If the child is unconscious or shows no signs of breathing, skip to the next step. This step should only be taken if the child is conscious; if the child is unconscious, begin CPR immediately.' If the choking child shows signs of reduced breathing, then you want to attempt to clear the airway by performing an abdominal thrust—also known as the Heimlich maneuver.To perform the maneuver:Wrap both of your arms around the child’s waist while tipping him or her slightly forward.
Form a fist with one of your hands and position it on the child’s stomach just barely above the navel. Grab your fist with your other hand.
Thrust the fist upward into the child’s abdomen quickly. Perform five times if necessary while watching to see if the object dislodges.
Check for breathing. If the child stops breathing completely at any point or becomes unconscious, then proceed to CPR.
 If the the child is unconscious then you need to begin emergency CPR to maintain circulation and provide oxygen. Performing chest compressions on a child is different than performing on an infant or an adult. To perform chest compressions on a child:Set the child down on his back on a flat, hard surface (most likely the floor), and kneel down beside the child’s shoulders, so you don’t have to reposition between chest compressions and rescue breathing.
Place the heel of your hand on the child’s chest between his nipples. Use only one hand since two can provide too much force.
Position your upper body over your hand and use your body weight and your arm to compress the child’s chest. You want to compress two inches (five centimeters). Press quickly at a rate of around 100 compressions per minute. However, you want the child’s chest to rise again completely between compressions.
Count the compressions aloud to a total of thirty.
 The compressions may have dislodged the object in the child’s throat. After thirty compressions, check the airway again. Tip the child’s head back by lifting the chin while pressing down on the forehead with the other hand.Open the mouth to see if you can now remove the object—again, only if easily removable. Spend several seconds (no more than ten) feeling for breath and watching the child’s chest to see if he or she breathes without assistance., If the child is small enough, place your mouth over his mouth and nose. Otherwise, you can use mouth-to-mouth or mouth-to-nose breathing.Pinch the child’s nostrils closed for mouth-to-mouth breathing. To perform a rescue breath on a child:Cover the area with your mouth completely to form a seal.
Deliver a breath that lasts approximately one second into the child’s airway. If air does not go in, re-position the head before you try one more breath.
Provide a second breath before returning to chest compressions.
 Repeat the CPR procedure (thirty chest compressions and two breaths) for five cycles—or two minutes—before you call 911 if you have no one else around to call emergency responders for you.Follow the 911 operator’s instructions quickly, so you can return to CPR while awaiting help.
 Unless the child begins showing signs of life and breathing on his own, then you should repeat CPR cycles (thirty compressions and two breaths) until paramedics arrive and take over.If you become tired, see if there is another person trained in CPR to take over for you or help with two person CPR.

