 If your child takes a nap around 1pm every day, don’t start your grocery shopping at 12:30. Pick a time when your child is alert, fed, and happy.


If needed, bring snacks and drinks in the car to avoid bringing a cranky, hungry child to the grocery store.;
, If you plan on going to multiple stores, plan your route ahead of time. If needed, plan breaks with fun activities for your child, such as stopping at the park next to one of the stores. If those extra stops come after you’ve purchased your groceries, don’t forget to bring a cooler in the car to keep your perishable goods cold.


You should also consider the weather if planning outdoor breaks with your child, as stopping on hot or rainy days could make for a less than ideal play time.
Be prepared to potentially miss some stores if your child becomes extremely cranky or tired. Plan your most important stops first, so in case you do need to abandon your errands, you at least get done what you most need to do.
 When shopping with kids, time is valuable which means you can’t waste time wandering the store or pondering what to get. Make a detailed shopping list ahead of time so you have a clear plan of action.


If needed, organize your list by location in the store, so that you can work your way through the store to get everything you need. If you have coupons or other vouchers, make sure that those are organized as well so you can quickly grab what you need.
Creating a shopping list not only helps you avoid making unnecessary trips to the store because you forgot something, it also helps save money by giving into less impulse buys. To avoid your child wanting to buy unnecessary items and treats, make sure he knows that you will be buying only the items on the list. You could even let him pick out something to put on the list so that he more readily accepts the list as final.
 If your child doesn’t know what is expected of him, explain to him what the grocery store is like, and how you expect him to behave.


Before you leave for the store, explain to your toddler what is happening. Be clear and say things like “We are going to the store. It should only take 20 minutes if you are good. I need you to stay by me in the store”.
The rules will be dependent on what you want to do as a parent and what your child can handle. Possible rules include staying near mom, not touching items on the shelves, not running in the store, or always having a hand on the cart.
Having consistent rules each time you go grocery shopping will help your child associate the store with behaving. Reiterate those rules before every shopping trip to instill them in your child.
 Make sure that your child has eaten a healthy snack before you shop. This is to avoid him from asking you to buy something; if your child is hungry at the store, he is more likely to crave everything that he sees.You can also consider bringing a reusable water bottle with you so that you do not have to buy your child an unhealthy drink every time he gets thirsty.
 Set up a small table and place items on it that you would normally buy in a grocery store. Arrange them into groups based on where in the store you will find these items. Use fake money to practice buying and selling things with your child.


Pretend that you are the seller. Have your child pick out items he wants to buy and put them in a ‘grocery basket’ (this could be a regularly bag). Alternatively, have your child be the one selling the goods, and ask to buy them from him. Playing with the fake money can also help your child to become familiar with numbers.
 If your child tends to misbehave at the grocery store, consider not bringing them along so that your shopping can be more efficient. If possible, leave your child with a friend or neighbor, or grocery shop during times when your spouse is home to watch your child.


If you have friends in similar situations, take turns grocery shopping and watching each other’s kids.
Some grocery stores even offer free child sitting while the parents shop, which is a great option if you are in a hurry or need to get a lot of items.

