 You need to be conscious of who you talk to and share details about your trip as you travel. This is important, as depending on where you travel, there may be people who dedicate themselves to taking advantage of unknowing travelers.


Never share details of your trip with someone you just met.
If for some reason you deem it appropriate to open up to a stranger, share the bare minimum information you need to. For instance, if you are on a train or a plane and a passenger next to you inquires where you are going, feel free to answer them generally, but don’t give them many details. Say something like “We’re visiting Canada for a couple of days.”, Make sure your travel documents are in a secure place at all times while you travel. If your documents – including your itinerary – are not safe, you may open yourself up to robbery, identity theft, or other problems.


Store your itinerary, identification, and other documents on your person but separate from your wallet or purse. It may be a good idea to wear a fanny pack or other personal storage device for documents you do not access often.
You may also want to consider storing your travel documents in a safe or lockbox at your hotel.
If you need to keep an itinerary in your wallet or on you, only keep a partial itinerary. This way, if you lose it or your wallet, no one will know your plans for your whole trip., It might seem like a reasonable thing to provide people who are helping you with your trip (while on your trip) with the details of your itinerary. However, depending on where you are visiting, and the people you encounter, you should exercise caution.


Refer to any travel warnings issues by your national government. For the United States, the State Department will issue travel warnings for countries where you should be extra careful.
Someone who seems like a friendly and helpful person – like a cab driver – might be looking for an opportunity to take advantage of naïve tourists.
It never hurts to be paranoid, just try to avoid being rude to people.