 This can have a very catchy, loud-speaking name, or a more passionate name. Think of any name you want.;
, Instead of doing this later, you might as well do it now and save some time.
 This will get you level 4 in mining or woodcutting- helpful skills to raise money for runes. You will be at Lumbridge and do the beginner explorer's quest for another 500xp (points) lamp. Use it on range or mage.
 This is fairly simple. Just watch out for the dark wizards to the south of the south entrance - they can kill you in two hits right now!

, This is your first step in gathering money. First, sell everything you got from the tutorial quest to the Grand Exchange. Anything that won't sell, just bank if you want to save time, or sell to the general store. Then, bank everything you have, and complete the Stronghold of Player Safety. If you need help, consult the guide on RuneHQ. You will get two experience lamps/books, 10K, an emote (-.-), and some gloves. The experience should get you to 11 range.
 Again, there is a guide on RuneHQ. You will get 10K, four new emotes, and ownage boots =D. If you're not up to level 4 of the stronghold, don't do it. Although there is only one room full of enemies you are required to pass, and if your running straight to the exit, you will only be hit once.
 Simple enough, and not a problem since you have money now. Head to the Grand Exchange and buy one of each of the following items: Oak shortbow, willow shortbow, maple shortbow, leather calf, coif, leather body (not hard body!), leather chaps, studded chaps, leather vambraces, and about 500 steel arrows.
 This should be fairly simple, as it is only 9 small levels to train. Equip the oak shortbow, all of your arrows, leather calf, leather body and chaps, the boots you selected from the stronghold of security, and the leather vambraces.I recommend you still start at chickens, picking up arrows if you choose. Do pick up the feathers though. Also you may have to buy more arrows if you run out.
 This will be different than killing cows with wind bolt. You have to train magic WITHOUT training hit points. To start it off, do the quests Imp Catcherand Witch's Potion, getting you 9 magic (I think...). Now cast confuse on the Monk of Zamorak in Varrock castle until your can weaken, and weaken until you can curse, This curse until level 20 magic. This is very simple. Also, don't forget to wear full iron with no amulet and a staff of the rune you use most of, to save time and money.
 This is going to take a while. But you will get quite a bit of money. Buy more steel arrows (3-4K if you reuse them) and equip them. Equip the willow shortbow, coif, leather body, studded chaps, leather vambraces, and the same boots from security stronghold. Train range at cows, either north of Lumbridge, or south of Falador. This will take a while. Like hours, but there nowhere else where you can get money and experience at that level for your level. PICK UP AND BANK THE COWHIDES. Bones and meat are optional, but not necessary. Banking just the cowhides, you should have well over 100K.
 Buy what is called a "pure set", which is pretty much the dragonhide legs and vambraces. This costs around 5K.
 This does not take as long as 20-40 magic. Continue to cast curse on the Monk of Zamorak. Also, wear the vambraces, as they give you less of a magic bonus, making your spell bounce nearly all the time.
 This is just a basic mage-range hybrid. Most people making serious pures should become members to train and PK. Also, you may want to consider getting a defense level, to wear studded body, or rune and the dragonhide body. If you just want to PK at lower levels (below 40 or so), you should just stick with one defense.

