 Take any unnecessary furniture out for during the holidays. Store it in an attic or basement. Do not throw it out - it will go back in your room after the holiday season. Wash the bedding and curtains, clean the window and mirror, and clean the rest of the room thoroughly. All the tinsel in the world won't make cobwebs and dirty laundry look good!;
, Make paper snowflakes and use fishing line or white yarn to hang them from the ceiling. Stars on the ceiling look great too! You can also hang ornaments in the same manner, just be sure they are wood or plastic so if they fall they won't shatter and hurt someone.
 Hang Christmas lights all over your room, on the upper border of your walls. You could also make and hang paper chains.
 Put Christmas stuffed animals or regular stuffed animals with Santa hats on in a corner or under the tree. Wrap empty tissue boxes and the like to look like presents and stack them under the tree or in a corner.
 Put a winter quilt or bedspread on your bed along with some Christmas pillows.


Add Christmas related cushions and duvet covers (snowflakes, reindeer and even Santas).
 Hang glittery or shiny plastic snowflakes from your curtain rod, so they sparkle in the sun. You can put Christmas shaped gel clings or "spray snow" on the window itself, or felt snowdrifts on the window ledge. Put fake candles on the ledge.


Stick Christmas -themed window sticker shapes to your window and from the outside your room or house will look magical.
 You can hang wreaths on your walls, or any of the things you might put on a bulletin board!

, Stick some tinsel and light ornaments or decorations on your door. Make it as welcoming as possible- it is the entrance to your room! Write signs saying things like, "Santa's Workshop".
 Paint some Christmas scenes on paper or cardstock and hang them from your bulletin board. You can hang Christmas cards, lists, Christmas comics clipped from the paper, or gift ideas too!

, Put a fake tree decorated with lights and ornaments in the corner of the room. Fake trees come in all sizes, from upwards of 7 feet (2.1 m) to less than 7 inches (17.8 cm), and you can find huge or tiny ornaments to match.


Consider using a live mini tree. It can even be decorated and will live on after Christmas.
 A room looks significantly more Christmas-like with Christmas lights. They can be hung around picture frames and desks, dangled on the wardrobe, strung in windows and even hung along the top of your bed frame. Look on Pinterest for specific lighting in the bedroom decoration ideas.

Tinsel also looks great around picture frames, mirrors or TVs. Gently tape the tinsel to the object you'd like decorated.

