 Put on something heat resistant, so it doesn't catch the area on fire. Also, remove anything flammable from the area, such as paper.In addition, make sure your candle isn't too near curtains or anything else that could blow into it.
Also, feel for drafts, as drafts can blow the flame to something flammable., Your wick should be about 1/8th of an inch long. Cut it back to this height, as a long wick can be a safety issue. If you don't have a wick trimmer, just use scissors., These lighters are not cigarette lighters. They have a long barrel, meant for lighting a barbecue grill. You can find these in the barbecue section, but you'll also find them with other lighters.You can use a cigarette lighter on a shallow candle, but it won't work well on a deeper candle, as you're likely to burn yourself.
 With a longer barrel, you probably won't need to turn it completely sideways, but tilting it can help you light it.Hold the candle in your non-dominant hand and the lighter in your dominant hand. If the candle is short enough to use a cigarette lighter, you won't need to tilt it much at all.
 Adjust the flame height by moving the button on the side or top. Turn it towards the "-" to make the flame smaller. Also, most lighters have a safety that you need to push before you squeeze the trigger. Hold it down while you squeeze the trigger.Squeeze the trigger slowly, as the trigger starts the fuel. If you go too quickly, it won't reach the spark when it should to create a flame, meaning it may seem like it's not working.You need to hold the trigger down to keep the flame going.
With a cigarette lighter, you usually need to turn the wheel before you can push the button. It's a move you do in one fell swoop with your thumb.
 Put the flame in the candle. Let the flame go against the tip of the wick. Watch to see when it ignites, then pull the lighter away. Let go of the trigger to put the flame out, and set the candle upright on the surface.


Always pay attention to your burning candle. Don't leave it alone, as it can easily be blown into something flammable. You could have a fire before you know it.

