 Though there’s not a daily recommended serving of alkaline foods, try to make 70-80% of your daily foods alkaline. This can help you balance the levels in your body each day.;
, Vegetables are one of the best ways to include alkaline foods to your diet. Eat the vegetables such as:


Beets, radishes, and beet greens
Leafy greens, like kale, lettuce, spinach, turnip greens, collards, Swiss chard, mustard greens, and arugula
Broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, carrots, and zucchini
Celery, cucumber, onions, peas, green beans, and peppers
Asparagus, brussel sprouts, and artichokes
Barley grass, wheatgrass, and alfalfa
Cilantro, basil, garlic, and ginger, Fruits, like vegetables, are alkaline food. Any fruit is good, like avocados, apples, bananas, berries, cantaloupe, grapes, lemon, oranges, figs,peaches, pears, tomatoes, and watermelon.


Raisins are one of the most alkaline producing foods., Nuts and nut milks are good alkaline foods. Try almonds, chestnuts, and hazelnuts, or flax seeds, sunflower seeds, chia seeds, and pumpkin seeds.You can also drink nut milks, such as almond milk., Soy is another great way to eat alkaline foods. Eat tofu, soy flour, or soy milk.You can also eat dried soy beans as a snack.
 Try to eat gluten and yeast free grains and bread on an alkaline diet.This includes brown or wild rice, buckwheat, millet, spelt, and kamut flour.


Amaranth and quinoa are also great alkaline foods., Legumes, which include beans such as white, navy, red, lima, and mung beans, are alkaline foods. Lentils are also great.Add them to salads, soups, or as side dishes every day.
 Some oils are better that others, while some are acid forming. Use coconut oil, flax seed oil, sesame oil, borage oil, olive oil, and avocado oil.Don’t cook with saturated fats or butter., There are certain foods that encourage acid production in your body. Acidic foods include meat, poultry, fish, dairy, eggs, and alcohol. You should also stay away from refined sugar and processed foods.White meat and seafood are better choices for your pH. You should also choose other milk sources over cows milk.Also choose grass-fed, organic meats.Reduce the number of condiments, sauces, and dressings you eat. Ask for them on the side.
Don’t choose prepackaged snacks.

