 Transporting food from across the country and around the world requires a considerable amount of fuel. This excessive fuel use contributes to air pollution. Instead of purchasing food that has traveled thousands of miles to get to your table, choose food that comes from nearby farms and that has been grown using sustainable methods. Before you buy, ask the farmer or grower about their techniques to learn about their efforts to stop pollution.Visit a local farm stand or farmers’ market to get fruits and vegetables straight from the people who grew them.
Shop at your neighborhood food cooperative to find locally grown and produced foods.
Check your neighborhood grocery store for locally grown produce and other local items.
 Factory farms are large efficiency-focused operations that produce animal products such as meat, milk, cheese, and eggs.Factory farms are huge contributors to pollution and some of them contribute as much air and water pollution as a small city.To help stop pollution, stop buying and eating animal products that come from factory farms.


If you don’t think that you can completely give up animal products, try to reduce your consumption to once or twice a week.
If you want to have an even bigger impact, consider going vegetarian or vegan.
 Organic fruits and vegetables are grown by farmers who use sustainable farming practices. For example, they avoid using chemical pesticides, which contribute to pollution of ground water. By choosing organic fruits and vegetables you will be contributing to farming practices that are better for the environment.Look for fruits, vegetables, and other products that are labeled as “organic” or “certified organic.”

, Starting a garden in your own backyard is another great way to help stop pollution. Plants and trees convert carbon dioxide into oxygen and act as a carbon sink, which means less pollution. In addition, the fruits and vegetables that you grow in your backyard will take the place of store bought items that may have had to travel many miles to end up on your plate.If you are new to gardening, start small. Plant a small container garden on your patio or plant a few tomato, lettuce, and cucumber plants in your backyard. You can increase the size of your garden over the years as you become more comfortable with gardening.

