 Before you and your family can practice minimalism together, you should sit down and discuss the importance of this possible lifestyle change together. Have a family meeting where you all discuss what it means to have a minimalist lifestyle and how it will benefit each member of the family. This will ensure everyone is on board with going minimalist and make it clear what you all expect to get out of adopting this lifestyle.For example, you may discuss the money you will save as a family by selling items you no longer use and by only buying items that are essential. You may also talk about how having less items in your home will give your children more space to run around and hang out.
You could also discuss how adopting a minimalist lifestyle will help to simplify your family’s daily routine, giving you all more time to relax, focus, and enjoy each other’s company.
Make sure to acknowledge anyone who is not on board with this philosophy, or who may need some extra support and encouragement to make the transition to minimalism. Give them a chance to voice their concerns about the lifestyle.;
, Start by going around your home together as a family and identifying areas that could use the minimalist treatment. You may write down certain items that you plan to get rid of in each room and start a list of items to throw out, sell, or give away.


You may also think about how you can reorganize the room so it looks less cluttered and more clean. You may write down notes for each room so you can address them as part of your plan once you put it into action.
 As a family, you should all think about the things you own and what you need and do not need. Go through your personal possessions and identify any items that you have not used in the last year to two years. You should also identify any items that are broken or worn out. Write down a list of personal possessions that you would be willing to give away, sell, or throw out.As a parent, you may instruct your children to do this on their own in their rooms. You may suggest that they try to create a list of at least 20 items they would be willing to let go of in their rooms.
 As a family, you should all consider how you can reduce the amount of time you spend on activities that are draining you of your energy or taking too much of your personal time. You may each sit down and write out certain activities that might feel draining or not all that enjoyable. You could also think about things in your schedules that cost a lot of money and feel complicated or stressful.For example, you may realize that as a family you all spend a lot of time and money eating out at fast food restaurants. You may think about how you can minimize the spending you do on dinner and eat in instead, allowing your family to spend more quality time at the dinner table.
 One simple way to embrace minimalism as a family is to start a decluttering bin and placing it in a central area in your home. You may then encourage your family members to put items they do not want or need in the bin. You could even have separate bins for items to donate, items to sell, and items to throw out. This could simplify the process further and make it clear where each item is going.To motivate your children to declutter their area, you may tell them they can get a half hour of extra play time with their favorite toy or media item if they do one hour of decluttering. This could encourage them to take the decluttering challenge seriously and put a dent in their stuff.
If you have teenagers in the house, you can try telling them that they can have extra time on the computer or on their phones if they participate in the decluttering of their room.
 As a family you should work together to declutter your home and be more minimalist with the things you own. Go through each room of your house together and throw out items you no longer use or no longer need. Be quick and efficient as you do this, as you do not want to get too attached or sentimental about certain items.You may try to embrace compromise as a family so you can still keep items that you value. For example, you may all make a deal that you can keep one or two sentimental items in your rooms and get rid of the rest.
If you cannot throw away too many items, you may try using storage bins to store the items so they are out of sight and the room is free of clutter.
 As a family you can all agree to practice minimalism through your actions as well as your possessions. You may all assess your schedules and make an agreement to be minimal about the activities you take on individually and as a family. Work together to see if you can take on activities that are really important or essential and drop activities that may not be benefiting you or taking up too much of your time.For example, you may ask your children if there is one activity they do now that feels too stressful or not as enjoyable as other activities. You may then tell them they can drop the activity to minimize their schedules.
You and your partner may also discuss ways that you can reduce the number of activities you do on a weekly basis. Perhaps you agree to take on less charity work or do less extracurricular activities so your time feels less cluttered.
 As part of adopting a minimalist lifestyle, you and your family will also need to shift your way of thinking about the traditions you do at home. Perhaps you all agree to create new traditions or to reduce the clutter in old traditions so you can all be more minimalist. This could mean hanging up half the decorations you usually do at Christmas or starting a new tradition where you volunteer at a homeless shelter for Christmas rather than give gifts to each other.You can start small and make small adjustments to your everyday routines. For example, you may designate Friday nights as stay in dinner night with your family where you eat a home cooked meal and play board games together. Or maybe you have a movie night in rather than spend money on going to the movies to reduce your spending and be more minimal.
 To maintain your minimalist lifestyle as a family, you should be aware of how many items you keep in your home. As a family, you should all agree to not buy new items unless they are essential and to think twice before accepting items from others. The idea is to keep your space uncluttered and free of extra stuff.You may all also agree to do a decluttering of your house once a month to get rid of any items that you no longer use or that you have no need for. Making this part of your routine can help you all maintain a more minimalist lifestyle.
You can encourage your family to do little things like keeping their rooms clean and free of clutter, as well as putting the dishes and other kitchen items away once they are done using them.
 You should all review your daily schedules and think about how you can further minimize your commitments and simplify your routines. Discuss how your attempts at minimizing your schedules have been working so far and think about ways you can minimize your schedules even further. You can also talk about what worked and what didn’t so you can improve your schedules.For example, you may talk with your partner about having more meals at home as this seems to be a good way minimizing your spending and have more quality time as a family. Or you may speak to your children about minimizing the time they spend on video games and using that time to do things together as a family instead.
 Practicing minimalism as a family can be a challenge, especially with the busyness of everyday life. You will all need to support and encourage each other to embrace the minimalist lifestyle to be successful. You can do little things like reminding each other why you are going minimal as a family. You can also support each other by getting rid of items you don’t need and by being willing to forgo new things.You may also have monthly family meetings where you talk about your minimalist lifestyle. Discuss what is working and what isn’t. Be honest and open with each other so you all feel supported.

