 At most hospitals, these will be given to you automatically and required to leave. Oh, and you should make sure to already have a name picked out.


Get a birth certificate for your baby at the hospital after having your baby there. At most hospitals, it is mandatory that you be given the birth certificate before you leave. If you weren't given one forthright, ask the hospital staff for a birth certificate form before leaving with the baby.
If you have already left the hospital, you can receive one online or through the mail. Simply go to the website for the department of health for the state that your baby was born in. Many have a “birth section” that should explain how you can obtain a birth certificate. The website of the CDC has a list of all state health departments (http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/w2w.htm).Then, follow the directions to get a certificate online, or find the address and paperwork you need to get a certificate by mail.



The hospital will usually submit the forms for you. There are no fees due immediately. Make sure to give them your current permanent address, as you will be receiving the official certificate in the mail.
If you do not have a name for your baby, you can finish the form later and submit it to your local county health department. Make sure you ask the hospital how long they maintain birth records. You need to choose a name before the hospital throws away the birth record. Hospitals usually keep birth records for at least a year, though some will keep them longer.
Keep in mind that your baby will need a birth certificate to travel internationally and receive medical care. It is important to pick out a name as soon as you can. The hospital should also provide forms to request copies of the birth certificate later.
 You may also want to obtain a Social Security number for your baby. Some states urge you to apply for your baby's SSN almost immediately.


You can get a Social Security Number using the parent's vital information and a certified copy of the hospital's birth record.You can obtain a SSN for a baby before you have received the official birth certificate.
The application for the Social Security Card can be found online (http://www.socialsecurity.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf).
Some hospitals will provide Social Security Card application forms on site, but it is not standard practice. Ask if you can start the process there.

