 He can't fancy you if he's never seen you so try to get him to notice you. But be careful what kind of attention you're earning because there are different types of normal guys. (ex. nerds, preps, etc). Here are some things you can do in order to get his attention:-




Smile at him broadly
Throw him a short, darting glance
Look straight at him and flip your hair
Keep a fixed gaze on him
Look at him, toss your head, then look back,
"Accidentally" brush up against him
Nod your head at him
Point to a chair and invite him to sit,
Tilt your head and touch your exposed neck,
Lick your lips during eye contact,
Ask for his help with something.

;
, Before you talk to him tone your personality down to a lower level, until you see what he's like. So instead of going up to him and strike up a conversation; when you meet him the first time you should walk & sit next to him then introduce yourself then strike up a small conversation and make sure your questions aren't too weird (ex. what is your favorite color?). Then the next day try to talk to him little-bit more for 3-4 minutes then walk away from him. If you talk to him allot you might scare him away (give him a lot of space). Be respectful to him. Don’t curse in front of him because it is a major turn off for a boy. If he comes to talk to you, you must make sure that you do not give him any body language signals that scare him away (ex. even if you look in some other direction and pretend to be bored) because he might read this as, “she is not interested” and he might leave so that you do not reject him. So handle all this delicately. Once he is talking to you, use all those eye-contact tricks and give him your attention.
 Don't get nervous/shy whenever he is around you because boys like it when girls are relaxed and calm. Don't show him that you are obsessed/crazed about him or else it will be hard for him to fall in love with you. So try to treat him like a friend and do not stare but glance at him instead. Be approachable and face your crush with your arms uncrossed.
 Try to show him your positive characteristics about yourself (ex. sweet, funny, etc), what type of bands do you like? (ex. darkwave, post-punk, etc), What type of things you are interested in? (ex. Goth subculture, poetry, etc), what kind of clubs you like to go?.
 Tell him jokes and make him laugh because that way he will think that you are fun to be around and make sure he doesn’t get offended/hurt by your jokes. Show him what an unbelievable person you are (ex. always make him feel comfortable) and in his eyes you should appear to have an aura of light all around you.
 Even though he didn’t like you back just because you are a Gothic girl doesn’t mean you have to give up. What you need to do is pick yourself back up, give yourself a love pat on the back and go back for another round. Try to be friends with him because he might end up loving you.

