 Most of us can reduce caloric intake very easily by making some small changes to our diet. Reducing portions, switching to lower fat products and eliminating sources of extra calories can make a big difference. Here are some ideas:


Put low fat or skim milk in your coffee or tea.
Make a sandwich with mustard instead of mayonnaise.
Drizzle, rather than pour salad dressing onto your salads.
Order or serve gravies and sauces on the side and dip your food in them, rather than eating them poured over your food.Skip the sauces and go for grilled meats, steamed vegetables, oil and vinegar dressings on salads.;
, Drinking a lot of water will aid in the overall process of weight loss. Water will help flush your system and keep your digestive system regular - all of which are important if you want to lose weight. It will also keep you hydrated which will be important if you are exercising as part of your weight loss plan.


Staying hydrated will give you energy and help keep you vibrant.
Drinking water is important if you will be exercising to lose weight.
Drinking plenty of water will help you keep regular bowel movements, which in turn will help you lose weight and stay healthy.
Multiply your weight in pounds by .66 to determine how much water (ounces) to drink daily. Then add 12 ounces (350 ml) of water for every 30 minutes you exercise or work out., Limiting your carb consumption will help you lose weight, too. Carbohydrates break down quickly in our bodies, leaving us feeling hungry again after only a short period of time. They also signal our bodies to store fat. Both of these are counterproductive to weight loss. It's hard to completely eliminate carbs, so try reducing them rather than not eating any.


Avoid excessive amounts of bread.
Consume only one serving a day of cereal.
Limit potatoes, rice, and corn.
Be careful. A low carb diet can be harmful to people with certain health problems. Don’t stay on a low carb diet for a long period of time without consulting your doctor., Protein will be one of your biggest friends when trying to lose weight in two weeks. This is because your body requires more energy to process protein than carbs. So you’ll be working to use calories without even knowing it. It is also because protein helps you feel fuller for longer. When choosing protein to eat, consider:


Fish.
Lean red meat with little fat.
Venison or other game.
Chicken
Turkey (white meat)
Legumes
Any meat or protein that is low fat., Eating more fruits and vegetables will help you lose weight quickly. Both fruits and vegetables keep you feeling full longer, so you won't be hungry as often. They're also packed with micronutrients your body needs to stay healthy, and vegetables have lots of fiber to keep you regular. As a result, a diet rich in fruits and vegetables will help you lose weight. Here are some other ideas:


At meal times, fill up at least half of your plate with vegetables.
Snack on carrots, cherry tomatoes or other veggies.
Add spinach, sliced cucumber or sliced bell pepper to your turkey sandwich.
Consider apples, berries, bananas, or other fruits.
 Sugar is naturally present in many foods that are good for you, like dairy products, vegetables, fruits and grains, so don't cut those out. Instead, eliminate the worst culprits: sweet baked goods, sugary cereals, fruit juices, soda and candy. Here are some other tips:


Stop adding sugar to your coffee or cereal.
Read labels carefully; sugar is added to many packaged foods, even ones you might not expect like pasta sauce, energy drinks and barbecue sauce.
Remember that sugar goes by many names. You might find it listed on packages as high fructose corn syrup, corn syrup, maltose, sucrose, dextrose, or corn sweetener.
 Reducing sodium intake temporary can help us shed weight. Sodium causes our bodies to retain water, and water weight can account for 55-60% of your body weight. During the two weeks you are trying to lose weight, eliminate all the sodium you can from your diet. Here are some ideas:


Don't add salt to your food. Look for salt-free seasonings if you find your food too bland.
Eat as little processed and packaged food as possible - they're full of sodium.
If you do eat packaged foods, choose low-sodium versions.
Salad dressings and other sauces are often high in sodium. Omit these if you can, or use smaller amounts.
Lowering sodium may help improve your overall health., Many people consume a lot of calories from alcoholic drinks without even realizing it. Remember that these are empty calories and have no nutritional value! Moderate alcohol consumption is defined as one drink per day for women and two per day for men.During the two weeks you're trying to lose weight, try not to consume any alcohol. If you do, choose wisely. Here are some tips:


One serving of spirits (1 ounce or 30 ml) is 100 calories, one glass of wine (4 ounces or 125 ml) is 120 calories, and one beer (8 ounces or 230 ml) is 150 calories.
Choose simple cocktails - mixed drinks made with juices and liqueurs will have more calories than say, a vodka tonic.
Make a spritzer with white wine and club soda.
Try infused spirits - they are flavorful without added calories.
Have a light beer instead of regular beer.
Avoid drinks with sugar or other rims., If you want to lose weight in two weeks, you will need to get some exercise just about every day. You'll find greater success if you schedule time to exercise. Block off an hour each day for this purpose. Write it on the calendar or set a reminder on your phone, and treat it like any other appointment.
 Even though you’ve scheduled a time to exercise, you won’t exercise as much if you don’t enjoy it. That is why it is important to pick an exercise you like. Most importantly, it should be a cardio activity that pushes your limits and challenges you. A good challenging cardio activity will help you burn calories and get your metabolism humming.


Consider: walking, running, riding a bike, swimming, using an elliptical machine.
Try to do about an hour of cardio each day for weight loss.
If you are not accustomed to a lot of exercise, start slow, and work your way up to longer and more intense workouts.
Perform interval training, alternating short periods of high-intensity exercise with moderate exercise - is a great way to burn more calories., In addition to your chosen cardio workout, make sure you walk more than you normally do. This doesn’t need to be a scheduled time, but rather squeeze walking in all day long when you can. Ultimately, walking is one of the best forms of exercise and experts suggest taking at least 10,000 steps/day to promote weight loss.


Park at far end of the parking lot at work or the store.
Get up and take a stroll around the office at least once an hour.
March in place while you're watching TV.
Use a cordless phone and walk around while you're talking.
Take the stairs rather than the elevator whenever you can.
Try to do some brisk walking, this will get your heart rate up higher than normal walking and burn more calories., While cardio is the most important for losing weight in a short amount of time, you’ll find that some light weight training will compliment cardio wonderfully and help put you on the right track for short-term weight loss and long-term fitness and health. Consider:


Lateral pulldowns.
Bicep curls.
Push-ups
Lunges
Crunches., Healthy eating habits must be intentional - they don't just happen. People who plan for healthy eating are more successful at staying on track. Here are some ways you can do it:


Make a meal plan each week that includes healthy meals and snacks, and stick to it. At the beginning of the week, shop for the foods you need for those meals, so you have no excuses for not eating according to your plan.
Sit down and eat properly. Studies show that people who sit down at the table to eat from a plate will consume fewer calories than those who eat standing up or grazing from the package.
Keep healthy and nutritious snacks. Bring them with you in your purse or bag, so you will always be able to make good choices., Eating out frequently is a surefire way to increase your waistline. Instead, by cooking meals at home you'll find yourself consuming far fewer calories. Try to make most of the food you eat at home from scratch; you'll enjoy the benefits of knowing exactly what's in your food, and you can avoid diet killers like added sugar and salt.


Use less oils and butter.
Use less sugar.
Bake, broil, and grill food instead of frying., Watching TV is a sedentary activity during which you get little-to-no exercise. Research shows that adults who watch three or more hours of TV a day are more likely to be obese than those who watch an hour or less. It makes sense: when you're watching TV, you're not engaged in healthy activities that have you moving around. You're more likely to be snacking, too. If you do watch TV, consider:


Exercise while watching. Position your TV where you can see it from your exercise bike or treadmill, and enjoy your favorite show while burning calories.
Jog in place or do jumping jacks during commercials.
Hiding the remote. Make yourself get up to change the channel. This can reduce the amount of mindless surfing that we're all susceptible to sometimes.
Finding something to do with your hands so you don't snack while watching., Sleeping is a very important part of good nutrition and good health. Your body won’t be able to recover from exercise or metabolize foods as efficiently if you haven’t had enough sleep. Fundamentally, not having enough sleep will tax your body and undermine your overall goal of losing weight and being healthy.


Teenagers usually need between 8 and 10 hours of sleep.
Adults usually need between 7 and 9 hours of sleep.
Older adults usually need between 7 and 8 hours of sleep.
If you don’t get enough sleep, consider supplementing a night’s rest with a nap. Make sure not to nap for longer than an hour at a time.
Lack of sleep can cause you to gain weight.
Too much sleep can make you sluggish.