 The transition metals are a set of 38 elements located in groups three through twelve (sometimes written as Group IIA and Group IIB) on the periodic table. These metals are further subdivided into three groups based on the row of the periodic table they are located.The most commonly studied transition metals are the first row transition metals. They begin on the left side with scandium and end on the right side with zinc.;
, A transition metal is any metal that forms one or more stable ions with an incompletely filled d orbital.The d orbital is part of the third energy level of the electron distribution in an atom. There are five d orbitals with each one capable of holding two electrons for a total of ten electrons in the d orbital.Based on this definition, the zinc group (zinc, cadmium, and mercury) technically doesn’t count as transition metals because they possess a filled d-level. Ask your teacher or professor more about this group of elements because they are often still considered transition metals.
In addition, scandium is sometimes excluded because it has no d-electrons.
 The oxidation state of an atom shows how many electrons have been removed (positive oxidation state) or added (negative oxidation state) to the atom.Unlike other elements, such as those in the s-block, which can only form oxidation states of +1 or +2, transition metals can form multiple oxidation states. This is because these elements have low ionization potentials which tends to give them a number of unique chemical properties:They tend to form alloy complexes with themselves and other elements.
They tend to be similarly sized atoms because the electrons are in similar environments.
They form colored compounds.
They are useful as catalysts for reactions.
They are less reactive than the alkali metals.
 A paramagnetic atom is attracted by a magnetic field while a diamagnetic atom is not attracted by the magnetic field. Transition elements that have one or more unpaired electrons in the d-suborbital will be paramagnetic. Elements that have paired d-suborbital electrons are diamagnetic.Remember, when electrons are filling orbitals they will fill one electron per suborbital before they go back and fill in the rest of the suborbital with the second electron.
 An alloy is a compound that forms when a metal and at least one other metallic or non-metallic element mix together. Some common transition metal alloys are steel (iron and carbon), stainless steel (chromium, iron, sometimes nickel), brass (copper and zinc), and nitinol (titanium and nickel).There are many more compounds that transition metals form, but the ones listed above are some of the most common.
 Because transition metals generally have color, you can identify many of the compounds they form based on that color. Transition metals will form compounds that have various colors including blue, green, red, orange, yellow, pink, brown, and purple. The following is a list of some compounds and their associated colors:Purple: Titanium(III) chloride, manganese compounds (potassium manganate(VII))
Blue: copper compounds (copper sulphate)
Green: nickel chloride, iron(II) compounds
Orange-brown: Iron(III) compounds (iron(III) chloride)
Pink: cobalt sulphate
Yellow: chromate (CrO42-)

