 Specify that you want to pay with a credit card while on the phone ordering for delivery. While some companies may have delivery people equipped with modern conveniences like Square to swipe your card, you can typically expect to pay for a delivery in cash unless you specify otherwise.


Have your credit card on hand when you specify that you’d like to pay with one. Then give the information for the card to the employee on the phone. You can request to add a tip on at that time, write in a tip on the receipt that comes with your pizza, or give a separate cash tip to the driver when he or she arrives.
If you’ve placed an order for carry-out, many forms of payment, including credit cards, are accepted at the store itself, where you will pay when you pick up your food. If you’re unsure about a method of payment, ask while you’re still on the phone.
 Be ready for the pizza delivery driver, or show up to the pizza location, with a form of payment that covers the amount given to you on the phone. You’ll also need enough for a suitable tip for whoever served you.


Add a tip of 15-20% of your order total. Some pizzerias suggest that for any order under $20, you should tip a minimum of $3 to make the delivery worthwhile for your driver.You can always tip more for excellent service, complicated orders, or bad weather, but never tip less that 15% on regular orders or 10% on large orders.Pizza delivery drivers often rely on tips to supplement a low hourly income rate and cover the costs of using their own car.
Some restaurants have a delivery fee on top of the typical price for the food. They will tell you the total price with this fee included on the phone. Note that this fee is not a tip for your delivery driver; you still need to provide one.
 Stay at the address you gave over the phone if you ordered for delivery. Be prepared to answer the door and make payment when someone knocks, rings the doorbell, or you get a call from the delivery driver.


While you’re waiting, go turn on the porch light outside your home if it is dark or getting dark outside, so that the delivery person is better able to find their way and know that you’re home.You can also use the wait time to calculate the tip on your order total and get the money for the total amount ready, to have on hand or by the door. This will make payment quicker and easier.
 Wait for the call from the pizza place saying your pizza is ready, or the time frame during which you were told you may pick it up. Then go to the location to pick up and pay for your food.


Factor in the time it will take you to get to the pizzeria when you decide on a time to leave.
If you arrive earlier than the time they suggest or call you, your order will likely not be ready and you will have to wait. If you arrive much later than suggested, your pizza will likely not taste as fresh or be as hot.

