 Your cat will use the litter box daily. This means you should clean the litter box daily. You should not leave feces in litter boxes because they contain bacteria and parasites.If you have more than one cat, you should clean the litter box twice a day. Consider cleaning the litter box once in the morning and once in the evening.
Clean litter boxes help keep cats from messing in other parts of your home, which will reduce the spread of germs.;
, One way you can avoid germs when you clean your cat’s litter box is to wear gloves when you clean the litter box. Put on rubber gloves or disposable latex gloves before you go to the litter box.Keep the gloves on while you handle any waste or soiled litter.
Throw the gloves away afterwards. If you are wearing reusable rubber gloves, wash them in scalding hot water and detergent, or a mild bleach solution.
 If you are concerned about the spread of germs, wear a mask when you clean your litter box. Wearing a mask can help protect you from inhaling any airborne germs. It may also help reduce the amount of litter dust you inhale.If your litter has a lot of dust, you may consider wearing goggles, too.
You may consider using a mask if you are immunodeficient or undergoing chemotherapy for cancer.
 If you don’t want to wear gloves, or even if you have worn gloves, you should wash your hands thoroughly after cleaning the litter box. Never skip washing your hands because that can lead to the spread of any infections or parasites.Wash your hands if you touch any dirty litter, or if you touch any feces or urine.
 If your cat has kicked any litter out of the box, sweep up the litter and dispose of it. If any waste has also been pushed out of the box, disinfect the area.You should disinfect the area around the outside of the litter box periodically. This includes the floor and the spill mat.
Disinfect with hot water and detergent or a mild bleach solution.
 The scoop you use for cleaning the litter box should be used only for that purpose. Periodically, you should clean the scoop with hot water and detergent or a mild bleach solution.You should never wash the scoop in a bathroom or kitchen sink.
Make sure to remove any feces that is left behind on the scoop.
When you are not using the scoop, consider keeping it in a plastic bag or covering the head another way. This helps prevent any germs on the scoop from spreading.
 After cleaning out your litter box, you need to dispose of the cat litter in a hygienic way. Don’t just toss it into the trash can. Instead, place it in a separate plastic bag. Then, tie the plastic bag shut to keep the contents from spreading. Place it in your trash can.Don’t flush cat litter down the toilet, even if it says it is flushable.Don’t place cat litter into your yard waste piles.Consider buying a litter disposal system to help make disposal easier and more hygienic.

