 People make mistakes. Whether this guy made a bad joke in front of your parents, said some mean things during an argument, or cheated on you with another person, there’s a chance that it wasn’t actually intended to hurt you. That’s not to say that the behavior is acceptable in your relationship, but a first-time offense may be an only offense. If you do choose to forgive, make it clear that you will not tolerate such behavior again.


Repeat offenses may be a sign that this guy lacks any intention to change his behavior, and that it might be best for you to move on.
 Mistakes happen for many reasons, but they are usually comprised of momentary lapses in judgment that lead to unacceptable behaviors. If the unacceptable behavior is planned, covered up, or well-thought-out, it was not a typical mistake. These kinds of well-articulated behaviors are deceitful and disrespectful, and are not likely to be one-time offenses.


For example, if a guy has a one night stand with another woman after the two of you fight, it might have been bad judgement and a forgivable mistake. On the other hand, if he has an affair that lasts years, or multiple one night stands, this indicates that he has thought out his behavior and decided to be deceitful.
 You should not forgive his mistakes if he isn’t sorry and isn't willing to work to change and do things differently in the future. Take note of whether he accepts responsibility for his actions and whether or not he regrets them. If he tries to place all of the blame on you, or sees no wrong in what he has done, you may be better off to just move on.Keep in mind that if these actions were born out of a failing relationship, you may need to address what you were doing to contribute to the weakening of the relationship, too. For example, maybe you have been unwilling to discuss issues in your relationship or tell him your wants and needs. Identifying your part in a failing relationship doesn't mean you take the blame for the guy's mistake or that it's okay — it just means you understand that a relationship that is in trouble is rarely just the work of one person.

