 Grease a 2-quart baking dish and turn the oven on to 400 degrees F (204 C). Carefully cut one spaghetti squash in half lengthwise. Scoop out the seeds from each half and discard them. Drizzle the spaghetti squash flesh with 1 tablespoon of olive oil and place both halves cut-side down on a baking sheet. Bake the squash for 40 to 50 minutes.The spaghetti squash should be completely tender if you poke it with a fork.
 Heat 2 teaspoons of extra virgin olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Once the oil shimmers, add 1 pound (453 g) of lean ground turkey, 1 small diced red onion, 1 diced green bell pepper, 1 teaspoon of kosher salt and 1/2 teaspoon of black pepper. Stir and cook the turkey and vegetables until the meat is completely cooked.It should take about 8 minutes for the turkey to cook and the vegetables to soften.
 Drain one 14.5-ounce (411 g) can of diced tomatoes with Italian spices and add the tomatoes to the meat mixture. You should also stir in 3 cloves of minced garlic, 1 teaspoon of Italian seasonings (like oregano, basil, and thyme), and 1/2 teaspoon of crushed red pepper flakes. Cook the mixture for about 4 minutes or until most of the liquid evaporates.You can use a combination Italian seasoning or just combine your favorite individual seasonings to equal 1 teaspoon.
 Use a fork to scrape the cooked flesh of the spaghetti squash. Scoop the strands of squash into the turkey and vegetable mixture. Keep cooking it over medium heat for another minute or two. This will cook away any excess liquid.It's important to cook off the liquid in the casserole mixture before you bake it to prevent the casserole from becoming watery and soggy.
 Turn the oven temperature down to 350 degrees F (176 C). Grease or spray an 8-inch (20 cm) square baking dish to prevent sticking. Stir 1/2 cup (56 g) of the grated part-skim mozzarella or provolone cheese into the turkey and spaghetti squash mixture.Don't worry if there's a little liquid still left in the mixture. Some of it should cook out as the casserole bakes.
 Spoon the turkey and spaghetti squash mixture into the prepared pan. Bake the casserole for 20 minutes and then take it out of the oven. Sprinkle the remaining 1/2 cup (56 g) of the grated part-skim mozzarella or provolone cheese over the top and put the casserole back in the oven. Bake it for another 5 to 10 minutes. Remove the casserole and serve it with chopped parsley or basil as a garnish.If you want a crispy top, turn the broiler on to HI and place the cooked casserole below it for a couple of minutes.

