 If your cushions have removable fabric, throw them in the wash. Follow the manufacturer's instructions carefully, and allow them to air dry completely before inserting the cushion back inside. If the fabric is not removable, you'll have to try another method., Make sure the upholstery or cushions have been thoroughly spot-cleaned with dish soap or laundry detergent and warm water using a soft brush, but avoid using harsh chemicals. Scrub the fabric in every area, and let the soap sink in to the cushion. You can also try tossing your cushions into a power washer if possible., It's best to rinse the cushions with a hose to dilute the chemicals. If you can't use a hose, soak a towel in water and use the damp towel to rinse the fabric., After washing, make sure that the upholstery dries completely. Wet or damp upholstery may interfere and reduce the effectiveness of protection. Furthermore, if the upholstery does not dry completely, there is a good chance that it will develop mildew.
 When the upholstery is dry, spray a fabric protector all over the entire surface to protect from discoloration. You can find fabric protectors at most stores that sell cleaning supplies. Be sure to check the can or bottle to make sure that the fabric protector will not damage or discolor your furniture.Reapply the fabric protector at the start of every season to minimize upholstery damage.
 If you must leave the furniture outside, make sure the wind doesn't blow your cushions away. An easy way to keep your cushions in place is to strap them to the furniture with Velcro., Make sure your cushions are dry before placing them into plastic storage bags, to ensure no mildew builds up over time. Store your cushions in a cool, dry place such as the basement, away from humid areas., Take off any upholstery or cushions before washing the wood with soapy water. Make sure that your furniture is in good condition before you go through the effort of protecting it, or else you may find that your efforts were wasted in light of internal rot and decay., Take your scrub brush and soak it in a water and dishwasher detergent solution. Scrub the wood going in the direction of the grain. Let the wood dry thoroughly, and sand and rough spots going in the direction of the wood., Apply a furniture protector using a paint brush to every area of the frame. Protection against the elements is important if you want to prolong the life of your furniture., Paint is the best way to protect wooden furniture from the elements because the pigments in paint offer a good degree of protection against the sun's UV radiation. Some forms of paint can even protect against heat and water. However, paint on outdoor furniture tends to chip and peel when used regularly, so you will need to reapply the paint once or twice every year.Another method is to sand it, then apply an oil or stain to protect the wood.
 This will prolong the aesthetic beauty of your furniture, especially if you have a lot of wooden furniture. Water repellents help prevent water from soaking into your furniture, and they also quicken the evaporation of moisture from within the wood. This reduces the chance that your furniture will warp, weaken, or rot.


Keep in mind that stain and water repellents typically need to be reapplied every 2 to 3 years for maximum protection.
When choosing a repellent, avoid repellents with high oil percentages. High amounts of oil will promote the sticking of particles to your furniture, which can detract from their appearance.
 Wood and metal furniture should be scrubbed and wiped down with a sponge using a cleaning solution that is designed specifically for your furniture's material. Remove any tough stains with a toothbrush., Metal is prone to rust stains which should be carefully removed with a wire brush. You can also use the wire wheel attachment that comes with your power drill. Scrape the rust away making sure not to scratch off any design that comes with the furniture., Hose off the metal or wipe in down with a water-soaked towel ensuring no soap or rust is leftover. Let the metal dry completely before applying your protective coating.
 Purchase a container of outdoor furniture protector, which is applied directly to the furniture's frame, and apply it with a paintbrush. This will minimize the impact of heat and UV radiation. When applying, be sure to be in a well-ventilated area, and wear rubber gloves and a mask.
 You'll want to avoid having furniture bumping into another piece of furniture or any other obstacles that might be in the way in order to avoid chipping the metal. Lift the furniture off the ground when you transfer it. You will probably need more than one person for this job. Make sure that there's nothing surrounding your outdoor sofas, chairs and tables that won't fall or bump into them., Clean your wicker furniture by scrubbing it with a sponge or rag that's been dipped in soap and water. Rinse the wicker with a hose., When damp, wicker is easier to bend and move. If your wicker has any pieces sticking out, you can put them back into place while you're cleaning.
 You can protect your wicker furniture by using a paint brush to apply wax, varnish, lacquer or shellac. After your furniture is dry, apply a thin layer of paste wax on your wicker furniture to make it shine., Before you invest in a furniture cover, you'll need to have its correct dimensions. Measure the height, width and length of your outdoor sofas, chairs and tables to ensure that you purchase the correct size., Covering your tables, chairs, benches and other outdoor furniture with a protective furniture cover can protect your furniture from water damage and UV radiation. Make sure you choose a vented furniture cover so that moisture doesn't build up and create mildew., Stack your chairs and tables, one on top of the other, if their structure allows it. This method will save you space, and you can cloak the whole lot of them under one furniture cover., If possible, store your outdoor furniture in a shed or a garage when not in use, especially during the winter months. Keeping your furniture in a dry location will reduce the amount of exposure to sun, weather, and temperature. There's no better way to protect the metal, wood, fabric and other materials from damage.Place your furniture on top of wooden boards so the bottom doesn't get dirty.
You can also make use of your outdoor furniture by using it as indoor furniture during winter.

