 Ink cartridges of this kind will only damage the "nozzles" of your printers. This is because standard ink cartridges may not fit the nozzles of your printer. Generally, ink cartridges have their own sizes that are specifically made to fit a particular printer. Hence, using the wrong size will definitely ruin your printer's nozzles.;
, Most of the printers come with a warranty. However, there are some cases that might void this warranty like using ink cartridges that are manufactured by a different producer. So if you want to continue using the warranty, it is best that you buy inkjet cartridges that are manufactured by the same maker of your printer.
 Today, online shopping can do great wonders, especially because it gives you the convenience of purchasing a product without having to go to the shop. However, if you want buy cheap ink cartridges online, there are some dangers that might go with it. For instance, frauds and scams are lurking in the Internet today. Hence, you might be buying an inkjet cartridge that is of low quality or of the wrong specifications, different from what they advertise online, of course. So it is extremely important to be sure of the inkjet cartridges that you are going to buy online and make sure that you can ask for a refund or an exchange for the item if in case you were satisfied with it.
 When buying inkjet cartridges, it is best to consider the price of the items. They may vary from one shop to another. Hence, it is important to shop around and compare so as to get the best buy. Just be sure that you get the same kind of inkjet cartridge with the same manufacturer. If you cannot afford to buy original inkjet cartridges, you can opt for refills. Just try to look for quality refilling stations that will give you the same quality ink as that of the original one. Indeed, buying cheap ink cartridges could be very tricky, and yet, it is not that complicated as well. The only important thing to remember is the model, size, and the manufacturer of your printer's inkjet cartridges. Given all that, you are ready to make the best inkjet cartridge purchases.

