 To be an optimally functioning person, you will want to stay on track with your goals. You have a better chance of doing that if you're not the only one holding yourself accountable. Reach out to a friend or family member who can help you stick with your goals.

It will be even more fun if the person you reach out to is interested in the same goal. For example, you and a buddy might set personal goals to workout more in the gym together. If someone's counting on you, you're more likely to stick with it.
 Delaying is a recipe for disaster. The longer you put something off, the more excuses you’ll have to never get started. Get up each day and get started on your toughest task within an hour of waking.If you tackle the hardest task right away, you can go through the remainder of your day knowing that you have been somewhat productive. Plus, once you do the hardest task, you will feel more capable of taking on others.
 No one can make you feel as bad about yourself as you can. You know your insecurities better than anyone. That little voice in your head can make you feel low, but you’ll need to silence it if you want to be the best you can be.


Start by removing certain words from your vocabulary. Eliminating words like “can’t,” “won’t,” “never,” and “always” can help you move towards a more positive "can-do" mindset., The fear of criticism from others can stop you from being the best person you can be. Tell yourself it doesn’t matter what others think about you. You are in control of your happiness and if you are happy, that’s what is important.


Also realize that people probably don’t care as much as you think they do. You may think they are concerned about every detail of your life, when in reality, they are only thinking about themselves., Imagine yourself reaching your goal. Envision yourself crossing the finish line, getting your dream job, or building that community center you’ve always wanted to. Remember how you felt when you imagined reaching your goals and refer back to them if you become discouraged.Start a daily habit of setting aside a few minutes each morning to visualizing your goals being reached. Try to activate all your senses and make your visions as real as possible.
 Being of sound mind can increase your chances of becoming the optimally functioning person you want to be. Stress can make you start doubting yourself, so take measures to keep stress at bay.Support your mental health by practicing mindfulness meditation. Journal to understand your thoughts and feelings. Start a stress-relief toolbox with activities like deep breathing, light reading, or taking a walk outside. Take time each day to do something you enjoy.
 Well-adjusted people are physically healthy and fit. This will give you enough energy to cope with daily stress, and other physical demands. Remember, you will also need to be willing to change unhealthy physical behaviors and habits in order to improve.Exercise at least 30 minutes on most days of the week with activities like running, swimming, or weight training. Eat a balanced diet of real foods such as whole grains, lean protein, fruits and vegetables, and healthy fats.
 Don't settle for toxic or negative people who make you doubt your abilities. Settle for no less than happy, positive people who value you and what you bring to the table.


Get your distance from unhealthy relationships in favor of those who support you and help you to grow., If self-doubt prevents you from reaching your goals, it may be necessary to reach out for help. A mental health counselor or therapist can help you identify the barriers that are keeping you stuck so that you can stop self-doubt and achieve your goals.