 You don't technically need a saddle to tame a horse. You do need a saddle to ride the horse after you've tamed it, though. If you skip this step, you'll still be able to lead the horse around and breed it, and sit on its back without controlling it.


Saddles cannot be crafted. You can find saddles in naturally appearing treasure chests, get them by trading with villagers.You can find them by fishing as well, but they will show up only about 1 in 120 tries with an ordinary fishing rod.;
, Horses will only spawn in Savanna or Plains biomes.These are mostly flat, grassy areas with a few scattered trees. Horses come in several different colors and have slight pattern differences as well.


Donkeys are found in the same locations. They are smaller than horses and have longer ears. They are tamed in the same way, though there are other differences explained below.
 Select an empty spot on your hotbar, so you are not holding anything. Right-click the horse to move onto its back.


On consoles, use the basic control for interacting with objects.
 The first time you try to ride the horse, it will almost always buck and kick your character off. Just keep getting back on; each time you try the chance of succeeding is higher. Eventually, a swarm of hearts will appear around the horse. This means it is tamed.Keep reading to learn how to control the horse.


You have roughly a 5% chance of taming on your second try, and can usually tame a horse within six attempts.You might get unlucky and have to try several more times, though.
 This is usually unnecessary, but try it if the horse keeps throwing you and you get frustrated. Just hold the food in your hand and right-click the horse. This will use up your food, but make future taming attempts easier.Each unit of sugar, apple, and wheat helps a little, adding another 3% to your chances.
Golden carrots add another 5% chance, and golden apples add a 10% chance. You might want to save these for breeding, however, as described below.

