 While many people assume low-carb diets means cutting back on bread, many food types have some carbs. Even fruits and vegetables can be high in carbohydrates. Learn about the best types of fruits and vegetables for a low-carb diet.


Leafy vegetables and stem-based vegetables tend to be the lowest in carbs. Things like spinach, lettuce, and Swiss chard are excellent leafy options, while good stem options include broccoli, cauliflower, mushrooms, and asparagus.When it comes to fruits, a wide variety of fruits are low in carbohydrates. Opt for watermelon, strawberries, cantaloupe, avocado, blackberries, grapefruit, oranges, cranberries, plums, raspberries, pineapples, mangoes, and more. Stay away from bananas and apples, however, as these tend to be high in carbs.Beans, lentils, corn, and peas are all high in carbs.
Opt for whole fruits and veggies over juices and smoothies. You get the most nutrients out of simply eating produce in its original form.;
, Dairy, eggs, and meats are very low in carbs. Stock up on these items if you're looking to lessen carb consumption in your diet.


Eggs are excellent choice when it comes to a low-carb diet. Not only are they high in protein and other essential nutrients, they're low calorie and easy to prepare; however, be careful how you prepare eggs. If you choose to fry or scramble them, use olive oil over butter. Do not add too many unhealthy flavor options, like cheese or salt.Meats such as beef, chicken, turkey do not contain carbs.
Seafood such as fish, shrimp, lobster, oysters do not contain carbs.
Processed meats like bacon, sausage and hotdogs contain some carbs because of the processing and additives.
Be careful about incorporating dairy. Certain cheeses can be high in carbohydrates. When using dairy, go for cottage cheese, goat's cheese, and Greek yogurt. In general, white cheeses (e.g., brie, Monterey, ricotta) tend to be lower carb than brighter varieties., You do need some whole wheats as part of a balanced diet. When you do opt for carbs, go for healthier options than white breads and rices.


Go for whole wheat breads and pastas over white varieties. Choose brown rice over white rice. Processed carbs lack nutrients and can cause spikes in insulin that lead to hunger later on.
If you're trying to cut back on carbs, try to lessen your exposure to bread products overall. Try an open-faced sandwich, which uses only one slice of bread. Use half the amount of rice you'd usually add to a plate of stir fry.

