 To get that, drive a car up next to the guard station at the airport. Have CJ climb on top of the car, then jump up onto the office. Then run around to open the gates. Also, you can park your car in front of the gate to keep it open, and just stand CJ on the line between the sidewalk and the road, to make the jump onto the top of the office. The rocket launcher is on the eastern-most side of the airport, between some fuel tanks, which are to the right of the hangars south (or right) of the control tower., (Don't shoot them yet.) Get out far enough ahead, and aim the homing rocket launcher. Shoot the limo twice, and it will be done. Also make sure it's far enough away to protect the pimp-mobile., Simply drive up close and press the appropriate button (L1 on ps2) repeatedly to grab the package off of the back., Use the middle line for the road as a reference., But watch for turning cars, etc. If you can, drive on the side of the road, if there's a gap between the sidewalk and the traffic., (See "Jizzy" steps for how to get it.) Simply shoot it twice before the helicopter turns the corner.,, If you would like it to be even easier, you can always chase Toreno in a hunter or simply use the sniper rifle on the pilot before take-off. Do not chase the chopper in a car!, If a cop approaches the car while CJ's getting in, honk the horn to keep him from getting too close., To make the minigun more stable while aiming, release the firing button. And move between targets quickly to help save time.,,, If you shoot the gun accurately right from the get-go, the mission will be much easier. Watch the sparks of the machine gun hitting, to see where it's actually hitting. Once you have accuracy, you can shoot the couriers from much farther away, which is quicker, easier, safer for the Red Baron, etc., Most people's mistake is making too big of movements with the left stick, causing the plane to go everywhere. Use the degree of the plane's bank to control the turning speed of the plane, with an occasional pulling back., If the van courier has gone somewhere way too far, it's usually best to retry the mission. (It can happen sometimes.) Otherwise, get the Sanchez next. It's particularly important to get the Sanchez from far away (accuracy), because it can really shoot up the Red Baron. Then get the van courier, and head straight back for the home base. Try to keep the plane flying level to maximize speed. And just fly into the corona.