 Whereas school backpacks come in standard sizes, hiking bags have a wide range to choose from. Think about whether you need your backpack for one day, a weekend or a full-fledged trek across mountainous terrain.


A day-pack will hold things like lunch, camera, sweatshirt and first-aid kit. They are no more than 2500 cubic inches or 40 liters.Weekend backpacks can hold more things like a small tent, sleeping bag and sets of clothes. They are 2500 to 3999 cubic inches or 40 to 65 liters.
Expedition backpacks are for the serious explorer and can be over 6000 cubic inches or 95 liters. They will hold all your gear on hikes that last longer than a weekend and containers that keep food from bears.;
, Hiking for long periods makes the fit of a backpack that much more important. Find a friend or salesperson to help measure your torso. Hiking backpacks come in different lengths regardless of how many things they fit. Consider packs designed for your frame.


The length of your torso is measured from the base of your neck to the small of your back.
Women’s packs have narrower shoulder straps and customized hip belts., Depending on your needs, you will want to choose the appropriate frame. Day-packs are frame-less, while longer hikes require either internal or external frames.


External frame packs offer more stability, but are not as adjustable as internal frames.
External frames are good when hiking in open areas and when heat is an issue, because they offer more ventilation.
Internal frame packs are more form-fitting and can work better in tight spaces.
Internal frames help you move around easier than external ones and are good for skydiving or mountain climbing.
 The right shoulder straps are important, but hiking packs have a variety of choices. Look at whether the pack offers compression, sternum and waist straps.The right ones can help stabilize weight, fit better and keep you on the trail longer.


Find padded shoulder straps. If not completely padded, the pads should lay one to two inches below the high point of your shoulders.
Consider compression straps, if you want a versatile size. These straps will prevent your bag from flopping around when not completely filled.
Sternum straps should be used if you need extra stability for carrying large loads.
Any hike longer than a half day should use waist straps (hip belt). These will distribute the weight of your bag evenly and prevent a sore back. They can be padded for extra cushioning.
 Hiking can require spending hours in the wilderness. Make sure the craftsmanship of your bag is on point and free of loose threads, raw fabric edges or uneven stitching.


Zippers should have a covering for fabric.
Weight matters. Look for packs no more than three pounds for long hikes.
 Hiking can be long and vigorous. You don’t want to get sweatier than you have to by using fabric that doesn’t breath. Look for mesh backing and foam shoulders.

