 Methods to display your art at home include hanging it, leaning it against the wall, or placing your artwork on top of a shelf. Determine how you want to display your art at home and utilize a venue that works with the quality and size of the art. For instance, larger and heavier pieces of art could be leaned against the wall, while lighter pieces of artwork can be matted or hung on the wall.


It's best to lean large, heavy pieces of art against the wall or your art may be knocked over or stepped on.
Use photo frames that can be propped up if you're placing your art on a shelf. You can also lean your art against the wall for medium sized pieces, but they may fall and break.
More expensive pieces of art should be framed and hung on the wall.
If you're prone to accidents, have small children or own a pet, hanging your art on the wall is not the best idea to keep it safe.Black and white photographs of family and friends can be placed on top of a shelf.
Prints or posters can be matted and then attached to the wall.;
, The easiest way to determine your preferred aesthetic is to simply choose art that you like. Think of how the art that you choose reflects your personality as well as the effect that the art will have the on space. Choose bright and expressive art to lighten up a dark room, or darker colored art to show your maturity and refinement.


If you're looking to convey an edgy, urban style, hanging brightly colored pop art or graffiti art may be a great option.
Black and white photography can add a sense of refinement to your space.
 Objects like desks, tables, and couches can affect the way that you should arrange your art depending on where they are located. For instance, when hanging art above a couch, the art should be 6 to 8 inches (15.2 to 20.3 centimeters) above the top of the couch.Other things should also be taken into consideration include making sure your art matches the tone and style of the room. You can achieve this by matching the art's color palette with the color of your furniture and wallpaper.


Another example is if you have a refined and adult looking study. Using refined looking figure drawing or scene art could help enhance the look of other things in your room.

