 Spray a standard-sized muffin tin with cooking spray; you can also line them with muffin liners instead. You will have enough batter to fill 8 wells, so if you have a large muffin tin, you don't end up using all of it.You can also make this recipe using a mini muffin tin. You will have enough batter to make about 24 mini brownies., Pour 3 tablespoons (45 milliliters) of water into a small bowl. Add 2 tablespoons (15 grams) of flaxseed meal into the water. Wait 5 minutes for the flaxseed to absorb the water and thicken.These flax eggs replace the chicken eggs typically found in non-vegan brownie recipes.
While the flax eggs are "resting," you can start melting the butter.
 You can melt the vegan butter in the microwave or in a small saucepan over the stove. Once the butter is melted, pour it into a large mixing bowl, then stir the flax eggs in with a whisk., Keep stirring until everything is evenly combined. Your batter will still look a little thin, but this is because you have not added in the flour yet., Add the flour slowly into the batter to prevent clumping. Use a whisk to beat it into the rest of the batter well. Be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often to ensure that everything mixes evenly., These are not completely necessary, but they can give extra texture and flavor to your brownies. If you are baking your brownies in a mini muffin tin, consider using mini chocolate chips instead; if you want to use chopped walnuts, you may have to chop them up into smaller pieces., A good way to do this would be with a tablespoon or with an ice cream scoop. This way, you can ensure that every well gets the same amount of batter. You'll also be less likely to spill and waste batter., They are ready when they start to pull away from the sides of the tin. Another way to test for doneness is to touch the top; they are done if they spring back slightly.If you are baking these in a mini muffin tin, they will take about 16 minutes to bake. You might want to check from for doneness after about 10 minutes, however., At this point, you can serve them on a plate, or let them finish cooling the rest of the way on a wire cooling rack.