 If you have tried adjusting your diet and using medications to no avail, your doctor may recommend surgery to reduce your symptoms. Many individuals with Crohn’s disease will require at least one surgery, but surgical intervention will not cure the disease.Keep in mind the benefits of surgery for Crohn’s disease are often temporary and the disease may recur. Your doctor should make sure you maintain your medication after surgery so you have a lower risk of recurrence.
Your doctor should outline the risks involved in your surgery before you go under the knife. Depending on the type of surgery performed, risks may include infection as well as malabsorption, which is when your body is not able to absorb nutrients due to a malfunctioning small intestine post surgery. You may also be at risk of developing ulcers, strictures and pouchitis due to the surgery., Your doctor may recommend you do a resection surgery, in which the inflamed area of your intestine is removed and the gap is attached to the healthy sections of the intestine. You will be under general anesthesia for the surgery.Your doctor may also recommend an ileostomy, a procedure in which digestive waste is diverted away from your inflamed large intestine so it has time to heal. During the procedure, the end of your small intestine will be disconnected from your colon and re-routed through a hole in your abdomen, known as a stoma. The surgeon will attach a bag to the opening to collect waste products for a temporary period of time.
Depending on your symptoms, you may also need surgery to close any fistulas or to drain abscesses due to your illness. Your doctor may also recommend you get a strictureplasty, a procedure that widens a section of your intestine that has become too narrow.
 You may require an adjustment period of one year post-surgery. You may also have many bowel movements throughout the day at first. As you recover, your bowel movements should lessen.You may also need to chew your food well and avoid any foods that might irritate your stomach. Your doctor will likely recommend that you drink plenty of water every day after the surgery.
Though you may recover successfully from the surgery, your symptoms could still come back later. Your doctor should put you on medications to lower the risk of your symptoms returning.
If you have having trouble adjusting to the lifestyle changes that occur after surgery you may benefit from joining a support group. You can discuss your own sources of anxiety and troubles with other who have or ate having similar experiences. Ask your doctor about support groups in the area or visit Crohn's & Colitis Foundations of America at http://www.ccfa.org/ and United Ostomy Associations of America at http://www.ostomy.org/Home.html


