

These types of gardens are informal and composed of a wide variety of plants and herbs. Herbs such as basil, thyme, oregano, and rosemary are often components of cottage along with flowers. Traditionally, cottage or country gardens were kept close to the house or cottage for easy access.



 


Shrubs and small flowering trees are often included in the country or cottage garden.






Plants include a widely diverse mixture of annual and perennial flowers which are suitable for the climate and native to the area.






Plants are grouped closely together and spill out onto walkways and other areas. This type of garden is a bit "messy" and gives a feeling of wildness and abundance.





;
, Of course, any plants can be used as long as they are not too exotic or hard to grow.

Cone flowers, black-eyed Susans, cosmos, lavender, hollyhock, iris, daisies, roses, sunflowers, Dianthus, zinnias, and snapdragons are among the many traditional varieties of flowers grown in a cottage garden.






Roses and other flowering shrubs add vibrant color to your cottage garden. Rose of Sharon (perennial hibiscus) or crape myrtle are hardy shrubs you might include as they require little care once established.






Small fruit trees evoke a country garden feel, provide blossoms in the spring and fruit at harvest.
,,, Use a variety of types and styles for both visual appeal and variety of birds and other wildlife.
 With your cottage garden close to the house, you can easily step outside to pick a tomato or cucumber for lunch.
 Usually, cottage gardens include plants which are easy to propagate. Divide lilies and iris. Gather seeds and cuttings and start more plants to pass along to neighbors and friends so they can start their own cottage gardens.


Park an antique bicycle in your garden and put a flower pot in the basket. Use wrought iron chairs and tables to hold tubs or pots of flowers or herbs. You might even use a pair of old rain boots as planters to add charm and personality.






An old bathtub or canoe can be used as planters. Be sure you allow for drainage.
,