 You can bring meditation and mindfulness into your everyday life by learning BOLD skills, which stand for breathing, observing, listening, and deciding on actions. BOLD skills include the following:Breathing deeply and slowing down. When you feel like life is getting stressful and busy, take a moment to breathe deeply and slow down your thoughts and feelings.
Observing your thoughts and feelings. By practicing meditation, you will learn to observe and become more aware of your thoughts and feelings.
Listen to yourself. Once you have learned to meditate and pay more attention to your thoughts and feelings, you will be able to better listen to yourself. You may notice that there are things in your life that you want to pay more attention to.
Decide the things you want to do in your life. With regular meditation practice, you will be able to improve your decision-making skills. There is evidence for meditation and mindfulness improving cognitive and decision-making skills, so you may as well practice.
 If you are feeling stress or anxiety about an exam or other event in your life, try this breathing exercise. Take a long deep breath. As you inhale, count to seven. On your exhale, count to eleven. Let all of the air out of your body and then breathe in again. This exercise only takes a moment and will make you feel more relaxed during a busy day.The 7/11 breathing exercise is part of a study on the role of meditation in improving young people’s mental health., Start by taking too deep breathes. Feel the breath going deep into your belly. Relax your shoulders and feel the sensation of your feet on the ground. Then, start walking and direct your attention to the feeling of your body moving. If you find your mind wandering, label your thoughts or feelings “thought buses” and then come back to the feeling of your body. Notice the feeling of the soles of your feet on the ground and the sensation of the air against your face. Pay some attention to where you are walking but avoid getting distracted by the surrounding landscape.Walking meditation is part of a study in the UK that is focused on the role of meditation in improving young people’s mental health.Do a walking meditation somewhere you know. If you are walking someplace new, it will be harder to focus on the meditation.
It is helpful to set aside at least twenty minutes for a walking meditation.
If you are meditating regularly, you might try doing a walking meditation after your sitting meditation.
If you walk to school or work, you might want to try a walking meditation during that time.
 If you take the subway to school or work, you could try meditating there. If you know how long it takes, you can use set a timer or use a meditation app so that you don’t miss your stop. Sitting on the subway, keep your back straight and your chest open. As your thoughts come and go, keep your attention directed to your breath.
 If you find it hard to make time for meditation during the day, you could try meditating before sleep. Since meditation reduces stress and anxiety, you may get a better rest. You should still meditate in a sitting posture. Watch your breath and observe your mind for five minutes before going to bed.

