 To make different colored fondant from white fondant use different food coloring's according to the colors that you want in your Hello Kitty. To add color follow the below steps:

Take sufficient amount of fondant for each color so that you don't have to make more in case of any shortage of a particular color. Flatten the fondant into a round disc. Now add your desired amount of coloring or flavoring to the center of the disc and fold the disc over itself to enclose the flavor in the center of the fondant ball.
Knead the ball of fondant. You'll notice streaks of color coming through from the center. Continue to knead until the streaks are gone and the fondant is of uniform color. Your colored fondant is now ready to use. Fondant dries out quickly so keep it covered or wrapped in a plastic wrap and store Fondant in a plastic bag when not in use or being used.
 Gently press the ball to decrease the thickness and make the face side smoother., Now Pinch left and right side of the ball up by using your finger to form ears. Again use the ball tool to mark the ear holes to give it a finishing touch. Gently press the edges of the ears to make them more protruding and smoother from the edges by using the ball tool's edge grip., Form two small balls of black fondant and one small ball of yellow fondant by using a Small piping of tip #3. Use toothpick to get the balls out of the piping. Now take a little amount of edible glue using a brush to stick the black balls in to the eye holes and the yellow ball to the nose., Also make a small flat round shaped red fondant and stick it in the middle of the butterfly shaped fondant with the help of glue to complete the bow. After finishing stick it below the left ear on the head in a tilted manner by using edible glue., To make the whiskers with black fondant, make a thin long spindle shape and cut them into six small pieces of about 1 centimeter (0.4 in) and arrange them symmetrically on the left and right sides of the face to form the whiskers. Fix them using the edible glue. Press them a little into the face by using ball tool or your fingers., Press the front and back part of the body gently with your palms to decrease the side width of the body while it’s still standing. Make an indentation on the top of the body by using a ball tool to attach the head., Now make another thin flat strip from red fondant of width equal to the leftover upper part of the body and wrap it from top to meet the end of the blue strip to complete the shirt. Now make two thin blue strips (with ovular ends) of 3-4 mm width and attach these to blue the pants over the shoulders to complete the shoulder strap for the pants. Stick two flat shape white buttons using white fondant at the point where the straps join the pants., Gently press the shooting star shape to decrease the width. For right hand create a small grit at the shooting star’s head part along its width using a knife and smoother them down to create a thumb, similarly do for the left hand and make sure that the gritting is done at facing part of the hand. Now for remaining fingers grit the outer part of the hand’s ending to create fingers. Make sure to grit fondant about 2 mm deep to make fingers look cute., Make a flat oval shape using red fondant and cut them into half. Now stick these semi-oval shapes to the hands attached to the shoulders to complete the red shirt. (Use the facing width of the hand as reference to create your flat oval shape) To add more detail attach a thin spindle shaped fondant of any color other than red and white to these oval shaped ends to add detailing to the shirt., Make sure the toothpick is not to long when compared to the height of Hello Kitty and if it’s long then trim the ends to make it fit the height of Hello Kitty., Slightly indent in the middle to give the shoe some finishing. Now press the shoes in the middle to make a place for the body to sit while the non-pressed part will act as a bulging shoe part., In case of any instability add a little more white fondant at the back to support the body of Hello Kitty. Stick the shoes and support to the body using glue or toothpicks if needed., 8–9 centimeter (3.1–3.5 in) or any type of designing cutter to create a base decoration for the Hello Kitty. Now just place your Hello Kitty on top of this decorative base.