 If you don't have that, you can alternate with the Musketeer. Avoid using Minion Hordes as they can be countered with Arrows. (Since Arrows only cost 3 elixirs and Minion Hordes cost 5 elixirs, your enemy will have an advantage of 2 elixir.) Mega minion is a better choice because it cannot be arrowed., It only costs two elixir and it is faster to strike than Arrows, but you have to be accurate, as the Zap Spell has a shorter range.

The Zap Spell can do more than just smashing multiples of enemies! If your opponent places down annoying Inferno Towers and Sparkys, use the Zap Spell to freeze them for a split second! It will reset their charge giving you more time to destroy it. Use it at the right time though.
 The Valkyrie and the Prince deals massive amounts of damage! Just use the Prince to push the Valkyrie. Also the Valkyrie and Goblins is a good duo as the goblins can push the Valkyrie but the duo is counter-able with flying units., The Rocket when used statistically can deal a large amount of damage within a group of highly durable troops , but the Lighting Spell is good too because it will zap up to three targets at once with long range which is really handy., The Fireball allows an Arena Tower to finish off the Barbarians and Witches because they have almost no lives left. Other troops that can be fireballed are Ice Wizard, Wizard, and Mega Minion., Also, use the Baby Dragon to take out Barbarian Hordes and Fire Spirits., It throws Bombs that actually deal a lot of damage! They throw from a distance while is handy, so if you want to take out Barbarians, you can substitute the Valkyrie for a Bomber. Just remember to place it a distance away from a enemy troop group, as the Bomber doesn't really have lots of HP., Damage can be dealt to barbarians and goblins with Bomb towers , but the furnace is more cheaper than the Bomb Tower. Use it with caution however, because the furnace is a spawner, and the fire spirits it produces can be quickly destroyed before they launch their explosive attack!, You can place a Knight or a Valkyrie, for example. That will make the Horde attack it, giving your Arena Towers some time to land some hits on the Horde! However, this is not advised because the troop will be destroyed., Her weakness is that she walks too slow. Using a Knight, Skeletons, Barbarians, Goblins, or anything that is cheap and either durable or spawns a lot is the best counter strategy. A Musketeer would be great for supporting the troops attacking the P.E.K.K.A too!, If you place down a tank, you can also spawn a Battle Ram behind it, so anytime your opponent uses a Inferno Tower, or any other tower, the Battle Ram will rush forward and smash it up! Plus, you will also have 2 extra Barbarians to support the tank! Zap can reset an Inferno Tower's target and damage.