 Most grants are awarded for specific reasons, such as to help people with disabilities or to fund specific activities. Identifying the specific help you need will clarify which organizations to seek help from.;
, The U.S. government runs a database, www.grants.gov, which collects information on the various grants provided by the federal government.


The website www.grants.gov is not easy to use. A search for “food assistance,” for example, brings up almost 30 pages of results. You then have to scroll through the results to find something relevant.
Most of the grants on www.grant.gov are also not awarded to individuals but to organizations and non-profits.
 A search for “help paying utility” brought up several websites that mentioned non-profits who may assist with electric, heat, or utility bills.Whatever your need, type “grant assistance” and then what the grant is for (e.g., “weatherization” or “food”) into the browser.


Some nonprofits who assist with utilities include the Community Action Agencies Network and The National Fuel Funds Network.
 The 50 largest charities in the United States receive over 20 billion dollars annually, which they then disburse to the public. Major charitable organizations include the United Way, Food for the Poor, and Brother’s Brother Foundation.
 Many companies you owe money to, such as utility companies or hospitals, have programs in place to provide grants to people in need. If you have trouble paying your bill, contact them early.


They should send this information with the bill. If not, follow up by calling their billing department and asking.
Hospitals may also have financial counselors on staff who can meet with you and discuss repayment options., Religions organizations like churches, mosques, and temples are a huge provider of public assistance. Almost half of all charitable giving is given to religious organizations.Though the Salvation Army is a famous, nation-wide religious charity, local houses of worship also provide assistance to the needy. Contact a local house of worship to see what grants they may award.
 If you are already receiving support from the government or private entities, you should have a case worker assigned to you. Share with her your need and ask for assistance in finding appropriate organizations to apply to.
 Some organizations may charge a fee in order to grant access to their databases or lists. There is never a reason to pay.


Be wary of attempts to loan you money. A loan is not a grant. Loans must be paid back, often with interest. A grant should be free.
 Before applying for a grant, be sure to document your financial situation, to show that you are truly needy. Gather income tax forms, pay stubs, and social security payments.


Always keep the originals and send copies. If you send the original and it is lost, you will then have to get original copies again.
Also be sure to have proper personal documentation, such as a driver’s license or ID card, as well as your Social Security number.
 Some grants are given for specific disabilities or other qualifying characteristics. Have copies of your medical records made and safely store them along with your financial information.
 In addition to showing that your income is low, you should document your expenses. This will show the grant organization where your money is going.


Keep records of health care expenses (hospital bills, payments for subscription medicines) as well as expenses for food and lodging.
 If you are seeking relief from a disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, or house fire, document the destruction to your home.


Taking pictures or video is best. At the very least, go through each room and list everything that has been destroyed.Save receipts when you buy anything that replaces something that has been destroyed.
 National organizations will have websites which will provide an email address or telephone number. For local organizations, look in the yellow pages and call or stop by.


If you are immobile, ask a friend or neighbor to stop in for you and ask about applying for a grant.
 Many grants are for specific populations. If a grant has been designated for families who have autistic children, then there is no point applying if you do not meet the qualifications.


If you have questions, call the organization. They may make exceptions.
 To expedite the process, you should give the charitable organization all of the information it needs upfront.
 If you do receive a grant, make sure to update the organization on any status changes. If your income rises or falls, let them know.


Also update about health changes. If you become permanently disabled, then you may qualify for an increase in the grant amount.

