 There's more than one way to create green icing, and there's also more than one hue of green you can create. Experimenting with several options at once will allow you to learn more about the process.


You need at least four sample dishes, but the experiment will be more effective if you set up six to twelve dishes.
Place 1/4 to 1/2 cup (60 to 125 ml) of white icing in each dish. Keep track of how much icing you use since it has an impact on the amount of food coloring you'll need.
Obtain at least four food dye colors: one green, one yellow, one blue, and one black. You can also get other hues of green, yellow, or blue to experiment with.
Paste, powder, and gel food dyes are designed for coloring frosting, so work with these types of dyes when possible since they should not alter the consistency of the frosting. Liquid dyes only work when you need very light tints; otherwise, the amount of liquid food coloring you'll need to create a vibrant hue will change the consistency of the frosting., Dip a toothpick into the green food coloring, then dunk the same toothpick into one dish of white frosting to transfer the dye. Mix until evenly blended.


To get an accurate idea of the color you've created, you'll need to continue mixing until you can no longer see any remaining green streaks in the frosting.
The type of green dye you use will affect the color of the icing. For instance, using "moss green" dye will create a warmer color than "kelly green" dye or "leaf green" dye.
The amount of food coloring will affect the shade. Since the icing is white, using small amounts of green dye will produce very light, pastel greens. More dye will create more vibrant values.
 Use separate, clean toothpicks to transfer equal parts of blue food dye and yellow food dye to the second dish of white icing. Mix until evenly combined.


After mixing the blue and yellow food coloring, you should produce green frosting.
The exact hue will vary based on the hues of yellow and blue you start with. Similarly, the value will vary based on how much food coloring you use.
 Create a third dish of green icing by mixing in green dye or equal amounts of blue and yellow dyes, following the same procedure used for the other samples. Add a very small amount of black to this third sample.


After thoroughly mixing in the black food coloring, you should see a darker shade of the original green. The actual hue should remain the same, though.
Since black can have a dramatic impact on the appearance of the color, you should only work with very small amounts of it.
 Use the remaining samples of white icing to experiment with different combinations. Record the dye hues and amounts used in each sample for later reference.


Use guidelines from the dye manufacturer to create different hues or experiment on your own.
Some ideas include:Mix equal parts sky blue and leaf green to create an aqua color.
Create chartreuse using nine parts lemon yellow and one part leaf green.
Combine equal parts leaf green and royal blue, then add a touch of black. This should create a deep jade color.
Mix various amounts of lemon yellow and sky blue to produce a teal or turquoise color.



