 For example, if you will be singing this song at church and you have a high and low vocal range, you might want to sing Amazing Grace or How Great Is Our God.
 Keep practicing the song and smiling until you never want to hear it again, until you know it so well that you could just randomly start singing it in the middle of a large controlled group of kids (in a rehearsal or such) without a doubt in your ability to sing the song without any mistakes, and until you can sing it at a range of tempos.
 Avoid feedback (squealing speakers) caused by sound being re-picked up and repeatedly cycling through the mic and loudspeaker; so, face your karaoke player speaker. Get used to hearing yourself while singing with the mic. Get a longer cord so you can walk about a little, with the mic.


Use a unidirectional mic that picks up sound only from one direction, and then face the loudspeaker, as a monitor-speaker is better than having the loudspeaker behind you.
Avoid using an omnidirectional microphone (it picks up sound from all around). This type is useful for lower volume sound with acoustic music in a studio or on a sound-stage where speakers play in a separate soundproofed mixer/control room and/or audience speakers are far off to each side of the stage (and without any monitor speakers) to avoid feedback -- and performers might use cordless, in-ear monitors.
, Avoid trying to impress jokers or wise guys. Doing plenty of this realistic practice can make it so much less nerve-racking when it comes to performance day.
 For instance: if someone says that you don't sing loudly enough, then practice singing louder (projecting) while continuing to sing the song properly (performing with a mic may not require loud voicing as the mic might be sensitive enough to pick up near whisper-levels, if that would be good in part of a song).



If there were something else that needed fixed, then use similar procedures as used before to fix it.
 Keep practicing, even if your family/friends said that everything was fixed.

