


When you speak to others for referrals, ask about the situation that required them to seek an HVAC contractor in the first place. This will give you a better idea regarding whether that specific contractor will best suit your needs.
If you can't get direct referrals, search local business directories with customer reviews. Don't base your choice on a nice contractor website only.;
,


If you are unsure which licenses and certifications HVAC contractors are required to have, you may want to find out by contacting a government official or representative from your local area or state.
You may also visit the Contractor's License website found in the Sources section of this article to determine the licenses needed in each state and also to verify the license validity of a specific contractor.
Ask the HVAC contractor to show you copies of their current licenses or certifications.
You may also want to find out if the contractor has worker's compensation insurance in the event they are injured on your property.
,


Visit the Better Business Bureau (BBB) website listed in the Sources section of this article to research an HVAC contractor and their business or contact the Council of BBB for feedback. Call 703-276-0100 for inquiries if you reside in the United States or 514-905-3893 if you reside in Canada.



If you have Internet access, you may want to research your HVAC contractor or their business to seek customer testimonials and other types of feedback.



HVAC contractors should look for air leaks, measure air flow, and inspect your insulation to make sure all components meet HVAC guidelines and the manufacturer's specifications.



Some factors to take into consideration when obtaining bids in addition to overall cost are energy efficiency of the repair work or installation to be done, and the length of any warranties offered.



Important details to ask for in writing are the dates on which the work will be performed, the cost of all fees, labor, and equipment, potential future fees such as upgrades, and payment due dates.

