 You should only throw a punch when you're in perfect range to do so with the most power possible. That means being close enough to deliver the punch without leaning or reaching forward. You should be able to connect with your arm outstretched, but not overextended.


When you have to lean forward to complete a punch, a significant portion of your punch's power is lost.
Practice using a punching bag until you're clear on how far you should stand from your target when you're punching. The distance will depend on the length of your arm and your range of motion.
 The importance of using your whole body to throw a punch, and not just your arm, can't be overstated. Although you can move your arm more quickly when you don't have to spin your body, your punch will be much less powerful if you use your arm alone.


Using your leg muscles will enable you to generate power and speed when you punch. The leg muscles are the largest and strongest in your body, and they should be behind every punch.
Remember not to lift your feet from the ground when you punch, since it throws you off balance and takes away some of your power. Stay quick on your feet, but keep them close to the ground.
 When you're in a fight, you won't punch the exact same way every time. Learn to determine which type of punch will be the most powerful in any given situation. Work on mastering the following basic punching angles in order to up your fighting ante:



Right or left cross: This is one of the most powerful punches. If you're punching with your right hand, your left foot should be dropped back; the opposite is true if you're punching with your left hand. Rotate your body sharply as you punch.Jab, or front punch: For this one, start with your punching foot forward. If you're punching with your right hand, your right foot should be forward, and the opposite is true if you're punching with your left hand. Shift your weight slightly forward and rotate your arm inward slightly as you punch. Be sure you don't have to overreach.Left or right hook: If you're throwing a left hook, your entire body should rotate to the right as you punch. Your right heel drops as your left heel lifts when you whip out your arm. Take the opposite approach if you're throwing a right hook.Uppercut: As you punch, turn your fist so that the palm is facing up, and punch from the waist upward in a diagonal motion. The punch is more powerful if you throw it on the diagonal.
 Since distance is so important when you want to throw your hardest punch, it's important to realize that not every punch is going to be your hardest. When you're a little out of range, you might have to throw some less powerful punches as you attempt to find the right positioning for a more powerful punch. The following circumstances are good times to get into position for your strongest punch:


When your opponent is in the act of punching, since he'll be more focused on that than on what you're doing.
When he's caught off guard. You can create this situation by punching in an irregular rhythm or using unexpected angles.
When he's stunned by a previous punch. Try starting with a quick jab to set yourself up for a powerful right cross.

