 Build out your options with items that reflect your personal style. After you have some staples you can begin to add with more clothing and accessories that fit your style. Don’t waste money or time on items that you don’t like and donate your old clothes when you get new ones.


If you like a more preppy look, and wear more button-downs, add a tie to your wardrobe.
While a clean pair of sneakers is great for pairing with sweaters, button-downs, and even a blazer, consider ditching your old dirty pair. Or, upgrade your shoes to casual leather loafers or a pair of brown dress shoes.
If you’re always running late to class it might be time to accessorize with a watch. Not only will it keep you punctual, but it adds a bit of class to your look.
 Dressing classy as a college guy means putting in the effort to look put together, even at that 8:00 am class. Sweatpants and a zipped-up hoodie should be worn at home or the gym.


If you love your sweats or the athletic look, you can class it up with little effort. Invest in a pair of joggers or slim structured sweatpants which taper around the ankle. Swap your worn out zip-up hoodie for a solid-colored crew neck sweatshirt or sweater.
You can also play with layers. Wear your sweatshirt over a collared shirt.
 Dressing well will make you feel good, keep your mind sharp, and give you confidence. So dress for the job you want to give you a head start.


If you plan on going into a career that is more traditional you will probably be wearing a suit or an outfit that’s close at the office. Invest in a suit and some dress shirts. Being prepared will not only help you think like a man with the job but could benefit you with potential interviews and even your professors.
Shower before class and think about how your professors see you. When it’s time to start networking and looking for work these are some people who you may need help from. Wearing a polo instead of a t-shirt and nice jeans or chinos instead of sweats shows you’re responsible and respectful.
 You can really class up your style with two leather belts. You don’t need to spend a lot of money either, but one brown and one black leather belt should be all you need. Depending on your personal style, feel free to get more belts that go well with a certain season or occasion. A colored leather belt can be a statement piece when you’re going for a casual look.
Formal belts should be about 2.5 – 3.5cm wide and be understated and match your shoes.
 Planning what you’ll wear the next day will not only help you prepare to look your best, but it will give you a sense of anything missing from your wardrobe.


Before going to bed pick out your outfit for the next day.
Remember to match your belt to your shoes.
Add layers when you can.
Planning out your outfit will help you to look put together. You won’t have to worry about it when you wake up in the morning.

