 The pattern is the part of the glass that will be etched by the sandblasting, while the surrounding area is covered by the resist to protect it from being blasted. Contact paper or very wide strong clear vinyl adhesive tape make a good form of resist. Some people also use wax but that can be very tricky unless you're experienced.


Whatever you choose, make sure its adhesive is strong, so that it won't peel off when being sandblasted.
 For example, a leaf and berries. Draw the design on paper.


In some cases, pre-made adhesive designs on adhesive backing can be purchased from craft stores or glass blasting suppliers. You may need a small craft knife to help you pull out the unwanted parts of the stencil design.
 Either trace the design on with carbon paper or spray adhesive onto the back of the design and stick it direct to the contact paper (and cut through both the design paper and the contact paper).
 The glass must be covered well, so that it won't lift and spoil the design.


You may need to tape around the edges of the stencil to ensure that it stays firmly in place and to protect surrounding glass, such as if you're blasting a window. Use wide tape and add as much as you think is needed to protect the surrounding area from blasting.
Flat surfaces are easiest, such as windows, photo frame glass, etc. Jars, drinking glasses and other curved surfaces will be trickier.
 Always wear safety goggles, a respirator mask, and gloves before sandblasting. Glass dust can cause serious damage to the eyes and lungs if you are unprotected.



Depending on what the object is, you may wish to use a sandblasting cabinet, into which you can place small glass items such as a jar or drinking glass. If you do use this, place the glass in the sandblasting cabinet and check all of the controls and get ready to blast.
For larger glass pieces, such as windows, these will need to be sandblasted in place. In this case, use the tape method explained above to protect the surrounding glass.
 When blasting, hold the blaster upright over the glass and don't place the blaster too close to the glass.


Take care not to angle the blaster during sandblasting, or there is a risk of the resist lifting and ruining the design.
 This cleaning will remove glass dust and any debris.
 Use warm soapy water to remove any remaining adhesive. Allow the glass to dry.
 A beautifully etched design will now be evident on the glass.

