 The longer that hair stays in your home, the more likely it is to become matted and stuck in difficult-to-remove places. As soon as you see a clump of hair, grab your hand-vac and pick it up. Or, wipe down the area with a wet paper towel to remove dander as well. This constant up-keep may seem tedious, but it will create a cleaner home., Dog hair has a tendency to get stuck in carpeted floors, which reduces scatter, but can create an unsightly accumulation of fur. At least once a week, spend a bit of time vacuuming your floors and baseboards. To remove dog hair on hardwood floors, use a wet sweeper or mop., Even if your dog isn’t allowed on the furniture, its hair will find its way there anyway. Avoid ruining your furniture by investing in quality slipcovers or simply throwing sheets or towels over your couch or chairs. Wash these covers on a regular basis and take them off when you are expecting company.Some dog owners also find it worthwhile to purchase furniture with slippery fabrics, such as leather, which makes it possible to wipe off any hair accumulations.
If you choose to forego slipcovers, remove dog hair from fabric furniture by putting on a pair of rubber gloves and then wiping your hands across the item’s surface.Don’t forget to clean your window coverings as well, especially if they are made from textured fabrics. They will accumulate dog hair over time, often concentrated in the parts close to the floor., This is a great option for in-home quick hair removals and for removing hair from clothing. Simply roll a sticky roller over the object and the hair is picked up. The best investment is to purchase a washable roller that you can throw in the laundry between uses., If your dog is shedding hair they are likely dropping dander and dead skin cells as well. To remove these potential allergens, it is a good idea to use a plug-in air purifier. You can get a small purifier to place in a central location in your house fairly cheap., Your dog's own dander and hair may make their own allergies worsen over time. If you find that your dog seems to suffer from an ongoing cold, if they sneeze a great deal, or itch their skin constantly, you may want to consult with your vet. It is likely that your vet will talk with you about a medical treatment for allergies.

