 As soon as you notice that your baby is beginning to sit up and move themselves around a bit, be sure that the crib walls are high enough to keep them contained once they’re standing.On many cribs, this means lowering the mattress deeper into the crib’s frame, but different cribs function a bit differently.
Ideally, the walls of the crib are taller than the baby is standing up. Some babies become surprisingly good as standing, and even climbing, faster than you’d expect.
 The more your baby learns about scooting, crawling, standing, and moving in general, the more aware you need to be of their surroundings. There are many important babyproofing steps you’ll need to take, including installing baby barriers, and removing almost everything from floor height in any room they will be allowed to explore.In particular, remove anything from the baby's reach and block off any areas that may be unsafe.
 Some things can sneak under even a vigilant parent’s attention when babyproofing a home. For instance, remove any tables that are about as tall as a standing baby, such as coffee tables, with any hard or otherwise dangerous edge. These alone are responsible for many baby injuries, often incurred while the baby is learning to stand.Similarly, those throw rugs need to go, along with anything else that might trip a tiny foot.
Even in rooms where you won’t intentionally be allowing your baby to explore, take precautions to prevent your baby from accessing anything harmful, such as chemicals.
 It’s important to keep in mind that every baby’s physical development happens a bit differently, despite a common general pattern. The time it takes to reach many developmental milestones, in particular, can vary significantly. That said, there are a few things to watch out for. If your baby shows no interest in moving around by the time they're nine or ten months old, or doesn’t try to stand when supported, mention this to your doctor.
Similarly, if progress in terms of your baby’s physical development is apparent, but they tend to favor one side of their body to the other, or don’t have good control of their hands, mention these observations to your doctor.

