 Login items are on the top left of the homepage.;
, You can find their search box at the top left corner of the screen after you've signed in. Find the exact book you are looking for. If the book isn't listed in the database yet, you can add it to their database.
 and to the left of the right of "...less detail"(or "...more details" dependent on how much you want to show.
 The ways to get into the metadata form will vary, dependent on what type of account you have and/or if the book even has any metadata at all to enter.


If you have a non-Goodreads Librarian account, you'll have to click the "Answer more questions about your books" button that is located front and center of the screen in front of you.
If you are a non-Goodreads Librarian, you may end up getting taken directly to the metadata page and be presented with a message saying that the only thing you can do is edit the metadata answers. Don't worry. Your answers still count.

If you have submitted some metadata answers and have more metadata feedback later, you'll need to click the "edit your metadata answers" link on the right of the page to submit more of your data for this.


If you have a Goodreads Librarian account, you'll have to click the "Show metadata" tab. Some books don't even have any metadata answers that people have answered. With a Goodreads Librarian account for metadata, you'll have the chance to accept the answers, but you won't be prompted to answer any yourself.
 Skip the boxes and questions that ask for a longer answer. Easiest ones include whether the book is fiction or non-fiction. If you've read all the way through the book, you can pick up the pace of the book (whether it was a slow read or a rather fast read) along with the point of view of the book (1st person narrative, 3rd person, etc.) along with entering some of the other character data that is displayed.


If a Goodreads Librarian comes along and knows a bit about the book and deems that the information that was updated was incorrect, they have the ability to clear the answers by clicking the "clear" button when they hover over the question itself".
If a Goodreads Librarian comes in and only a few items are filled in and not others, they have a chance to enter the data that is missing in the page. They will need to click the "Add more answers..." link to open up the button that will allow the metadata page to save their answers.

Questions that were checkboxes for a Goodreads Librarian don't have links to add information in and appear to be blank. Don't worry. It's built so that you are the deciding factor that can accept or decline the answers. If you don't like the way things work, create a secondary account on Goodreads and set it up as a standard user to only submit this data. Have trust in your answers based on your knowledge of the book, if you go and accept your choices for these. Don't take your special privileges as a joke as you can get your privileges cancelled at any time if something was false that should have been fixed by you on your Librarian account.
 The Update button is Goodreads' wording for the word "Save" which saves your metadata answers.


For Librarian accounts, make sure you click the "Save" button at the end of the line you've added text for, and click the "back to book page" on the right side of the screen of metadata answers.

