 Cats that are fearful need a gradual adjustment period to warm up to new people. In most cases, its best to leave the cat alone, give it some space, and wait until it comes to the person instead of trying to force affection on to it.


The new person should give the cat some space and ignore the cat, but should not leave the room when the cat starts getting upset. This will show the cat that its aggressive actions will not result in the desired outcomes., A cat that is deeply fearful needs a gentle approach to behavioral modification that allows it to very gradually face its fears. Allow the cat to have space and the ability to run away but bring new people and new noises into the house regularly so that the cat can get used to them.This means that you will need to gauge how far away the thing your cat is afraid of can be from the cat without your cat reacting, and then place that thing there repeatedly. For example, if your cat is afraid of loud noises but it does not run away if you make a loud noise in a room the cat is not in, you should do that daily to get the cat used to it.
If the cat does not flee or show signs of fear to the stimuli, whatever it may be, then give it a treat. If the cat does show signs of fear, do not reassure it or give it a treat. Petting a cat that is fearful only reinforces that behavior.
 If your cat's fear response is so bad that it is affecting the cat's quality of life, and your ability to have friends and family in your home, then you may want to turn to medication. Take your cat to see its veterinarian and explain the situation. The veterinarian may be able to prescribe an anti-anxiety medication for the cat.There are a variety of medications that your veterinarian may prescribe, including benzodiazepines (such as diazepam, alprazolam, or clonazepam), tricyclic antidepressants (such as amitriptyline, clomipramine, or doxepin), and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (fluoxetine, sertraline, or paroxetine)., If your cat is having severe anxiety and is prone to biting due to fear but no other solutions have worked, you may need to contact a behavior specialist. A good behavior specialist should be able to work with you and your cat to find treatment solutions that can decrease the cat's anxiety.Ask your veterinarian for a referral to a good pet behaviorist or look at the website of an accredited organization of animal behaviorists to find one in your area.
There are a wide variety of types of animal behaviorists, from animal trainers to veterinarians who specialize in animal behavior modification.Pick a type of behaviorist based on the severity of your cat's problems and how much money you can spend.

