 Your car is more likely to roll while you are parking on a hill than it would on a flat surface.Since parallel parking on a slope can be more difficult than parking on a flat surface, you need to be very comfortable parallel parking and be confident in your skills., After you park on a slope facing uphill, turn the wheels away from the sidewalk or shoulder. This will rotate your tires, so if your gears disengage, or the emergency brake fails, the car will simply hit the curb instead of rolling down the hill.









If you are facing downhill, turn the wheel to the right so the wheels are facing the curb or sidewalk. , For manual transmissions, you will need to shift your car into first gear or reverse once you are in the parking space.Leaving your car in neutral will increase the chances that it will roll backwards or forwards.
 For automatic transmissions, you need to put your car in park after you are in the parking space.









Keep your foot on the brake until you have fully engaged the emergency brake and have shifted gears into park.Leaving the gear in drive can damage your transmission.
 You can do this with both manual and automatic transmissions. The emergency brake is your best assurance that the car won’t roll either forward or backwards when you’re parked on a hill., When you are parking on a steep slope, you can use a wheel chock to stabilize your car and prevent it from rolling backward. A wheel chock is an object, usually a block of wood, that you place behind the back wheel of your vehicle.









You can purchase wheel chocks online, at auto parts stores, or at major realtors. You can also make your own chocks using wood.If you are parked with the front of the car pointing downhill, place the chock under your front tire.
 When you are ready to leave your parking spot and continue your drive, you will need to remove the wheel chock (if you used one) and disengage the emergency brake.When you are pulling out of a parking space while on a hill, you will need to keep your foot on the brake until you are sure that is safe to pull out.

Once you are able to pull out, you can transition your foot from the brake pedal to the accelerator. You will need to make this a smooth transition, otherwise you risk rolling backwards either into the curb or a vehicle parked behind you.
Be sure to check your mirrors before you pull out of your parking space.

