 These are companies that usually acquire properties through tax sales or short sales and sell them to investors. Companies like this usually have a list of buyers like you that are looking for homes to flip, hold, or buy for some personal reason.After they acquire a property, home wholesalers will write a brief description about it. Enter an internet search on ”real estate wholesalers” into your favorite web search engine you’ll be inundated with firms. They usually only deal with people that have cash or approved asset-based loans (loans that you have put up collateral for such as another property).
 Believe it or not, people still do (as of now) advertise to sell their homes in the local paper. You’ll most likely find more “Open House” ads but they’ll usually list when, where, and the sale price. You can find a lot of mobile homes and condominiums for sale by owner (FSBO) in the local Penny Saver newspaper., This is a great way to pick up homes that are in decent shape at a discounted price. Probate sales are properties being sold by a probate court because the owner did not have a will or there are no heirs. This process is more of an advanced system to acquire houses but it can be invaluable once you understand the risks.There are disadvantages to buying a property through a probate sale. You will need to put down a 10% deposit that is not refundable if you can't close on the sale for any reason. Also, seller disclosures about known defects are not required. And until you close the house continues to be marketed, so you have to be ready to match or top any counter-offers.
 If you see a run-down property and believe it might be a rental, you can find the name of the owner from your town clerk. Read the obituary section of the newspaper for leads on homes that may be for sale due to the death of a loved one. Then send a letter offering to purchase the property.


Use whitepages.com to find the address of absentee home owners and those who have inherited property.

