 He could be acting this way because you're the one who was rude first. Make sure that it's not your fault by being kind. You can do random acts of kindness towards him - making him snacks and helping him out with his chores (or even homework if he's younger). As tempting as it may be, don't try to purposefully get on his nerves. That'll just make the situation worse.;
, Maybe this sounds like something your mom might say to resolve your fights, but it's true and it works. If you push yourself to get along with him and try to enjoy things that he likes, you'll be able to have more in common. This way, you'll find yourselves with less to fight about. If you want to go to the mall but he wants to go to a World War II museum, go along with his idea. You'll be able to go shopping some other time, and maybe you'll even find something new you're interested in.
 You can watch a movie you both agree on, play a board game, share jokes, and even have meaningful conversations together. If your brother is older he can give you advice on how to deal with things like bullies at school and stressful homework, and that can make you both closer.
 Make up a secret handshake like you would with your best friend. You can share a joke from a movie you both love, keep silly little secrets from your parents, or have inside jokes that only the two of you understand. If you treat each other like best friends, you can become not just family, but friends as well.
 If your brother is upset and tells you to leave him alone, don't start to pick on him and keep bugging him. He might get angry with you and yell at you, which could get him - and you - in trouble!


If he would rather be left alone, just do as he says and leave, don't mutter anything or glare. It's probably not your fault, and he'll be feeling better and ready to hang out with you in time.
If he's upset and wants someone to talk to, let him vent to you and listen closely.
If he's being bullied, be kind and share his feelings. Let him know you hate bullies too. You might even be able to share a few pointers with him if he asks you for advice.
 If he loves video games, learn some gaming terms and learn about different types of games. Tell him what games you like and why. Say something like, "Oh, I like 'name of game' better. The graphics are better, and I like the storyline too." He might be impressed with your knowledge of the things he enjoys, and might even invite you to play with him! If he calls you a "noob" or says you're terrible, don't let it get to you. Just laugh it off. He won't keep irritating you to get a reaction out of you if he knows you won't react.
 Let him know that you understand his feelings. If his favorite football team loses, don't laugh, even if you hate football. Say things like, "What? How could that happen?", or, "Seriously? But they're such a great team!" This could even spark up a conversation that he'll be interested in. If he got grounded for something he finds unfair, say, "Yeah, I know how that is. It really sucks!". Then you can suggest something you two can do together, like playing a board game or playing pretend. If your brother is younger, hug him and let him know that you love him if he's upset.
 If your little brother - or even your big brother - gets hurt, for example, if he stubbed his toe on a chair, make a big show of being silly and teaching the chair a lesson. Smack it and scream at it, and tell that chair that was a horribly rude thing to do. Chances are, he'll start laughing and will forget about his pain. If your brother is younger, you can play pretend doctor and wrap his foot in a "cast" made out of a blanket and pretend his foot is broken. Give him a comfy place to sit and bring him food and water. He'll stop crying soon enough.
 If nothing works and your brother continues picking fights and threatening you, saying things like, "I'll break you laptop" or other empty threats, don't try fighting back by saying "I'll break your phone!" Instead, be the bigger person and walk away, or ignore him and keep doing whatever it is you're doing. If you fight back, that's immature and you're being just as bad a person as your brother is. If you don't, you can save yourself from getting in trouble, and your brother will realize it's not very fun to pick on you.
 Let him know that you want to get along with him. He'll most likely listen, because although he may not show it, he loves you more than anything. You're his sibling, and you're irreplaceable. It's nice to have a sibling to get along with, so you two should try your best to get along.

