 Talk with your gynecologist or, if you are male, your primary care physician for advice on choosing a fertility specialist. Additionally, your insurance plan may require you to obtain a referral from one of these doctors before consulting with a fertility specialist.If you are male, ask questions such as, “Is it a good idea for me to have my sperm tested for quality and motility?” “Could I have a hormone imbalance causing my problems?”
If you are speaking with your gynecologist, you could ask questions such as, “Can you recommend a specialist who deals with older women trying to conceive?” “What types of tests should I ask the specialist to consider for me?” or “Which fertility experts have the best success rates?”;
, It will be helpful to understand exactly what your specialist has studied and how they will approach your care while you are considering choosing a fertility doctor.


An obstetrician/gynecologist (OB-GYN) specializes in the female reproductive system and may receive training to further specialize in reproductive problems caused by female hormonal imbalances and/or cancers in the female reproductive organs.An andrologist is the male counterpart to the OB-GYN, specializing in the male reproductive organs. They are urologists certified to treat male infertility.A board-certified reproductive endocrinologist is an OB-GYN with an advanced education in female and male reproductive issues. Board-certified reproductive endocrinologists must have at least two additional years of clinical experience and pass written and oral exams., When talking with potential fertility doctors, it is essential that you understand the different treatment options available to you and your partner. The Office on Women’s Health of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is a good resource for basic information on infertility and treatment.Additionally, reputable medical websites, like mayoclinic.org and clevelandclinic.org, are good sources of information as well.


Fertility drugs, such as clomiphene and gonadotropins, stimulate ovulation. They are the primary treatment for women facing infertility due to problems with ovulation.Intrauterine insemination (IUI) involves healthy sperm being deposited into a woman’s uterus via a catheter. This is timed to take place around the time the woman is ovulating.Sometimes surgery, such as laparoscopy, is performed to correct problems in the woman’s reproductive system, such as blocked fallopian tubes, fibroid removal, or treatment of endometriosis.Assisted reproductive technology (ART) encompasses any fertility treatment in which the egg and sperm are handled by medical professionals. ART includes in vitro fertilization (IVF), in which mature eggs are retrieved from a woman and they are fertilized with the man’s sperm in a lab. The resulting embryos are then implanted into the uterus.Donor eggs or sperm are sometimes used for ART if there are problems with either the eggs or sperm.As surrogate woman may also be used to carry the baby.
 Only some states require insurance coverage for fertility treatment, and not all treatments are required to be covered.


Resolve, the National Infertility Association, has a searchable list of states that require insurance coverage for infertility treatment.Call the member services number for your insurance plan. Ask questions such as, “Do I need pre-certification or a referral to see a fertility specialist?” “What are the copays if I consult a reproductive endocrinologist?” “Am I covered for IVF?”
Other questions to consider asking include, “Are there age limits for infertility treatment?” “Does my plan cover fertility drugs?” “Is all lab work covered?”
Insurance plans typically have online physician searches, which allow you to narrow your choices by specialty and location.
 Odds are, you will develop a close relationship with your fertility doctor and their staff, one that could span several years. When looking for a fertility specialist, look for one who has a calm and patient bedside manner who listens to your questions and takes your concerns seriously. There are other traits to consider as well.


Do you prefer a male or female doctor?
Are there any language or cultural considerations important to you?

, Acquaintances and family members who have struggled with infertility are good resources for finding doctors in your area. They can give you honest advice on the pros and cons and tell you about their own experiences.


You can ask about the doctor’s approach to infertility and how aggressive and fast–acting they are.
Your friends will be able to give you insight into the doctor’s personality and demeanor, as well as those of the support staff at the practice.
Ask questions like, “How long did you have to wait to get in for your first appointment?” and “Was the office environment friendly and supportive?”

, Fertility treatment often requires that you are seen multiple times, sometimes daily for a while. Because of this, you will want to think about how accessible and convenient your doctor and/or clinic is.How far from your house or work is the doctor’s office?
Does the doctor or clinic have early morning or evening hours to accommodate your work schedule?
Can someone at the practice see you on a weekend, if necessary?
Is there a satellite facility where you can receive treatment that is more convenient for you?

, Not everyone who experiences infertility will have to use the services of an IVF clinic, but this may be an important factor in choosing a doctor.


Some clinics have on-site labs and procedure rooms, while others send their patients to local hospitals for procedures and lab work.
 Once you’ve received some referrals from either your own doctor or from friends or relatives, you can try to research these specialists by looking for information online.


Online patient satisfaction reviews, such as those found on HealthGrades.com or RateMDs.com, offer one way to help you assess potential doctors. You can see how the doctors are ranked regarding personality, waiting times, or medical knowledge. While such reviews may be helpful, it is important to remember that they are based on personal opinions, not medical expertise.Members of the Society for Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility (SREI) must be certified by the American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology in both obstetrics and gynecology and reproductive endocrinology. The society’s Website offers an interactive search tool to find credentialed providers in your area.Membership in the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology (SART) and adherence to the guidelines set forth by the American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) are both indications that a provider stays current on industry trends and standards. You can check the Websites of both of these societies to find providers in your area.The licensing board in your state is also a good resource to check for licenses, find out if there are any restrictions on their license, and to see if they have any malpractice lawsuits.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) offers an interactive Website that features searchable reports of success rates from fertility providers throughout the country. This information can be helpful when choosing a provider., Once you’ve researched your potential doctors through talking with friends and looking for reviews and credentials online, it is time to meet in person with the doctors you are considering. Only through a face-to-face encounter will you be able to tell whether you feel comfortable entrusting the personal matter of infertility treatment with these potential doctors. In addition to gauging your comfort level with each doctor, you also need to get some specific information out of your interviews

, You want to use this opportunity to see whether the doctor is as open to new technology or approaches as you may be or whether they are more aggressive than you prefer when planning your treatment.


Questions to consider asking include “What do you think about pre-implantation genetic screening (PGS) or cryopreservation of embryos?” and “Do you implant only one embryo during IVF or multiples?”, From your online research, you probably already know how long they have been in practice and where they went to medical school. Now, you can ask more in-depth questions about how they may treat your issues.You should ask questions such as, “What kind of tests would you recommend for me?” “What treatment would you suggest we try first?” “What are your success rates for people in my age group?” and “How long would we try this method before moving on to something else?”
Other questions to ask include the following: “Do you have an age limit on patients you see?” “What is the rate of multiple births for your practice?” and “What types of complications are common for your procedures?”
You can use this time to sketch out a possible treatment plan with the doctor so that you can compare it with those of other doctors you meet.It is not uncommon for a fertility doctor to partner with a network of other reproductive specialists, so you may see a different doctor each appointment. Find out what you can expect in that regard, as well as who you would call for urgent after-hours situations.
 When you meet in person with the doctors you are considering, pay attention to how they interact with you. This will be a good indicator of how they will treat you once you become their patient.


Some things to consider are whether the doctor is sensitive to your issues or cold and dismissive. It is also important to note whether the doctor listens to you and thoroughly answers your questions.
If a doctor cuts you off mid-sentence or does not answer your questions before moving on, this may not be a good fit for you.
 You will be interacting with many people, such as nurses, therapists, financial advisors, and embryologists. If possible, try to meet with at least some of these auxiliary staff when you meet with your prospective doctor to get a fuller picture of the care you will receive.Additionally, many practices offer payment plans and support services, so it’s a good idea to check about the availability of these as well.


Ask questions such as, “Are counseling services or support groups available?” and “Do you offer alternative therapies and support, such as acupuncture, nutrition classes, or fertility yoga?”To be able to start to understand the costs involved in treatment, be sure to ask questions about payment options: “Does the practice offer payment plans?” and “Do you recommend any financing options to help pay for treatment?”, Making a final decision on a fertility doctor can be daunting, but you can make this easier by reviewing your information and analyzing it systematically.


Use the information you’ve gathered to make a comparison sheet for each doctor and review it with your partner or a close friend.
Remember to emphasize the factors that are most important to you, such as the costs of the different doctors, office locations, or personality of the provider.
 Once you have chosen the right fertility doctor for you, call as soon as possible to set up an appointment. Time is often of the essence in fertility treatment, so you want to get started as quickly as possible.


Since you may have already done some preliminary tests and treatment with your regular OB/Gyn, make sure that your records are sent to your reproductive endocrinologist’s office before your first appointment.

