 Regardless of whether you want to join Sierra Club yourself, the organization provides the option of purchasing a membership in someone else's name. You will have to have the full name and mailing address of the person for whom you're buying the gift.Gift memberships are $25, and include a messenger bag and a subscription to the organization's monthly magazine.
Keep in mind that gift memberships, like regular memberships or other donations to Sierra Club, are not tax-deductible.
 Unlike the Sierra Club, the Foundation is a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt charitable organization. Any donation you make to the Foundation is fully tax-deductible.You can donate money, or make an in-kind donation of your used car, real estate, or other items the organization could use to further its work.
If you want to make a donation of something other than money, call Sierra Club at (415) 995-1780 to find out what options are available and the general process of making the donation. Basic information for your records is available on the Sierra Club Foundation website at www.sierraclubfoundation.org, including the Foundation's federal tax identification number and mailing address.
 If you want to support Sierra Club without becoming a member, consider the symbolic adoption program, which allows you to specify which endangered species will be helped by your donation.Animals available all are wild animals that are native to North America and are endangered. For example, you can symbolically adopt a bald eagle, a red fox, a manatee, or a gray wolf.
Adopting a wild animal can be a good gift for a child, because the adoption package comes with a backpack and a small plush animal, as well as a book with facts about the animal.
 If you are a small business owner, you can use the EarthShare service to encourage donations by your employees and provide a matching donation program to further support Sierra Club Foundation.This program supports the Foundation, so the contributions are tax-deductible. The program works by deducting an amount chosen by the employee from their paycheck. You can choose to match those donations up to a certain amount.
If you work for a company that is committed to environmental issues, talk to your employer about signing up with the EarthShare program to make it easier for employees to make donations and facilitate matching donations.

