 The easiest problem to fix, and probably the most common, is a that your treadmill is just not plugged in. Make sure your treadmill is plugged into an electrified electrical outlet and that the prongs on the treadmill's power plug are not bent or distorted in any way.;
, Plug the treadmill into a different outlet to eliminate the first outlet as the issue. If you do not have another outlet nearby, plug another device, such as an easily movable lamp, into the treadmill's outlet to see if it works.


If you know which outlets are on separate circuits, try using an outlet that is powered by another circuit.
If you don't have any power at the outlet, reset the circuit breaker or replace the fuse and try to turn your treadmill on again.
 Some treadmill models need the power supply to be adjusted before it gets to the motor. Make sure that this adaptor is in place and plugged in properly.


Some models may need to be opened to complete this step. If this is the case, be sure to unplug your treadmill before opening any electrical boxes.
 In order to check for other problems, you will need to unplug the treadmill for safety.
 If the fuses are blown, your treadmill will not start. Luckily a blown fuse is usually a quick and easy fix. You can check your fuses with a multi-meter or take them to a local electronics store for testing.If your fuses are blown, be sure to replace them with fuses that are that have the same amperage rating.
 If your machine won't turn on, it may just be that the screen of your treadmill is not working. Make sure that all of the wires between the treadmill and the display are secure.


Also check that you are getting power to the display. You can check this by using your multi-meter at the connection points between the power coming in and the display.
 If you are unable to find the problem with the previous steps, you may need to consult a professional.


If available, contact the manufacturer for information on further diagnostics to perform and for a list of qualified repair shops in your area.

