 It is important to be aware of the research already published and the current questions and studies in your field. Pay special attention to how other research papers are written: the format, the type of articles (quantitative studies versus qualitative ones, primary research, review of existing papers), the writing style, the subject matter, and the vocabulary.


Read academic journals related to your field of study.
Search online for published research papers, conference papers, and journal articles.
Ask a colleague or professor for a suggested reading list.;
, Each publication has its own audience and tone of writing. Decide if your research paper would fit better in a journal that is highly technical and meant only for other scholars or a journal that is more general in nature that would appeal to a broader audience. Know your audience and write accordingly.
 Format your research paper so it fits the guidelines for that publication. Most journals provide a document called "Instruction to Authors" or "Author's Guide" that offers specific instructions about layout, type font, and length. This guide will also tell you how to submit your paper and will provide details of the review process.
 They should edit your paper for grammar, spelling errors, typos, clarity, and conciseness. At this time, they should also verify your content. Research papers need to present an issue that is significant and relevant. They should be clearly written, easy to follow, and appropriate for the intended audience. Have two or three people review your paper, more if possible.
 It is likely you will go through three or four drafts before final submission of your research paper. Make a special effort to make your paper clear, engaging, and easy to follow. This will greatly increase your chances of being published.
 Go back to the Author's Guide to review submission requirements. Once you are satisfied that your paper meets all of the guidelines, submit the paper through the appropriate channels. Some journals allow online submission, while others prefer a hard copy., Sometimes journals will ask you to revise your paper and resubmit. Study their critiques carefully and make the necessary changes. Do not get over-attached to your original submission. Instead, remain flexible and rework the paper in light of the feedback you received. Use all of your skills as a researcher and a writer to create a superior paper. Even if you are ultimately rejected by your "target" publication, continue to re-write your research paper and submit it to other publications.

