 The ASPCA, US Humane Society, and other websites and institutions encourage consumers to pledge not to shop at pet stores that sell puppy mill dogs. Take a pledge yourself, and organize a group pledge with your friends, neighbors, and other members of your community.In addition to promising not to buy puppies from inhumane sources, you should encourage your community not to buy any pet supplies or offer any business whatsoever to inhumane stores.
 Hand out flyers or hang posters to educate the public and encourage others to boycott local shops that practice inhumane breeding and sourcing. Make your own, or get any that are available from your humane society or SPCA.

Consider hanging posters at libraries, schools, restaurants, grocery stores, or town halls
Make sure you have permission from the places you hang posters.
 One of the most established ways of getting the word out about puppy mills and related boycotts are local newspapers. Consider writing a letter to the editor or an opinion column to discuss your organized boycott. When writing about puppy mills, be sure to mention alternatives, such as adopting from a local shelter., While newspapers are tried and true, people are more and more looking online for news and information. Creating a blog, website, or social media page can help you spread the facts about puppy mills to a broader audience. An online presence can also be updated regularly, so you can keep your readers informed about boycotts and new local regulations., Visit your nearby stores that source puppies from mills. Tell them that you are spreading the word throughout the community about their inhumane practices, and that you and your neighbors will boycott their business until they stop sourcing puppies from mills or stop inhumane breeding on site.

If you have seen inhumane or illegal breeding practice firsthand, you can call your local law enforcement authorities or file an official complaint with the USDA.Ask your local humane society if they’ve already contacted the businesses in question.
If you contact or visit a local business, ask politely to speak directly to the owner or highest level supervisor available. Carry yourself in a respectable, professional demeanor and don’t shout or threaten violence.
 While you educate others and encourage them to boycott inhumane stores, take the time to support your local animal shelter. Call or visit them in person to ask about when you can volunteer.

You can take animals out for walks, clean kennels, or help at the front desk.
Animal shelters always need people to volunteer, and can help you network to find more people who will pledge to join your boycott.

