 You could also apply directly to schools. The benefit of applying directly is that you can research the school to be sure it has a good reputation, as well as get a better sense of what the job will be like.;
, If you like mountains and small cities, don't tell your recruiter you are fine living in a big city. Korea is made up of tons of small cities and a few enormous ones. If you like huge cities and crowds, move to Seoul or Pusan. If you are interested in smaller cities (less than 500,000) tell your recruiter to place you somewhere smaller. Do not take their word for it! Do some research on the geography of Korea. It is easy for a recruiter to say, "sure, it's close to Seoul" and then have you 2 hours outside of Seoul.
), and make sure you have your original degree (or 2 notarized copies with an apostille or Korean Consulate notarization for Canadians, as you will need to send it to the school in Korea). You also need to get a vulnerable sector check and police check done (Americans can still get a local criminal check). The visa offices can help direct you how to do this. The criminal check must be notarized and have an apostille or Korea Consulate notarization for Canadians. Keep up to date with the visa process , This part is easy. Show your future boss that you are an intelligent and flexible person with a knack for kids, and you're in. Emphasize your interest in Korean culture and talk about your experiences with kids. Consider everything you have done involving kids and teaching... be it tutoring, doing a play, or just spending time with children. Your employer wants to know you're competent and you understand that kids are kids.
 You nailed the interview and now they want to hire you. The contract is probably for one year and everything you need to know is written in it. You will learn what your apartment is like, and what you will be paying for (likely heat/water/telephone/internet/apartment management -- all of which will be less than $100 a month). Korean schools pay for your apartment, so there's no rent to worry about (Not all, as some have housing allowances and key money). Also, your rate of pay will be in the contract. Don't go for a job offering less than 1.8 million won per month. New teachers can be paid up to 2.2 million won per month. Check for hours worked, holidays, and conditions of the contract. You shouldn't work more than 40 hours a week and you should get at least 10 days paid holiday. Standard overtime pay is 22,000 won per hour.
 OK, so you got the job. Now your boss is shelling out 2 million won to fly you to Korea, so you should be courteous and write him/her an email. Tell the boss that you're excited about coming to Korea and you're looking forward to starting work. Also, Koreans use this character ^^ instead of :) so putting a little ^^ at the end is friendly.
 Take your up-to-date passport to the Korean Embassy in your city (in Toronto the embassy is on Avenue Road) and fill out the application for your working visa. Also bring $70 in cash with you. Follow your boss's instructions and you will have a visa in 2-3 days.
 So you've got a job and an apartment waiting for you. Now you just need to get yourself organized and pack your suitcase. Bring your usual comforts, but don't overdo it. Once you arrive you will be buying lots of clothes and things with your newfound wealth, so packing shouldn't be too stressful. It is recommended that you bring one good towel, and maybe bring some deodorant if you want to (western-type deodorant can be difficult to find in South Korea). Bring your multi-vitamins and some good books. English bookstores are rare and usually overpriced. And of course bring a warm jacket and mitts, as it can get extremely cold in the winter, especially if you go up to the mountains. Also, if you feel inclined, bring some of your favorite spices as it is hard to find curry/basil/oregano. I would say forget it and embrace the new ways of eating, but you might want to be able to cook your way. Packing is really a rather personal thing, just really don't go overboard and remember that you can find almost anything you need in South Korea.
 Go early to the airport and leave about 3 hours for checking in at the right gate and bags and visas and immigration. The lines can be extremely long so give yourself lots of time. You'll also want time to say goodbye to your parents/siblings/friends/pets etc., so plan ahead. The actual flight from Toronto to Seoul is about 13 hours, but it goes fast when you're watching movies. You may also want to practice some basic Korea greetings while on the plane!

, You've arrived and now your new boss wants to take you out for dinner. Enjoy yourself. The restaurants are different - you often sit on the floor, and you will be eating with chopsticks. You might even start drinking on the first night. Just go with the flow and appear keen and agreeable. Your boss is just as nervous as you are.
 They're just kids. They want to have fun just as much as you do, so don't take the whole thing too seriously and try to get to know them a little bit. Most kids will be sweet if you show them some friendliness, so just stay focused and be nice.

