 Note both the type of activity and the duration. If you are running or biking, note the distance travelled. These will all be important when calculating how much exercise you need to maintain your weight.


Do not include everyday activities, such as walking from your car to your office or walking up or down stairs. However, include time spent jogging or biking to work if you do so for 20 or more minutes daily.
Do not weigh yourself after you exercise. You will have lost weight during your workout. This will give you a weight that doesn't properly account for your body's fluid requirements. In other words, it will be incorrectly low.
 Use an online calculator or ask your doctor how many calories you should be consuming based on your weight, lifestyle, and other characteristics. Compare this to what you are currently consuming daily. If you are consuming more calories than you need, that difference is your daily exercise requirement.


To estimate your calorie requirements you typically need to know your current weight, sex, age, and height. When asked about your exercise level, report what you regularly do rather than what you expect to do in the future.
If you are consuming too many calories, it may not be possible to increase your exercise to accommodate. You may need to cut down on calories to prevent weight gain in addition to exercising more.
 Exercise should be a part of your daily life, as routine as brushing your teeth in the morning. It can be difficult to get started on a workout routine, but the benefits on your mental and physical health are worth the commitment.


To start, pick an activity you like. Many people underestimate how much exercise you need to maintain weight. People who have lost weight and kept it off longterm typically exercise 60 to 90 minutes most days of the week.Obviously, this much physical activity will seem tedious if you pick something you hate. Choose an activity you enjoy. If you love long walks, go walking each day. If you love riding your bike to work, incorporate bike rides a few times a week. If you're into sports, start playing tennis with friends or join a local league.
You do not need to engage in 60 to 90 minutes of exercise all at once. In fact, given the demands of work, family, and social engagements this is probably not realistic for most people. You can break up physical activity throughout the day and get the same results. Take a brisk 20 minute walk with your dog before working in the morning. Then, hit the gym for 30 minutes after leaving the office. In the early evening, take your dog for a short 20 minute jog in the park.Depending on your medical history, you may need to talk to your healthcare provider before exercising for 60 to 90 minutes a day.However, even if you don't have any existing health conditions it's a good idea to speak to your doctor before starting a new workout routine. A medical professional can give you advice on how to ease into a new routine so you don't end up straining yourself early on.
 Muscle burns more calories than fat. In addition to aerobic exercises that get your heart rate up, look into workouts that help build your body's overall strength.If you don't have a gym membership, there are many activities you can do using your own body. Push-ups, sit ups, and routines like Pilates and yoga can help you build strength.If you want to incorporate some equipment, invest in resistant tubing. This lightweight and inexpensive material provides resistance when pulled and can be used in strength training exercises. You can buy resistance tubing online or at a local gym or fitness shop. Free weights are also relatively inexpensive and can be incorporated into a strength training routine.Talk to a doctor or trainer when beginning a strength training regimen. If you're a beginner, it can be easy to strain yourself. Injury can prevent you from exercising, potentially causing weight gain.

