 Your Nintendo DS, PSP, Game Boy, or any other portable gaming console can provide hours of fun on a very long plane trip.;
, Books don't require charging and can keep you occupied for the long flight.
 Bring a sketch pad or notebook and some pencils. Expressing your creativity is a good way to keep yourself occupied over long periods of time!

, Listening to music will keep you entertained on the flight.
 If you are traveling with family or friends or just random strangers, games are a good way to have fun in a boring situation. They can provide hours of fun and can be used over and over again.
, Some airlines such as AirTran, Southwest and American offer WiFi on every flight, and some airlines may have laptop charging stations.
 When is take off? When is it time to land? Food schedules and sleeping time. You need to know these things before the flight. Or you're going to be confused.
 Read the safety rules and manual. Always listen to the announcement and have a seat belt on when the light flashes.
 Use your imagination and pretend you're on a private jet, or in a submarine underwater. It can be loads of fun!

, Look outside and watch the beautiful clouds flow by, Make shapes in the sky.
 Write about your trip on the plane, Write a song on the plane (eg. It's so hot here, I fear, that i forgot something but that's just a thing when you're on a plane and this plane is lame).
 Watch the entertainment system, listen to the national music in the country you're in. Play some games.
 It will make time go by slowly, so try to avoid looking at the built in map.
 They might have an interesting reason they're on the plane, They might compliment you, or even go to the same place as you for the same reason!

, Don't sleep the night before so you feel extra tired for the flight ahead. Sleeping makes time go by faster!

, Totally blackout and daydream about meeting the loved ones back at the airport.
 Come up with a joke and tell it to the person beside you.
 Once the food comes, eat. In case the food is bad, pack your own snacks, just make sure the food is solid..

