 You should know as much as possible about the person you're interviewing so you go into the interview feeling prepared and in control. Look up as much relevant information about the person as you can, and try to find some recordings of in person interviews with that person if possible. This will help you have a sense of the person's personality and interview style, and to adjust your interview accordingly.;
, Before you prepare your interview questions, you should understand your objective for interviewing the person. Is it simply to give readers more insight into that person's personal life, to discuss one aspect of that person's career, or to discuss that person's perspective on a certain political situation? Whatever your objective, your questions should help you meet your objectives.


If you're very clear about your objective, you'll also be able to keep your interview more focused and to make sure you don't drift off-topic.
 You should prepare questions that are flexible, open-ended, and which all come equipped with at least two or three follow-up questions that you can ask depending on the answer to the original question. Here are a few general rules for preparing questions for an interview:Don't ask any "yes" or "no" questions or questions that can be answered in just a few words.
Ask questions that allow the person you're interviewing to expand.
Ask just one question at a time. Asking more than one at a time will overwhelm your interviewee.
Ask questions that are relevant to your objectives. This is an important point. You can make them creative as long as they meet your needs.
Don't ask questions that are so broad that your subject doesn't know how to answer them. Your subject should be directed enough to know what type of an answer you're looking for.
 That's right. You should even prepare the small talk you'll be making at the beginning of the interview. Even if you've only decided to talk about the weather or traffic, you should have this prepared in advance so you start the interview off on the right foot and make your subject feel instantly comfortable.If you know something about the hobbies or side-interests of the person you're interviewing, you can casually bring them up. The subject will feel more at ease if he can talk about something that makes him comfortable, especially if it has nothing to do with the interview.
 If you're using a recorder, make sure it works and has fresh batteries before the day of the interview. You don't want your interview to be doomed before it starts.

