 Managing stress is crucial for being happy. To ensure that you have your stress under control, try to make time to relax every day, even if you only have a few minutes. Some activities you could try include:



Yoga.

Meditation.

Deep breathing.

Progressive muscle relaxation.
 Maintaining a schedule of all the tasks you need to do will help you avoid feeling overwhelmed. Try to plan out your day as much as possible so that deadlines don’t sneak up on you. Writing things down can also help you avoid forgetting to complete important tasks.


Carve out some time for yourself each day. By prioritizing “me” time in your schedule, you will increase the likelihood of actually being able to enjoy yourself., A little bit of stress may help you focus during a crisis. A lot of stress, however, may prove counterproductive. That’s because your brain may shut itself off to only a few possible solutions.


When faced with a problem that seems unsolvable, don’t react by doing the first thing that comes to mind. Think carefully and logically about the problem before taking any action. And control your breathing by taking slow, deep breaths. Breathing too quickly can lead to heightened anxiety, which can only worsen the problem. Contrary to popular belief, “taking out your stress” by punching a pillow or doing something similarly violent will not help reduce your stress. Reacting to stress violently will only heighten it over the long run, since your brain will condition itself to believe that violence is an acceptable means of dealing with stress. , By sharing your feelings with parents, friends, or your spouse or partner, you won’t have to go it alone. Other people can help you cope better than you can on your own. Additionally, they may come up with solutions that you didn’t think of., Stressful events may seem daunting or permanently life-altering in the moment. But by stepping back and asking yourself questions like “What are the potential long-term consequences of this?” you can put the event in proper perspective and come up with a lasting solution.