 Most retailers only carry limited designs in toddler beds, limited only to the latest trends in comic, movie and cartoon characters.


Disney’s Cars characters are all the hype these days for boys’ toddler beds; Disney Princesses are all the rage for the girls’. When it comes to colors, you are limited to choosing between blue, red and green for boys; pink, yellow and white for girls.
Therefore, if you want to give your toddler's bed a more unique, sophisticated and designer feel, it's a much better idea to design and create the bed yourself. You don't even have to buy a new bed, you can just re-design an old one.;
, Most parents prefer wooden toddler beds, although there are other types such as plastic toddler bed, canopy bed, portable bed or cot.


Whatever the type you have, all of these beds have very basic features; all of them are low to the ground, have side rails to protect your little one from falling when sleeping, and a foot and head board.
If you are especially creative and if you have the talent, you can stencil your toddler’s bed frame with designs that you can download online or have made yourself.
 You can definitely paint over the original design of your toddler’s bed if it is made of wood, even more so if the toddler bed is painted white. White furniture is like a blank canvass waiting for the artist’s hand in creating unique patterns and designs.


You will want to choose a paint that’s water based (acrylic; latex) because this gives a better gloss and color retention. It’s also quick to dry so this fits your weekend project better. It has less odor and low on VOC’s (volatile organic chemicals) that are flammable.
These features are best suited to your toddler’s bed rather than oil based paints that are flammable and gives out a strong odor.
 You can choose from a variety of paint colors available at your local hardware or home shopping store. If your toddler hasn’t chosen his or her favorite color yet, go with gender-neutral colors like grey, plum, wine, aqua, ivory and tan.


These colors provide an additional canvas for your toddler’s bedroom color scheme. However, you can also work with whatever color palette comes to your imagination.
Ask your local hardware store if they can give you free paint swatches so you can decide which hues and colors you want.
 Choose basic, solid color fabrics that you can use as a canvas for your creativity. A simple white duvet can be embellished with trims, fabric flowers, or if you have the talent, you can embroider on the white duvet or bed cover.


If you want, skip using a duvet and create a quilt instead. It’s traditionally used as a bed cover but since this is a project you are doing on your own, you are only limited to your own creativity.
 Another vehicle to add a splash of color to your toddler’s bed are his or her pillows. Go with colors that compliment whatever color you've chosen for the bed cover or the duvet.


You can also go for pillows with white pillow covers and just add trimming and embellishments of your choice to the pillow covers to up the design factor.
 You can go with minimalist and contemporary designs, rustic and country styles or colorful and eclectic options. You can base the design on your toddler’s temperament and character.


For example, if she is bubbly and perky, then go with colorful and eclectic designs with splashes of color everywhere. If your toddler is contemplative, mild mannered and shy, you can go with a modern and contemporary or minimalist design where he or she can be most comfortable in.
Some decorations include a bookcase, a study table, a lamp, some decorative hangings such as buntings and even pictures of your toddler or the whole family in frames.
 Once you have chosen the palette of your choice and the paint for the bed frame, start by applying the paint to the bed frame.


You can use a HVLP (high volume low pressure) spray painter, as this is easier and less time consuming.
You can check your local hardware store to see if they can rent a HVLP spray painter; most stores allow rental for around a hundred dollars.
 You can place the bed frame in a well-ventilated area either inside or outside the house (the garage). Make sure to cover the floors and the nearby area with old newspapers and wear something that you won’t mind getting dirty.


If you have purchased a toddler bed that has a frame that has already been treated with lacquer or urethane, you will need to strip this down using a TSP or Tri Sodium Phosphate.
TSP basically is just a chemical that “rinses off” whatever chemical was applied initially to furniture. Just read the instructions on the TSP on when to apply the TSP and how to remove it afterwards.
 Next, you are ready to sand down the bed frame. You can definitely do this by hand or if you do not have the time, you can get a random orbital sander.


Again, check with your local hardware if and how much they rent this out. Just make sure to ask help from a professional if you are hesitant about using the orbital sander.
However, you can definitely sand down the bed frame by hand; it isn’t as hard to do.
 Next, clean the surfaces of the toddler bed and remove all dust either by using a vacuum cleaner or a tack cloth; even a cotton rug with rubbing alcohol will do. The idea is to not redistribute the fine dust all over the bed surface and all over the place.


The next step is to apply your primer. This is an important part of your project because it gives the bed frame a nice even and professional looking finish. You can apply the primer as you would the paint. You can use roller, brush or the HVLP sprayer.
Some of the best brands of primer in the market are Kilz and Zinsser. Both primers have a selection of low-odor types so you definitely want to use those.
 Professionals do one other step that distinguishes their work from the amateurs and that’s sanding the wood again after applying the primer.


No hard work necessary because you just need to re-sand lightly and smoothly. The goal is to make the surface as smooth to the touch as possible.
Once more, after sanding, clean the surface using a vacuum or cloth with rubbing alcohol.
 Now, you are ready to apply two coats of either glossy or matte wood paint using the HVLP or a brush or a roller; depending on how fast you want the job done and how comfortable you are using each of these tools.


When using a paintbrush, use a 2” paint brush for wide surfaces and a 1” paint brush for narrow surfaces. Make sure that your strokes are even and paint along the direction of the grain.
The same technique applies when using a roller. The trick to painting is sure, even and quick strokes. Avoid re-working over what you have already painted on especially if it has begun to dry.
 Afterwards, check your work to make sure that the overall finish is even and no signs of overspray are evident. Once you are satisfied with the paint job, let it stand for a couple of hours or a day or two, depending on the instructions at the paint can.
 You can use a variety of fabric decors and trims available to decorate your toddler’s basic white duvet. If you want to go with graphic designs, do not overload the duvet with a lot of it because then, it would look disorganized and loud.


Simple, one-theme graphic designs are best. If applying trims to the duvet, make sure that all trims are straight and aligned along the sides of the mattress (not the duvet itself) as you will want to create depth when applying these trims to the duvet.
You can also use piping, lace, jewelry, cord, tassel trims or the more playful venice trims. Most of these trims need to be machine sewn or if you have the time, hand stitched to the fabric rather than applying them using fabric glue. Stitching the trims makes it more durable, as machine washing the fabrics will remove the fabric glue.
Check the alignment of your trims – make the bed and cover it with the duvet you have embellished with the trims. Make sure that the outside edges of the trim details are straight and aligned with the edge of the mattress and the toddler bed.
 You can choose pillow covers that will compliment the style of the duvet you made or choose pillow covers in basic solid colors.


For example, if you have chosen aqua for the bed frame, then you can use light yellow pillow covers or white pillow covers with yellow trims or decors.
If you’ve chosen plum for the bed frame, you can partner it with ivory or white and brown duvet or bed covers and pillows with brown or ivory details.
 A bedside table that has the same or complimentary color to the bed frame, a stylish lamp, a wall clock and a bookcase are the basic things you need to complete the look.


If your toddler bed has a head board, this is another canvas that you can use for your creative mind.
You can either leave it wearing the solid color you gave the bed frame or you can also add details like stencils or pictures of your toddler or pictures of his favorite things.
 If your toddler's bed doesn’t have a head board already, you can use a bookcase that fits the width of the bed; this pulls double duty in being a head board and a place to stow away toys or books or stuffed animals, which your toddler has easy access to.
 If you have the budget and the time, you can always hire professionals to create a bespoke design for your toddler's bed.


This is a pricey project, but it is guaranteed to give you a unique bed for your little one. From castle designs, to princess carriages, jungle themes to race car designs, you are only limited to your creative imagination.
So as long as the professional or professionals you are going to hire can guarantee that they can deliver the look you want, then by all means, go to the drawing board and start designing.
 Some parents buy the Kura bed for their children, but these are mostly bought for slightly older children since the Kura bed is a loft bed. Loft beds are high off the ground so it may not be the most suitable bed for your toddler because there is the danger of falling off.


However, loft beds are the perfect canvas for creating a stylish and bespoke bed that can be transformed into a castle just by adding some wooden boards to emulate castle walls.
You can use the bottom space of the loft bed to store your children’s toys, books, bean bags, or; you can place a study table with lamp to transform the space into a study area or reading nook for your children.
If you decide to go for a loft bed, you could consider creating a sleeping space for your toddler underneath, and allow an older child to sleep on top.
 If you have a trundle toddler bed, you can apply the same techniques for decorating a bed as described in the section above. You can purchase a basic white trundle bed frame and just apply the paint of your choice.


Vamp up the mattress by creating or designing your own duvet or bed covers and pillows.
For plastic trundle beds, you can choose spray paint made especially for application on plastic surfaces then follow the basic guidelines listed above.
 Generally, if a project will cost you more than two days hard labor and will take too much effort on your part (think in terms of manual labor such as lifting heavy loads to and from your house), the project might best be done hiring a pro.


If a basic redo such as re-painting, sewing, embellishing and decorating with store-bought items, and if the project can be done within a day or two, a D.I.Y can be accomplished.
It is a good thing that revamping your toddler’s bed can mostly be done over the weekend, on your own or with a little help from a partner. Or if finishing the project over the weekend becomes overwhelming, you can opt to spread out the time when you will work on it.
 You should also consider the cost of your materials and the manual tools that you will be using for the D.I.Y project.


Most professional workers are able to score a discounted rate for some building and paint materials. However, with a little bit of effort you can find these same kind of materials in architectural salvage stores or reuse centers or even from your neighbor’s garage sale.
Decorating your toddler’s bed won’t be that pricey since it would mostly involve just re-painting the bed frame with whatever color your toddler wants and there’s a range of paint colors available in the market to choose from. You can hand paint or use HVLP (high volume; low pressure) sprayer.
Tons of duvets, bed and pillow covers are also available on the market. There’s an array of fabrics printed with well loved cartoon characters and fabrics in basic colors that you can mix and match with other decors in your toddler’s bedroom; and these come in affordable prices that can fit your budget.
 Generally, anything involving plumbing, lifting heavy loads, electrical and wiring should be done by a professional.


It simply isn’t worth your time, effort and money to try doing these things on your own, especially if you have zero knowledge on these skills.
Painting a toddler’s bed or any other furniture in your home can mostly be done outside in a well ventilated area or even inside, as long as you do it without the kids around and make the area is well ventilated as possible.
 Paint, a simple paintbrush and a roller tray are basically all you need in vamping up your toddler’s bed.


If you want to use a HVLP sprayer, ask your local hardware store if they can rent out this equipment to you for a day or two.
Sewing your toddler’s duvet or bed cover is something that you can do, or you can choose to buy basic bed covers at the local home shopping store and decide later on if you want to embellish or decorate the covers more.
 The last thing you should consider is you.


Do you have the time and patience see the job through? Can you make the necessary adjustments in your schedule to finish the job? What if it doesn’t turn out the way you want it to? Do you have a back up plan? Can you follow directions and are you resourceful?
These questions are here to help you evaluate your capacity to see a D.I.Y project through. If you answered positively to these questions then, by all means, decorate your toddler’s bed on your own. It might be a bit daunting at first, but you might be surprised to find out that you may have the aptitude for D.I.Y.

