 In his book,"Conversations with myself", Nelson Mandela wrote:"I acquired knowledge by asking questions to satisfy my curiosity as I grew up,I watched adults and tried to imitate what they did,and I came to possess a fair amount of information.", Proverbs 3:1 says, "My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands, for length of days and long life and peace they will add to you." As an example of this, when you purchase a Computer or a Home theatre system from a furniture store, you are provided with a User's manual. If you follow the instructions given in that booklet, the length of days and long life will add to your devices. Parents, teachers and any other elderly member of the community, are your User's manuals. Follow their instruction, take heed to their advice, and you will be able to cope with any challenge that life might throw at you.;
, There's an old saying that says: "Birds of a feather flock together,"; which means that people who share similar beliefs,attitudes, behaviours,and values, group together because they have something in common. Proverbs 13:20 says: "Keep good company,for whoever walks with the wise becomes wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm." Those people whom you sit with and make your friends are inevitably going to fall into one of the two categories:they will either be good individuals who will guide and encourage you towards that which is good,such as reading,studying,or joining a study group,OR they will be bad individuals who will only encourage you towards that which is bad,such as having unprotected sex when you're not ready, drinking,smoking,taking drugs,bunking school,and so forth and so forth. Now you're asking yourself,is my friend a good or bad influence?" shrugging, "I don't know the company you keep. But here's an example that will shed more light, Nelson Mandela cannot, and will never be a friend to Robert Mugabe,they do not share similar interests or values. Associate with the wise,and you'll never go astray.
 Like the saying goes,"A positive attitude leads to a life that is enjoyable."Romans 12:9 says:"Abhor what is evil,Cling to what is good." You know from deep inside what you need to feel happy, content, fulfilled, and excited about your life. You also know from deep inside what is draining you and making you feel depressed, frustrated and stressed out.So do some careful thinking and be in touch with those positive things that make you happy and excited about life,and Do Those Things! and get rid of those negative things that drain all your energy and only give you stress.
 Have a determination of a mirror. It never loses its ability to reflect even if it is broken into a thousand pieces. Be like a postage stamp,stick to it until you get there. Move in the direction in which your dreams lead you,follow them,pursue them with haste, because life is too precious, too fleeting to waste.
 Believe in your Abilities: Tell yourself, "If I don't try, then I'll never know." Enter every activity without giving any mental recognition to the possibility of defeat or failure. Concentrate on your strengths and improve your weaknesses, concentrate on your abilities and work on your disabilities, concentrate on your powers and tackle your problems.Learn to trust yourself-if you don't trust you,who will?,Never ever put yourself down-you are a part of the Universe,no less that the trees and the stars.You have a right to be here and you are amazing even when you do things that are not amazing,Forgive yourself for the mistakes you make-they point you in the direction of the work you need to do,and the things you didn't know you need to know.So,put one foot in front of the other and keep going. Realise that doubts are fear,and fear stands for forgetting Everything's All Right.
 Mario Andretti tells us that Desire is the key to motivation,but it is the determination and commitment to an unrelenting pursuit of your goal-a commitment to excellence that will enable you to attain the success that you seek. Just remember that if you're not working at your game to the utmost of your ability,there will be someone out there somewhere with equal ability who is,and one day you will play each other and he will have the advantage. Determination will give you the resolve to keep going in spite of the roadblocks that may lay before you. As Burt Lawler puts it,"decision and determination are the engineer and fireman of our train to opportunity and success.
 People, with rare exceptions, do not fail because they lack knowledge,education or talents. They fail chiefly because of what they do not do. Dale Carnegie wrote, "The person who gets the farthest is generally the one who is willing to Do and Dare. The 'sure-thing' boat never gets far from shore." Do and Dare, get out of your comfort zone and stretch yourself. Always remember that opportunity dances with those who are ready on the dance floor. You can't just sit there and wait for people to give that golden ticket, get out there and make it happen for you!

