 While Nicki is known for wild and colourful hair, she actually just has long hair that’s a solid single length. So avoid layers and keep things plain but long.Do not use excessive styling products or tools and eat a healthy diet to help your hair grow.


While time consuming, growing out natural hair length achieves the most vivacious look. You can should also part your hair in the center as Nicki would.
 Nicki is known for her blunt bangs. These bangs should be cut by a professional to ensure that the cut compliments the shape of your face. Basically, blunt bangs fall just below your eyebrows and create a defined line straight across your forehead for an extreme look.You may also try clip ins to see if you like the look before committing to blunt bangs. Purchase these hairpieces online or at your beauty supply store and clip them into your natural hairline. They can easily be taken on and off and will immediately change the look of your bangs., Nicki often needs an entire team of stylists to pull off her extravagant looks. Since you probably don’t have the time or money to commit to those type of resources, look into wigs. Changing the colour of your natural hair can permanently damage it while a wig can be easily taken on and off without damaging your hair. Purchase a wig online or at your local beauty supply store.Try a long platinum blonde wig, short puffy pink bobs, or candy coloured and pastel afros as these are all looks Nicki has donned. Make sure the wigs you try have blunt bangs. You may be able to cut and colour your wigs to update your look but be sure to note the quality as some may look more natural than others. Wigs made of real human hair can be coloured and cut but may also be higher in price., If you want to add just a splash of colour or if your hair just needs a bit of length, use hair extensions. They can come as coloured stripes or in different textures of hair. Purchase clip-in extensions online or at your local beauty supply store. These are a quick and easy way to change your look as you can be creative with colours, feathers, and lengths.