 Do you want to work somewhere to gain experience for your future career? Or would you prefer finding a job where you can gain some extra allowance?


Talk to your parents about getting serious about your future. Ask them what kind of job you’d be good at.
Ask yourself, what skills do you want to learn now before you go off to school?

, Research different jobs for people your age, and be the person for the job.Make sure you learn about the age requirements for jobs in your state or country.


Obtain a permit if you’re younger and would like to start working.
You may consider babysitting for your neighbor, raking leaves or mowing grass for your neighborhood, working as a receptionist, or getting a gig at a restaurant.
Ask your parents if they or their friends would need extra help with paperwork in their businesses or offices.
 Be successful at your job.Don’t slack off!You first job will help you develop a good work ethic and give you a taste of what it will be like in the future.


Always arrive on time, about 10-15 minutes before your official start time. Be the first one to clock in.
Appear professional in appropriate work attire.
Ask for help from your boss and coworkers, and learn to do things right the first time around.
Commit to staying at your job for at least 6 months or more.
 This will allow you parents to see that you’re responsible, and that you know what to do with your money. It'll also help you save up for college and start thinking about your future.Make a savings goal for college. Do your best to save as much as you can to pay for books, tuition, room and board.
When receiving your paycheck, don’t spend it all on one visit to the store.
Learn to save at least 20% of your income.
 When Mother’s Day, Father’s Day, or birthdays roll around, don’t forget to appreciate your parents for all the things that they do for you. Show them you’re a responsible human being that knows how to share and give back.


Take them out to a fancy dinner. They know you're still in school, so you don't need to go overboard on treating them.
Treat them to a night at the movies.
Buy them gifts or gift cards.
Write them a card.

