 It is not always easy, but if you want to build a healthy relationship with your child you need to be accepting of them and deal with any conflicts in a calm, balanced way. Try to listen to your teen and be open to their worries and concerns - the last thing you want is for them to shut you out completely.


For instance, if you find out that your teen has been skipping school, shouting at them and punishing them will do nothing but decrease the quality of your relationship, as the natural human reaction to being yelled at is to yell back or simply pull away.
So, instead of reacting in such a negative way, you could ask your teen to go for a walk and then, when it is just the two of you in a calm and serene setting, you can talk things over. Avoid asking questions that can be answered with a simple "yes" or "no" and try to ask questions that require a deeper level of communication.
 On the other hand, when your teens do something positive, do your best to encourage them and let them know how proud you are. For instance, if your teen decides to do volunteer work or gets a good grade at school, remember to praise them for it.


You may think that your child knows how you feel, but they still need to actually hear it from you – this significantly reduces anxiety levels by helping your teen understand that you really love and care for them.
Remember that teenagers need praise and appreciation – even though at this age they are striving to achieve independence, you are still a huge part of their lives and if you don’t accept them for who they are, neither will they.
Even though teens will seldom admit it, parents are still role-models and people whom they look up to, so it is up to you to fulfill that role.
 Isolation can make mood disorders in teenagers worse, as feelings of loneliness are amplified. Therefore, you should encourage your teen to hang out with friends, meet new people and engage in social activities and groups.


Offer to bring your teen and their friends somewhere fun, like the cinema, the bowling alley or to see some live music. This way, you teen can have a fun night and you can keep an eye on them to see how they interact as part of a group.
You should also encourage your teen to join a sports team or an after-school club - somewhere they can feel part of a community This will keep them out of the house and distract them from their problems.
 Dealing with a teen who suffers from a mood disorder can be emotionally draining. However, it's important that you don't allow it to take over your life. Consider joining a support group for families of troubled teens - these people will understand what you're going through and will be able to offer advice and support.


It's completely normal to experience feelings of frustration, anger, sadness and helplessness. Talking about these issues with someone you trust, such as a close family member or friend can be very helpful.
You could even consider seeing a therapist yourself if you feel like it's all getting too much. This may even help you to understand your child better and get a better idea of what they're going through.

