 Before you try any herbal treatments, you should talk to your doctor about the safety of these treatments. There is currently no medical testing done on herbal treatments and no guarantee of the safety of herbal treatments available for consumers. However, several herbal treatments show promise in addressing overactive bladder issues.Ask your doctor about specific herbal remedies you are considering before you try them. You may ask, “Do you recommend specific herbal remedies for my bladder issue?”
Discuss any medical issues you have that may conflict with the herbal remedies or cause adverse effects. You may ask your doctor, “Do I have any medical issues that may react negatively with herbal remedies?”

, There are three herbal remedies that are often used to address overactive bladder. They are: Gosha-jinki-gan, Hachi-mi-jio-gan, and Buchu. You can find these herbal remedies at natural food stores or online.Gosha-jinki-gan is a blend of 10 herbs that can be used to address bladder issues. Some studies have shown that this herb can help to reduce your urge to urinate and help maintain control of your bladder.
Hachi-mi-jio-gan is a blend of 8 natural herbs and is believed to help ease bladder contractions, which can reduce your body’s urge to urinate.
Buchu is an herbal remedy that is popular in South Africa and is used for a variety of medical issues, including overactive bladder.
 Make sure you verify the seller of the herbal remedy is legitimate before you purchase it. Check that there is a contact number or website for the seller and that you are able to contact the seller with any questions or concerns you may have with the product. You should also read reviews of the herbal remedy online and read over the ingredients list to ensure there are no additives, preservatives, or artificial flavors in the herbal remedy.


If you are not sure if the seller of the herbal remedy is legitimate, you should contact your doctor. Show the herbal remedy to your doctor to confirm if it appears safe for use for your overactive bladder issues.

