 Stress incontinence more often relates to leaking urine than some of the more myriad symptoms associated with overflow incontinence. You may notice the leakage when you laugh, cough, sneeze, jog, or lift heavy objects., Increased pressure on the bladder due to obesity or pregnancy is the most common cause of stress incontinence. Stress incontinence can also occur due to a lack of bladder sphincter pressure as a result of surgical complications. Surgeries commonly associated with this complication include prostate surgery and transurethral resections of the prostate.Stress incontinence can results from 10-20% of TURP surgeries or higher percentages from prostate cancer surgery., Your doctor will examine your symptoms and run a variety of tests to determine the best course of action for your case. For obese patients, this may include testing for metabolic disorders, such as underlying thyroid conditions, that may have caused the weight gain., If your doctor concludes that your weight has placed unnecessary pressure on your bladder, he or she will likely suggest that you lose weight as a primary treatment for the condition.


This will include turning to a healthy, well-balanced diet in conjunction with a regular exercise routine. You can find more information at How to Lose Weight and How to Eat Healthy.
You may want to consult a dietician and a personal trainer to develop the best, healthiest plan for you in order to lose weight.
 Though known primarily for helping women to improve pelvic floor muscles after pregnancy, men can also perform Kegels to help with stress incontinence. Perform by clenching the muscles that control urination. You may initially have to practice by cutting off your urinary stream midstream to get a good idea of how the clenches should feel when doing them apart from actually urinating.Slowly clench while counting to five before using another five count to slowly release. Perform Kegels in sets of ten up to three times per day., For morbidly obese patients, their physician may recommend lap band or other weight loss surgery options. In one study, 71% of participants who lost 18+ BMI (body mass index) points as a result of gastric bypass surgery had regained urinary continence by one year after the procedure.