 Trail shoes are lightweight hiking shoes that look much like a sneaker or walking shoe, except more rugged. They are fine for mild to moderate hiking where you are going to stay on a trail that doesn't climb much. If you're just an occasional hiker, this shoe should be enough for you. Nonetheless, if you plan to do more serious hiking or even if you just need to have more ankle support, you may need to move up a level.If you're a runner, another light option is trail runners, which have softer soles but provide good traction.;
, Hiking boots generally have more solid soles than hiking shoes, plus they usually come up to ankle height to provide support for your ankle. However, they do come in different weights, each of which is appropriate for different occasions.Lightweight hiking boots work best on fairly easy trails. You should also only use these when you have a fairly light load that you're carrying.While these boots do provide more ankle support, they usually only have an ankle collar, which doesn't provide as much support as sturdier boots.
 Both mid-weight and heavyweight boots offer more ankle support, a stronger sole, and better protection from the trail. This type of boot is the more traditional style hiking boot, and you should choose it for rough trails and off trails. You should also pick one of these if you're carrying a heavy load.Keep in mind that the sturdier your boot is, the longer it will take to break it in. It could take a while for these boots to really feel comfortable., You may also need other types of boots for different types of climbing. You wouldn't want light hiking boots when you're going mountaineering, for instance, as they won't provide enough support.For rough mountain terrains, you'll need mountaineering boots, which come with better traction and stiffer soles (soles that would be too stiff for normal hiking).
Similarly, if you plan to do scrambling, you need to pick a boot built for doing that, that emphasizes good traction. Usually, scrambling boots have rubber soles, which helps increase traction.
 When you're trying on boots, you need to wear the socks you plan to wear on the trail. Different socks will make the boots fit differently.Pick a sock that provides some comfort on its own, as it's supposed to provide some of the cushioning.Choose moisture-wicking fabrics. Don't use cotton socks, as they just stay wet. Rather, choose wool or synthetic fibers that wick away the moisture.
Make sure they hug your feet. You don't want your foot to slide around in the sock.
Pick thick socks for winter and thinner ones for summer.
Choose a sock with a flat seam so it doesn't rub.
 You may be tempted just to stay in your normal size range. However, in hiking boots, you may need to go up a half size or even a full size, particularly if you're wearing thick socks. Try on different sizes to figure out what feels best to you.In fact, have your foot measured if possible. Most reputable stores will have a device available for you to use.Also, your feet will often swell on the trail, so a larger size is generally better.
 Each brand is going to fit a bit differently, and no two people's feet are alike. Therefore, it's important to experiment and figure out which brand is best for you. In fact, the wooden form (called a "last") that makes up the inside structure of the boot may be great in one brand and not fit you at all in another brand. Therefore, it's important to make sure the boot feels right as you walk., The boot should fit securely around your heel, as well as the ball of your foot. However, it also shouldn't feel too tight. When you go up on the ball of your foot or move back towards your heels, you should be able to do so easily without it feeling like the boot is stopping you.If it doesn't fit around your heel, you'll end up with blisters.
When the boots aren't laced, check to see if you have about a 1/2 an inch of space at the back (the width of a finger).One way to check is to slip on the boot on your bare foot. If the store doesn't allow that, use the provided nylon "socks" that many stores have specifically for trying on shoes. As you test the shoe, see if it rubs or cramps your foot in any place., Any cramped feeling is only going to be exacerbated on the trail. When you try your boot on, make sure you can wiggle your toes and that the boot doesn't narrow too much in the toes for your foot to feel comfortable.In fact, when the boot is laced, your toes shouldn't rubbing against the front of the boot., Just standing in the boots isn't going to give you a feel for the boots in action. Walk back and forth down the aisle a bit to see how they feel. Make sure they are creasing in the right place (just at the base of the toes). Also, make sure your heel isn't slipping out of the back of the boot.You can also do a "slant" test. Many shops have a board you can walk down to test inclines. If your toes push into the front of the boot as you go down, you may need a larger size. If your foot sloshes to the front, you may need a different boot entirely.
 Obviously, you need a boot that is sufficiently sturdy for the hiking you'll be doing. However, the heavier the boot, the more tired you will be at the end of the day. Evaluate how much boot you really need, particularly if you are trying to decide between a lighter and heavier boot., Turn the boot over. Try to press into the sole of the boot with your thumb. If it gives way, it's likely too soft. Another way to test the boot is to try to twist the sole. If you are able to twist it, it's probably too soft once again.Soft boots will not protect your feet well enough, particularly for long trails or ones where you go off trail. Stiff soles will give your feet the support they need not to feel every sharp edge and bump on the trail.
 While waterproof boots are not a necessity if you're only doing light hiking, it can be essential if you're on the trail all the time. Wet feet can cause problems, such as blisters, which can lead to you being in pain on the trail or worse, getting an infection.Skip fabric altogether if it's not already waterproof. While waterproof fabric works well, it can be difficult to seal non-waterproof fabric enough for hiking.
Look at boots that are already waterproofed or that can be waterproofed, such as ones made out of leather. If they're not waterproof, you can use waterproofing solution on them, such as a beeswax solution.
If you already have boots that aren't waterproof, consider buying a pair of waterproof socks.

