 A house, clean water, a loving family, friends, and food are all things that we often take for granted. So many people don't have these things so try to always remind yourself to be grateful. Be proud of your accomplishments, and be sure to thank people for their help and support.


Make a list of the things you are thankful for.
Let people you love know you care for them, it will both make them feel loved and strengthen your bonds.;
, Human beings are social animals, and we feed off of each other's positive energy. Find friends and family that make you feel good and make it a priority to hang out with them. Ring them for a chat after work or go shopping on the weekend. Go to your grandma's for Sunday Lunch. Spending time with them will make you happy, and vice versa.
 Make sure you are taking care of yourself with some quality "me" time. You don't have to examine your life or look for problems, just find a few hours each week to be by yourself, away from work or stress. Go for a walk/hike, listen to your favorite albums, or curl up with a good book. Being happy and confident by yourself is the first step to being happier in any situation.
 Life isn't perfect, and there will be hardship along the road. Don't feel like you need to ignore bad situations or tough times, as they won't go away when you do. Instead, try and learn what you can from negative experiences, finding the positives whenever possible. You are still alive, you still have people that love you, and you still have yourself. Pick up the pieces, learn your lesson, and move on.
 There is no better feeling than positively impacting somebody else's life. Whether this is something little, like helping an elderly person cross the road or carrying their bags, or something big, like tutoring someone or volunteering on weekends, being generous is proven to improve your own happiness., Exercising releases endorphins into the body to make you feel better, and improves performance in almost every aspect of life. Eating well is also a huge factor in bettering yourself as most of the "healthy" foods contain positive nutrients (vitamins and minerals) that contribute to better overall health. Take care of your body and your mind will thank you.
 Love yourself and good things will happen. Remind yourself that you are worthwhile and use the power of positive thinking to bring happiness into your life. Simply feeling confident in who you are attracts similar people, and everyone, from your boss to your spouse, will take note of your energy.

