 The acorn contains the "seeds" of the oak tree, and an acorn buried in the right location may eventually sprout into a towering oak in its own right.


The acorn develops within a cup-like structure called a cupule. The cupule delivers the nutrients that flow from the roots and leaves all through the tree, along the branches, and through the stem into the acorn. When the acorn rests with its point facing down, the cupule should look like a sort of cap atop the nut. The cap is not a part of the acorn, technically, so much as a protective covering.
Each acorn typically contains one oak seed, although the occasional nut contains two or three. An acorn takes 6 to 18 months to mature into a sprouting oak seedling; acorns sprout best in a moist (but not too moist) environment, and their growth is naturally activated by the cold-snap temperatures of a Northern Hemisphere winter.Acorns have evolved to be deliciously appealing to deer, squirrels, and other woodland creatures. When animals eat the acorns that litter the forest floor, they take tiny oak seeds on board. When they excrete the digested acorn seeds--or, in the case of squirrels, compulsively hide acorns and then forget about them in the springtime--they spread the oak's seeds throughout their ecosystem. Most seeds do not survive to become full-fledged oak trees, but the ones that do survive eventually begin to produce acorns of their own.
When an acorn falls to the ground, it has roughly a 1 in 10,000 chance of becoming a full-fledged oak tree--so you can imagine why it behooves the oak to produce so many!

, Acorns may vary in size and color, but most are characterized by a bumpy "cap" and a smooth, pointed bottom. The following measurements may help you gather information about a tree:


Observe the stem on which the acorn grows. Notice the length of the stem and how many acorns grow from it.
Note the appearance of the cupule. The nut of the acorn grows from a woody cup, which may remind you of a head wearing a hat. Cupules may be scaly and include wart-like hairy growths which may take the form of a fringe, or may be characterized by color changes such as concentric rings.
 Some species have long nuts, while others are fat and almost spherical. Measure how much of the acorn the cupule covers.


As a general rule, full-grown red oak acorns are slightly larger: 3/4 to 1 inch long, with the cupule covering about 1/4 of the nut.Full-grown white oak acorns tend to be slightly smaller: 1/2 to 3/4 inch long.
 Note the color of the nut, whether it has a pointed end, and whether it has any other distinguishing features like ridges or stripes.


Red oak acorns tend to take on a rich reddish-brown color, while white oak acorns tend to favor pale-gray hues.
White oak species produce acorns on a one year cycle; these acorns contain fewer tannins and taste better to the woodland creatures--deer, birds, and rodents--that eat them, but they are more sporadic from year to year in acorn production.
Red oak species take two years to mature an acorn, but they reproduce yearly, and they commonly provide a reliable crop on a yearly early basis. Although the red oak acorns contain more tannins and, in theory, don't "taste as good", this doesn't seem to deter woodland creatures from gobbling any acorns they can find.
Red oak acorns usually contain large amounts of fats and carbs, but white oak acorns contain the highest carb content.

