 Twin blocks are an orthodontic treatment used to correct jaw alignment, especially overly protruding upper front teeth. They push the lower jaw out so the upper jaw and the lower jaw are in line. They’re usually used with kids and teens whose bones are still growing and developing. You have to wear both braces at all times, otherwise they won’t be able to adjust your jaw properly., Twin blocks should be worn every day for at least 18 hours a day.If possible, you can wear your block braces for 24 hours a day. Most people will need to take the block braces out to eat when they first receive them, or after they are adjusted.


You can take your braces out while you’re playing contact sports, or when you play a wind instrument. You should always wear a mouth guard during sports, even if you take your braces out.
 You need the keep your teeth and gums very clean, otherwise you risk damaging them permanently with the block braces. Besides brushing your teeth each morning and night, you should brush after meals. You can use either a manual or an electric toothbrush in conjunction with fluoride toothpaste.Use floss to clean between teeth and to keep your gums healthy. You can also rinse with a non-alcoholic mouthwash. Alcohols can erode your braces, so avoid alcoholic mouthwashes.
 You will need to remove each brace when you are having a meal. After you remove the braces, rinse them under a running tap and clean it with a toothbrush.Do not use toothpaste to clean the braces, since the chemicals in toothpaste can be damaging to the brace material.


You will need to clean your teeth before you re-insert the brace so food is not trapped between the brace and your teeth.
 While brushing will help to remove larger food particles, you will need to soak your braces in a retainer cleaning solution to kill remaining bacteria. You should soak it at least once a week, but you can soak it more frequently.You can use a denture cleaner, brush it with a baking soda and water paste, or clean it with an anti-bacterial dish soap.
Be sure the rinse the braces thoroughly after soaking them.

