 Preparation is a large part of running a theatre and directing actors. Your own confidence will stem from making sure that you have everything that's needed to keep each practice running smoothly. Some things you'll need to prepare include:



Make your script. Reader's Theatre is essentially about selecting a book to either (1) type out part of it from the book -- or (2), instead, copy and paste parts of the text, if you find a book on line that will work that way (some are not in text form). Then (3) organize that into a play-script format. It will take you a while, but that's what you would have to do -- unless someone has made some scripts already that you can borrow or download and use.



Print out your scripts and staple them.
Print 10 extra scripts above what you think you'd regularly need. Someone will always forget his or her script and newcomers may turn up when you least expect it.
Get together anything else needed, such as a portable music player and music playlist, highlighters for the scripts, water and cups for refreshing parched throats, etc.
 It should be an open space with chairs surrounding the area. If you can, put a few mirrors on the walls. It will help the actors practice their facial expressions and posture, allowing them to make changes as needed when their actions are reflected back at them. Affordable portable mirrors can often be found in thrift stores; they don't need to be beautiful, just functional.
 Be ready to field queries from interested people by having all the details sorted in your mind; this will help you to sound professional and will encourage them to join in. If you've done everything listed above, then all you need is the actors and to wait for the day you set.


If you've made electronic copies of the script, you might consider emailing this to interested people before they turn up. You can make it clear that you'll provide paper copies but this lets them get a head start on understanding the script.
Send confirmation details by email or mail to those who "enroll" or "join" the Readers' Theatre. This helps to create a sense of belonging and encourages turning up. Use this opportunity to ask them to friend you on Facebook and follow you on Twitter as well.

Have everyone stand in a circle and give them each a script. Explain what you will be doing and "audition" people for the parts. Always have the actors warm up.Teach the actors to use their big voice, not the small "3 foot (0.9 m) voice" which is used in classroom group work.



Teach and insist on safety, in all aspects. Teach your 5 or 6 rules and instruct new procedures anytime, as needed.
Keep a clipboard handy. Write or print out each person's name and put a little box next to it. Have each actor read the parts you're thinking they would be good for. If they meet your expectations, put an "x" for "good" next to their name; if not, then put an '*' and move on to the next person. Using the asterisk, "*", is not such an obvious bad-mark and using "x as the good-mark" lessens the set notions of being judged...

If you have more than two plays (or books/short stories), this will ensure that everyone gets a part; and a second chance if they weren't what you were looking for when they did their first audition.
If you're auditioning children, be more forgiving about who seems "right" for a role. The purpose of acting for children is to learn how to grow into the roles and to improve in time. Indeed, acting often teaches children confidence and resilience, and giving them a chance to prove themselves will often surprise you (and their parents)!


If you have a person who auditions and seems totally unsuitable for any part, try to find this person something else to do to keep them involved. Part of a director's role, especially with passionate performers, is to make sure that those keen to take part have something they can do. Take into account the fact that just by turning up, such a person showed enthusiasm and you might give them a chance to be an understudy, manager of props or chief usher at the show, etc.
 Make a plan to meet back at the chosen location on the set dates.


Be on time to unlock the building; it's a good idea to be there about 30 minutes before anyone is supposed to arrive. If you're using a set of any kind, and/or properties (props), put these in place so that the "stage" is set when your actors arrive.

If you have no set, then use chairs or crates to form a basic set.


When people arrive, have them sit and encourage them to practice their lines.
 If one play doesn't involve certain people, have your assistant take them to a separate area to practice their lines (and do character work) while you're working on the current play. Alternatively, if it's just the one play, have those not in a particular scene break off and practice something different with the assistant director.


Learn how to critique acting. If you see something you think could be fixed, then tell the actors kindly. This is where your directing instinct should kick in. It will take some practice to perfect your own style but provided you let the actors know you're learning and that you're open to being taught too, this is a fine opportunity to hone your directing skills.
Always assume that you're working with people who want to achieve their best and focus on praising the results you want and downplaying the things you don't want from them.
Spend some time reading about directors and directing skills to get good suggestions for improving your own techniques.
Don't be hesitant about explaining what you'd prefer an actor to do. Acting is about being ready to conform to the expectations of people who have some distance and can see what is needed; the actor is in the middle of the action -- but as a director, you're able to see the bigger picture, and it is important that you learn to convey this professionally and clearly.
It can sometimes help to video people as they act. Email them the video after the practice session with pointers for making changes. Having actors able to see themselves in the privacy of their own homes and digest the constructive feedback you've offered should see them return with renewed vigor!

