 Some subjects are complicated, but that doesn’t mean you have to explain them in a complicated way. Explain your lessons in such a way as to be easily grasped by students of all levels. Avoid using big and complicated words that are beyond your students’ vocabulary.Sometimes the easiest way to explain something complicated is to break it down into smaller pieces and explain each small piece individually.
Visuals of any kind can make a subject much easier to learn, as a student doesn’t have to try to guess how something works or what it looks like.
While you certainly want to expand your students’ vocabulary as much as possible, there are limits. If you’re using a word found only in a university textbook, you’re probably getting a little too complicated.
 Patience is a virtue and an absolute must as a teacher. Teachers who get upset easily, or yell at students constantly, are usually those who students try to avoid. Depending on their age, you may need to use your patience in order not to get upset if your students won’t calm down or pay attention. But you’ll also need to use your patience when explaining concepts and answering questions.Remember, there is no stupid question. Never put a student down for asking a question, no matter what it is. If it’s an inappropriate question, explain to the student, and the class, why it’s inappropriate.
Even if you’re getting impatient and frustrated on the inside, keep your composure on the outside. If you need to vent about something your students did to a fellow teacher or friend later, that’s fine.
Some students try to get extra attention by acting out in class, disrupting your lesson, and causing the other students to lose focus. While this is annoying, keep in mind that there may be something happening to this student personally that is causing this behaviour.
 There is almost nothing worse as a young person than to be disrespected simply because you’re a young person. Age doesn’t depict intelligence, just the amount of knowledge you already have. Students can be afraid to ask a question or give an opinion because they aren’t sure if an adult will care. As a teacher, you need to care about every question and opinion your students have.Again, there are no stupid questions. If a student asks a question, it probably means there’s something they don’t understand or are confused about. Use their question as a guide to further explaining whatever was confusing.
People of all ages have opinions, and there are no wrong opinions. Respect what your students have to say, and engage them in a conversation about their opinions without using your more extensive knowledge or experience to put them down.
Help teach your students how to argue and justify an opinion without disrespecting someone who has a different opinion.
 Some semi-bad behaviour isn’t great, but it’s also not worth the time to interrupt class to address. Pick your battles. Don’t be the teacher who stops class for every little misbehaviour.Focus on addressing bad behaviour that is disrespectful, cruel, mean, or physical.
When bad behaviour does happen in your classroom, use it as a teaching moment for the rest of the class to better understand why that behaviour is inappropriate.
Even if a student is being disrespectful to you with their behaviour, you shouldn’t be disrespectful to them with your behaviour. Keep your cool and demonstrate how you’re the bigger person.
 Students like it when their teachers spend time on topics that aren’t typical to a school classroom, like career planning. Teaching a specific subject is great, but how does that subject fit into the grand scheme of the world. Observe your students, and their skills and interests, and try to link those to a potential career that might interest them.Career planning doesn’t have to be taken on by you, as the teacher, alone. Invite guest speakers to your classroom to help explain a specific career or how one might decide what career they want to pursue.

