 After the death of a loved one it is normal to feel sad, upset, or lost. Don't be angry at yourself for feeling sad, or tell yourself that you should "man up" or get over the loss. Grief is a normal, natural human emotion that helps you cope with death, not something to hide or feel ashamed of.Common, emotions include:


Denial of the death
Shock or emotional numbness
Bargaining or rationalizing how you could have "saved" the deceased.
Regret for things you might have done.
Depression
Anger;
, It is only natural to push your sadness to the side, distracting yourself with other things and ignoring your emotions. But sadness and anger will creep into your life whether you want it to or not, and the longer you ignore it the longer it will take to fade away. Immediately after a loss, take some time off to process your feelings and deal with the myriad stresses that come with the death of a loved one.Take time off from work.
Request time away from school.
Clear your schedule to spend time with friends and family.
 Select a special item of sentimental value to keep close that provides a sense of connection to the one who has passed. Life moves on, but that doesn't mean you must forget the person you've lost. Keep them alive in your memories and remember the good times together. Try to reframe your thoughts so that you remember the good times, not the bad.


There is a reason why their death was painful, and it is usually because they were such a wonderful, positive presence in your life. Try not to forget this as you grieve., You may not believe someone when they say, "your sadness will pass with time," but always remember that they are just trying to help. Listen to their sentiments, but don't feel anger or despair if you disagree. People find it hard to deal with death and even harder to deal with the person who is left behind. Everyone is wondering what the “right thing to do” is. There is, however, no right thing to do, and you are entitled to feel your pain.


Many people will come to help with chores, cooking, and funeral planning. Accept their help, however small, as a show of respect for the dead and their love for you.Feel free to ask for time alone if you cannot deal with crowds. You need to unpack this event on your own time however it feels right to you.
 Grieving is often a group process, where fellow loved ones band together to help get over the pain of a lost loved one. Turning to these relationships reminds you that you are not alone in your pain and can help you express your feelings to people who understand and feel them too.Share stories that you have of your loved one.
Let people know how you feel, even if it hurts to talk about.
Share a meal, activity, or hobby that your loved one enjoyed.
Work together to plan the memorial service., There is a strong correlation between physical and mental health,which means a dip in one will affect the other. You need to continue to eat healthy meals, work out, and get enough sleep, even if your feel sluggish or uncomfortable.Exercise may seem unappealing when you are dealing with grief, but it is a good way to take your mind off of the loss for an hour and recharge your brain.
 Your memories of a loved one are likely overpowering, but many of them will be beautiful, poignant, happy moments. Remember and cherish these moments in the funeral service and in daily life. What stories would they want to be told of them? What sorts of colors and music would they play at their own party? While planning a funeral is never easy, using this time to remember the good they brought into the world is one of the best ways to remember them and acknowledge your grief.Studies show that your mindset coping with grief in the present affects how you feel 1-2 years later, so keep your thoughts as positive as possible by remembering good times., Some people want to cry uncontrollably, others may fall silent. Some distract themselves with funeral preparations while others want nothing to do with them. You'll likely hear a lot of advice on "how to feel," but you should know that your grieving process will be your own. Don't let someone tell you how you should feel -- acknowledge your feelings and you will find your own ways to deal with them.