 Most contact paper comes in rolls that are 18” wide by 75” long.That being said, there’s also a grid on the back that can help you easily size it to fit your needs. How big are your walls?


If you do need to cut the width of the paper, take a razor blade, exacto knife, or box cutter and use the grid on the back, following the lines. Unless you’re cutting it into crazy shapes, this grid makes it super easy and lets you keep the ruler in its drawer.
 Contact paper comes in a bunch of different colors and patterns. However, if you go for white or solid-colored contact paper, you could always put your own design on top of that. Now’s your chance to design your very own wallpaper. What’ll it look like?


Paint is the obvious medium of choice, but your template could be for just about anything – glitter, felt, washi tape, you name it. With the right kind of glue, heck, you could line your wallpaper with bells.
 Once you have your template figured out (incorporating in the dimensions, of course), design away. Spread the paper out on the floor or on some large, cleared surface and get to being creative. This will be the funnest part!


Let each panel dry once you’re done. Don’t try to hang up the panels immediately – they’ll need a solid 3-4 hours for you to safely work with them (depending on your design, that is)., In one of the top corners of your wall, line up your paper with the backing still on. Once it’s in place, start peeling off the backing slowly. As you do that and your friend is holding up the paper, have one of you smooth down the front as you go.


Slowly move down the wall, in tandem smoothing and peeling off the back paper. Monitor your progress as you go – it’s easy to inadvertently angle the paper to the right or left.
 As you’re slowly going down your panel, smooth out all the bubbles before you continue adhering any further. This is easiest to do with a ruler or straight-edge, though the edge of your hand may work, too. You’ll be glad you took your time – a wall full of bubbles probably isn’t the look you’re going for.


The best part about contact paper is that usually it comes right off. So if you notice that you just flubbed up, immediately peel it back up and reapply. If you take swift action, pretty much any mistake with this DIY project can be remedied.

