 There are many risk factors that increase a person’s likelihood of being hospitalized; not having adequate shelter is a large risk factor. Homeless individuals are at a much higher risk of hospitalization than individuals who are housed.This has to do with the ability to care for your basic needs. Shelter is seen as a basic necessity to keep yourself safe and healthy (away from the elements such as snow, rain, or high heat).


If you have trouble maintain your living situation – you can reach out to family and friends for help. Ask them if you can stay on their couch for a while until you can get back on your feet.
If you cannot stay with family or friends, try contacting your local government or social services agency. There is also a national list of shelters you can find at shelterlistings.org., Stigmatizing the self is a big risk factor for hospitalization.This is because people who believe that their mental health issue is not acceptable to themselves, or who believe they are crazy, are less likely to seek help. Self-stigma is associated with negative beliefs or stereotypes about yourself.


Understand that getting therapy, taking medication, or going to a mental hospital are not things to be ashamed of. You can start reducing your self-stigma today through positive affirmations. Let’s say you have been diagnosed with a mental health disorder. You could say to yourself, “I accept my diagnosis, but it does not define me or who I am. It is okay that I have this diagnosis and I believe I can cope with it in a healthy way. I may have a diagnosis, but that does not mean I’m crazy.”

, Another large risk factor for hospitalization is a lack of social support. However, strong in-group identification (identifying with others that have similar issues) can be a protective factor against hospitalization.In other words, having a strong social support network can reduce your risk of being hospitalized.


Join a support group. The National Alliance for Mental Illness (NAMI) is a United States agency and is a great place to start., Substances can exacerbate pre-existing mental health conditions. Certain substances can also produce severe mental health symptoms such as hallucinations (hearing voices, and seeing things that aren’t there). These symptoms can make you appear as if you have a serious mental illness and can increase the likelihood that you are hospitalized for evaluation.
 Not having a plan when your thoughts (thinking about harming yourself/others, or psychosis – hallucinations, delusions), feelings (depression, mania, paranoia) or behaviors (self-harm, harming others, not taking care of your basic needs) get severe can increase the likelihood of hospitalization. Without a plan you may have difficulty coping with a crisis situation.Write down a list of contacts including your doctors, therapists, and family member for friends that might be able to help. If none of these contacts are available, have a list of emergency hot-lines you can call such as the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1 (800) 273-8255.Know where to go – have a list of local hospitals, shelters, as well as addresses of friend’s and family’s homes.
 Getting to know how the people who love and care about you feel about any issues you may be dealing with can be very helpful. It can help to talk about the issues you've had with them in the past and how you feel about going there again.


For example, if your family has suggested that you need psychiatric help in any way, it may be helpful to have a meaningful conversation with them. Find out why they feel this way, ask for examples of the behavior they're referring to, and offer potential solutions.

