 You can take over the counter analgesics, such as acetaminophen or tramadol, to help relieve your pain. These medications help with pain, but they do not help with inflammation. Popular over the counter brands include Tylenol and Ultram.


If the pain is severe, you may want to contact a pain clinic and ask about prescription analgesics, such as narcotics with oxycodone or hydrocodone. Popular prescriptions include Percocet, Oxycontin, and Vicodin.;
, To help with the pain of arthritis, you can take over the counter NSAIDs. These drugs, such as Ibuprofen and naproxen, can be used to relieve occasional pain that comes with arthritis or overworking muscles that leads to joint and muscle pain. They also help reduce inflammation, which is a major component of arthritis pain.Talk to your doctor if you find yourself using these medications too regularly. You don't want to over treat yourself, which can cause more problems, including damage to your kidneys and liver.
Try a common brand of of ibuprofen, such as Advil or Motrin, and of naproxen, such as Aleve., There are some over the counter topical creams that you can buy that might help with arthritis pain. These creams contain menthol or capsaicin, which, when applied to the skin over a painful joint, can help relieve pain. They may also interfere with the transmission of pain signals from the painful joint.


In studies, capsaicin has been shown to reduce pain by 50% after three weeks of use.You can also get some NSAIDs that can be applied as a cream.You can take these with or without oral medications., You can take prescription corticosteroids to help reduce severe arthritis pain and swelling. Your doctor can give these to you in the form of a shot or a pill. Injections can provide you with quick relief, but they can only be used a few times a year. This is because they break down bone and cartilage.


Any form of corticosteroids you are prescribed will be monitored by your doctor because there are some potentially negative side effects, such as the loss of vitamin D that leads to bone deterioration., It also affects neurotransmitters, such as serotonin, which helps to reduce pain perception.


Multiple studies have shown that SAM-e relieves arthritis symptoms just as effectively as NSAIDs, but has fewer side effects., ASU is a supplement that blocks chemicals in the body that cause inflammation. It also prevents the deterioration of the cells that line joints and may help regenerate joint connective tissue.This supplement is a combination of 1/3 avocado oil and 2/3 soybean oil.


This supplement is available as a soft gel. You should take one 300mg pill daily., Also known as Omega-3 fatty acids EPA and DHA, fish oil is a supplement that has been extensively studied. The Omega-3s help block inflammatory cytokines and prostaglandins and also are converted by the body into anti-inflammatory chemicals.


It also helps decrease joint tenderness and stiffness. In studies, it has also been shown to reduce or eliminate the use of NSAIDs.You can also take omega 6 fatty acids, known as gamma linolenic acid (GLA), to help reduce joint inflammation.