 The same deep breathing exercises that you can use to calm yourself down in a stressful moment can be incorporated into your daily routine. Doing regular deep breathing will give you a time set aside to relax. Sit up straight and fill your lungs with air by breathing in through both your nose and your mouth. Count up to five as you breathe in. If you can't get to five at first, don't force it.


Breathe out slowly, letting the air leave your lungs in a slow and controlled manner. Count to five again as you breathe out.
Repeat this and you will begin to feel calmer and more relaxed.
Practice this relaxed breathing for three to five minutes, two or three times a day. Or whenever you feel stressed and nervous., You can use a tennis ball to massage your shoulders. Begin by wrapping your shoulders and neck in a warm towel for 10 minutes. While wearing the warm wrap, close your eyes and relax your shoulder, neck and back and chest muscles. The heat will ease your muscles and loosen them. You can increase the relaxation by giving your back a massage. After removing the warm towel, stand with you back to a wall.


Place a tennis ball or foam roller between your back and the wall. Push the ball against the wall with your back, holding it with the part of your back you’re trying to massage.
Apply gentle pressure for 15 seconds by leaning into the ball. Release the pressure and move the ball to another spot., The goal here is to systematically tense and then relax your different muscle groups. Doing this will ease the tension in your muscles and help you to feel more relaxed all over your body, while allowing you to focus in on each muscle group in turn.You will gain more awareness of physical sensations and recognise when you are involuntarily tensing your muscles.


Begin with your toes. Tense your muscles there for 5 seconds, then relax for 30 seconds.Next you would tense and relax your calf muscles. Continue tensing and relaxing all your muscle groups one-by-one up as you travel up your body.
You can also begin at the top (your head) and work your way down to the bottom.
 Autogenic relaxation combines visualization and body awareness to help you relax. It brings together a few different relaxation techniques into a single method. Begin by closing your eyes and picturing a relaxing scene. Breathe slowly and deeply. As you concentrate on your breathing gradually relax different parts of your body, one at a time. Start with your legs, then move on to your arms, your shoulders, and so on.You should feel your heart rate slowing as you relax.
Instead of focusing on an image, you can try repeating relaxing words or phrases.
The word autogenic refers to something that comes from within you.
 Regular meditation may actually help your brain deal more effectively with stress. Even just a few minutes of meditation each day can help to ease your anxiety. It's a good thing to incorporate into your daily routine in you suffer from nervousness or anxiety regularly. To meditate, simply place both feet on the floor and sit up straight. Close your eyes, recite your chosen mantra and let all the other thoughts drift away.


As you repeat the mantra concentrate on your breathing with deep slow rhythmic breaths.
Try putting one hand on your stomach as you breathe in and out and aligning your breathing with your mantra recitation.Your mantra can be anything you like. Just keep it positive. Try “I am at peace”.

