 Focus on similarities rather than differences between you and your relatives. Even if you don’t have similar lifestyles or upbringing, there may be ways to connect them in a loving and accepting way. Give other people the benefit of the doubt, rather than assuming the worst.


For example, let’s say that your relatives watch certain TV shows or love certain video games. Maybe you have a different taste in things. Be willing to try these new things that they enjoy.
Let them be “the teacher” about certain things they like. Consider asking them things like, "I see you like playing this video game. Tell me about some of the characters you like. What kinds of powers do they have?"
Avoid being negative about certain activities just because they are kid-oriented. Let’s say you’re in high school and you are hanging out with your eight year old cousin who wants to play with dolls. Avoid making them feel bad about what they like even if you think that playing with dolls isn’t fun or cool.
 If you’ve got some one-on-one time with your younger relatives, or maybe you’re baby-sitting them, consider taking them to different places other than just shops or play places. If you’re active in your own community through small business, local government, or the creative arts, show them what you do.For example, let’s say that you’re an artist, and they are planning to show your art class’s works at a local community center. Consider taking them to see the community center and the art work.
Explore local history with your younger relatives. Maybe there are old factories, stores, parks, or museums in your town that highlight what life was like many years ago. Help them to appreciate their community through history.
Teach them to appreciate and respect others in their community.
 Being a role model may also mean giving your support and undivided attention when you’re available and able to do so. Some young kids may have difficulty coping with stressors at school or at work. Focus on what they need and talk about what’s bothering them.Use active listening skills. Keep good eye contact. Provide validation if they’re talking about something difficult for them. Consider saying, “It sounds like that’s difficult” or “That’s a tough situation.”
Provide reassurance that they have support through you and others. Open up about what you can do to help or what support you can offer. Consider saying, "I know you're going through a difficult time. Just know that I'm here for you. You can come to me if you need to talk about anything."
Give hugs when they’re hurting. Give high-fives when they do something well. This helps to build their confidence.
 Give young children a “secure base” where they can feel safe. If you’re visiting your younger relatives, and their home life is chaotic, then find other places such as your home or safe public places that make them feel secure. And vice versa, if they are anxious when in public, find out ways to make them feel protected in those public spaces.With young children under 10, keep a watchful eye on where they are and what they’re doing particularly in public spaces. Don’t let them wander too far without supervision.
Avoid taking them to places that may involve vulgar behavior or make them feel uncomfortable.
Don’t have them watch movies or TV that is mature in its content, particularly if it is scary or violent.

