 Grab a paper towel. If you use a soft tissue, it will likely cause more of a mess than you began with. Using your paper towel, dab the bristles of your mascara wand. If there is stubborn mascara clinging for life, gently wiggle your wand back and forth in a folded paper towel. This will also help spread the bristles.;
, Now, dip your wand in lukewarm water. Let it sit for 2-4 minutes with all of the bristles fully submerged. This loosens any dried mascara that’s on your wand.
 After you’ve let your wand sit in warm water, there may be some mascara still lodged between the bristles. Soak the bristles in isopropyl alcohol to remove these and to sanitize your wand., Use a paper towel again to gently pat your mascara wand dry. You want the wand to be totally dry before you use it. If you’ve cleaned it ahead of time, store it in a plastic bag to keep it clean and bacteria free.
 Wash any makeup off of your eyes and lashes. This will help the moisturizing qualities of the Vaseline do its job.
 Using your clean finger, move the top layer of Vaseline around. This will warm it up and make it easier to apply.
 You want to get a heavy amount of Vaseline on your wand. It has a tendency to clump onto the front of your brush. If this happens, simply use a damp paper towel to help spread it evenly down your wand.
 Just as if you were applying mascara, apply the Vaseline to your upper lashes. Coat both sides of your lashes thoroughly, making sure not to get any in your eyes. If you wish, you can smudge some of the Vaseline back over your eyelid for smoother skin. If you have sensitive skin, this may cause a reaction so be sure to test it on the back of your hand before doing this.
 Dip your wand back in the Vaseline. Being careful, once again, to not get the Vaseline in your eyes, apply it to your bottom lashes.


Your lashes will clump together when you apply the Vaseline. However, be careful not to put on too much or it will end up all over your face and sheets. You should use enough to coat your eyelashes evenly in one thin coat.
 If you apply this every night, the Vaseline will moisturize your lashes which prevents them from breaking off and falling out prematurely. The conditioning qualities will help prolong the cycle of each eyelash, resulting in thicker and longer lashes.
 When you wake up, wash the Vaseline off. If you have trouble getting the Vaseline off of your eyelashes, try using a cleanser. Because it's oil based, water might not be enough. Use your regular make-up routine during the day. If you do this consistently, you can see results in as little as three days.

