 Buy a long-handled dust broom and sweep your ceilings and walls to eliminate cobwebs.


Destroying a spider's web will encourage them to find a hassle free place to live. If your home remains clean, they may choose to leave in search of a better home.;
, Weekly vacuuming will remove spiders, webs and potential nesting places for spiders.


The vacuum is also a good tool to remove a spider in your home, if you do not want to squish it or let it outside.
 A solution with equal parts water and vinegar will deter insects and bugs of all kinds.


Spiders feast on insects. Make it your goal to attract fewer flies, ants and other critters, and you will have fewer spiders.
Distilled white vinegar is useful because it can remove insect tracks, so that other insects cannot follow the trail. You can also use another multi-purpose cleaning product.
 Wipe down counters, put food in air-tight containers or in the refrigerator and vacuum up crumbs. These measures will discourage other insects and the spiders that feed on them.
 Spiders like dark, cluttered spaces, so find ways to stack and seal your storage areas.


Vacuum and dust closet spaces before you re-organize them. This will rid your house of existing spiders.
 Stacks of boxes or cardboard are a good place for spiders to live. Make sure you clear places with stacked debris every week or 2.
 Piles attract insects, and the closer insects are to the house, the more likely they are to find their way in.
 Replace screens that have holes in them, to reduce the ways that spiders can enter the home.


Check your doors to see if there is day light creeping in around the edges. If your seal allows any light in, the seal is not solid and spiders are likely to get in. Replace the door or install a rubber strip that will seal it off.
 Use a very fine mesh to cover all the vents in your home.
 You can also stuff them with steel wool or fill them with foam. Older homes are likely to have a few hidden entry points where spiders can slip through the cracks.
 Make sure there is a distance of a few feet between all shrubs and your home. This will reduce your total insects that live right near the house and make it inside regularly.

