 If you tend to be shiny, you have "oily/acne prone" skin. If your skin tends to be dry and sometimes flaky, you have "dry" skin! However, maybe you have an oily t-zone but dry cheeks? You probably have "combination" skin. People with "sensitive" skin might be easily irritated by scents or dyes- stay away from those. If you have none of the above, you're lucky. You have "normal skin".;
, A good moisturizer is the base of your makeup, it's like prepping a canvas! If you don't use the right one, your makeup might not last all day- you don't want to appear as if your face is melting! Try to look for anything that says non-comedogenic as to prevent clogging your pores.


Oily skin: Don't be afraid of "hydrating" moisturizers. The extra oil production can be caused by lack of moisture.
Dry skin: Moisture, moisture and more moisture! Get a good, water based moisturizer that will hydrate your skin without clogging pores.
Sensitive skin: If you have sensitive skin really gentle moisturizers are great for your skin because they provide moisture without scents or irritation.
Normal skin: Lucky you! You can pick whichever moisture you like, as long as it adds the ––moisture.
 If something says "matte" finish, gravitate towards products like that. Powders and lightweight liquids are best for you.
Dry skin: Anything that says "matte" can be very drying. Try to use products that say "dewy" or "luminous" finish. Those products will give you the natural glow you might lack.
Sensitive skin: Your skin can work with most products, just be sure that they are non-comedogenic. This way, your makeup will not cause your face to have a negative reaction.
Normal skin: Knock yourself out in the world of makeup. Since your skin should be pretty neutral, use whatever products you will be comfortable with.
 Make sure all the sleep and particles around your eyes are wiped off.
 Don't forget the neck area. This ensures that your face won't be dry and will have a dewy glow to it.


Optionally, apply a thin layer of primer. At school you will be moving around a lot, especially if you play sport. Primer keeps the makeup on your face for longer and also has a clean canvas for the makeup.
 Since we're going for a natural look, you want to go with something lightweight. A BB cream would be ideal for work or school. Apply this in an even layer, only use one-two small drops. Your skin should still peek through and any blemishes or spots can be dealt with later.


If desired, use a BB cream on all the parts of your face that need covering. BB stands for Blemish Balm, and BB creams are the easiest and most natural looking way to create flawless looking skin for school. Pat a very small amount of with your fingers, then use a foundation brush to blend it in. BB creams eliminate the need for concealer and powder, though if you have a very noticeable flaw, or very shiny skin, you may still want to use them. Make sure that if you use a BB cream it is the correct shade for your skin tone.
 Although this is optional, if you want to cover up the remaining blemishes on your face, it would be best to use one. Go for something that matches your foundation. Often, many brands will have different concealers to go with their foundations. Although, if you wish, you can use a little bit of your BB cream to cover up any more spots, that way you don't have to worry about colour matching!

, In order for your eyes to appear "brightened" pick a shade that is 1-2 shades lighter than your foundation. An under eye concealer should be lightweight,yet it should give you some coverage.
 Powder is optional, but only if you don't want your makeup to last. Just like foundations and concealers, you should use a powder for your skin type. This way, they won't dry you out or leave you looking like a cake face. Also, remember that powder should match your foundation and concealer. Apply this with a fluffy powder brush or the powder puff that comes with the product. Do so lightly and gently.


Note for oily skin/sensitive skin, if you used a powder foundation, skip this step.
 Blush can help to bring life back into your face! Make sure to use the right color for your skin tone. Sweep this across the apples of your cheeks to create a "barely there" look.
 Use your fingers to apply highlighter above your cheekbones, on your temples, down your nose, above your top lip on the area known the your 'cupid's bow', and just under your eyebrows. This creates a dewy, flawless look. Highlighter can also be used on your eyelids in place of eyeshadow, depending on how much makeup you want to wear. Don't use too much as you can look too shiny and greasy.
 If you would like to use eyeshadow, sweep a neutral shimmery shade over your lid. Pat a lighter shade in your inner core to brighten your eyes Take a slightly darker shade and place that in your crease. Blend this out to create a soft, defined look.
 Apply this on the centre of the lid to create more structure to the eyes. Also apply this on the brow bone, inner corner of the eyes and near the tear ducts. This will highlight your eyes and make them seem more awake.


Optionally, apply eye primer on your eyelids, first. This keeps eyeshadow lasting longer and also makes the shadow more vibrant.
 Either using a blending brush or your fingertips, work this around the outer V and crease of the eyes. Only use a little bit or else this will look too dirty. This creates depth to the eyes.
 Using the same brown eyeshadow, take a liner brush and line your upper lash line. Remember to use small 'dabs' and keep it as close to the lash line as possible.


If you want to strengthen and deepen the look, add some black matte eyeshadow to the outer third of the upper lash line. The black will look less harsh against the powdery brown.
 Using the same brown shadow, apply this on the outer third of the lower lash-line. Use a Q-tip or your fingers and smudge this outwards to give it a more natural look.


Alternatively, try white eyeliner on the lower rim of your eyes. This is the bit just above your bottom lashes. Also, put a dot of white eyeliner or highlighter on the inner corners of your eyes. Both of these steps make you look more awake and make your eyes look bigger.
 A gel or pencil liner is perfect for a natural look. Brown works well for light to fair skin tones and black is perfect for medium to dark skin tones. Pencil liner is the easiest to work with, so if you are a beginner start with that.


To widen your eyes, start in the center of your eye. Drawing close to the lash line, draw a straight smooth line until you reach the outer corner. Blend this out with your ring finger to diffuse this look.
If you want to define and thicken your lower lash line, start in the center of your waterline, and draw a line to the outer corner of your eye.
Use a white eyeliner on your waterline to brighten your eyes overall.
 Mascara really helps to define your eyes. It completes your eye look. To apply, use a wiggle technique to avoid any clumps.
 This will make them stand out and look longer and more voluminous, but is less obvious than mascara. If you do decide to use mascara, use a dry formula to create a more natural look.
, You could use a matte nude lip color. Anything two shades lighter or darker is okay and looks the most natural. Apply a sheer lip gloss over it.
 Don't use too much.


Alternatively, try a lip and cheek tint for a natural, rosy look. Apply a small dot in the center of each lip and use a lip brush to blend it out. Do the same with your cheeks, but use your fingers or your foundation brush. Be as fast as you can when blending, because these products tend to dry very fast, but they also last a very long time, so you won't have to reapply at school.

