 One of the easiest ways to ensure you find a good vet for your pet is to ask other pet owners you trust. Ask your friends who have dogs, “Do you have a vet in the area that you could recommend?”If possible, ask friends with similar a dog breed. That way, you can ensure the vet works well with a pet like yours.
Get multiple opinions when available.
If you've just adopted a dog, ask your rescue or shelter agency if they know of any good vets in the area. Ask them what vet they use for their rescue dogs and if they would recommend continuing care with that clinic.;
, If you cannot get personal recommendations, use an online review site to search for local vets. This allows you to not only find vets in your area, but also to review the opinions and experiences of other clients.Check on the same vet across multiple review sites to get the most complete idea of their services. Try sites like the Good Vet and Pet Guideand Vet Ratingz.If you are considering a vet but notice a negative review, see if you can reach out to the reviewer personally to get more information on their experience.
 If your dog has specific needs, such as treating arthritis or an autoimmune disease, try searching online or in local phone books and papers for a vet that specializes in treating your dog’s needs. Animal hospitals and vet schools may have specialists that can best treat your pet.If you find a vet you like but are unsure if they are able to properly cater to your dog’s needs, call and ask if the vet has any experience dealing with similar medical needs.
Ask for client testimonial so that you can hear opinions from others with pets who have similar medical needs.
 If you are moving to a new area and need to find a new vet for your dog, try asking your current vet. They may have a personal recommendation based on their network, and can generally help you sort through client testimony to find a quality vet.


Let your vet know well in advance if you want them to help you find a vet in a new area. They generally have a busy schedule, and should be allowed some time to assist you.
 Once you’ve found a vet you think you may want to try, give them a call to ask about their services and options. Let them know, “I’m looking for a vet in the area and I would like to know more about what services and packages you offer.”Ask about wellness plans and packages. These often include a certain number of vet visits per year, as well as services such as vaccines, heartworm testing, and dental cleaning.
If there are specific services that you know your pet needs, check up front to make sure the vet offers them.
Ask whether diagnostic procedures such bloodwork and x-rays are done in house or if they require referral to a specialist.
 Let your vet know what you want for your pet care. Talk to them directly about any specific needs your dog has, as well as any concerns you have regarding their clinic or facilities.Ask the vet, "What kind of care can you offer my pet? How will they be treated here as compared to other vet clinics?"

, If you have a financial concern, take the time to talk to them about care costs and see if they offer payment programs or installment plans. If you have pet insurance, be sure to check in advance to make sure the clinic accepts your program.


Talk to the vet or the front desk and let them know, "I would like to know what payment options you have for large or unexpected procedures such as dental cleanings."

, Ask the office if you can come in to visit the facilities. This gives you the chance to check on factors such as the space where your pet will be kept, cleanliness, and customer service.Ask for a tour so you can see areas like boarding and recovery where your dog may stay after major procedures.
Ask about cleaning procedures such as what they use to clean and how often they clean.
Talk to multiple staff members to check attitudes and see if everyone is calm, collected, and happy to be working around animals.
 Check to see what happens if you need a quick or after hours’ appointment with your vet. Ask if they will take walk-in appointments, and if they have after hours’ services or a working relationship with a 24-hour animal hospital.Check to see if you need to call ahead for an emergency appointment.
Ask them, “What emergency services are available with your clinic directly?”
If the vet works with an animal hospital, ask for contact information so that you can go review their facilities, as well.
 Once you have found a vet you are ready to work with, call and ask to set a meet and greet appointment. This will allow you to take your dog in and see how the vet interacts with your pet.Call the vet and ask, “Can I set up an initial wellness appointment so that my dog and I become acquainted with the vet?”
Ask in advance about how much an initial appointment will cost.
 Bring your dog in for the vet appointment and watch to see how they interact with the vet. Watch your dog’s posture and body language, and see if the vet is able to safely approach your dog and help calm them.If your dog is perpetually nervous at the vet, do not expect the vet to be able to completely calm your dog. Simply see if they can safely and properly work with them.
Let your vet know if your dog is prone to things like barking, growling, or biting when nervous.
 If you decide you like and are ready to work with this vet, ask about enrolling your pet in a wellness plan. Check with the clinic to see what paperwork will be necessary to enroll your dog as a client.


If you've just adopted a dog, you may also want to schedule shots and spaying or neutering at this time.
 If you are transferring vets because you moved to a new area or you are seeking better service, be sure to inform your previous vet. You can do so in person, but in writing is always recommended. Address a letter directly to your vet letting them know that you are transferring your dog's care to another clinic.


After you have sent in notification, follow up with a call asking for your pet's records to be transferred to your new vet. Let your old clinic know, "I need my dog's records sent to a new vet. How do I go about this process?"

