 Give yourself a manicure. Give yourself a massage. Take a bubble bath—anything that makes you feel really good and like you're living a glamorous life.
 Whether it be hanging out with your friends, watching a funny T.V show or reading a joke book, do something that will make you laugh. You may not feel like it at first, but once you get into it, you'll feel better.
 Listening to music can help reduce anxiety, improve your sleep, enhance performance, and put you in a better mood.
 Exercise often gives you a boost not only in health and energy, but also in confidence and happiness. It is a great way to work through your anxiety and calm yourself after the stress of the test., Tell your friends how you feel. Their understanding and support will go a long way to making you feel better., Ask if there are other ways of improving your grade or resources available to you that you may not know about. Demonstrate that you care about the material and take the time to discuss difficult concepts with your teacher during their office hours. Even if the teacher doesn’t change your test grade, conveying to your teacher that you are invested in the class will leave a good impression., Remember that even if you did terrible on this test, it is only one of several assignments and there are other ways of improving your final grade., A crummy test can motivate you to change your study habits. Make a list of the things you can do to improve on the next test. Then put the list away for now. Promising yourself that you will do better next time will help you stay positive and get rid of your current stress., This is the amount of information your brain can take in at a time. Follow the textbook’s format: the information you need to learn has already been separated into small chunks. Test yourself on each section before moving on to the next one. , Testing yourself is a smart way of simulating the test-taking experience and making your brain retrieve information. By testing yourself, you’ll quickly learn what you’ve already memorized and what you need to keep studying. A great way to test yourself is by turning each section heading into a question and then answering these questions without consulting the textbook. , This will simulate speedy test-taking conditions and help your brain retrieve information more quickly when test day rolls around. Make sure you and your friend are on a similar level so that both of you benefit from this activity. Do this for 20-30 minutes at least three times on different days before the test., Anxiety can hamper your performance. Telling yourself, “I’m ready for this test. I’ve got this!” will give you an energy boost and limit your stress, positively affecting your performance.