 As you prepare the jars for canning, you should get your canner ready. Fill the canner with enough water to completely submerse the jars in. Position a jar rack inside the bottom of the canner to prevent the jars from sliding around.


If you do not have a boiling-water canner, you can use a large, heavy stockpot instead. Make sure you still place something at the bottom of the stockpot to prevent the jars from moving around later on, though.
 Mix the two seasonings together evenly in a small dish.
 Spread equal amounts of the seed mixture into each pint-size (500 ml) jar until all of the mixture has been used.
 Use a wide-mouth funnel, if available, to make it easier to pack the peppers into each jar as you work.
 Distribute equal amounts of the peppers into each jar using a large serving spoon or measuring cup. Leave 1 inch (2.5 cm) of empty headspace in between the peppers and the top of each jar.
 Once the salt is dissolved and the solution has reached a boil, remove it from the heat.
 Use a ladle to pour the vinegar brine into the jars, covering the peppers completely and filling in any air pockets further down inside the jar. Leave 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) empty headspace.
 If anything got onto the rims of the jars as you worked, it is important to clean it off with a clean, damp cloth. Excess seasoning or brine could actually interfere with the lids and prevent them from sealing correctly.
 Two-piece metal canning lids work best. Screw the lids onto the jars, stopping once you feel resistance. Do not tighten the lids too much, since doing so can cause damage to the jars.
 Carefully lower the jars into the boiling water inside the canner using jar tongs. Do not allow them to bump as you move them, and do not allow them to touch once they are sitting in the canner. The amount of time you need to process them for will vary depending on your altitude.At 1000 ft (304.8 m) or below, process the jars for 10 minutes.
Between 1,000 feet (304.8 m) and 6000 ft (304.8 m to 1.83 km), process the jars for 15 minutes.
Above 6000 ft (1.83 km), process the jars for 20 minutes.
 Use jar tongs to carefully remove the jars of jalapeno slices. Let them cool in a draft-free spot for 12 to 24 hours.
 If the center button on the lids pop up and down, the lids have not sealed and the peppers are not safe for long-term storage. If the button does not move, however, the lids have sealed correctly.
 A kitchen cabinet or pantry works well. Shake the jars to disperse the seasonings evenly before serving.

