 Not all organizations use exactly the same rules or require the same level of formality. If your organization maintains written documentation on its preferred method for making a motion, read it carefully.;
, Observe how other members of your organization make formal motions during meetings.
 Include all the relevant details and none of the irrelevant ones. Be unambiguous, and leave as little room for interpretation as possible.
 Not everyone can construct motion like this entirely in their head, and there is nothing wrong with this. If necessary, draft your motion in writing beforehand and carefully consider its delivery.
 Individual words count in situations like these, and the effective delivery of an idea can make all the difference in how that idea is perceived and understood.


, Before making your motion, it is necessary for you to obtain the floor, and be recognized by the presiding officer. If you making your motion without completing this step, it is much less likely to be taken seriously.


Wait until the floor has been yielded or is otherwise made available.
Address the presiding officer by their formal title, such as "President," "Chairman," or "Moderator." Address men as "Mr." and women (married or unmarried) as "Madam."

, This is the moment of truth, but if you have planned and/or practiced your delivery (or had your afternoon coffee), it will be a breeze.


Do not forget to start with "I move..."
Address your motion to the entire Board, not just the presiding officer.
Make no more than one motion at a time.
 With few exceptions, all motions must be seconded by another member of the Board. This is to ensure that the Board does not spend time evaluating a proposal which only one member favors, and it's why effective delivery is so crucial.


In a formal setting, they will say something along the lines of "I second the motion," or even just "I second."
In certain cases, such as when a general consensus is apparent, the presiding officer can choose to skip this step and move on to the next one.
 Once your motion is seconded, the presiding officer will re-state it. This is called "stating the question."


Until the presiding officer does this, your motion is not formally up for the Board's consideration.
 Once the presiding officer has stated the question, the Board can debate it. Typically, only one member can speak on the question at any given time, and they can only speak twice if there is no other member who has not yet spoken who would like to speak.


You can participate in the debate.

Other members may make secondary motions to amend the primary motion.
 Once the debate has run its course, the presiding officer will ask who is in favor of the motion and count the affirmative votes.


Unless the number of affirmative votes indicates an even split in the Board, the presiding officer will typically not request negative votes.
 The presiding officer will announce the result, instruct the corresponding officer or member to take action, and introduce the next item of business.

