 If there is a potential move, especially on short notice, make sure you are prepared for that eventuality. Everything that you can prepare ahead of time will be that much less that you have to prepare when the time comes. Problems with your visa may cause delays in your ability to go.


Make sure your passport is current. If you need a new one, that is the first order of business. It can take several weeks to apply for and receive a new passport.;
, Before all else, draw up a plan that can be checked off as things are done. This plan needs to be thorough and it should include deadlines. Here are some other considerations:


Discussing the packing and shipping arrangements. Interview at least three different companies and get their quotes for the move. Find out what each company is prepared to do: specialized packing, dealing with your wine cellar (this can be problematic), helping with pets, timing guarantees, storage at the other end, etc. Also, discuss the possibility of storing possessions in your current country. If this move is short-term and you intend to return, it might be best to leave some—or even most—items behind.
Deciding what to do with your current home if you own it. Are you going to sell it or rent it out? If selling, talk to a real estate agent and tell them about your plans. Ask yourself if you have time to wait for the best offer, or you need to sell quickly to get the money. Be careful how you convey this to your agent—you still want the best price, whatever your hurry.

If renting it out, interview agents responsible for rental properties and be sure you are one hundred percent happy with their services. Ask for references and if possible, favor an agent used to renting out properties for overseas landlords—it's much harder to be an overseas landlord and much can go wrong in your absence if the agent fails to meet their basic obligations of checking the properly regularly and vetting tenants properly.


Dealing with mortgages, leases and loans. You will need to talk to your bank or other lenders about handling these financial obligations most effectively.
Talking to your children's schools about the upcoming change. You will need evidence of your children's current level of schooling, as well as a guarantee of willingness to be emailed or phoned by the school in your new country, if relevant. Ask the guidance counselor about any transition issues you might find useful.
Vaccinations and visas. Be sure that you are up-to-date with relevant vaccinations and obtain all visas. Sort out any accompanying documentation needed for a permanent or long-term move.

If you're planning on renouncing your citizenship of your current country and taking on new citizenship, this will take considerable time, so start working on this from the beginning of your planning.


Developing a timeline for packing. Follow this with dedication, as it can give you plenty of time to deal with things that go wrong—and they will!







, Some corporations and government entities that send their staffs overseas are quite happy to give anything from a few months to a few days notice that you are handpicked to move overseas. In this case, ask for as much help as they are willing to pay for—you will need it.


If you do have the luxury of your own timeline, give yourself at least six months. You will need every moment of this time to tie up many loose ends, including dealing with your property, car, pets, insurance, packing, and shipping, banking, educational transitions and more. In some cases, you may not have this luxury.
It is possible to move quickly, so if this has been thrust on you, try not to despair. However, do immediately spend time creating networks of helpers. You really need as many hands on deck as you can gather.
 Will you stay in hotel or serviced apartment accommodation while looking for a place to buy or rent?


It is not recommended that you buy a place over the internet. Unseen, you could buy something terrible. You need to be on location to get a sense of the neighborhood, to see the dry rot at the base of the house, to realize that it is overpriced!
One way around this is for you or one family member to do a forward visit, to check out real estate to see what's on offer and whether anything is a good deal. You may also know somebody in your new country who can be your eyes and ears.
Even if you want to buy a house or apartment in the new country, it is recommended that you begin by renting. Renting gives you a quick out if you choose the wrong location or you simply do not like being in the new country. After at least six months, you will have a better idea of wanting to stay or not, plus a much better understanding of the real estate and preferred areas to live. This means less pressure for you and a greater likelihood of making the right decision.
Be aware that you will initially be without your shipped goods. This makes living in a hotel or a serviced apartment initially a good choice.
Get a good lawyer when dealing with purchase of property in another country. You will need someone on your side who understands all the taxes, fees, liens, caveats, etc that the country you're moving to has in store. Your current attorney may be able to give you a recommendation for an attorney in your new country.
 It is becoming easier to transfer money between many countries without giving up too much in processing fees. Talk to your current bank to explore the options for setting up transfers—some banks even allow transfers to overseas accounts via cell phones, so look into all the options.


Unless you are planning to never return to your current country, it is advisable to keep at least one bank account open in your current country. The longer you have an account open, the better your credit standing. When you do return, it is easier to start where you left off than to have to open new accounts. Internet banking makes it easier for you to monitor the account in the country you have left.
In some countries, accessing money will be a lot harder than in others. Be sure to discuss the challenges and solutions with your bank and a reputable financial adviser with knowledgeable about the country that you are moving to.
 They can be an invaluable source of help if you need information, support, and connection. Let them know about your plans and it is likely that they will do what they can to ensure that you get the information you need.
 It is a reality that we need very little to live and yet our houses tend to be overstuffed with consumables we have accumulated over the years, much of which we do not use or need. Rather than dragging all this stuff with you, or paying to keep it in storage, do an honest appraisal of the need for keeping much of your belongings. Where possible, donate and give away the items you do not need. It is far better to travel light and not have to worry about items in storage than to burden yourself

, Use online auction sites ad-listing websites to get rid of your items. Even if you are pressed for time, this can be a great way to sell items in bulk, even whole roomfuls. Tell people that you are moving overseas and that it all has to go. People love to grab a bargain!


Be ruthless. Every thing added means greater costs in shipping.
Occasionally, shipping containers fall overboard, while damage can occur to goods at any stage of transit due to rough handling and other mishaps. Bear this in mind when lugging your antique collection of whatnots with you––it may be better to place in storage or to sell and have the cash. Become adequately insured for any mishaps during shipping.
 For some people, this means giving them to a friend or family member to care for. For others, it means taking them with you. If you are taking your pets with you, consider the following:


Is your pet allowed in the country you are headed to?
Will your pet undergo quarantine? For how long and at what cost?
How will your pet travel? Find out about safety, costs, and all requirements, such as pet passports.
How is your pet's health? Your pet needs to be thoroughly vaccinated and medically fit to travel. There may be other requirements of the country of destination too––check.






Consider your pet's frailty when making the decision. Taking an old or disabled pet with you may be too much trauma for the pet.
 Some countries are happy to accept your existing one from another country or to accept an international driver's license. Others want you to take their local tests after a set time. Avoid waiting to find out––it can be hard to be without your ability to drive in a new place.
 If you are not already traveling for the place you work at, you will need to abide with their policies on resignation. Be sure to plan in plenty of time to tell them. However, unless there is something obviously affecting your place of work because of the planning, it is not recommended to inform them until later in your planning. This is in case you change your mind or your place of work thinks about shifting you out earlier than what you might have counted on.

