 For the BLT variations above, we've stuck to the same basic template: bread, spreads, tomato, lettuce, bacon, and bread. As far as the specifics of these ingredients are concerned, we've left the choices up to you — you may have used anything from white bread to rye, supermarket bacon to gourmet butcher's cuts, and so on. However, with this dignified, elegant recipe, there's no settling for standard fare. Start by frying up some high-quality pancetta for a taste that's second-to-none.


Pancetta is an Italian variety of bacon that is unsmoked (by contrast, most American bacon is smoked) and often flavored with various aromatics.Pancetta is cooked in the exact same way as bacon — either fried several minutes per side in a pan or baked in the oven.
 Rather than opting for the standard bread and mustard/mayonnaise combo for this sandwich, this time, we'll use more indulgent ingredients. Cut a gourmet brioche bun in half and spread fresh burrata cheese on the bottom half. Be generous with your burrata — unlike mustard and mayo, you can get away with applying a fairly thick spread here.


Brioche is a rich, tender French pastry bread made with a high egg and butter content. This bread is sweet, light and fluffy, which allows it to contrast with the heavier flavors in the sandwich.
Burrata cheese is a soft cheese made from mozzarella and cream that makes a creamy, luxurious spread for BLTs and many other sandwiches. The outer portion of the cheese is often pure mozzarella, while the inside is the characteristic mixture of cheese and cream. Use the inside portion for spreading.
 Next, on top of your tomato slices, sprinkle a handful of arugula greens. Since arugula comes in the form of many small leaves rather than one or two large leaves like lettuce, it can be tricky to get them to stay in the sandwich. However, if you put the arugula into your sandwich now, before you add the tomatoes, the leaves will be held in place by the sticky burrata cheese, ensuring a tidy (or at the very least tidier) sandwich.


Sometimes called "rocket" greens, arugula is a more nutritious alternative to ordinary iceberg lettuce. Arugula also has a somewhat nutty, peppery taste and a noticeable fragrance, making it a stimulating addition to almost any sandwich.
 Next, you'll want to add flavorful slices of tomato to your sandwich. While there are many valid choices, heirloom tomatoes) sometimes called "heritage" tomatoes) are a great bet. These tomatoes, frequently described as "rich" and/or "rustic", have a splotchy appearance that can range from yellowish to red to green or even brown and have a sweeter, more succulent flavor than ordinary varieties.Note that heirloom tomatoes don't keep particularly well, so buying fresh, when possible, is best.
 At this point, if you've been cooking your pancetta while you've been assembling your sandwich, it should be almost done. When the pancetta is finished cooking, remove it from the pan and allow it to drain on a plate lined with paper towels. After draining for a few moments, move the pancetta to your sandwich.


You may add as much as you like, but, as with bacon, 3-4 pieces is often enough.
 We're almost done with our gourmet BLT! Add a final tangy, savory garnish to your burger by making your own vinaigrette from oil and vinegar. Combine three parts olive oil and one part balsamic vinegar in a small bowl. Use very small amounts of each — aim to make no more than a few spoonfuls of vinaigrette total. Drizzle about a spoonful of your vinaigrette evenly over the top bun.


If you have leftover vinaigrette, don't drench your bun. Using too much can make your sandwich a sloppy mess. Instead, combine it with leftover arugula for an improvised side salad!

, At last, you're done! Turn your top bun over and enjoy your premium, top-of-the line sandwich.


As a side, try using the aforementioned arugula and vinaigrette salad, or, for a decadent alternative, some homemade fries!


