 Take a thorough look at the dog’s body to determine if it has any injuries that are bleeding excessively. Look for areas in which the fur is saturated with blood or visible wounds from which blood is coming out., If the dog is bleeding severely, apply pressure to the wound with a clean piece of gauze or cloth. If the blood seeps through the first piece of gauze, apply another clean piece over it. Do not remove the soiled gauze because you could remove a blood clot that is forming and cause more bleeding., If the bleeding does not slow or stop after applying pressure for several minutes, try to slow the bleeding by applying pressure to the arteries that supply blood to the extremities. These pressure points are located on the inside of the front and back legs and the underside of the base of the tail. Use your fingers to apply pressure to these areas to help slow the bleeding., If the bleeding still does not slow, you may need to apply a tourniquet. This should be done only as a last resort. To do so, wrap a strip of cloth or gauze, a belt, leash, or something similar around the wound. You should wrap the item between the wound and the body, about two inches away from the injury. Tie a knot in the cloth and place a strong stick through the loop in the knot. Twist the stick, tightening the cloth around the dog’s leg, until the bleeding slows down or stops. Secure the stick in place with tape or by tying the cloth around it again. Once the tourniquet is in place, cover the wound with a clean piece of gauze or cloth.


Never leave the tourniquet on for more than ten minutes at a time. After ten minutes, release the tourniquet for several seconds to allow for some circulation, and then reapply the tourniquet.
Never apply a tourniquet around a dog’s neck or over a joint or fracture.
Do not use a rope or piece of wire as a tourniquet, as these can cut or irritate the area., Internal bleeding can be hard to identify and treat. However, if the dog is bleeding from its mouth or anus, is vomiting blood, has blood in its stool, is in a coma, or in shock, there could be internal bleeding. It is important you get the dog to a vet as quickly as possible if you suspect internal bleeding.