 Your level of hydration can have significant effects on the health of your skin. Being dehydrated can lead to clogged pores and an increase in acne. Being well hydrated can help flush out toxins that can lead to acne in your skin. Fight acne before it even starts by drinking plenty of water throughout your day.Drink 7-10 glasses of water each day to maintain your hydration levels.
Staying hydrated has a number of other health benefits such as appetite control, reducing headaches, and helping to maintain a healthy immune system.
Hydration levels can directly affect blood flow to your head and face, which can help you heal faster.
 Food can have an impact on your skin and acne. An unhealthy diet of sugar and processed foods raise the level of insulin in your body, which leads to inflammation and can cause acne. Try to eat a diet that’s low in sugar, low in processed foods, and healthy.

Studies have shown that a diet rich in sugar and high-glycemic foods (like breads, pasta, flour products, and cereals) can develop more acne. Try to stay away from sugars and refined carbohydrates.
Milk can also affect the level and severity of acne, so limit the amount you drink.
 Your face spends more time in contact with your pillowcase than just about any other surface. The material of your pillow case can absorb grease and dirt from your face, then hold those contaminants against your skin all night.Dirty pillow cases can lead to clogged pores, dramatically increasing the chances of a breakout.
Cleaning your pillowcase is especially important if you don’t wash your face before bed.
 Touching your face is an easy way to introduce oils to the skin on your face that could potentially clog pores and lead to more pimples. You may feel comfortable leaning on your desk with your hand on your face or supporting your chin, but this can lead to breakouts.The more you touch an area of your face, the more likely you will develop pimples in that area.
Don’t pinch or pop existing pimples, as it will increase the irritation to your face and could leave scars.
 The ingredients in many kinds of makeup are not particularly good for your skin. As a result, wearing too much makeup can lead directly to more acne breakouts. Reduce the amount of makeup you wear regularly to improve the health of your face’s skin.Avoid wearing makeup when you don’t need to.
Make sure to clean the makeup from your face completely at the end of the day to prevent it from clogging your pores., You can reduce the inflammation that leads to acne by reducing stress. Try various techniques to relax and bring down your overall daily stress. Do whatever helps you feel good and at ease.

For example, you might relax by listening to calm music, taking a hot bath, watching a movie, or curling up with a good book.
Also consider focused relaxation techniques like meditation, controlled breathing, or yoga.
Be sure to get enough sleep, too. The average adult needs about 8 hours of sleep per night.
 A little sun exposure can actually help reduce breakouts, but spending too much time in direct sunlight can lead to increased acne problems. Too much sun can damage your skin and lead to breakouts.Wear sunscreen made for your face when you use it. These kinds of sunscreen will not add unnecessary oils to your face that could clog your pores.
Make sure to wash your face after you do things in the sun that may cause you to sweat.
 While many acne treatments and face cleaners can be rather expensive, their generic alternatives are often just as effective in treating or preventing acne. Look for generic products with the same ingredients such as benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid as the expensive name brand products.


Walmart offers Equate brand acne supplies that are very similar to more expensive products.
Acne-Free is another brand that offers the same active ingredients as more expensive brand name acne treatment products.
Look for the concentration of active ingredients on the label. You can often find over-the-counter products with the same amount of active ingredients as in prescription ones.

