 Obtain a radio scanner that is capable of receiving frequencies between 118.0 and 136.975 MHz. You can also listen to air traffic control facilities from around the world at websites including liveatc.net, globalair.com, airnav.com and radioreference.com;
,


121.5 is the emergency frequency. If there is some sort of emergency, pilots will transmit on it. You could also hear an emergency locator beacon on this frequency if a plane crashes.
122.750 MHz is the frequency for general aviation air to air communications
123.025 MHz is the frequency for helicopters air to air communications
123.450 MHz is the "unofficial" frequency for air to air communications
Search 122.0-123.65 for Unicom (uncontrolled airports) and air to air communications.
Search 128.825-132.000 MHz for ARINC frequencies (airlines, corporate aviation and general aviation calling ahead for fuel, parking, and other requests).
 You most likely want to be looking for a chart of your local area from the closest airport. Older versions of these charts will usually work just fine. Online sectional charts for your local area are available on www.skyvector.com

, Airports are denoted by blue or magenta circles, with lines inside representing runways. Next to the circle is a block of text with the airport name and information about that airport. The control tower frequency is denoted by CT - 000.0, where the following numbers indicate the frequency used by ATC. For example, the frequency for Wittman Regional airport in Oshkosh, WI is CT - 118.5.
 A star will be after the tower frequency to denote that airport as having a part time tower. At this type of airport, pilots communicate directly with one another and tell each other their position and intentions.
 Airports with runways over 8,000 feet (2,438.4 m) are not enclosed in circles and simply have a diagram depicting the runway layout, which is outlined in blue (controlled) or magenta (uncontrolled).
 These are automated or repeating broadcasts that provide pilots with weather and airport information as they prepare to land or depart.
 At larger airports, pilots receive their flight plan clearances from a "clearance delivery" frequency, communicate on taxiways with a "ground" frequency, and get takeoff and landing clearance from the "tower" frequency. Once pilots are airborne, they will talk to an "approach/departure" frequency, and once in route, they might even talk to a "center" frequency. If you are lucky or live close enough to an airport, you might be able to receive several of these frequencies.
 For commercial flights, this will just be the flight number, such as United 2311. A smaller aircraft is identified by the number on their tail.
 This instructs the pilot to enter the traffic pattern at a specific location. The pilot will then read back the instruction, so the controller can verify that it was understood correctly.
 An example would be a controller saying, "November-12345, contact Approach on 124.32, good day." Once again, the pilot will read back the instruction.
 Most of the time, pilots will broadcast blind transmissions to anyone on the frequency, announcing their position or intentions. Words like "upwind, crosswind, downwind, base, and final" denote specific positions in the traffic pattern.
 Pilots and controllers use it to communicate letters, since they can often be confused. You might also hear someone use "niner" to communicate "nine," "fife" to communicate "five," or "tree" to communicate "three."

