 As with any experiment, you must begin by gathering the materials you will need. You can purchase most of these materials at your local hardware or hobby store, or you may even have some of them at home already. Gather the following:3 potatoes
3 copper strips, or you can use pennies
3 galvanized nails
4 alligator clip units connected with wires (10 total clips)
1 low current digital clock

, Just like making a two potato clock, each potato will need one galvanized nail inserted into it. Place the nail near the end of the potato and press it in about an inch. Then repeat for the other two potatoes.Make sure the nail doesn’t break through the other side of the potato.
Ensure you don’t press the nail into the potato in such a way that will make it touch the penny or copper strip you will insert next.
 Press a penny or copper strip into each of the potatoes on the opposite end from the nail. If you are using a penny, make sure to press it into the potato so half of the penny is still visible above the surface of the potato skin so you can attach an alligator clip to it in the subsequent steps.If using a copper strip, make sure you don’t insert it so far into the potato that it comes into contact with the nail.
Try to separate your copper from the nail as much as possible in the potato.
 Once you have a galvanized nail and a piece of copper in the ends of each potato, you can connect them to one another in a series to produce more electricity. Place the three potatoes in a row in front of you and use the alligator clip units and wires to connect them to one another sequentially. Make sure the potatoes are lined up in the same way, with the nails all on one side and the copper on the other.Attach an alligator clip to the copper end of one potato, then connect it to the nail on the next one.
Repeat that process until each of the outside potatoes are connected to the middle one with one wire.
 The two outer potatoes should only have one wire connecting them to the middle potato. Now attach an alligator clip unit to the remaining nail on one potato, and another separate clip to the remaining piece of copper in the other potato.Attach the alligator clip unit coming from the nail to the positive terminal inside the battery compartment of the clock.
Attach the alligator clip unit coming from the nail on the final piece of copper to the negative battery terminal.
 Once both clips are attached to the positive and negative battery terminals, the clock should turn on. If it doesn’t, check each of the connections to ensure they are attached tightly and there is good metal on metal contact.Once connected securely, the clock will come on.
You may want to disconnect it to avoid depleting the chemical energy in the potatoes if you need to show the experiment at a fair or in class.

