 Think before you buy. It may sound obvious, but it is incredibly important to weigh up the benefits of purchasing an item or service now with waiting a bit longer when you have the cash spare. Do some mental calculations first about the urgency before slapping it on the card.;
, Many of us get into a habit of always using the card when cash may indeed be the better option. Cash once spent is gone. Credit once charged continues to hang over our heads. If you do not need the traceability benefits of a credit card receipt and if you are only spending small amounts, it is often better to use cash. Keep your receipts or ask for a receipt if you need certainty about the transaction. And make some purchases credit-free zones, such as:


Snacks
Groceries (you will have long eaten the items before paying for them)
Minor clothing purchases, such as socks, pantyhose, hair accessories
Entry fees to gardens, entertainment places, cinema etc. Use debit cards instead and have the cash drawn immediately. If you cannot afford this, then maybe you cannot afford to be entertaining yourself.
Toys - the reason for this is that if the toy is not affordable with spare cash, it is a good lesson for the children about saving. Seriously.
Dining out. If you can't afford it in cash, you can't afford it at all.
 This is one less thing to worry about. It will probably mean less frills, but if those frills are getting you into debt, then they're not frills - they're just lures to spend.
 The price to be paid for these "free" rewards can be very high indeed when you have a debt to pay back.
 It pays to ask - if you get a late fee on your card, phone up and ask for it to be removed (provided you have paid the outstanding amount before you call). Many companies will remove it for you.
 This may help you to avoid late fees and missed payments. Phone up and ask.
 Compare the interest rates of competitor companies, read the literature sent to you by your credit card provider in case there are new offers to be taken up and ring up occasionally to ask if interest rate reductions are available.

