 Choose wisely because you may only get the chance to meet or contact one.;
, The celebrity you have chosen will probably have their own website or the fan website, most have both. Try typing in the celebrities name, for example, if you chose Hannah Montana, (not saying she is real) type in HannahMontana.com. Try this with your celebrity's name. No matter if there is a site or not, go to the regular Google search bar. Type in the celebrity's name then "fan website." Their fan website will most likely be in the first few search results. Visit both of those websites if they both come up.
 There is a pretty good chance that this website will not be their official website. Look for the title or the URL of the website. There will be names that include the word official in them. Check out lots of the website to be sure it is the real stars. They may say things about them, their schedule for tours and more, or have videos, pictures, and say things about their friends and family.
 Here is the part you need to read... just like the other parts. Anyway, there will (or definitely should) be something on their site that says "Contact Me." If they do not have that, keep searching. Once you have searched the whole entire website as much as possible and as thoroughly as possible, give up... on that certain website URL. If they had a fan website, go to that one and you should see that same "Contact Me" button.


Contact Me Button. If you have finally gotten to that magical button, it will most likely give you an address for you to send any letter to. They will probably also tell you how long it may take for a returning letter.
 Write the letter! This is your exciting moment so write everything you want to! Writing this may take weeks or even months, but don't forget anything. Remember not to talk too much about yourself, ask them questions, tell them why you chose them, and what you love about them. Also tell them a little bit about you, your life, and your personality. Do not give too much information for someone else may look over this letter.
 Go on YouTube! There is a huge chance they have a YouTube channel. To start out, in the YouTube search bar, try typing in the celebrity's first and last name (unless they go by one name only) and type in an apostrophe then the letter S. For example, if you are searching for Jennifer Lawrence, you should type in Jennifer Lawrence's channel in the YouTube search bar. If they go by one name, such as Zendaya, type in Zendaya's channel. Most stars with a channel have more than one, so if you think you have more than one that is really them, don't be totally shocked, but be sure it is them, because some people have almost identical usernames to them but one little number or letter different. You know this is a fake channel that is posing to be them.
 It could take hours to find them. This is very rare because most likely, unless they just created one, their channel is very well known.
 Once you have finally reached their YouTube channel, well... good job! Now. You must be a YouTube member to do the next steps. If you are not, create an account. You will see how to do this in the right top hand corner of the YouTube home page. If you don't want to create an account, your parents don't have to know because you don't need personal information and you don't even need videos on YouTube!

, Congrats. You are able to write a message once you know their YouTube channel and have a YouTube account. Once you are logged into your account, go to the YouTube home page. You will see somewhere if you click on something like your username or my channel, it will say Inbox. It may take a while, but you need to find the word Inbox. It will be in the right, top hand corner.
 Click on inbox. Click something like Create New Message or Compose New Message. Write what you want! Tell about how you got to writing a message, how you found them, a little bit about your personality, some stuff about you that is not personal, and ask them questions! Ask them stuff and don't leave out anything.

