 Place 14 ounces (397 grams) worth of unwrapped caramel candies into a microwave-safe bowl. Add 14 ounces (397 grams) of condensed milk and ½ cup (115 grams) of butter. Heat them in the microwave for 3 to 4 minutes, stirring every minute., Sometimes, caramel candies may retain their form even after heating. Give the caramel mixture one last stir. Once everything is smooth and evenly mixed, set the mixture aside., Place 6 tablespoons (85 grams) of butter into a clean microwave-safe bowl. Add 4 cups (200 grams) of mini marshmallows. Heat them for 1 minute, then give them a stir. Continue heating and stirring at 20-second intervals until the marshmallows are melted and everything is smooth., Keep stirring until everything is evenly combined and the cereal is evenly coated., Generously grease a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02-centimeter) baking pan.Use a rubber spatula to spread the rice krispie mixture across the bottom of the pan from corner to corner. Don't worry if it looks thin., Try to pour the caramel mixture as evenly as you can over the rice krispie layer.Use a rubber spatula to scrape the bowl clean so that you don't waste anything., If you want to try something different, consider using chocolate chips instead. You can even do a combination of mini marshmallows and chocolate chips., You are ready for the next step once the caramel layer has set.If you are in a hurry, you can freeze the mixture instead. You need it to be solid, otherwise you will have a hard time applying the second layer., Melt the remaining 6 tablespoons (85 grams) of butter and 4 cups (200 grams) of mini marshmallows in the microwave. Stir them into the remaining 5 cups (125 grams) of puffed rice cereal., If you'd like to, you can top it off with more mini marshmallows or even a sprinkle of chocolate chips. For a neater finish, spread some parchment paper or wax paper with cooking spread, then press it on top of the rice krispies. Smooth it down, then peel it away., You can also help speed the process up by putting them into the freezer for about 30 minutes. This will make removing them from the pan and cutting them easier., Remove the rice krispie mixture from the pan first, then cut it into 35 squares.You can also cut it into 16 to 20 bars instead and have larger portions.