 By far the most common way to travel to Antarctica is on a special cruise ship. These trips vary, but are typically between 10 days and three weeks long.You can take various routes to the Peninsula depending on where you are departing from. The advantages of these cruises are that everything is provided on the ship, and you get to see Antarctica and its wildlife close-up for an extended period of time.


Most voyages to the Antarctic Peninsular region leave from Ushuaia, Tierra del Fuego in Argentina, Port Stanley in the Falkland Islands and a few leave from Punta Arenas in Chile, Buenos Aires in Argentina, or Puerto Madryn in Argentina.;
, There are a variety of ship sizes that you can travel on, ranging from around 45 passengers total at the smaller end, to 280 passengers at the larger end. Both have their advantages and disadvantages. In general, the larger the ship the more comfortable and well-equipped it will be, but the less opportunity you will get to land on Antarctica yourself and see things up-close.


In high seas, larger ships are the most comfortable but the strict guidelines on how many people can visit the shore will limit your opportunities for shore visits.
Smaller ships allow for more time on shore. This is because tourist guidelines limit landings of tour groups to 100 people.All reputable cruise operators will be registered with the International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators (IAATO), so this is good place to consult during your planning. They support environmentally friendly travel to Antarctica.The costs for these cruises will vary, but for a ten day trip expect to pay at least $4500, whereas for the longer trips it could be from $12,750-$16,000., It is possible to reach Antarctica by yacht but this is not commonplace and is more for specialist yachtsmen than your average tourist. There are a number of yachting companies that are sanctioned by the IAATO and conduct trips to Antarctica who can you contact.Yachts tend to leave from Ushuaia or Stanley and are only for the very courageous and adventurous.


For these smaller ships, the conditions are much more treacherous than the larger cruise ships.This is a very expensive option that could cost more than $1000 a day for each traveller., One left-field option is to travel on a French re-supply vessel as a tourist. The ship, Marion Dufresne II, leaves from Réunion and the round-trip takes around a month.The number of tourists allowed aboard is limited and you will have to contact French tourist agencies for up-to-date information on departure schedules, availability and prices.Prices start from around $8,000 for the month.