 You can get a lot of natural curl in your hair by using bobby pins, which have been around for decades. Using bobby pins doesn't require any chemicals or costly products, either. Pin curling is the process of wrapping small strands of hair up in a loop, and pinning them to your scalp for several hours.Here's a list of what you will need:


Bobby pins
Mousse (optional)
Comb

, Your hair should not be dripping wet, or else it will take too long to dry. If necessary, blot your hair with a soft towel to remove excess moisture.


If your hair is very straight or doesn't hold a curl well, you might want to put some styling mousse into it., This will make it easier to tell which direction you should be curling your hair. When working on the left side of your head, you will be wrapping your hair clockwise. When working on the right side of your head, you will be wrapping your hair counter-clockwise. This will create a uniform curl.
 Make sure that the section is small enough to pin it flat against your head. If you make the hair section too thick, then it will take too long to dry. Also, the bobby pin won't hold the hair as well if the hair section is too thick.


Try using a comb to section your hair.
You may also want to clip up some of your hair so that you can focus on a smaller portion of your hair at one time.
 Try to make the section of hair as straight as possible. Start at the roots of your hair, and move the comb down towards the end of the section.
 Place the ends against your finger, and start wrapping it around your finger, all the way to the top of the section.
 As you pull your finger out of the center of the curl, be sure to hold the curl together with your other hand. Press it close to your head.
 As you are slipping the bobby pins through the curl, try to make an X shape with them. This will help to hold the curl securely in place.
 Remember to always curl your hair towards your face. This means that when you are working on the left side of your head, you are curling clockwise; when you are working on the right side of your head, you are working counter-clockwise.
 Your hair must be completely dry before you remove the bobby pins. If you are in a hurry, you can use a hair dryer on a low or medium heat-setting to speed up the drying process.


Your curls may be very tight once you remove the bobby pins. You can tease them a little by running your fingers through them. This will break them up a little and make them fluffy.
