 If you have been diagnosed with bipolar, you may feel scared and alone. However, many people deal with mood disorders every day. Over 22 million people in America have been diagnosed with mood disorders. There are many people to reach out to who deal with the disorder, and there are many resources available to you.Many people are treated for bipolar every day and successfully live with this condition. You are not the only person dealing with the disorder or the only person being treated.
You might also try looking into notable people who have had bipolar disorder to see that you can still achieve your dreams with this disorder. The list of notable people who have struggled with bipolar disorder includes Carrie Fisher, Tim Burton, Ted Turner, Buzz Aldrin, and Ludwig van Beethoven to name a few.;
, When you get diagnosed with bipolar, numerous thoughts may be running through your head. You may be thinking about ways bipolar disorder has been viewed in the media or about misconceptions you have. You may think you are crazy or weak. This is not true. Bipolar disorder is an imbalance of chemicals in your brain, which is out of your control.Having bipolar disorder does not mean you are less of a person or that you are not “normal.” You just have a chemical issue with your brain that can be managed through treatment.
 If you feel emotional after your diagnosis, don’t suppress those emotions. Instead, let yourself feel those emotions. You may be scared, ashamed, angry, or sad. You may feel emotional pain. You may not understand why this happened to you or be resistant to accepting that your life will change with treatment. Let yourself go through these emotions.Trying to suppress emotions can cause more problems. When you let yourself feel and experience the emotions, even if they are negative, then you work through them, let them out, and move on.
If you need to cry or scream, do it. The sooner you let go of those emotions, the closer you will be to accepting your diagnosis. You can also try talking with a trusted friend or family member or writing about your emotions.
 You are not the bipolar disorder. Bipolar disorder is only a brain imbalance. You are you. You did not cause the bipolar, it is not your fault, and you are not a bad person. Bipolar disorder is just something you have to live with, like diabetes, asthma, thyroid issues, or arthritis.You have probably had the disorder since birth and inherited it from a family member.


Bipolar disorder is just one aspect of your life. If you put it into perspective, that it is one piece just like your favorite color, your favorite food, your favorite activities, and your career, it feels less overwhelming.
 For some people, acceptance of their bipolar diagnosis may take years. Some people deny that they have bipolar at all, while others see improvements and stop accepting that they have it. Be patient as your work towards acceptance and as you and your treatment team find what works best for you. Remind yourself that though you have this mental illness, acknowledge and treatment is the way to help you stay healthy.Often a diagnosis of bipolar II is more difficult to accept than bipolar I because the symptoms are milder.
 It can be difficult to hear that your loved one has bipolar disorder. You may think that everything will change, including your relationship with them. However, remember that your loved one is still the same person they always have been.


Your loved one now is able to get treatment for their symptoms, manage their disorder, and live a fuller life.

