 You need to know a lot about the industry before you start submitting music to record labels. It is intensely competitive, and record labels are interested only in new artists who have the potential to generate revenue.


The vast majority of musicians never land a record deal. Since most people think of the life of a celebrity musician as glamorous and rewarding, you face many of obstacles and a lot of competition. This doesn't mean you should give up, but having a practical understanding of the industry is vital. You should be able to accept a series of rejections without letting it break your spirit in order to be a success in the music industry.
As an artist, your only hope of being signed is if you have the potential to make money for the label. There is no other way to get a contract. Being a great artist is not enough. You need a new sound, an attractive style, a fan base and a celebrity persona. Combine these with some professional awareness, and you'll demonstrate the potential to make someone some money. ;
, Getting a label to sign you to a contract is every musician's dream, but it's actually a rare event, and you have to do everything you can to increase your chances. That means you want to find a label that matches your style.


There are comprehensive record-label lists online. Search for the "record label directory" for your country. This should help you narrow the search.
Look for labels that have signed artists similar to you. A record company won't want to sign anyone who's exactly like someone else they've signed, but you want to work with a company you know is receptive to your sound.
 You may not be able simply to send a demo and expect it to be heard.


In most cases in order to be signed to a big label, you have to have a manager, lawyer, or agent who will contact the company on your behalf. If you cannot afford a manager, agent, or attorney, hope isn't lost! Contact the smaller labels while you continue to hone your skills as a musician.
 This will include a demo of your best music. A press kit typically contains a demo song on CD, one or more headshots or group shots of your band, a description of your band and influences, a biography that explains how your band came together or how you came to make the kind of music that you do, and contact information for your agent and band members. You can also include a list of big gigs you've played, awards you've won, or other recognition you've received as an artist. Every document in the press kit should incorporate a band or artist logo to create a sense of unity among the various documents (and to prevent their getting lost).
Your press kit should create a good first impression. It should be eye-catching and professionally designed and edited. This is not the time to type up documents on your computer and print them at home. If you don't have professional-level Photoshop skills, pay someone to create a kit for you.
Check out this helpful wikiHow article for more tips on putting together a press kit.
 Most labels have a website where you can find contact information. This will probably be at the top or bottom of the home page and may be accessible by clicking "Contact Us" or "Frequently Asked Questions."


Locate information on where to send your demo. Package your entire press kit (including photos, bio, and any other important information about your band) in a padded envelope and clearly label it. Make your package eye-catching but not juvenile. Include a personalized letter that indicates who you are, why you're sending the package, and exactly what you're hoping for in return. Send the package by priority mail. , A&R representatives may get thousands of demos every week. It may be a while before someone is able to listen to yours. In some cases you may never hear back. It's acceptable to contact the representative by email or telephone if you want to follow up on a demo you've submitted, but even this may not receive a reply.
 Sometimes it's better to go with an independent company. Often they're supported by a major label.


Send your music only to labels that work with artists in your genre. Don't earn a bad reputation in the industry by wasting the time of representatives in genres that have nothing to do with your musical niche. , When a record label considers an aspiring artist or band, they consider what kind of potential they have for selling out stadiums in live shows and making a profit in the long term, rather than just what they'll sound like on an album. In the beginning you may have to play free shows just to get publicity for your band. It may help to have a "day job" to support yourself financially during this time.
Live shows help you to build your fan base even without records to sell. Connect with your fans. Make them feel valued and special, and they'll be loyal to you and more likely to spread the word about your music.
 Justin Bieber was discovered because of his YouTube videos. While it’s a long shot, it's completely possible to build a fan base online, which can show a record label that you're an emerging, relevant artist with the fans to support a career.


Establish a YouTube page, Soundcloud profile, and Facebook and Twitter presence in your name or the name of your band. Be sure that each profile page links back to your other pages. Invest in some professional photos of you and/or your band, or ask a photo-savvy friend to take some good ones for you. Keep your look consistent across your online profiles and pages. Your pages should contain a digital version of your press kit, including photos, a bio, a description of your music, and some available tracks to listen to. Include up-to-date contact information. Add new recordings (including original songs and covers with a unique spin) as often as you can, and ask your friends and family to share them far and wide. Be sure to create a likeable persona. People are more likely to help you publicize your work if they like you as a person.
 Many great singers and talented musicians get overlooked because their music is not original or their lyrics are clichéd and stale. Focus on differentiating your sound from the rest of popular music in your genre. Get feedback from people who have a good sense of current music and are willing to offer constructive criticism. This should be an ongoing process as you hone your skills as a musician. Learn to take criticism and adjust your work accordingly. Sometimes you will find that criticism is not helpful, and you may choose to ignore it. If you find, however, that lots of people offer similar advice, it might be time to consider changing your approach. For instance, if you keep hearing from your critics that you have a great sound but your lyrics aren't catchy, it's time to put more effort into the writing., You need to invest in your track to make sure it sounds professional and polished before you send it off to record labels in a demo.


That means you'll have to pay to record it in a real studio, and then either mix and master it yourself or pay an audio engineer to do it for you. The importance of sound quality cannot be overstated when it comes to getting the attention of a label.
The first ten to thirty seconds of your demo track are vital to your success in securing a record label. Most record-label representatives have so many demos to hear, they won't listen to a mediocre one past the first half-minute. Yours needs to showcase your skill immediately. 