 Many organizations maintain rosters of qualified arbitrators. You could also hire an independent arbitrator. This might be a former judge or lawyer who works as an arbitrator for a fee.


You could contact one of the national arbitration associations to get a referral: the American Arbitration Association, JAMS, or the National Arbitration Forum.You could also ask a lawyer to recommend an arbitrator.If you have used a lawyer in the past (to write a will, for example), then call the lawyer up and ask if he or she knows of an arbitrator.
Get the arbitrator’s rates ahead of time. Often, arbitration is more expensive than small claims court. The average market rate is $200-700 an hour.Some arbitrators will charge more and some will charge less.
 You and the other party will need to agree to the rules of arbitration. In a regular lawsuit, a court applies the laws of the state or federal government. In arbitration, you have a choice about what rules the arbitrator will use.You will need to sign an agreement. This agreement will explain the rules.
The agreement will also state whether the arbitration is “binding” or “non-binding.” When arbitration is binding, then you must abide by the arbitrator’s decision. If you refuse to follow the decision, then the other person can get a court judgment and enforce it by garnishing your wages or putting liens on your property.
Generally, you will use “binding” arbitration. However, you could use non-binding arbitration if you want an opinion from a neutral third party. Often, non-binding arbitration serves as a springboard to negotiation., You have to file documents in an arbitration explaining the dispute, just as you would in a lawsuit. The person bringing the dispute files a “statement of claim,” which is similar to a “complaint” in court. It explains the dispute and asks the arbitrator for a remedy (such as money).The person who is sued files a “statement of response,” which is like an answer filed in court. In the “statement of response,” you admit or deny each allegation. You can also bring any counterclaims that you have., You can list all of the documents in your possession which relate to your dispute. You can then ask to inspect any document you think might be helpful and get a copy.You will also provide the other side with copies of any documents they think might be helpful to their case.
You should also give copies of the documents to the arbitrator before the arbitration hearing. This gives the arbitrator a chance to review the documents.
 The arbitrator might hold one or more conferences before the arbitration hearing. The purpose of these conferences is to settle side issues which need to be resolved before the hearing.


For example, you and the other side might argue about whether the arbitrator should hear counterclaims.The arbitrator must make a decision before the hearing.
You might also need a conference to discuss the witnesses you intend to call and exchange a list of any documents you will use during the arbitration., Each side will present evidence to the arbitrator during the arbitration hearing. The hearing will proceed much like a trial. The person bringing the arbitration will go first and the defendant will go second.


You can present witnesses who will testify under oath.You will also be able to cross-examine the other side’s witnesses. You should try to undermine the witness’s credibility by showing how he or she is biased. You can also confront the witness with a prior inconsistent statement. Both strategies undermine the witness’s credibility., Typically, arbitrators will issue written decisions. However, the length of time you must wait will vary depending on the arbitrator. Remember to get a copy of the arbitrator’s decision, which is often called the “arbitrator’s award.”


You need the written decision because an arbitrator cannot enforce its award. It has no police force to seize property if the other side refuses to pay up.
When the other side refuses to pay an award you won in arbitration, you need to take the arbitration decision to the court and have it enforced.Stop into the courthouse in the county where the defendant lives. Tell the clerk that you have an arbitration decision and you want to enforce it by getting a court judgment. The clerk should give you the forms to fill out., You might be able to appeal an arbitration decision. Typically, you will decide whether there is a right to an appeal when you sign the arbitration agreement at the start of arbitration. Most often, parties agree that there will be no right to appeal.