 Becoming a state licensed childcare provider is more than just “babysitting.” It means that you are a small business owner responsible for the health, happiness, and development of small children.Before seeking a childcare license, ask yourself the following questions:


Do I enjoy working with children?
Am I knowledgeable about child development or willing to learn?
Am I ready to be a small business owner?

, In each state, there is a department that handles the licensing of childcare providers. Each state will have different specific requirements for gaining your childcare license (such as age and education requirements), so it is important to contact your state before you take any steps.


In Illinois, this is either the Department of Health and Human Services (DHS), or the Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS).
In California, this is the Department of Social Services (CDSS).
In Missouri, this is the Department of Health and Senior Services.
 Once you are sure that you meet the age and education requirements in your state, you will need to pass a criminal background check through your state agency. They will also ensure that you do not appear on the national or state–level sex offender registries (SORS), or within the Child Abuse and Neglect Tracking System (CANTS).Each state is different, but you may be disqualified if you have been convicted of a felony.
You will likewise be disqualified if you have been convicted of a sex crime, are listed in any sex offender registry, or have been convicted of child abuse or neglect.
Additionally, they will look into your driving record and general criminal history.
 The next step in becoming a licensed childcare provider in your state is for the location to pass an inspection. Whether you plan to open a daycare center or to care for children in your home, an inspector will need to come out and ensure that you meet all the standard health and safety requirements. Once again, these will vary by state, so it is imperative for you to check with your local government agency.Contact your local agency to procure a list of safety requirements, and make any adjustments, before requesting an inspection.
For example, some states require you to have a fence around a swimming pool.
 After you have met the age and education requirements, passed the appropriate background checks, and passed the home/facility inspection, you are eligible to apply for a license in your state. Once again, you will need to contact the appropriate department in your given state and follow the particulars of your state’s procedures.

