 Tadpoles can be raised in most containers, though it's best for them to be housed outside so that you attract more mosquito's to lay their larva for the tadpoles to eat, nature provides a cleaner and more oxygenated atmosphere and because it's more natural. Be sure to keep them in the shade at all times, though. Suitable containers include:


A large tank.
A large oven roast bowl
A small pool if outside.
A tub.;
, Use gravel to cover well. Add a big rock or two for shelter and land when the tadpoles transform.


Put small weeds and grass with the roots attached in the water so the tadpoles can hang onto them, and they eat the roots.
Make sure there has not been a recent application of pesticides on any plant life added, as this will kill the tadpoles within a day.
 The tadpoles must be able to get out of direct sunlight when they want to.
 You can keep more, but they may die out faster or become carnivorous.
 Tadpoles need clean, dechlorinated water. Bottled water is ideal, but if the water is from the tap let it sit in a container for 24 hours. Rainwater is one of the best waters to keep your tadpoles in since it contains mosquito larva and doesn't contain any chemicals.


Some advise using water from where you found the tadpoles.Do not use tap water; it's too full of chemicals that can harm tadpoles. If you want to use tap water, let it sit uncovered for 24 hours, to allow the chlorine to dissipate.
 Try to only change half the water at a time to keep the pH of the water balanced. A turkey baster is good for this and disturbs the tadpoles as little as possible whilst making it easy to remove debris that gathers at the bottom of the container. But this is optional––not many tadpole/frog owners have these.
 It's ready when the leaves are soft and squishy. Drain and cut it into little pieces. Feed a pinch every day.


Other types of lettuce should work too. However, only use softer leaves. Also, all pieces should be small enough for their tiny mouths.
Tadpoles can also be fed normal flake fish food but only in small pinches, as it's not the absolute best for them. A couple of pinches a week should keep the tadpoles hunger satisfied depending on the number of tadpoles you keep. Too much food can cause death to the tadpoles from over-eating.
 They usually develop from egg to tadpole in 6 to 12 weeks. Keep that in mind and don't panic when it gets cold; in winter the tadpoles will grow more slowly. The ideal temperature is between 65-75 degrees Fahrenheit, or around 20-25 degrees Celsius.
 When your tadpoles develop legs you will need a container with dirt for them to crawl up onto, or they will drown.
 At this time the tadpole will be using its tail as food and it will become an adult frog.
 If you aren't releasing the froglets, they will likely need larger housing.
 The tank or housing for them must be kept clean daily, otherwise, bacteria will spread rapidly and can kill them.

