 Wear sharp; go old school with stuff. Include neon clothing and fluorescent sweatbands.
Skinny-fit jeans are a must-have. Buy a pair in every known color.
T-shirts should be retro with bright colors, and 80's slogans, such as "Save the Rave" or "Frankie Says Relax". Video game t-shirts are cool too, go with old-school games though. Super-hero shirts are good, too.
Accessories are also neon. Wear glow stick bracelets, and flashing badges. Get pins of your favorite bands, and put them everywhere.
Studded belts are a good idea. So are any other studded accessories, but don't go overboard with those.
Suspenders, chains, and neon nail polish is nice.
Avoid big sunglasses, bows, tutus and cartoon characters like Hello Kitty. You'll come across as scene.
Edible jewelry is a nice addition.;
,
For boys and girls, eyeliner is great. Boys, wear black (not too much or you'll be called an emo) and girls wear lots of bright eyeliners.
Glitter. Put it on your face. On your clothes. In your hair.
Accentuate eyes and mouth as much as possible.
Have a small emblem on your cheekbone. Hearts and lightning bolts are popular.
Have long straight hair, or short hair spike in front,or backcombed ( a la robots in disguise) or parted to the side, with hair pushed out forward. For people with nappy hair, wear it in a groovy afro! Cornrows on half your head are very new and cool, anything funky and different. Avoid teasing at all costs.

The Glitch Mob
Kraftwerk.
Robyn
Justice
The Bravery
Sohodolls
IAMX
Electrocute
Hot Chip
Gold Diamond
Boys Noize
Digitalism
Robots In Disguise.
Chicks On Speed.
Peaches.
Gary Numan
Klaxons.
Darude
Freeez.
Daft Punk.
Electrosexual.
Freezepop.
Mantronix.
Cybotron.
 Any instrument. The most common instruments in electronic music are synthesizers, samplers, and drum machines/pads. Guitars and definitely basses are used, but learn whatever you want.

One of the most influential albums ever is Kraftwerk's "Autobahn". Kraftwerk is your new favorite band.
 Neon walls, with posters everywhere. Keep your room clean, and have theme colours. Probably something and black. Lots of stuffed animals. Have your neon headphones laying out or wrapped around your bed posts.