 Inserting daycare into your daily schedule can be a challenge. Arrangements need to be made regarding which parent will drop off and pick up the child each day. You will also have to come up with a backup plan if your partner (or yourself) gets held up and make it to daycare on time.


For example, if you were to get stuck and traffic and your partner is in a meeting, you will need to have a person, like a relative, you can call that can go and pick up your child for you.
 There may some days where your child slips and cuts his knee or sustains some other injury. On those occasions, if the wound is bad enough or the child is inconsolable, you might have to come and pick your child up early.


However, keep in mind that daycare staff members are usually certified in First Aid Training and CPR, so they will be capable of handling any emergencies.
 Most daycare facilities will post menus near the entrance to the building. If you are worried about the nutritional value of the meals that are served, or your child has special food needs, you can usually talk with the manager about your concerns.


Daycares that accept infants will usually ask that the parents provide the formula or expressed breast milk as well as details about feeding the infant, such as how much and how often they eat. The formula or breast milk is kept separate and labeled for each infant so there are no mix-ups that result in cross-usage.
 One of the biggest challenges that parents face when sending a child to daycare is separation anxiety. Simply put, some children have a very tough time coping with being away from their parents. It can be heartbreaking to walk away from your child when they are crying and clinging to you. If this is happening, take a moment to explain (again) what is happening and express your love to your child. Tell them when you will be back and what you will be doing while you are gone. Then, say goodbye and calmly leave the daycare.


The staff should be well trained in helping both you and your child through this challenge. They will do everything that they can in order to comfort your child and help them adjust to being at the daycare. They will often call the parent later in the day to let them know that the child is doing well.
Sometimes, they have one of the staff members stay with the child until they are calm and ready to play and participate in the group activities.
They might also set up a play buddy for the child so that they don’t feel alone.

