 You can also buy loose-leaf sage, but the pre-wrapped bundles are slightly easier to handle.


White sage has been traditionally burned by the indigenous peoples of the American Southwest, but other varieties of sage may suit your purposes.
You should be able to find dried sage in small, independent herb shops; at some grocery stores, health stores, and farmers markets; in head shops, smoke shops, or anywhere that incense is sold. You may find a more diverse selection if you search the Internet for "sage bundles".
Sage is a ceremonial, sacred product: your intention in burning it matters, the cultivation of the sage matters, and the intention of the seller matters. These subtle energies may pass from the people into the sage, and from the sage into the space that you are purifying. Be conscious about where you are getting your sage.;
, Sage grows naturally, in the form of various subspecies, throughout the Americas, Asia, and the Mediterranean. Read about the varieties that grow near you, and consult a botanical field guide to identify the plant in the wild.Use sustainable wild-crafting practices. Never pull wild sage up by the root, and do not harvest the entire patch. Let the sage continue to grow for years to come. Leave enough of the plant that it can sustain itself.
Take the tallest, most mature stems, and leave the rest. Be careful not to shake away too many of the seeds and flowers. Use scissors or a knife to trim the stem as close to the ground as possible.Ask for permission before harvesting sage on private property, or within the bounds of a state park. In some areas, you can purchase a cutting or wild-crafting permit for a small fee. Depending where you live, you may be able to find sage growing around your neighborhood.
 If you keep an herb garden, you may want to cultivate your own sage plant to ensure a steady and sustainable supply.


You can scatter or bury seeds from an existing sage plant in your garden. Water them consistently, make sure that they have space to grow, and be patient.
You should be able to buy sage seeds or a sage plant at a local nursery.
Whether you transplant a living sage bush or grow your own from seed, make sure that you give the plant plenty of time to establish itself in your garden. Be patient. Do not pick stems from the sage bush until you are absolutely sure that it won't kill the plant.
 This should take about a week, depending on the weather. Gather the sage in a bundle, tie it tightly, and hang it up in a dry space so that it will dry evenly.


If you hang your sage outside, remember to bring it inside or cover it at night. If dew or moisture seep into your sage bundle overnight, this will undermine the drying process.
When the sage is sufficiently dried, it should crackle gently when squeezed.
Do not dry your sage in an oven or microwave--this will toast the essential oil out of the bundle, speeding up the deterioration of the plant and muting the purifying effect of burning it.
 Decide what you are trying to accomplish by burning this sage. The practice of burning sage is ancient, rich, and steeped in cultural tradition.


The power of intent is integral here. If you burn sage with the intention to cleanse your home of negative energy, then it is incredibly more likely to do so. Any effect of the plant must be rooted in your mind.
Perhaps you want to cleanse your home of negative energy. Perhaps you wish to interact with an ancient herbal tradition and rekindle the ancient rites. Perhaps you simply want to burn incense and spruce up your home with a pleasing scent.
 Many of the benefits are spiritual and psychological--but there is a physical component.


On a spiritual level: Many people use sage burning and smudging to connect with ancestral tradition. It is a common belief that the strong scent of sage can purge the negative energy from a room, a home, and a heart.
On a psychological level: The act of burning sage can mark a beginning, a resolution, a turning-over of a new leaf. When you accept the time-honored ritual and put your faith in the power of burnt sage, you can purge yourself of negativity and find true peace of mind.
On a physical level: Sage releases negative ions into the air when it is burned, and research suggests that exposure to negative ions may correlate to lower rates of depression.The strength of this correlation is still unclear, but know that sage at least has not been shown to have any negative effect.
 Lay out a ceramic dish, a bowl, an incense tray, a shell, or any other vessel that will catch the ash. Fill the vessel with clean sand or rich earth.


Choose a vessel that holds significance to you. This can be nearly anything: your favorite coffee mug, a piece of your grandmother's china, an ivory bowl from your journey to India; any personal relic that will make the ceremony more meaningful to you.
Some Native American tribes have traditionally burned sage in cleaned-out abalone shells, which represent the element of water.If you want to pay homage to the ancient rites, consider buying a large abalone half-shell or hollowing out one of your own.
Avoid using wood, paper, rubber, or anything flammable. Keep water on hand so that you can extinguish the burning sage if the flame grows out of hand.
 This will give the sage smoke--along with any negative energy--a way to leave your home.Open a window or a door in any room where you plan to burn sage. You want the smoke to cleanse, but you do not want it to linger.
Consider turning on a fan if you want the smoke to dissipate more quickly. You may not like the pungent smell, or the smoke may irritate your sinuses.
 Use a candle, a match, or a lighter to set the sage ablaze. Let the sage burn for a few seconds, and then blow out the fire; let the embers smoke.


Dry sage will catch fire very quickly. Be careful.
Make sure that the sage has burned enough that the embers will continue to smoke. If the smoke ceases before you are done with your ritual, you can carefully light the sage again.
You are ready to spread the smoke.
 Consider saying a prayer of cleansing. Burning sage is the spiritual equivalent of opening up all of your windows and letting light shine into the soul; dedicate your act to this light.


For example, say: "I cleanse this room of any impurities, negativity, or anything that does not suit or support the people that live here."If you are preparing a room for a newborn child, say: "I purge this room of all ghosts and darkness. I dedicate this room to life, and to love, and to light, and to all that is good."

, Walk around each room wafting smoke into every corner; let smoke trace the walls, the windows, and the ceiling; let smoke curl and coil and roll back upon itself within the space. Imagine negative energy flowing away from the edges of the smoke; out of your home; out of your life.


Concentrate on gateway areas: windows, doors, closets, hallways. Use your intuition. If you pay close attention to your space, you may notice that some areas are more in need of cleansing than others.
Consider focusing on busy areas--work spaces, kitchens, entryways. If you have a pet, consider saging their space, but do not disturb them with the smoke.
Moderation is key. Do not fill the area too thickly with smoke, or your gentle cleansing may become a choking nightmare.
Try not to inhale the smoke directly; this may harm your lungs.
This process may set off your smoke alarm, if you own one. Either moderate your smoke-spreading, avoid rooms with smoke detectors, or remove the batteries from the smoke detector before burning your sage.
 Pungent sage is known for its yang (male) aspect, and incense may lend a complementary yin (female) energy.


Experiment with-bell ringing and hand-clapping in between burning sage and lighting incense; this may potentiate the spiritual cleansing effect.
 If you can burn sage at least once a week, you may notice that the practice imbues your home with light and calm.


You do not necessarily need to perform a full smudging ceremony each time that you burn sage--depending on how strictly you wish to adhere to the traditional rituals. Consider burning sage casually, as you would burn incense.
Consider burning sage to acknowledge significant changes in your home: a new member of the family, a new pet, a new job, a new passion. The practice of burning sage can be whatever you want it to be. The important thing is that you believe that the sage can help you make your life more meaningful.

