 The easiest way to do this is to buy a quilting magazine and find a pattern that's marked Easy or Beginner. Quilting magazines are found in fabric stores such as Jo-Ann, Hancock's, or local stores.;
, Almost every quilting magazine provides a how-to section that lists what you need and how to get started. At the very least, you'll need fabric, thread, scissors, a cutting mat and a rotary cutter and quilting ruler. You can sew a quilt by hand or on a sewing machine.
 Most quilters prefer 100% cotton fabric, but it's OK to use cotton/polyester blends too. Also purchase batting, which is the middle layer of the quilt, and enough additional fabric to cover the back of the quilt. It's also OK to use a bed sheet for your quilt back as long as it's big enough.
 If you have questions, consult the same magazine's how-to section or try one of the thousands of web sites that Google lists. About.com has a particularly good one found under Hobbies/Quilting. Aim for accuracy so your quilt goes together evenly on all sides.
 There are many kinds of batting, but the easiest one to work with is a thin, all-cotton or cotton/polyester blend.
, Smooth it out with your hands and get rid of any puckers or wrinkles. The wrong side of the backing fabric should be against the table surface.
 The two right sides of the top and back should be facing one another.
,, Leave an opening for turning the quilt right side out. The bigger the quilt, the larger the opening you will need.
,, It should be a fairly long, strong needle that can go through all three layers of your quilt. You will also need a sturdy thread such as crochet thread, several strands of cotton embroidery thread, or other similar threads in a color that looks good with the quilt.
 Most of the time, knots are spread out evenly on the quilt about six inches apart, but you can also do a design of some kind, or just tie randomly as well.
 Take one stitch in the quilt, going in from the top, then up from the bottom. Leave a tail of thread coming out of the first hole long enough to tie a knot. This should be a small stitch.
 You can tie the knots as you stitch, or wait and tie them all at once.
