 Guys like you more if you are just laid back and cool about things. If someone spills something on your Tori Burch handbag, don't cry and whine, even though you may want to. If you fall in the hallway or slip, just laugh at yourself in public. You can hit yourself in the head as much as you want to when you're alone.;
, Most guys don't like the girls that have the huge black fake eyelashes, the thick eyeliner, or the blood red lipstick. Embrace your natural beauty! Try going without make up, or just wearing minimal makeup. For everyday makeup, try wearing neutral colors like brown rather than black around your eyes.


Makeup should add glow, not color.
 Try to find clothes that fit you, and enhance the good features of your figure. Yes, this does mean that going to the store and trying on the clothes is better than ordering them online where you're not sure if they will fit or not, but it's good to know what you're buying is perfect for you. Also, don't feel like you should wear your lowest top or shortest skirt to impress him. It'll do the opposite and make you look cheap, shallow, and desperate.
 Guys love girls who have hobbies. It's okay not to play a lot of sports, but some guys tend to like girls who can throw a ball or shoot a basket. When sport season starts, try encouraging your friends to join a sport team with you and maybe try to learn a few things about the sports your crush likes.
 Having a good body will make you more confident, and guys find confidence in a girl very attractive. Try small things like replacing your daily chocolate bar with an item of fruit, cutting down on the amount of TV you watch, and walking rather than using transport (which is environmentally friendly too). If you want a drastic change with your figure then start a fitness regime and ask friends or family to do it with you for support.
 Everyone (yes, boys and girls) love someone who can smile and laugh. Try to be optimistic and look at the glass as half full as opposed to half empty.
 As long as you take care of your hair and don't walk around looking like you've been dragged through a hedge backwards then don't worry. Also, don't worry about hair colour, some guys like blonds, some like brunettes, some like red heads, everyone has different taste.
 It could be anything, even a small thing. Maybe a hobby, such as dance or art or a certain sport. Or it could be a phrase or saying that you have, nothing annoying though, and don't say it too often. Or perhaps something about the clothes you wear, try dressing slightly different to the people around you, as friends are often highly influenced by each others taste in fashion. Don't buy loads of shocking clothes, but just don't copy too much.

