 Acupressure is an Asian Bodywork Therapy developed over 5,000 years ago. Acupressure relies on finger placement and pressure along pressure points on the body.The points are believed to be arranged along channels, called meridians. Stimulating these areas is believed to release tension and increase blood flow.Some people believe that acupressure and other Asian body therapies correct imbalances and blockages of the flow of vital energies through our bodies.;
, Acupressure is used for a variety of ailments. One of the most common uses is to relieve pain, such as headaches and neck and back pain. People also use acupressure to help with nausea and vomiting, fatigue, mental and physical stress, weight loss, and even addiction. Acupressure is believed to cause deep relaxation and a decrease in muscle tension. Many doctors, practitioners, and advocates of holistic health believe that acupressure has positive and healing effects on the body.UCLA has a Center for East-West Medicine that studies the scientific basis of acupressure. They try to provide explanations and practical applications of the techniques.To become a licensed acupressurist, one must go through a rigorous program at special acupressure and acupuncture schools. They can also go through massage therapy programs. These programs include study of anatomy and physiology, acupressure points and meridians, technique and protocol, and Chinese medicine theory, . These programs require up to 500 hours of schooling., If you want to use acupressure, you need to repeat the steps over time. The techniques have a cumulative effect on the body. Each time you manipulate the pressure points, you help balance your body.


Some people may see results immediately, some may need several treatments. Although immediate pain relief may occur, the pain can return. This is considered normal. Acupressure is not an immediate fix. It is technique you can use to help ease pain by decreasing blockages and restoring your body to a balanced condition.You can apply acupressure as frequently as you want. Multiple times a day or even multiple times an hour. As you continually manipulate a point, you may feel a lack of pain as it begins to heal.
Most people suggest practicing acupressure every day. If that is impossible, then practice at least 2-3 times a week.