


Choose a day of the week and time that the store is not busy. Try shopping early in the morning or late at night.
Choose a time when the store is stocked. While shopping late at night helps you avoid crowds, there may be little to choose from when it comes to fresh produce and meat.;
, Going to the same store every week will save you time because you will know exactly where to find the items you buy most frequently.


Shop at other stores when they are having a sale on certain items, or if you need something special for a meal.
 Before you go to the grocery store, decide what you will prepare for meals and pack for lunches in the coming week.


Check your pantry, fridge and freezer for snacks and staples you might be low on.
Poll your family. Have a standard place where you kids and spouse can make requests or note things that are needed. An erasable board on the fridge might work.
 Keep a standard list of items that you need to buy every week, such as milk, bread and coffee. Add to the list every week before you shop.


Organize the list according to the aisle in your grocery store. You will be less likely to forget things, and you will avoid having to visit certain aisles or areas more than once as you check your list.
Make several copies of your standard list so you do not have to re-write it every week.
Download a grocery list template online. You can also get a mobile phone application, or app, for your smart phone. Check out GroceryLists.org for samples.
 Apps such as Grocery Gadget and SplashShopper will store your shopping lists and remind you of the things you might need.
 Sifting through your coupons as you shop can be a hassle and slow you down. Take only the coupons that correspond to items on your list.
 Do not get distracted by displays and free samples. Follow your list and buy only what you need.
 While it may seem like you could use the help of kids and spouses, you will move more swiftly on your own.
 The person bagging your groceries at the checkout counter will probably appreciate your help, and you will save time.

