, Come up with a situation that you would want to read about. Although unique, you're not isolated — there's no situation so bizarre or unconventional that no one else would want to read it, too. People think like you do, so focus on human universals and work from there.
 Say, "Hey, I want to write a story. These are my ideas. What do you think?" They might have some really good advice. If you have a story idea that you absolutely will not change, skip this step.
 Write them down, putting girl names in one list, boy names in another, and unisex names in a third. This way, whenever you add a new character, just look at your list and pick one.


Alternatively, you might like to visit baby-name sites, with thousands of names you've never heard of. This is especially useful when writing about cultures different from your own.



"Begin at the beginning," the King said gravely, "and go on till you come to the end: then stop." — Lewis Carroll, Alice's Adventures In Wonderland


, Say "This is where my story takes place." You may make a fantasy land or go somewhere as simple is your own neighborhood. Write down descriptions, for example the average weather. Is the weather average? Is it humid? Is it always dark? Are the skies clear? Is there a paved road, or a dirt road? Is it green? Are there no trees? Does it snow? Is it cold at least? Ask yourself questions.
 For each character, or at least each major character, make a mind web, showing characteristics about each character. Do not do this for minor characters, or you'll end up spending more time planning than writing.
 Make notes for yourself about how the characters feel here and there. Add descriptions about the weather and atmosphere, too.
 At the top of the page, write something. Anything. Getting some words on the page, and removing the blankness, will make it less menacing. You'll most likely delete these initial efforts later, but the point is that it'll get you writing.
 Then another and another, letting the words flow. This is what you've been preparing for. Picture yourself as a spider, spinning your web. The first sentence is the beginning fiber of your web. Build on it. Keep it interesting, too. You're on your way.

