 Insert cash or a prepaid card into the pachinko machine. The cash will buy you a certain number of balls, which should be listed on the machine. You will buy a certain number of balls at a selected monetary values for the game.If playing an offline game, put money into the money slot on the ball dispenser that you find on the machine’s left-hand side.Think of the balls like a casino's chips. They stand in for real money, just not money you can collect at the parlor.
 The ball-release button is called the tamakashi button. When you press the button the balls will fall into the tray at the top of your machine. This tray is called the uwazara. Those are the balls you have to play with, which are technically "borrowed" from the parlor.If the balls don't come out or it doesn't seem like what you paid for, you can ask an attendant to help you.
 You start playing in pachinko by pulling the handle that is on the machine’s lower right. You’ll want to turn the handle firmly by twisting it. The amount you twist controls how fast the balls shoot out the top. You want to find the right angle to aim the balls towards the hole near the bottom of the machine. If the balls don't enter the hole, you lose them to a chute below.Keep twisting to find the best speed for the balls. Try to aim for about 20 balls in the hole for every 1,000 yen you're spending.
The more strongly you turn the handle to the right, the faster the balls come out. If you don’t turn the handle strongly enough or far enough, the balls won’t move. If you turn the handle too strongly, the balls will go right into the losing shoot at the bottom.
 Part of pachinko is avoiding the pegs on the board, which can make your balls go off course. When turning the wheel, try to get the balls between the gaps as much as possible so they fall easily into the winning hole.You can launch the balls singly.
Each board has about 500 pegs that you must guide your balls through., Another part of pachinko is the small doors that surround the hole, one one each side. When they are shut, you'll only be able to get one ball through. When they open, you'll be able to get three balls through at once.The balls that go in reward you with more balls, as well as giving you a spin on the slot machine.
 The slot machine uses numbers, which you need to line up. You are looking for a three in a row. Of course, you want three in a row, but you also want a situation called a reach, where you are waiting for the third number to show up after having two in a row.You'll see reach happen about a fourth of the time. When it does, you'll have the number you want represented on the screen, battling against another number you don't want. Usually, these numbers are represented by various silly characters that literally battle across the screen.
If the other number wins, which usually happens, you lose. However, the fun happens when your number wins in a reach. When it does, each ball you've already won is converted to ten balls, or the machine will pay out a huge amount of balls.
 Pachinko is a very popular game in Japan, so an entire set of etiquette rules have popped up. It’s best to follow them if you are playing the game in its home country, as you can upset people if you don't.Don't gloat over winnings or look sad when you lose, as you are playing close by other people, and generally, everyone keeps a poker face. Most people don't want to be disturbed by the people around them. They view the game as something they do alone, not together.
Make sure not to touch anyone else's balls, as it's considered bad luck and bad form.
If you need to reserve a machine, use a pack of cigarettes or some other marker, and place it in the tray, which will work for about half an hour.Don't take children with you.

