 You should install a smoke alarm very near your kitchen, such as in a hallway adjoining your kitchen. Since the alarm may go off too easily if it is in the middle of the kitchen, it is best to put it just outside., It should be easily accessible from anywhere in the kitchen but not too close to the stove or other appliances where a kitchen fire could start, such as a microwave. You don’t want to have to reach through the fire to get the extinguisher.If you don’t know how to use a fire extinguisher, you should sign up for a workshop with your local fire department., Cabinets above your stove are common in many small apartments, but can pose a fire hazard. First, if there is no range hood or exhaust above the stove, you could get grease build up underneath the cabinets. This will increase the fire risk. Second, you may reach for something in the cabinet while you are cooking and inadvertently allow your clothing to catch fire., Since many solvents and cleaning products are flammable, it is not advisable to store them anywhere near your stove., To avoid your oven mitts and pot holders catching fire on the stove, you should store them away from the stove. Instead, you could put them in a drawer or on a hook near your fridge., If you have a container with a bunch of wood utensils in your kitchen, you should keep it at least three feet away from your stove., Flammables such as paper and plastics should be kept a good distance away from your stove. You could put them in a kitchen drawer, cabinet or other secure location.All flammables should be kept a minimum of three feet away from the stove., If you live in an old house, you may want to get your kitchen wiring checked. Faulty kitchen wiring is a serious fire risk. Phone your electrician and make an appointment to address any kitchen wiring issues.If you are constantly blowing a fuse in the kitchen, you may have a wiring problem.
If you get shocked plugging in appliances, you may have a wiring problem.
 If you are renovating your kitchen, you should ask your contractor to follow fire safety guidelines and use fire resistant materials. For instance, you can purchase fire resistant drywall and fire retardant poly sheeting. You can also design the kitchen so that it is easily accessible to the front and back door of your house. And you can minimize any obstacles such as interior walls or kitchen islands, so that your family can easily exit the house in the event of a fire.