 When you are trying to conceive in a long distance relationship, you will need to make sex a focus of your relationship. Regular sex is important for conception. Depending on how frequently you and your partner are together, you may need to have sex during each visit.

When you are trying to conceive, it is ideal to have sex every two or three days. This will likely not be possible when you are in a long distance relationship.
Monitor your fertility. Try to have sex on the days that your fertility is at its peak.
Try to adjust your schedules so that you and your partner see each other as much as possible. When you are together, make sex a priority.
For example, if you are together on the weekends, try to have sex once a day. This will increase your odds of conception.
Unless there are complications, most women under the age of 35 will become pregnant within the first year of regular unprotected sex.;
, Obviously, men need to achieve orgasm for their role in conception. Women do not need to orgasm during sex in order to become pregnant. But having a good sex life is important when you are trying to have a baby.If you enjoy sex, you are more likely to want to have sex with your partner. Be open about your sexual needs. For example, try saying, "I really love it when you do ABC."
Have a sex life outside of conception. When you are trying to conceive, it can be hard to shift your focus. But remember to have sex because you enjoy being intimate with each other, not just to procreate.
Try to plan romantic date nights, not just sex. Spending time laughing and enjoying one another will help you enjoy one another more in the bedroom.
 Once you have learned how to chart your fertile window, it becomes easier to plan for sex in a long distance relationship. Try to arrange your time together around times when your body is most receptive to becoming pregnant. Take into account your cycle, your temperature, and your mucus.Choose a time each month to sit down with your partner and make a travel schedule. Figure out who is going to travel and when.
When you make your travel plans, consider your work schedules and any social or family engagements. Unexpected things might come up, but you'll be able to get a pretty good idea of what the month will look like.
Book plane tickets (or train tickets or rental car reservations) in advance. This will help ensure that you both follow through on your travel plans.
 Try to schedule at least two times each month when you will be together. If something comes up when you are supposed to be traveling to visit your partner, turn down the invitation. Commit to spending quality time with your partner.Keep the lines of communication open. Talk to each other daily and keep in touch via e-mail, Skype, etc.
If possible, sort out things like finances, household issues, etc. over the phone or via e-mail. That way, your face to face time can be about enjoying quality time together.
 When you are in a long distance relationship, travel can sometimes start to seem like a grind. It can become tiring, and even seem like a burden to feel like you are constantly going back and forth. This is a normal problem to have.Try taking a vacation together. Instead of traveling to see one another, go somewhere entirely different from your homes.
Taking a trip together will be a welcome respite from the grind of traveling to the same place all of the time. You will likely relax and enjoy each other.
Vacations are a great way to spice up your sex life. Take some time to enjoy the plush hotel room together.
 If you are unable to have regular sex, you can still get pregnant. There are safe and reliable ways to inseminate yourself at home. This method involves some research and preparation, but can help you avoid large medical bills.Collect and ship the sperm. The sperm will need to be placed in an airtight container, and shipped specially. Look for a company that offers cold shipping.
You can inseminate yourself at home. A popular product is called the Instead Cup, and can be used to insert the sperm into the woman's body.
Track your ovulation using a home monitoring kit available at the pharmacy. When you are ovulating, place the semen in the Instead Cup and insert it into your vagina. You can read more about this process in this helpful wikiHow article.
Continue to track your cycle carefully. Artificial insemination works best when you are at your most fertile.
 If you have any concerns about your prospects of conceiving, schedule an appointment with your doctor. Have an open conversation with her. Explain that you are trying to conceive while in a long distance relationship and you would appreciate any medical advice.If you are over the age of 35, it is a good idea to speak to your doctor when you begin trying to conceive. Women past that age sometimes face additional challenges.
If you have been trying for over a year to conceive with no luck, it is a good idea for both you and your partner to visit the doctor. She can run some tests to help you figure out if there is a medical reason that you have not yet conceived.

