 You may think that that can of soda at dinnertime is sufficient time for the effects to wear off, but science says it's not. It can last in your system for up to twelve hours.Heck, that means avoiding it at lunch! But at least science isn't taking away your morning cup of joe.


In case it wasn't implied clearly enough, having loads of sugar isn't great for your sleepiness either. Even if you avoid the soda, stay away from the overly sugary juices and caffeine free but not sugar free beverages, too.
 Not including the other obvious reasons you should quit smoking, nicotine can also interrupt your sleep schedule -- it's a stimulant. What's more, you may wake up in the middle of the night with a nicotine craving. That's no good for your sleep cycles, either., Whether that means going for your lunch in the park or just throwing open all the curtains, make sure your brain gets stimulated by enough daylight. The sun is a natural cue to your brain that it's time to wake up. Need an excuse to walk the dog? There you go!


Remove your sunglasses in the morning for an instant, "WOAH, I'M AWAKE" feeling. The more your eyes can soak in, the better. And if you've got a case of the winter woes, think of investing in a light therapy box. It causes your body to release melatonin the same way the sun does.That being said, you want a room that's dark at night. You may find investing in a good set of light-eliminating curtains blocks out that street light and cuts down on your falling-asleep time. Just make sure to throw 'em open in the morning!

, That doesn't mean you have to turn into an Olympic athlete -- just 30 minutes a day of aerobic exercise (the heart-pounding kind) can help you sleep better.Break it up into smaller chunks if that's better for your schedule; you'll still reap the benefits.


If possible, work out in the late afternoon, but before dinner. If you work out within 4 hours of going to bed, it could just rev you up., When you go to bed, you want to neither be hungry or stuffed -- either feeling can keep you awake. So if you tend to eat your dinner late, this is even more important. The alternative is going to bed later, but you don't want that either!


Rich, fatty foods are harder for the stomach to digest. The heavier the food, the more conscious of it you'll be, making it harder to fall asleep. And be wary of spicy foods -- heartburn is just as unpleasant at night as it is during the day, Spending the day frustrated, nervous, irritated or just plain stressed will seep into your night routine. If you have troubles sleeping at night, could this be a cause? What could you do to reduce it?



Manage your stress by taking time to do yoga, a relaxing hobby, or just five minutes to yourself each day to focus on your breathing. If it's a bigger issue, consider seeking professional help.
 There are a variety of problems that are sleep-related, and they're not always crystal clear. If you set up a routine and follow this page, but still can't sleep, you may be best in a doctor's hands.


If you have headaches in the morning or are constantly sleepy, that's a red flag. If you act out your dreams or get tingling sensations, those are signs, too. Anything out of the normal that disrupts your ability to sleep how you'd like may be grounds for asking a professional. Don't take yourself lightly -- your health is of the utmost importance.







