 If you have not already created an account, read our great article about how to join Twitter.;
, Twitter offers two different identifiers for an account -- usernames and real names. Usernames are marked by the '@' symbol. Real names are the real name of the person.


If the person you are trying to find has a common name, it will be more efficient to know their username. Usernames are unique to each user while real names are not.
 Enter the username or real name of the person you wish to follow via the Twitter search bar. The search bar should be located in the upper right corner of the window, to the left of your profile picture. Enter a name or username, then click the magnifying glass to search. You will see 6 different options for specifying search results.



Top: This will include a combination of the most popular accounts, tweets, photos, and videos that include your search term.

Live: This shows a livestream of tweets with your search term. For example, if you searched "Bill Clinton," it will show the most recent tweets, photos, or videos about Bill Clinton.

Accounts: Shows a list of accounts with your search term as the real name. The most popular accounts will be ordered first. If you are searching for a celebrity, like Hugh Jackman, the first account will likely be the actual account. However, if you are searching for a friend named John Smith, you may need to browse through the accounts to find the right John Smith. This is when you should search using the @username, instead.

Photos: Shows a list of photos related to your search term.

Videos: Shows a list of videos related to your search term.

More Options: Lets you narrow your search by location or from people you follow.
 If you know the person's username, this is the most efficient way to get to their Twitter page. Add "/username" without the quotes (following www.twitter.com) to be directed to the user's feed. For example, if you want to go to Bill Clinton's page, add his username (@billclinton) to twitter.com. The URL should look like this: https://twitter.com/billclinton.
 Celebrities do not always use their real name on Twitter. Occasionally, their real name will be already used. In this case, it may be best to search for them by their username. Look around the web for the correct username.


The verified account will also have a checkmark next to it.

