 Communicate with your superiors and any employee managers to determine the goals of the induction session(s) so you can plan the whole schedule accordingly. If you want them to be aware only about the basic organizational processes and its growth plan, then 2-3 hours is good enough, but if there are several days of training involved in the process, you'll need more time.


If you are planning for your newcomers to complete any mandatory training sessions within their induction period, plan for this from the get-go and schedule them accordingly.;
, It's often wise to combine all the new employees for the month or quarter, depending on your recruitment rate. Global organizations normally prefer to implement this process monthly and bring together for training all the employees who have joined within the given one or two months.
 Once you are done with the session’s planning, the next important step is to inform the participants and their supervisors well ahead of time. Ask them to acknowledge and confirm that they will attend. This will help you plan for the right number of attendees.
 One of the most engaging options is to use an audio-visual presentation. This makes the entire session lively and interesting. If you are opting for a PowerPoint presentation, be sure to put together something that's informative but also engaging and appealing.
 Devote your optimum time slots to the most important topics. Provide a brief overview of the future growth plans/ acquisitions and major achievements of the organization. Detailed information about company policies and administration support is always helpful for the new beginners, too.


If you're bringing in outside trainers or managers to conduct any parts of the training sessions, coordinate with them early on to ensure their availability and willing participation.
 Depending on your company, it's probably a good idea to host your induction meetings in a board room or auditorium. Go through any necessary steps to book the space and coordinate with other parties who might be using it. Confirm availability and details as the date approaches. If you are using your own projector or microphone, try to take a practice session before the actual show.
 Depending upon the length of the process, normally snacks and other administrative arrangement s are provided by the company. Make sure to communicate the schedule with the providers also.
 The role of a human resource professional in these sessions is to be a host. Ask your audience individually what they expect from this session and welcome their goals. Try to meet their expectation level and answer their questions.
 Try to conduct the session in a lively environment. Be sure what your message is and accordingly plan the session. Try to focus on opportunities for bonding and embracing the company mission; try to incorporate some role-playing, brain games, and storytelling sessions along with any training you're required to provide.
 If you are planning to cater the employee’s learning need in this session, coordinate with the trainer and any managers involved. If you're able to conduct the training yourself, go ahead and provide it.
 Try to summarize the complete process at the end and ask each participant what their take-away from the session was. Encourage them to ask questions and express any doubts. Wish them luck for their professional growth with the organization, and give them your contact information if you're available for any future questions and concerns.

