 Try to handle the threat by giving in, or escaping, or talking your way out of the situation. You may find that people are much more reasonable than you expect.


Make a compromise or a deal. See if there is a way to deescalate the situation so that everyone leaves happy and healthy.
Decide whether you have an escape route. If they are only facing you, then you might run backwards. Run towards other people, there is safety in numbers.
If there is no nonviolent way to escape, then you may need to defend yourself. Be prepared for this, but try not to make it your first reaction.
 Be realistic about your chances. If you are outnumbered or otherwise outmatched, then it might be wise to first explore nonviolent solutions. Remember that violence is never a guaranteed method of dealing with someone. Once you escalate the situation, it may be very difficult to safely cool it back down.If you are under CCTV surveillance and you plan to fight your way out of the situation, then you want the threatening person to make the first move. However, if you are outnumbered, and one or more of them is armed in some visible way, then this may be enough to justify your actions., Try a kick to the groin, an elbow to the ribs, or a well-placed punch. No points for style or fair play – but if you put all your strength into it, he/she should hit the deck fast. Now you need to think again.


Run now, if possible. Move quickly away through the space you just created. If you're lucky, the rest of the group will be momentarily distracted.
If you can't get away, then you need to get something in between you and the rest of the group. One of the group will do nicely. Grab the closest one by the throat or neck—you want to be behind him so he is not in a good position—and make sure that you are hurting him enough that he won't attack you. Try grabbing his ear with your other arm and pulling it as hard as you can.
 Keep the fighting close and dirty. Dart in and out again, and don't let them grab you. You're finished once one or two of them catch hold of you. Run as soon as you get an opening.


Kick the back of your "shield's" knees down to the floor in a very powerful stamp. Ideally you want to break something. You then need to deal with the others in a similar way.
Try to go for unexpected targets. The knee is very weak, and can easily be broken with a kick.
Sucker punches to the jaw can lay someone out, but they are so very expected that it's unlikely to come off.
 Tell the police or a security guard about the confrontation. Alternatively, use your cellphone or a payphone and call the emergency services. Do your best to accurately describe the situation: when, where, and what the threatening people looked like.