 Wedding guest bingo is a variety of bingo designed to get your wedding guests – especially those who might not know each other – talking and having a good time. If you want to create a wedding guest bingo sheet, you must have everyone reply to their wedding invitation with a fun fact about themselves. Place these facts onto a bingo card, with each fun fact consolidated into a few words contained within one square of a series (for instance, a bingo card with 16 squares, four squares arranged in four rows).Your guests can play the game by asking each other questions inspired by the criteria described in the bingo squares. For example, if one guest’s fun personal fact was that they were afraid of spiders, your guests might ask each other, “Are you afraid of spiders?”
When they find someone who matched the criteria they were looking for, they could place an “X” over that square. Whoever gets a full row or column of bingo squares filled with X’s first would win.
You can create more than one layout if you wish.;
, To play the shoe game, you and your new spouse sit back to back and each of you takes off your shoes. You’ll each trade one shoe to each other and hold your other shoe in your other hand. One guest will play the role of the emcee, and ask questions which compare the two of you. You and your partner answer by holding up the shoe of person who is the answer to the question, either you or your spouse.For instance, the emcee might ask, “Who is the better driver?” If you believe it’s you, you’d hold up your shoe. If you believe it’s your spouse, you’d hold up their shoe. Your spouse will do the same.
The game provides much comedy for your guests because you cannot see how your spouse answers but your guests can. If you and your spouse disagree on some things, it will be funny for your guests.
If you wanted, you could help your emcee craft a list of questions before playing the game, or encourage them to solicit questions from the other guests.
 You and your spouse – or a friend who makes a good emcee – can choose six guests to form two panels of three people. Each panel will be asked various questions about you and your spouse. If one team doesn’t know the answer to a question, it goes to the other team. The first panel to get 10 questions correct wins. Questions you might want to ask include:Where did my partner and I first meet?
Which of us said “I love you first”?
Where was our first vacation together?

, This wedding reception activity involves getting you and your spouse-to-be to kiss when you hear your guests sing a song containing the word love. Inform your guests after or during dinner that they can request a song of the DJ and if it contains the word “love,” you and your partner will kiss., Mad libs are short stories with certain words missing that the mad lib maker can select, usually for comedic effect. If you’re the creative type, you could print several of these mad lib sheets with content relating to your wedding or future married life and leave them on the table for your guests to fill out. Encourage your guests to read their mad libs after dinner.The wackier the mad lib content, the more laughs it will garner when read aloud.
For instance, one mad lib sentence might read, “and are really looking forward to when they visit .”
A wedding guest might use this mad lib example to write a zany sentence like “Jen and Edwin are really looking forward to skiing in Jamaica.”

, Your wedding guests know you and/or your partner intimately. If any among them are dramatic or creative types, you might be able to convince them to draft a short skit about you and your partner. Their lighthearted skit would provide plenty of laughs and smiles.A good skit should take some habit or style of interaction you and your partner engage in and exaggerate it for comedic effect.
Guests should prepare these skits ahead of time and then perform them during the reception.
 A poetry reading involves guests reading poetry – either their own or someone else’s – for the enjoyment of the assembled guests. Direct your guests to love poems and other wedding-appropriate poetry.For instance, you might suggest to interested guests to read something from John Donne, Shakespeare’s Sonnet 18, or “Love Explained” by Jennifer Michael Hecht.
 Instead of giving your guests plain old white napkins, order some customized napkins for the occasion. The napkins should have a series of letters arranged neatly in rows and columns. Some of these letters connect – going either up and down, left to right, or in a diagonal fashion – to make words. Your wedding guests should study the napkin carefully to identify what words are on the napkin.Choose words that are wedding-related. For instance, you might hide words like “love,” “wedding,” and “bride” amongst the jumble of other letters on the napkin.

