 The key to being organized is preparation, so you’ll need to consider several factors before implementing your ideas:


Identify the vehicle you will be using to take your road trip. Is it a large, roomy SUV or a small car? Obviously, the vehicle size will be extremely important in planning what (or how much) you can take and trying to stuff more into a car that has very little room will make life harder for you.






Make a list of the vehicle occupants. If you can fit everyone in your vehicle comfortably, along with their suitcase and one travel and activity bag, you should be fine for the road trip. If you think you may be cramped, consider renting a larger vehicle for your trip if possible, especially if you will be car-bound for more than one day.






Consider your final destination. Will you be heading somewhere cold or a tropical paradise? Do your accommodations have a washer and dryer and how many days will you be gone? Also, do you need to pack equipment for your vacation such as skis or a surfboard? Knowing as much about your accommodations as possible will help you determine if you can pack a smaller sized suitcase (if you're heading to the beach where you have access to a washer and dryer) or if there’s no way around it and you must pack for each day. Also, consider renting supplies (such as skis and boots) if car room is at a premium.






Determine the number of days or hours that it will take you to complete your road trip. If it will take more than one day to get to your destination, will you need to secure accommodations along the way? If you will need overnight accommodations, conduct online research to identify hotels along your route and make a reservation for each night you need lodging. Don't assume availability; all it takes is one wedding party to fill up the only motel in town.






Obtain directions or a map. If you don’t have a GPS system, print directions using a mapping website or visit your local travel club (like AAA) and obtain a map.GPS systems are not always available,obtain a map.





;
, The best way to stay in control while on the road is to allow each passenger one small bag (roughly the size of a backpack) in which they can pack games, books and electronic devices.


Provide children with a specific list of what they can and cannot take in their activity bag. For example, tell them they can take three books, one pack of crayons and two coloring books. The amount of items should directly correlate to the number of hours or days on the road. For a three hour road trip, one book should be sufficient, however, if you will be road-bound for three days, asking that they pack several books and puzzles is not out of the question. Electronic devices such as tablets or game consoles can carry more books, puzzles and games, so consider taking one to share among the children.






Ask adults to ensure they have all important documentation included inside their travel bag. Maps, day planners, confirmation numbers and tickets should be secured in their bag. Medication should be in the bag too, to avoid having to rummage through the back for it when needed.
 At the end of a 12 hour driving stint, the last thing you want to do is drag heavy luggage to a room for a quick rest. Instead, determine the number of days you will be on the road, and pack a travel bag that includes enough fresh clothing and toiletries for the number of days on the road. Pack a plastic garbage bag inside one of the passenger’s bags and for dirty clothes each evening; that way, you keep the dirty clothes worn during the day separate from the rest of your items.
 The only way you will calm the chaos is to establish a few general car rules and ask everyone to kindly adhere to them throughout the trip. Some rules that have proven their worth for others taking road trips include:


Trash is thrown away at every stop. Request that every passenger search their area for cups, napkins, bags etc. and dispose of it every time the car stops. This will avoid mountains of trash building up and unidentified squashed objects being smushed into the hard-to-reach places of the car.






Maintain a small trash receptacle in the car. Keep a small garbage bag in the front seat and ask that each passenger use it after snacks or meals. This will help to minimize the amount of rogue trash in the car. Empty this bag at every stop.






Shoes must be kept by each passenger. Although everyone loves to take off their shoes during a road trip, demand that shoes be kept on the ground by the passenger to prevent missing shoes . Also, if your feet stink, shoes must be worn at all times unless they're a cherubic toddler with no foot odor. Alternatively, bring foot spray to kill odors.






Passenger space must be maintained and organized at each stop. If the kids want to color in the car or play with toys, fine. However, they must understand that once the car stops they must return whatever they’ve taken out of their activity bag back to its original spot.






Each passenger should perform a mental checklist after every stop. To ensure that items are not lost during the road trip, ask that each passenger double check important items that should be in their activity bag such as cash, maps and favorite toys, for example. The last thing you want is to be an hour away from the last stop only to realize you left tickets or your child’s favorite blanket at the last stop.






Always check you have your wallet after roadside stops. The feeling of leaving it behind is more than chilling.
 Anticipating the unexpected will help you stick to your schedule and maintain a sense of order throughout your car trip. Assemble an emergency travel kit that can be maintained either underneath a car seat or in the trunk (but in an accessible area so it can be accessed if needed while the car is in motion). Items to consider include:


Over the counter and/or prescription medication. Also, don’t forget important medicines such as an Epi Pen or migraine medication if you have allergies or are prone to sudden extreme headaches






Bandages and Band-Aids. Include various sizes and special blister Band-Aids






Antibiotic cream and anti-itch cream






Antibacterial waterless soap or wipes






Diapers and wipes (if a baby is traveling with you)






Small can of insect repellant






Digital thermometer






Leak-proof plastic bag. Whether someone has to vomit or if they have to use the toilet and you can’t get off the road, it’s better than having the offensive matter strew all over the vehicle. Don’t forget to dispose of the plastic bag immediately at the next stop






Small can of air freshener--for a more pleasant ride






One 8 ounce bottle of water--you never know when or if you may need water to clean up messes or wash wounds.
 Sometimes events happen that are beyond your control. Learn to relax and go with the flow if your trip becomes disorganized (think of it as making fond memories that you’ll laugh about in years to come). You can always regroup at overnight stops (do it first thing in the morning when you're most refreshed and least likely to despair over the state of the car).

