 Leaflets distributed to homes are very likely to be seen. You can hire a company to send them through the mail. You may also be able to distribute them by hand into mailboxes, but make sure this is legal in your area. Fliers left on doors and porches are also noticeable and will be seen by homeowners.Unless you have a specific list of addresses to hit, this sort of distribution can take a lot of leaflets and work.
 Whether you wrap a package at your store or ship an order, there’s no easier way to advertise. Slip the leaflet inside the packaging. Since the recipient is already in contact with you, they are going to check out your leaflet. Coupons or catalogue advertisements in your leaflets work well here., Contact the publication manager to discuss including your leaflet between their pages. Pick a trade publication that represents your cause, such as a music magazine to advertise your band or venue. Many areas have regional publications that are useful for spreading your leaflet locally., Having good relationships with local business owners helps. Ask them to display your leaflet on their counters. Some places will have public advertising boards where you can hang your leaflet. Waiting rooms in medical offices are also opportunities for reaching unoccupied people.Businesses related to your cause are your best bet. For example, if you are advertising a healthy grocery store, a gym is likely to be receptive. You can offer to advertise for them in return.
 Local events, such as trade shows, are easy locations to get leaflets to large groups of people. The best opportunity is during an event that relates to your cause, such as advertising a craft store at a craft show. You can package leaflets inside small goodie bags or leave the leaflets out on display.


You may also be able to sponsor an event yourself. As a sponsor, you will be given greater leeway in advertising and spreading leaflets.
Call the event organizers to discuss advertising and sponsorship opportunities. Look for events anywhere in your area, such as through libraries, community centers, clubs, and other venues.

