 By having fun learning about the digestive system at a young age, your child will be able to better identify the parts of the body affected by gluten sensitivities. They will also develop a stronger understanding of some of the terminology that is used when discussing the effects that a gluten sensitivity can have on the body. Talk to your doctor about visual aids that can help a child understand their gluten sensitivity.


Consider purchasing a book for your child such as Bagels, Buddy and Me by Melanie Krumrey to help them understand gluten sensitivity or Celiac's disease.
Turn the learning experience into a game. Quiz your child and offer rewards for correct answers. Print out a diagram and have them label the body parts that may be affected by a gluten sensitivity. Have a word bank with words such as "headache," "cramps" or "hives" and have your child write these words on the body where the symptoms would occur.
 Talk to your doctor about age-appropriate information that can help explain a gluten sensitivity in terms your child can understand. You can also look online. Online support groups for families with gluten-free children may offer pamphlets, reading recommendations, and other materials to help your child understand and cope with a gluten sensitivity.Educate yourself as much as possible as well. Read up on your child's condition and ask your pediatrician any questions you have. This way, you'll be better equipped to discuss a gluten sensitivity with your child.
 Websites like Facebook and Twitter can actually provide support for gluten-sensitive children. Look for Facebook groups designed for gluten-free families and Twitter accounts that post informative content about gluten intolerances and gluten-free living. These kinds of websites can provide very useful information, such as gluten-free recipes., Some areas have gluten-free camps where children meet others with a gluten intolerance. This can be an invaluable opportunity for your child to meet others with a gluten intolerance. Children will feel less alone when they interact with peers with similar food restrictions.In the United States, for example, there are gluten-free camps in Texas, Michigan, California, Rhode Island, North Carolina, and Rhode Island.
Check when registration begins for gluten-free camps and register as soon as possible. Slots often fill up fast.
 Ask about support groups at your local hospital or doctor's office. Your doctor may be able to point you in the direction of a support group for gluten-free children and their families. If you cannot find a support group in your area, there are many support groups online where you can share stories and information with other gluten-free families., If your child is gluten sensitive, they may feel different from others. However, emphasize that differences are not always bad. Instead of framing things in a negative light, encourage children to be imaginative and embrace their differences. A great book for children with Celiac's disease or a gluten sensitivity is the The Adventures of Celia Kaye, which is about how a girl with Celiac's diseases uses her imagination to explain the issue to others. This is a great book to make children with gluten sensitivities feel positive about themselves. You can also talk to a librarian about books about differences in general, not just differences related to food and eating. This can help your child value being unique in general, which may help them cope with a gluten sensitivity.

