 Protein can be very helpful in managing blood sugar levels, and it’s important to integrate some into every meal. People with diabetes should aim to have 20 to 30% of their daily calories come from heart-healthy proteins, including breakfast options such as:Egg whites
Lean meats such as chicken
Plain Greek yogurt
Nuts
Beans;
, For people with diabetes, keeping carbohydrates under control is critical, and a whole breakfast shouldn’t typically go over around 30 to 45 grams of carbs. Instead of basing a meal on refined grains such as cereals, opt for choices like:Whole grains
Fresh fruits
Low-fat dairy such as skim milk
Keep in mind that, while these are healthier than refined carbs, you must still count them.
 Type 2 diabetes increases one’s risk of heart disease, so along with monitoring macronutrients, it is important to make heart healthy choices. This can impact both the type of food you eat and how that food is prepared.Meats, for example, contain protein, but lean meats like chicken and turkey are better for the heart than red meats like steak or fatty meats like bacon, as they have less saturated fat.
Prepare foods in a heart-healthy way by avoiding additions like butter or excessive oil. Opt to crisp turkey bacon in the oven rather than frying it, and try poaching an egg rather than scrambling it with cream or butter.
 Though there are general guidelines for meal planning for people with diabetes, it is essential you work with your doctor or a registered dietitian to design a meal plan specific to your needs. Nutrition is the cornerstone of diabetes management, and following an individualized meal plan will help you manage your blood sugar and keep it in a healthy range.Your meal plan should give you guidelines for consuming carbs, such as how many you can have at each meal and how many should come from fruits and vegetables.
If your meal plan gives you different guidelines than those outlined in this article, follow your meal plan and the advice of your doctor.
 Swap out processed grains for their whole grain counterparts. Many breakfast foods, including breads, cereals, and pastries, have wholegrain versions, generally available at most markets and health food stores.Read the label carefully when looking for whole grains. Make sure it says “100% whole grain,” or “100% whole wheat.” Otherwise, the food might contain mostly processed grains and only some whole grain.
Opt to use whole wheat flour in baked goods and breakfast breads such as pancakes and muffins.
 Where you would normally use sugar or a sugary product, swap in fruit. A fruit puree makes a great substitute for jelly or jam, and some banana or apple slices easily replace brown sugar on oatmeal and porridge.Look at the amount of refined sugars in some of your sweet breakfast options. Where you see an excess of sugar, think about ways in which you can incorporate fruit instead of a refined product.
 Instead of butter, ghee, lard, or other saturated fats, trying cooking with small amounts unsaturated fat oils. In strict moderation, oils like olive, grapeseed, and sunflower seed oil can replace butter or other saturated fats.Always oils to the necessary minimum amount. Try not to over-grease pans or add extra oils into a recipe unless they are strictly called for.
 Use fresh fruits and low-fat yogurts to make a refreshing smoothie for a morning meal. Avoid using fruit juices and opt for high-protein yogurts such as Greek yogurt to get the most out of your meal.Blend together a cup of fresh or frozen fruit like strawberries and a banana, a quarter of a cup of plain Greek yogurt, and a few ice cubes to make a diabetes-friendly morning breakfast.
Avoid adding sweeteners unless you find it absolutely necessary. Fruit is often very sweet on its own.
 Instead of putting a lot of time into making a full omelet, scramble one egg with an additional egg white, and add some chicken or turkey bacon, spinach, green beans, or other lean meats and vegetables.Sprinkle a bit of low-fat cheese and add some rosemary or green onions on top to finish the dish.
You can use fresh vegetables, or microwave frozen vegetables and add them on top of your eggs.
 Try a breakfast burrito or a breakfast scramble to help you add savory foods such as lean meats into your breakfast. Use a low carb tortilla or wrap and add scrambled egg whites, chicken, spinach, onion and peppers to make an easy and healthy breakfast wrap that you can take on-the-go.You can also choose to top your scrambled egg whites with a baked white fish filet, some onions, spinach, and low-fat feta for a Mediterranean-style breakfast.
 If you need a fast breakfast that you don't have to prepare, a handful of almonds or pistachios and a piece of fresh fruit such as an apple or peach can make a quick and easy breakfast.You can even keep canisters of nuts at school, work, or anyplace you visit regularly to help make sure you get a healthy breakfast every day.

