 Yes, you both may be adults and both are willing to fight it out but it just makes things worse. The older person is way more confused then you are or are just seeking attention. When people get older they feel more isolated because normally there are more younger people around them than older. Staying calm when you can sense that the atmosphere is getting ready for a fight (signs of tension). A few times you may feel this is when they think that you are not listening to them (which, trust me, is one big trigger), you are back talking to them in a rude sense, or they just want attention. In some worse cases, they cause drama to entertain their loneliness. When this does happen, stay calm;
, Smiling at them and keeping eye contact shows them that you are listening. Even if it is a forced smile, it will satisfy their attention need for them for a bit.
 Talk to them about their past. But do not let them trail off into stories that are negative. It will just lead to tension again. Ask them about how they went to school, how was their old neighborhood like, what hobbies they had when they were younger and etc.
 It will only help them appreciate you more, so they'll cut back on pestering you a lot. Plus, sometimes helping them out to do work can give you new skills or even a reward for your hard work. For example, helping your parent out in the garden to plant some vegetables, flowers or just taking out the weeds for them, it will make you both happy. You will get an awesome work out and they'll have a garden to preoccupy their mind.
 It is really hard for an old person to be in the house for more than 5 hours. They may not seem very active but depression is very active in any age. So, take them out of the house to the park or just a walk around the block. It will help clear up both of your minds.
 Hugs are one of the best medicines. Humans are made for touch. Old people who are very negatively emotional are the ones who are rarely touched. So, if they are angry or sad, sit them down or just surprise them with a tight hug. You will see an expression you've never seen before. If they resist, just hold on, but not too tight because it might hurt them. They will give in.
 Laughter is the key thing to make them see life as something enjoyable. Make them laugh, or put on a comedy show on TV for them. Laughter is another great medicine for the mind and the heart. when someone is laughing, the room's atmosphere changes into a light mood and anything seems like it is possible.
 If all else fails, distance yourself from them. They might just have pent up anger, at your or some other reason. Also, if they continuously blame you for everything, it is best to distance yourself from them. They will take advantage of you if you stick around. This can be damaging to your mental health.

