 High intensity exercises or HIIT is an exercise that combined both moderate and high intensity cardio activities that can torch calories and help burn body fat.


Fitness professionals have been prompting HIIT workouts to help those who want to get rid of excess body fat. Although it does not specifically target your hips, it can help reduce your overall body fat.
HIIT workouts are typically shorter in length and combine short bouts of both very high intensity activities and more moderate intensity activities. They are great in combination with other cardio and strength training.
 You cannot reduce hip fat without reducing overall body fat. You also cannot spot correct using only toning exercises or strength training. Including regular cardio is an important component to help you meet your end goal.


Health professionals recommend doing 150 minutes of moderate intensity exercises each week.This can include walking/jogging, cycling, swimming or dancing.
If you want to experience a quicker reduction in your hips, aim to workout for one hour five to six days per week or up to 300 minutes weekly.Include cardio exercises that are known to slim and tone your thighs. Activities like running/jogging, using the stair master or cycling are great to help burn calories and tone your legs.
 This popular exercise works your hips, butt, thighs and stomach. Developing muscles in those areas, combined with overall fat loss, can help with toning (showing lean muscle definition).


Start with your feet hip width apart. Place your hands in prayer position in the middle of your chest.
While putting your weight into your heels sit down like you are trying to sit in a chair. Push your buttocks out behind you and go down as far as you can or until your thighs are almost parallel to the floor.
Pause when your thighs are parallel to the ground. Slowly rise back up to your starting position. Repeat 10 to 20 times or as necessary.
 In this exercise, you will step forward with one foot and allow your knees to bend. This is a great exercise to help develop muscles around your hips and entire thigh.Start standing with feet shoulder width apart and put your hands on your hips.
Step forward a few feet (0.5 m) with one foot. Keep your toes point forward. Drop your back knee and bend your front knee at the same time in a slow and controlled movement.
Drop down until your front thigh is almost parallel to the ground. Ensure that your front knee is aligned with your ankle (not in front of your ankle).
Using your front thigh to push your body back up to the starting position. Switch legs and repeat as necessary.
 This particular exercise helps specifically target the muscles in your hips and thighs. It's a great move to help tone your outer thigh up to your hip.Lay on the ground and rest on your side with legs stacked on top of each other. Rest your head on the arm closest to the floor. Place your upper arm on your hip.
Keeping your leg straight and foot flexed, raise your top leg up towards the ceiling. Lower back down to the starting position slowly. Switch sides and do the same number of raises with your other leg.
 The bridge is a position that's known for working the back of your legs but can help your thighs and hips look more toned.Lay on the ground and face the ceiling. Bend your knees in front of your body at a 90 degree angle. Rest your arms by your sides.
Pressing through your buttocks, raise your hips into the air until your body is in a straight line declining from knees to head.
Hold for a few seconds before slowly rolling your spine back onto the ground to the starting position.
Repeat 10 to 20 times or as necessary. Make it harder by raising one leg and holding your hips at an even level during the minute. Repeat with the opposite leg.
 A typical ballet move, this squat like exercise helps tone your thighs, butt and hips.Stand with feet slightly wider than shoulder width apart. Point your toes in a 45 degree angle away from your body. Put your hands in prayer position in front of your chest or put your hands on your hips.
Lower your body down keeping your head, torso and buttocks in a straight linear line from ceiling to floor.
As you lower your body down, your knees should be bending out away from your body. Lower yourself as far as you can comfortably go.
Slowly raise your body back up to the starting position, using your inner thighs and buttocks to push yourself back up. Repeat as many times as necessary.

