 Nonverbal communication includes your facial expressions, your use of touch, and your voice (not the words you speak, but how they sound).Visual cues are more important to interpret and deliver than audio cues. With visual cues, people are more likely to successfully interpret facial expressions in comparison to body language.For example, if you want to show that you are happy, it's more effective to give expressive facial cues, like smiling, than increasing your talking speed or showing happy body language. There may be times when it is advantageous to hide emotions that you may be feeling (like when you are afraid) but don’t want to show it.;
, It’s estimated that non-verbal communication makes up to 60% of meaning in interpersonal communication.To be successful at communicating nonverbally, you need to express emotions in ways that are received and correctly understood by others.


Start thinking about the nonverbal cues both you send when communicating. Also think about the nonverbal communications that you receive from others.
 Generally in Western culture if you want to convey a warm rapport with someone, focus on the following behavior: lean forward and direct your face and body right at the other person. Use gestures, and vary your vocal pitch, rate, and volume. Actively listen by nodding, smiling, and not interrupting. Be relaxed-but not too relaxed.


In other words, don’t slump your shoulders, but avoid stiffening your muscles. If you find yourself focusing too much on your body language, direct your attention instead to what the other person is saying.
 While welcoming body language might work in some cultures, it may not work in others. Good nonverbal communication skills come from knowing cultural rules related to emotional expressions. For example, in Finnish culture, making eye contact is considered a sign of being approachable, while in Japanese culture, eye contact is a sign of anger.From a global perspective, if you are native to a particular culture, many of the nonverbal norms will be instinctive. If you find yourself communicating in a culture that is not your own, keenly watch others for typical nonverbal behavior.
 It is helpful to understand gender differences when sending and interpreting nonverbal messages.Men and women express themselves non-verbally in different ways. Generally, women are more likely than men to use eye contact and smile. They're also likely to receive and give more physical touch.Women also tend to interrupt less than men, listen more than men, and are better at correctly interpreting facial expressions than men., This is an important part of successful communication. When you feel overwhelmed by emotion, you may need to take a deep breath and search for a calm feeling. Be aware of any tense signals you are sending and relax those signals: unclench your fists, don’t grit your teeth, and release any other gripping in your muscles.


In a study of Fortune 500 executives, those who were able to regulate and appropriately express emotions (like resisting the impulse to cry when given criticism) were more likely to gain trust from others., Are you getting the results you want when to talk to others? Take time to think about a recent interaction you had. Did you get what you wanted out of the conversation (for example, were you persuasive)? Did you feel like the other person really understood you? If the answer is no, think about the strategies you use to get the results you want.Here are several effective strategies:


Be persuasive: appeal to the other person's logical side. For example, if you want your roommate to take out the trash, explain that you both want to have the same amount of housework and that you took out the trash last time. Therefore it is her turn to take out the trash.
Use welcoming body language: if you're getting a cold response to a request, try building a warm rapport with body language first, by leaning forward while talking to them and engaging in active listening.
Listen: don't monopolize the conversation. Instead, monitor how you are responding and listening to your conversation partner. Allow silence and give signals that you are listening like “go on,” “uh-huh,” and “really?”
Be strategically assertive: use "I-messages," like “I’m feeling overwhelmed.”Be careful about using them too much or making aggressive statements with “you-messages” like “You are making me really mad.”, Use a simple, direct request to get what you want, instead of complex, indirect messages.When you can, plan and practice what you are going to say so that you can deliver your message with relative speed and ease. Efficient communication not only helps others to understand you, but also lets you make more messages in the same amount of time.For example, you may want to ask your boss for more responsibility at your job. Instead of saying, “Hello, if you think it's a good idea, I’ve been thinking about how I would like the opportunity to maybe take on more responsibilities and tasks within our workplace” say, “I am hoping to take on more responsibilities as you see fit.”

, People expect that they will be able to contribute to a conversation equally.Letting the other person speak means that you should try to be comfortable with silences, but not for more than a few seconds.Altercentrism, or focus on the other person in conversation, makes a communicator seem more competent.For example, pay attention to how much you are speaking in a conversation. Has your story lasted for a long time? Wrap up your story and give a pause to signal that it is the other person's turn in the conversation.
 Generally, there are five principles that show effective communication: informativeness, relevance, truthfulness, politeness, and modesty.There's an assumption among people that when you talk, your speech will:


contribute information that others did not know
be relevant and of interest to everyone involved
be truthful (unless you're using sarcasm and irony)
follow social expectations about being polite, like using “please” and “thank you”
avoid bragging or being self-centered

, This can help you and your communication partner achieve your goals.Find qualities you share and build upon common understandings. For example, if you disagree on which restaurant to go to, but both agree that you are hungry, draw on your mutual hunger to reach a decision.


If you find that your conversation partner struggles to see or accept the common ground between you both, take a communication break and return to the conversation later. For example, you can say, “we both are really hungry right now, so why don’t I choose the restaurant this time and you can choose next time.”

, It's best to be completely direct and clear when communicating with others.If you presume or assume things, you'll end up misunderstanding and causing tension in your relationships.For example, imagine that you are speaking with someone who looks elderly and she asks you to repeat something you said. Do not assume that because she is older that she cannot hear and don’t simply speak louder to be heard.


If the context is unclear, try to figure out the request by your communication partner before continuing to talk. You might say, “I’m sorry, was I speaking too softly?”

, No one likes to feel as if they don’t have a choice. If you feel yourself “strong-arming” in the conversation, or trying to get the other person to do what you want through force, rethink your strategy. Try to achieve your goals through persuasion and direct communication. This approach will make sure that your long-term relationships stay intact and will be more successful overall.


For example, imagine you want to go on a road trip with a friend. Your friend has a pet emergency come up on the day of the trip and can't go. Rather than make your friend feel guilty about missing the trip, show your disappointment and offer to help somehow. Explain that you understand the position she's in.

