 Couples counseling can be attended by anyone in a romantic relationship. Although some go to couples counseling before marriage to make sure their relationship is at the right place for the next step, it is typically for those couples who having issues within the relationship that they need outside help fixing. Often, those that attend couples counseling are working through problems that may lead to separation or a divorce/breakup, such as:Infidelity
Sexual dissatisfaction
Communication issues
Power struggles
Betrayal
Anger
Issues with child bearing, rearing, or blended families
Substance abuse
Financial issues

, One of the most important things you can do before you go to couples counseling is accept that you and your partner need help. This needs to be done by both of you. If your partner is not willing to go to counseling, then you can still go on your own and benefit from therapy. It might just be harder to improve your relationship this way.Accepting that you need help does not mean failure. It means that you understand that you and your partner care enough about each other to work on your relationship and need a little help to figure everything out.
You should also be committed to making your relationship work. If you don't allow yourself to be open to fixing your relationship, you will not be able to fully participate in counseling.
 Couples counseling is a method of talk therapy that focuses on your relationship with your partner. You will work with your counselor to express emotions, get closer, and work through your relationship issues. You will also decide whether or not you can move past your issues and if you can save your relationship.You and your partner will talk through your problems with the help of your counselor, where he or she will lead you and your partner in the right direction to heal.
Although the sessions will focus on you and your partner as a couple, you will also be able to complete some individual sessions if desired., Once you decide that you need couples counseling, you need to find a licensed counselor in your area. You can ask your doctor for a referral to a good therapist. You can also ask your family or friends, look into those covered by your insurance provider or employee assistance programs, or do research into local and state mental health agencies for help to find a good counselor.


There are some insurances that will pay for counseling session. You can check with your insurance and you can also ask the therapist how much he or she charges for each session., Couples therapy usually takes place once a week and the session last about an hour. This is to ensure that you have ample time to work through your issues and talk to one another. The amount of time that you will remain in counseling will vary depending on your specific needs and depth of your issues.


Couples counseling is often short-term, lasting from a few sessions to work through a small problem to a few months, but it will last as long as you and your partner need the help.Your counselor may suggest or offer additional individual counseling sessions if you have issues you need to work through on your own. These will be scheduled at a different time.