 The sommelier knife is constructed with a folded knife on one end and a folded corkscrew on the other. Open the knife and use it to score the foil just below the lip at the top of the wine bottle. Remove the foil cap and discard it, then close the knife into its recess.


Some sommelier knives have a sharp disc, rather than a knife, intended to be used to cut the foil.
The foil should always be cut just below the lip of the wine bottle to prevent any wine from touching it when poured. Coming into contact with the foil can change the taste of the wine.;
, Position the tip of the corkscrew in the center of the wine bottle's cork, push it in, and begin twisting. Keep twisting the corkscrew until you have only one twist left.


Don't twist too far into the cork, or pieces from the bottom of the cork may get dislodged into the wine.
If you don't twist far enough, the cork may break in two when you try to extract it.
 Move the lever arm down toward the neck of the bottle. Set the first set of ridges at the bottom of the lever arm on the lip of the bottle. Push down on the lever so that the cork begins moving upward. If necessary, use the second set of ridges on the lever arm to continue dislodging the cork.


Make sure you have a firm grip on the bottle, and that the lever arm is firmly in place, before you begin pulling up. Otherwise, the arm might slip.
If the cork won't budge, you may not have screwed the corkscrew in far enough. Twist it until there is only one twist remaining before using the lever.
 Pull up the handle of the sommelier knife's handle firmly. The cork should easily lift from the bottle with a slight pop.


If the cork doesn't lift from the bottle, screw the corkscrew in deeper, lift the cork using the lever arm, and try pulling on the handle again.
In fine restaurants, sommeliers untwist the corkscrew from the cork while it is still in the bottle, then finish removing the cork by hand. The cork is set on the table for the patron to examine for signs of freshness.

