 Notice when you bite, and reflect on how you feel. You might have the habit of biting your lips when you're feeling anxious, or bored. Tell yourself when you are about to enter a situation that might prompt biting, so you will be on the alert.


In many cases, biting is just one of several physical signs that you're feeling anxious. Other signs include shallow breathing, a faster heartbeat, blushing and sweating. When you feel one of these other symptoms, be ready to stop yourself from biting.;
, When you feel the urge to bite, do something else that makes it impossible. Lick your lips, or rub a finger across them. Lightly bite a pencil or small cushion, or do something that makes it impossible to bite, such as breathing with your mouth open, speaking, or singing. This technique is used to treat deeply engrained compulsions, along with relaxation techniques and cognitive behavioral therapy.Try this routine: when you want to bite, breathe deeply from your diaphragm for 60 seconds, relax your muscles one by one, then use your competing response for 60 seconds.Substitute other movements, such as pursing your lips, chewing gum, whistling, or yawning. Remember not to touch your lips or face, as this can be unsanitary and cause later problems, such as pesky acne!
Ask your doctor or therapist for advice on developing your competing response technique. The same moves don't work for everyone.
 Wearing an unpleasant-tasting lip balm can help remind you not to bite your lips. Try a medicated one meant to cure chapped lips or block the sun. If you are training yourself to lick instead of biting, try wearing a sweet-tasting lip balm. The taste and smell of the balm will help you think about licking your lips instead of biting. You can also apply the lip balm or lipstick when you have the urge to bite.


Rub a little mentholated lip conditioner right below your nose as a reminder.
If you are in a situation that triggers your lip biting, try sucking on hard candy, chewing gum, or wearing a mouth guard.

