 In Photoshop, the Puppet Warp tool is a quick, freehand way of manipulating an image related to the Warp tool. To use it, follow these steps:


Create a layer with the image you want to warp.
Make sure the layer is selected in the Layers panel.
Select Edit > Puppet Warp from the menu bar.
 When the image is selected for puppet warping, clicking will add "pins" (signified by small dots). Dragging one pin after it's placed will warp that portion of the image. All of the other pins will "lock" the area around them in place, preventing it from being distorted.


Because of the way the pins work, it's usually a good idea to put a few pins in crucial locations on the image you want to warp. For instance, if you're using the Puppet Warp tool to move the position of someone's arm, you might put a pin on her hand, another on her elbow, and a third on her shoulder. This way, when you move any of the three, the rest of the arm won't deform by much.
 Once you've placed your array of pins, you can click and drag any pin individually to move it. This will warp the image accordingly, pushing or pulling the area around the pin as you move it. Puppet warping can take some time to master, but it's a quick, convenient way to make adjustments once you know how to use it.


With a point selected, you can use the arrow keys to make very minor adjustments.
Note that you can ⇧ Shift+click to select multiple points at once.
 If you want to warp the image so that part of it goes behind another part, first, select the pin(s) on the screen you want to adjust. Then, use the "up" and "down" buttons next to "Pin Depth:" in the Options bar to move the selected portion in front or behind the rest.
 The following selections in the Options bar can be used to modify the way that the Puppet Warp tool works:



Mode: Adjusts how drastic the changes you make are. "Distort" makes your image especially elastic while "Rigid" makes your changes more minor.Expansion: Allows you to expand or contract the outer edge of the mess formed by your pins.

Density: Allows you to change the spacing of mesh points. More points gives you greater precision, but can tax your computer. Fewer points make your changes quicker but less precise.
 When you're satisfied with your work, press ↵ Enter to apply your changes. Alternatively, click the check mark button in the Options bar.


As noted above, Esc or the cancel button in the Options bar will undo your work.

