 If you can't find an answer to your question in the FAQ section, try using the customer support page to get in touch with a customer service representative directly.;
, The search bar is in the middle of the webpage, directly beneath the "Tell us what's going on" heading.
 After typing "help" into the search bar, click the green button marked "Continue" in the lower right corner of the page.
 When you click "Continue," a box marked "Live Chat" will load on the left side of your page, beneath the "Contact Options" heading.
 Clicking "Live Chat" will open a new window that will prompt you to enter your information. Before you can begin a live chat with Groupon customer support, you'll need to make sure you’ve accurately entered the following information:


Your name
Your email address
Your question or issue

, After verifying your information, click on the "Start Chat" button on the window's lower right corner. This will connect you with a Groupon Customer Support member. You'll be able to ask them for help with your specific issue from there.
 If your live chat was unproductive, there are other ways to get help from customer support. Head to your email service and, if you aren't already logged on, type in your email address and password.
 Enter support@groupon.com into the “send to” box on your compose email form., Your email should be concise, but include the following information:


Your name
The issue you've had with your account
Any additional details customer support might need
Your account email address (if it isn't the same as the one you're currently using)

, While some users have reported replies within 24 hours, you can usually expect a reply within three to five business days.
 Their number is 1 (888) 664-4482., You'll have the best chances of speaking with a representative if you call during business hours. Groupon customer service is available by phone seven days a week, 8:00 AM through 8:00 PM Central time (UTC - 6).This time zone observes daylight savings time.
 After a brief wait, you'll be prompted to choose your reason for calling:



2 - Tracking information

3 - Hotel and travel information

4 - Credit card settings

5 - Cancel a purchase made in the last three days

6 - Anything else

9 - Receive instructions in Spanish
Note that account information can only be given to the account holder. Be prepared to identify yourself accordingly.
 From there, you'll need to follow your option's further instructions to speak to a customer service representative.


It can be frustrating to have to listen to numbers and prompts, but entering a couple of details will help give the customer service representative a better shot at fixing your problem.
 The Frequently Asked Question page hosts users' most commonly requested topics. You can use this section of the site to diagnose any issues you're having.


If you aren't already logged into Groupon, you'll need to do so with the email address you used to register your Groupon account and the accompanying password.
 Fortunately, there's no need to browse through every FAQ help topic. You can search for your issue using the search bar in the middle of the page.
 For example, if you're having an issue closing your account, you might type "How do I close my Groupon account?"

, It's to the right of the search bar. Clicking this button will search for your topic.


You can also click a question title similar to yours in the drop-down menu below the search bar if you see one.
 These appear below the search bar. Keep in mind that you may not see a direct copy of your own question. If you don't see a perfectly matching result, try to look for similar concerns from other users.
 While you may not see your specific question listed here, you'll likely see one that comes close.


If you don't get the answer you were looking for, you can click I Need More Help to redirect to the Customer Support page.
 Don’t worry! You still have options if you haven’t had luck resolving your issues with Groupon customer support directly. Try visiting the link to the Better Business Bureau's services. Filing a complaint may force Groupon to further consider your problem.
 This is on the lower right side of the webpage next to the Submit a Review button.
 This is underneath the "I am looking to resolve a dispute with a business" heading on the left side of the page.
 Here, you'll need to click the "Yes" or "No" checkbox for each of the following questions:


Is this an employee/employer complaint?
Is this a discrimination or civil rights complaint?
Does your complaint allege a criminal act?
Is this a business with a complaint for collections purposes with another business?
Is this complaint in litigation?
Is this complaint based solely on dissatisfaction with a price?
Is this complaint about a purchase you wish you never made?
Are solely seeking an apology from the business?
Are you filing this complaint for BBB information only?

, You can also click Clear & Start Over to begin filling out the form again.
 If you want to change the language of the following forms, you must first click the "Select Language" bar in the top left corner of the screen and then click your preferred language.
 This will differ from person to person based on one's personal information and the nature of one's complaint, but be sure to be as thorough as possible when filling out this form. You should include all of the following:


The problem you're encountering
The steps you took to resolve the problem
The issues you ran into while attempting to resolve the problem
Any potential solutions and/or suggestions you can think of

,, You can usually expect your email to arrive within three to five business days.

