 Other pets, children, or a noisy environment can all cause your cat to feel stressed and avoid the litter box. Make sure that your cat’s litter box is kept in a place that is semi-dark, quiet, and secluded. If your cat’s box is in a high traffic area, she will be less likely to use it.


Try using Feliway diffusers to help your cat feel more relaxed. This product releases a scent that some cats find comforting.
 Your cat’s medical history may provide an explanation for why your cat has not been using the litter box. If you suspect that your cat is sick, take her to see a vet as soon as possible. Early treatment of an illness by help stop litter box problems as well as save your cat from pain and discomfort. Urinary tract infections and feline interstitial cystitis are common conditions that may cause your cat to urinate on the carpet.Urinary tract infections may cause a cat to avoid the litter box, even after the infection has been treated. Your cat may still associate the litter box with pain and want to avoid it.
Feline interstitial cystitis is another common cause of litter box aversion. Cats with feline interstitial cystitis may urinate in the litter box because they feel the need to urinate more often.
Kidney stones or a blockage of your cat’s urinary tract may also result in a litter box aversion. Your cat may meow or howl while using the box and the fear of pain may continue even after treatment.
Keep in mind that prompt treatment of these conditions is essential so that your cat does not develop a long lasting litter box aversion., Urine marking is when your cat sprays a bit of urine on a piece of furniture or other surface to mark her territory. The amount of urine is much less than a cat will eliminate when urinating. If your cat is displaying this type of behavior, many of the suggestions in this article will be helpful, but there are additional things that you will need to do to help stop your cat from urine marking.Urine marking is most common in unneutered male cats but unspayed female cats may also exhibit this behavior, so it is important to have your cats spayed and neutered.
Urine marking is also common in households with more than ten cats, so keeping the number of cats in your home below ten can also help with this problem.