 Working more non-starchy vegetables into the meals you prepare can help you to cut back on calories without having to eat less. Try topping your pizza with lots of vegetables, layer some veggies into a lasagna, or puree veggies to add to soups and sauces.

There are all kinds of ways to add vegetables to your meals, including pureeing them, grating them in, and using them as a topping.
There are even ways that you can include vegetables in your desserts.
 Either order or fix yourself an appetizer with each meal. Use low-calorie ingredients to start filling yourself up before the main entree, especially if it’s higher in calories. When ordering out, ask the server to hold any high-calorie ingredients or place them on the side so you can keep your intake to a minimum.Start off with dishes like salads and soups.
Stick to vegetables and nix high-calorie ingredients like meat and cheeses.
Avoid extras like bread and crackers.Stick to low calorie dressings on salads, such as light vinaigrettes, or just use balsamic or red wine vinegar as a dressing for zero calories.
 Say you’re salivating for your favorite high-calorie item. Instead of eating it all by itself, minimize your intake by serving yourself less than usual and then adding more bulk with foods containing fewer calories. Fill yourself up with just as much volume, but significantly less calories. For instance:Prepare yourself only half of your normal serving of cereal, pancakes, or waffles and then cover it with fruits.
Instead of eating a whole grilled cheese sandwich, only make a half-sandwich and eat it with a bowl of tomato soup.
Make yourself a slider instead of a full burger, and pair it with cold roasted potatoes instead of hot french fries.
 When following recipes, identify which ingredients have the highest calories. Then tinker with the amounts. Lower the volume of high-calorie foods (or even nix them entirely) and make up the difference by either increasing the lower ones or adding new low-calorie ingredients. For example:When making chili, halve the amount of ground beef that you usually use. Either add more beans than the recipe calls for, or fill the void with non-starchy vegetables like tomatoes, zucchini, red or green bell peppers, and carrots.
Use fewer slices of meat and cheese in sandwiches and bulk it up instead with more tomatoes, onions, lettuce, or any other veggies that you use.
Mix or replace meat with vegan substitutes, which often have significantly fewer calories than the real thing.
 Water has zero calories, so use soup to fill yourself up. Whether it’s for lunch or dinner, serve soup as a main dish daily. Ensure that at least one meal each day will be low in calories but just as filling as any other.Favor broth-based soups over cream-based ones, which have more calories.
Prioritize vegetables and especially beans and lentils, which are high in fiber, protein, and resistant starches.

