 Every day has something to be grateful for, but some days gratitude is harder to find than others. To develop the discipline of finding gratitude on even your hardest days, practice writing a daily list.Some research suggests that writing gratitude lists by hand is a valuable part of this process. The physical act of writing by hand slows down your attention in a meaningful way.
If you really can't think of anything to be grateful about, pretend to feel grateful. Remember, you're still learning to change your attitude. Consider gratitude as, "Hey, it could be worse."

, Learning to say "thank you" is an essential element of changing your attitude, and living in positivity. Whether you're expressing gratitude for something done recently, or something that happened years ago, write it down and share it with the person. Perhaps you want to let your 5th grade teacher know that her encouragement for your writing led to your blogging, or to thank your best friend for always sticking by you.If you want to write the note, but not send it, that's fine. The purpose of writing thank you notes is mostly to practice articulating appreciation. It might not be possible to find people from your past, or the person might be deceased.
Research shows that people who spend at least 15 minutes per week writing gratitude letters, over 8 weeks, show a demonstrable increase in positivity.
 Practicing meditation or prayer deliberately places the mind in the present moment, which is vital for cultivating a positive attitude. Find regular times throughout your day to engage in meditation or prayer. These don't have to last long; setting aside three to five minutes will result in a difference in your attitude.

If you practice a religion, you might turn to prayers found in this religion. If you don't consider yourself a religious person, practices of meditation might be more valuable.
Even though it may not feel like it, practicing meditation and prayer is a kind of exercise. The more you practice, the better you will become. You may not notice the difference at first, but over time you will be able to maintain a calm, peaceful attitude no matter what's going on around you.
 Keep a jar in a central location in your home, and every day write down one thing that you're grateful for that day. Watch as the jar fills with good things. If you ever need a "pick-me-up," reach into the jar and read a few examples out loud.

For another kind of gratitude jar, try adding some change or a dollar to the jar every day when you write in your gratitude journal. When the jar is full, use the money to find creative ways to "pay it forward:" buying gift cards for unsuspecting people who might need the help, or buying flowers for someone who rarely receives recognition.If you're a crafty person, decorate your gratitude jar with ribbon, paint, or stickers.
 Instead, spend more time recognizing good aspects of your life. Consciously pay more attention to the positive things that you notice, allowing good things to become good experiences. Notice when you're tempted to complain, and try to find something positive to turn your attention to.
Complaining focuses your attention on what you'd rather have different without actually requiring you to do anything different. It keeps you in a position of powerlessness.
 If you believe that you are powerless to make any effective changes in your circumstances or relationships, you may find it difficult to change your attitude towards your life. Instead, try to recognize your own part in making each situation or relationship the way it is. If you can find your own part, you can work towards either accepting it or changing it.Knowing more about why you've made the choices you've made may help you to avoid making bad choices in the future.
Remember that while most negative circumstances are the result of a conscious choice made on your part, sometimes bad things happen despite careful planning. No one is immune from being in the wrong place at the wrong time.
If you can't find another way to think about a bad situation, ask someone for help. Talk to a counselor, a therapist, a trusted friend or another person. You don't have to face this alone.

