 When the page loads, you’ll see two tabs across the top: Clients and Authors. Click on the “Authors” tab/ Write Content, or go straight to www.textbroker.com/authors. Read through the information, and click on “Free Author registration".;
, Enter your basic contact info, check all of your areas of expertise, and create a password.
 Read through the Terms of Service and the Privacy Policy. Click on “yes” to say you agree, and click on the “sign up” button at the bottom of the page.
 Textbroker asks you for a writing sample for their editors to review before you begin writing. They use this to assign you to a writing level - 2, 3 or 4 stars. The higher your rating, the higher pay rate you receive on a per-word basis. The 5-star rating is reserved for professional writers, provides the highest pay rate, and it is possible for you to excel to that level. The prompt is pretty simple, but be sure to keep an eye out for grammar, word flow and spelling to ensure your highest possible rating.
 As soon as they review your writing and assign you a rating, you will receive an email to notify you of this.
 After the initial rating email is received, you may log in and browse through a wide range of topics and assignments posted by third-party clients. Specific instructions will be given with the assignment along with a word range and payment range depending upon the number of words written. Choose an assignment, do your research if necessary, and write! After your first five articles are written, they will have to be reviewed by Textbroker editors before you can continue on. After that, you can write as many as you like.
 As soon as a client accepts your work, credit will appear under the “Pay-Off” section under the Account tab at the top of the page. Before you can receive the payment you have earned, you must confirm your PayPal account through the site and send in a tax form. The form is available on the site along with the information of how to send it in.
 Each article you write for a client through Textbroker will be reviewed by Textbroker editors and given a rating of 2 to 5 stars. You can always write articles that have a lower rating requirement than your own, but be sure not to do too much of this. For example, if you are a 4-star writer and you write a 2-star article, the highest rating that article can receive is 2 stars. You will also only earn 2-star pay.


IMPORTANT: Your overall rating is always based upon the last five articles you have written that have gone through review. It is possible to move down a level - thus sacrificing the number of assignments available to you and lowering your pay potential.
 As stated above, once your first five articles have been reviewed, there is no limit to how much you can write or how much you can earn... so have at it!!

