 The potato is being hailed as a very useful food crop that can be easily grown in many parts of the world as a source of nutritious food. The benefits of potatoes include:


They're global favorites: potatoes have been transported all around the world, and can be grown almost everywhere.
Efficient: growing potatoes means being able to produce more nutritious food and in harsher environments than any other major food crop. "Up to 85 percent of the plant is edible human food, compared to around 50% in cereals".Nutritious: potatoes are good for you. They are rich in carbohydrates, which provide long-term energy, and they have the highest protein content for the root and tuber family, "with an amino-acid pattern that is well matched to human requirements".Increasing future demand: eating potatoes is on the rise around the world, indicating that potatoes will become more and more important as a substantial food crop.;
, The potato has been a firm favorite all over the world for centuries. In the 1800's in Ireland, potatoes were the staple diet. In the summer of 1846, a blight struck the potato crops, leading to the Irish Potato Famine. The fungus which infected the potatoes was so devastating that every potato in Ireland was said to be destroyed.Hundreds starved to death because of the blight, and nearly one million immigrated to America during the famine years Others immigrated to England, Canada and Australia, never to return again. The potato took a starring role in this very significant historical event.
 Did you know the potato's Latin name is ' 'solanum tuberosum' '? How about that it belongs to the "nightshade" family of plants, making it a relative of other edible favorites like the tomato and the eggplant? , There are many varieties of potatoes and different potatoes are suitable for different uses. There are potatoes suitable for baking, roasting, boiling, mashing, steaming and frying. Ask at your local potato distributor for information on the best types of potato for your cooking needs.
 Potatoes get an undeserved bad rap, as some say they contain too much fat, and aren't part of a healthy diet. But that's not true. Potatoes are low in fat; it is what you put on a potato that can make it fattening. But potatoes easily satisfy hunger cravings quickly in small portions, making them good for dieters. Potatoes contain many micronutrients, including vitamin C, iron, B1, B3, B6 and minerals such as potassium, phosphorus and magnesium, and contain folate, pantothenic acid and riboflavin. In addition, potatoes contain valuable dietary fiber and antioxidants to help prevent age-related diseases., The method that you use for cooking potatoes impacts on the nutrition level of the potato.


Boiling causes a big loss of vitamin C, especially for peeled potatoes.
Frying potatoes and making French fries/chips reduces the mineral and ascorbic acid content and causes the potato to absorb a lot of fat.
Baking causes a higher loss of vitamin C than boiling, but retains other vitamins and minerals., Get cooking! Almost everyone loves the potato in some form or other, and you can put your culinary skills to use cooking potatoes at home. Look for potato recipes on wikiHow, and share some of your favorite ones with family and friends.
 Potatoes are easy to cultivate, and children can also join in the fun of planting them and watching them grow. For more details on growing potatoes for yourself, see our article Plant Potatoes.

