 Prior to starting medication for mental or emotional health, seek the advice of a mental health expert. While you can visit your general practitioner, it can be helpful to seek out someone with expertise in mental health prior to starting medications, such as a psychiatrist. A mental health professional may encourage you to attend therapy first or use therapy in tandem with medications, as therapy has much fewer risks than medication, including no side-effects or long-term difficulties.


Due to the risk of difficult side effects, antipsychotic medication is typically not considered a first line of defense against anxiety disorders, as the side effects often outweigh the benefits.A mental health professional will help you explore your options and make an informed decision. In many cases, therapy alone can be the best course of treatment.;
, Before taking any medication, be sure to talk to your prescriber about any medications you are currently taking, including any vitamins, herbs, or supplements. Bring up any allergies or problems you’ve have to medications.You may also want to discuss your mental and physical health history, family history, or any other relevant information you want to share with your prescriber, such as drug or substance use.
For more information, check out How to Summarize Your Own Medical History.
 Prior to starting a regimen, it’s important to note potential risks that can result from taking medication. Some people experience agitation or hallucinations, and these symptoms typically go away after several days of starting an antipsychotic. Symptoms such as delusions can go away after several weeks. Some common side effects include:Drowsiness
Dizziness
Restlessness
Weight gain
Dry mouth
Constipation
Nausea/Vomiting
Blurred vision
Low blood pressure
Uncontrollable movements
Seizures
Muscle spasms
Tremors
Restlessness

, Familiarize yourself with any risks associated with medication. For instance, you may not want to drive or operate heavy machinery, especially if the medication may make you sleepy. You may also want to avoid consuming alcohol or taking street drugs that can negatively impact your well-being or interact poorly while taking medication.Women who are pregnant may become pregnant or are breastfeeding should voice these things prior to obtaining a prescription.
 Antipsychotic medication is primarily used to treat psychosis, a condition affecting the mind through loss of contact with reality, hallucinations, delusions, or other maladies. Despite being called antipsychotics, these medications are used to treat many other mental health disorders as well. Antipsychotics are used to treat Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), severe depression, eating disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), and generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).Antipsychotics (and all mental health medications) do not cure any diseases or conditions. Their use is intended to combat symptoms and improve quality of life.
Most antipsychotics used to treat anxiety are considered “atypical”, meaning that are a second generation version of antipsychotics.
 Familiarize yourself with the medications before you begin to take them. Understand when to take the medication (morning, afternoon, or nighttime), how much to take at each dose, and under what conditions to take the medications. Some medications must be taken with food, while others have no conditions. Talk with your prescriber in detail so that you fully understand the medications.Don’t take another person’s medication, and do not share your own medications with someone else.
 Antipsychotics may take up to 6 weeks to take full effect. Each person will respond differently to each medication, so your prescriber may put you on different medications in order to find the one most effective for you., If you’re experiencing unpleasant side effects or discomfort, communicate this with your prescriber. If you feel like the side effects outweigh the benefits, let your prescriber know. He or she may adjust the dose or prescribe a different medication.If you experience any strange thoughts, hallucinations, delusions, or suicidal thoughts, contact your prescriber immediately. Do not wait for things to improve, but communicate these symptoms to your prescriber as soon as possible.
 Monitor the effects of the medication over time. This is especially important in the first weeks and months of use as you notice any side effects, changes in thoughts, moods, or behaviors. Make regular appointments with your prescriber, and take note of any emerging or persistent symptoms that result from antipsychotic use.Find a provider that you feel comfortable discussing your thoughts, concerns, and symptoms with, and that offers you support.
You may wish to write a medication diary daily to monitor side effects. For instance, you may start to gain weight or notice dizziness or nausea throughout the day. It’s important to bring these side effects up with your prescriber, and to have a detailed account of when they happen, for how long, and if there have been any changes.
 Some people who take antipsychotics for an extended period of time develop a condition called tardive dyskinesia. This condition causes uncontrollable movements of the body, particularly around the mouth. Tardive dyskinesia can develop after months or years of antipsychotic use, and can occur as shortly as within 6 weeks. Symptoms can range from mild to severe, and for some people, this problem cannot be cured. Other people stop taking antipsychotics and experience partial or full cessation of tardive dyskinesia symptoms.It should be noted that tardive dyskinesia rarely occurs when taking atypical antipsychotic medication.
Talk to your prescriber if you think you may be developing tardive dyskinesia.
 If you are unsatisfied with your medication, do not stop taking it “cold turkey”. Alert your prescriber that you no longer want to take the medication. He or she will gradually taper your dosage so that you experience minimal effects of coming down from the medication.Always talk to your prescriber when wanting to make changes to medication. Follow your prescriber’s supervision and alert him or her to any changes you are experiencing as a result of changing your dosage.

