 The best way to become paler is also the most intuitive: limiting your time in the sun to protect your skin and avoid tanning. Instead of all together avoiding going outside on sunny days, instead try to spend your time in the shade, or else wear protective clothing like sunglasses and a sunhat if you are going to be in direct sunlight.Don’t completely avoid the sun. Sunlight is a vital source of Vitamin D, which has numerous and invaluable health benefits. A good 10-20 minutes in the sun (wearing sunblock) is enough to get your daily dose of Vitamin D.
 In addition to avoiding direct sunlight, wearing sunscreen is also an essential part of protecting your skin from the sun. Wear at least SPF 30, preferably a formula that contain zinc and titanium dioxide, which directly block both UVA and UVB rays and begin working as soon as you put them on your skin. Since sunscreen is white, it may also you’re your skin look paler, even when it is completely rubbed in.Wear sunblock every day on your face and any other parts of your body that will be exposed to the sun. Use water-resistant sunblock if you are going to be swimming.
While you are in direct sunlight, reapply sunblock every two hours.
To apply sunblock, use at least a quarter-sized amount on your face and any other exposed parts of your body. Rub the sunblock fully into your skin to ensure that it will work properly., Another important way to promote pale and luminous skin is to wash your face in the morning and before bed. Washing your face properly and consistently removes oil and dirt from the surface of your skin, making your complexion lighter and more radiant.Try to use a face wash with lemon or Aloe Vera extract, which both have deep cleansing properties.
Once a week, use an exfoliating face wash along with a textured cloth or a loofa. Gently scrub your skin in circular motions to remove excess dead and dry skin cells from the surface of your skin. Don’t exfoliate more than once a week, as it can be harsh on your skin to over-exfoliate.
Moisturize your face every time after washing it, making sure to use a sheer moisturizer rather than a tinted moisturizer.
Apply sunblock after using moisturizer, or use a moisturizing sunblock that is at least SPF 30.
 Not only does smoking have a negative effect on your health, it can also dramatically alter the appearance of your skin. Smoking can cause premature aging of the skin, as well as breakouts and sallowness from a loss of natural “glow.” Consider quitting or cutting back your smoking if you are a regular smoker.