 Each person's allergy is different. For example, some people with wheat allergies cannot touch wheat but they can eat it. Test to see if you have a gluten allergy, a gluten intolerance or celiac disease.


Testing for allergies includes a physical exam, a blood test and possibly a skin test, where the doctor pricks the skin with different allergens.
 Many stores and websites promote gluten-free diets by lumping these 3 problems together. Although they do share some similar symptoms, the problems and treatments are inherently different.


A gluten allergy is an inflammatory immune system response to eating, touching or smelling a gluten product. It is similar to nut, soy, milk and egg allergies. Reactions vary from small to severe. Food allergies are more common amongst children, and then often go away, while adult onset of a food allergy usually remains for the duration of life.
Celiac disease is an autoimmune disease caused by a protein found in gluten products. This protein triggers a response in the small intestine, causing fatigue, diarrhea and damage to the small intestine. This disease is most commonly treated with a gluten-free diet.
Gluten sensitivity or intolerance is a digestive system reaction to a gluten protein. It often triggers cramps, gas, bloating, diarrhea, fatigue, vomiting and weight loss. Usually these symptoms cause no permanent damage. A reduction in gluten in a diet can help or cure this condition.
 These may include rashes, hives, asthma or other respiratory troubles, hay fever, tissue swelling and eczema. Severe allergic reactions, called anaphylaxis, can become deadly if not treated immediately.
 This kit can buy you time to get to the hospital in the case of a life-threatening reaction.
 Share informational brochures with them and teach them which foods, like oats, are prone to cross-contamination.
 Avoid eating anything that lists wheat or gluten on the label. Things that contain wheat flour include instant coffee, sausages, ice cream, soy sauce, ketchup, mayonnaise, medicine, malt, beer, monosodium glutamate (MSG) and more.
 It is better to ask in the beginning, than to assume there is no gluten and have a reaction later on. Frequent restaurants that have gluten-free menus.
 Eat 5 to 9 servings of fruits and vegetables per day. Focus on consuming foods rich in riboflavin, iron, calcium, thiamin, niacin and folate.
 There are many good options available online and at bookstores. This can help you to avoid buying expensive gluten-free products in supermarkets.
 You can buy gluten-free flour that is a mixture of rice, almond and other nut flours. You can also make it yourself by finding a recipe and visiting natural food stores.
 There are celiac or gluten-free groups that meet in order to promote a gluten-free lifestyle. Research a celiac group in your area, where you can learn more tips on living without these products.

