 Once you have your own account, try playing the game for a while and levelling up until you get to around rank 15 or so. This will help you develop a good feel for the game's mechanics and allow other players to take your levels more seriously.;
, Once you've gained enough experience in PR2, it's time to start looking for ideas for your level. Try to think of what type of level you wish to make. If you can't decide for yourself, check out some of the levels that are under the "Today's Best" and "All-Time Best" tabs. Many of these levels are typically made by higher-ranked players who can often be of great influence since they've been around the block quite a few times and know plenty of good tricks.
 As soon as you have a level concept that you're happy with, you can finally begin building your level. It's wise to start by adding your players' starting positions. You can allow your players to start a race/match normally or go even further by incorporating a hat remover or a santa/crown/cowboy hat filter into each of your players' starting positions.
 Try to use a variety of different block types, but make sure that you're actually making the race/match more fun instead of just tacking on extraneous features. If you're stuck, try experimenting with some blocks and placing them in unique places. The possibilities are endless, and this can give you a chance to exploit some glitches as well.
 In PR2, art is the best way to add a personal spin to your level as well as make it appear much more professional to your players. Draw on layers 00 through 0 if you want your art to overlap the player and the blocks, and draw on layers 1 through 3 for art that only appears in the background. If you're having trouble drawing sophisticated designs with your mouse or touchpad, simple colorful line designs distributed throughout your level will work just fine. Use the preloaded landscape art sparingly; don't add too many trees/cactuses/rocks/etc. as your level will look very rushed if you do. On the other hand, PR2's text tool can be very useful, but avoid writing huge blocks of text as this can distract the players too much.
 As soon as you feel that your level is just about done, the only thing you have to do left before publishing it is to test it. This is your chance to look for any problems in your level and think of any possible improvements you can make. Such questions as "Is my level good enough?" and "What do I want to fix/add?" are very useful here. Make sure that you are able to win the level entirely on your own. If you are making a level that requires more than one player, you can always put a temporary password on your level (while keeping it unpublished) and ask a group of friends to help test it out with you. If you don't want people playing your level while wearing a specific hat, be sure to make note of that at the beginning of the level AND in your level description.
 As soon as you are completely satisfied with your level, it is time to publish it for everyone to play. Make sure you add a very fitting and attractive name; an unfitting name will give someone a reason to rate your level low, and a more generic name won't catch a player's eye as easily. Add a description that briefly describes what your level is all about; don't make it too long or part of it will be cut off when it's being viewed. Remember: More people will notice your level while more people are online. If you have to, save your level and wait until a time of day when the servers are most active to publish it.
 Most of the time, your level isn't going to be perfect on the first go. Don't be afraid to ask other players and moderators for help and feedback; they'll be more than happy to give you suggestions. You can edit your level as many times as you want to your heart's content. The more you fix it up, the better it's going to be and the higher its rating is going to be.
 Done already? Who said you had to stop at just one brilliant level? You can make as many levels as you want! The more levels you make, the higher your popularity will increase. And the best part is that all your other levels will get even more attention and higher ratings!

