 This is huge. If it seems like you really want to be perceived as cool, no one will think you’re cool. Just try to stay low key. This is hard, but you can do it. For example, don't act too excited when you get invited to a party you really want to go too. Just say something like "that sounds good man. See you there."

, Don’t act like you worry about what other people think. Confidence can make any type of style or personality look cool. People are attracted to those who are unselfconscious and genuine. Stop trying so hard to be cool and just have a good time. Act like a goofball when you want to, be serious when you want to – just be yourself. Really. Everyone is always trying so hard to impress at school that you’ll come across as a breath of fresh air. , Don’t take things too seriously. Being at school is a time to have fun. Try not to get as stressed out about things as everyone else is. People will think you’re cool if you never get really worked up about a test but always seem to do well on them. Just maintain a quiet confidence.
 Make sure you know the rules before you break them and avoid breaking any rules that might actually get you in serious trouble. However, don’t be afraid to stray outside the lines that you’re taught to follow. People will think this is very cool. Don’t brag about it, just don’t be afraid to push the limits a little bit. For example, don't worry about breaking the uniform or being late to class now and then.
 If you want to make friends and seem cool, you have to be interested in other people. Don’t get caught up in your ego or your aura. It’s all well and good to try to be mysterious, but you should also want to get to know your peers. If you have a good conversation with someone, they will probably tell your friends that you are a cool person. Don’t shut any doors. Be willing to have conversations with any type of person.


For example, don't be afraid to have conversations with kids on the football team as well as kids who do theater. The more people who like you, the cooler you'll be.
 Being quietly very good at something is a classic characteristic of a cool kid. People will notice that you’re good at it, and if you don’t brag they will think you’re really cool as well. It doesn’t matter if you’re good at something if you talk about it all the time. Excelling at something is a very important part of being cool.

