 One of the major pros of dry dog food is that it is budget friendly, as a bag of dry dog food is relatively cheap. Dry dog food is known as “kibble” and often comes in the form of small pellets that you pour into your dog’s food bowl. Kibble has a long shelf life, so if you buy dry dog food in bulk, you may not have to go shopping that often for food.Dry dog food is also ideal if you do not have a lot of fridge space to store your dog’s food. Unlike canned dog food, you can simply roll up the bag of dry dog food once it is opened and store it on a shelf. You do not need to worry about finding room in the fridge to keep the food cold.;
, Dry dog food can also be ideal if you do not want to have to keep a close eye on your dog’s food bowl. You can leave out dry dog food in your pet’s bowl without the risk of it spoiling. You may fill your dog’s bowl with enough food for an entire day or for several days, depending on the size and appetite of your dog.This could be very convenient if you tend to take brief trips away from home and do not want to have to worry about your dog’s food spoiling. This may also work well if you tend to work long hours and do not have the time to check on your dog’s food throughout the day.
 Some dry dog food has been formulated to maintain your dog’s oral health and improve your dog’s teeth. You may opt for dry dog food that has these properties, especially if your dog has dental issues.Keep in mind some pet experts are skeptical of this potential health benefit in dry dog food. You should speak to your vet about this health benefit before you give your dog dry food, especially if if is a deciding factor for you as an owner., There is often a lower meat protein and natural fat content in dry dog food compared to canned dog food. Dry dog food may also have a higher carbohydrate content, which can be unhealthy for your dog. If you decide to go with dry dog food, you should look for one that is higher quality, with a more balanced amount of meat protein and natural fat.Some dry dog foods are sprayed with animal fat, which is an unnecessary and unhealthy ingredient in your dog’s food. There may also be synthetic preservatives and artificial flavorings or colorings in dry food as well.
You should check the label of the dry dog food for a list of ingredients. If the first ingredient is not meat or meat protein, it may not be very good quality. You should also watch for any additives or preservatives listed in the ingredients.
 You should be wary of dry dog food if your dog has allergies to gluten or dairy, as many dry dog foods contain a high amount of gluten and dairy. If you do opt for dry dog food for your pet, make it sure it is low in gluten or dairy.Always consult with your vet before giving dry dog food to your pup if he is prone to allergies. You do not want to trigger any allergic reactions or issues in your dog.
You should read the label of the dry dog food to check for any ingredients that may be allergens, such as wheat or dairy.

