 It's important to keep the podcast theme or subject matter focused, to avoid trying to cover too many areas. For example, if your podcast is about cats, don't roam over and talk about dogs. Or, if your podcast is about dancing, don't start going into the intricacies of singing. If you like more than one area, try to run simultaneous podcasts instead. That said, it is perfectly okay to make comparisons, indeed that could make up an entire podcast session of its own.


If you have a really broad subject matter, such as "Crazy but true things in science", clearly you'll have a lot of leeway compared to "Caring for newts in a temperate climate". Use your common sense about how widely you roam within your subject matter.;
, Come up with a list of possible things that you'd like to talk about for at least 6 shows in a row. Having a few ideas ahead of the current podcast will help to orientate you and keep your content fresh, and it also stops you from trying to cram in too much information into any one podcast. It's also just a good idea to have a plan. Here is a sample plan for All About Dogs:



Podcast 1: Introduction to the podcast theme, who you are and why you want to discuss dogs, including your expertise. General information about dogs and the perhaps a rundown of future podcast content. After that's out of the way, commence with a small but interesting discussion on dogs.

Podcast 2: Keeping dogs healthy on a nutritious diet. Discussion of the things that are good for dogs, the foods that are bad and things that are toxic for dogs. Ideas for making healthy dog treats. Ways to include enrichment when eating

Podcast 3: Keeping dogs healthy body-wise. Shifting focus away from food onto common dog conditions, disorders and diseases. Noticing basic symptoms of some of the more dangerous and possible diseases, conditions and what to do. How to talk to your vet about dog health.

Podcast 4: Playing with dogs. Finding suitable games and toys for dogs. Ways in which human owners can interact effectively with dogs to ensure they are getting enough play time and enrichment. Making dog toys yourself.

Podcast 5: Exercising dogs. Ways to effectively get dogs into good shape and keep them that way. Exercises that the the human and dog will both benefit from. Keeping safe when exercising at night. Good places to take your dog for exercises.

Podcast 6: Going on vacation with your dog. How to transport your dog, what things to take and where to go. Things you can do together while on vacation. Dangers to be alert to.
 In some cases, you may find you've tried to fit too much into a show, and it might be better broken down into a two- or three-part podcast. That's a good thing as your ideas will go a long way! In some cases, you might find you've got insufficient ideas and you'll need to keep brainstorming some more. In this case, use the existing ideas to build from.
 Do not try to be an expert about things you know nothing about. When that happens, listeners will pick it up and they'll be unimpressed. However, don't despair––this is a great opportunity to bring in an expert and interview her or him and make it easier for those ideas to come in––from someone else! Listeners will love the change of pace and the introduction of expert knowledge from someone additional.
 If you know your listeners personally or you have become well connected with your little posse of valued listeners, ask them what they would like to hear. It's good to have preferences and opinions because that way, you'll know that there are people who are interested and will listen to your Podcast. End a Podcast with an invitation to ask questions and make suggestions. From that you will glean a great deal of wonderful ideas to keep making more podcasts.


Ask family and friends for ideas too. This can be done anytime, simply outline what you're talking about in the podcast and listen to their suggestions. Write them down, to be sure to remember them.
 There will be a lot of ideas in these for you to be inspired by. Moreover, go back in time to revisit old ideas that may be useful again or worthy of revival. Don't limit yourself just to what's current, perhaps you can be at the cutting edge of making old ideas current again!

