 Because the non-sporting breeds group is an arbitrary categorization created by the American Kennel Club, the dogs in the group share few characteristics outside of congenital health problems. Non-sporting dogs range from large to small and have a variety of personality types. Be sure to do some research into the specific breeds of non-sporting dogs and determine which works best for you.Tiny breeds in this group include the Tibetan spaniel and the Schipperke.
Medium sized dogs include the Boston terrier, the French bulldog, and the Shiba Inu.
Large breeds include the Dalmatian, the poodle, and the chow chow.;
, Because of inbreeding and other irresponsible breeding practices, dog breeds in the non-sporting group tend to suffer from significant congenital health problems. English bulldogs tend to have major breathing difficulties, many Dalmatians are deaf, and poodles tend to display a number of different congenital health problems. Because all of the dogs in this category are purebred, you can expect your dog to have significant health problems that result in high veterinary bills., A new dog can be expensive, especially one that will likely have significant health problems. Before you adopt a dog, be sure to look at your financial situation and determine if you can afford to take care of a dog. Make sure that you can afford your dog’s food, medical care, and other miscellaneous expenses.The ASPCA estimates that a dog costs anywhere from $500 - $1,000 each year depending on the size and health., Because the non-sporting group is so diverse, you should think about what kind of dog would fit well with your lifestyle. If you are a more active person who wants to play with the dog a lot, you might want to consider a Dalmatian or a poodle. If you are looking for a low energy dog that can hang out inside all day, you might be inclined to adopt an English bulldog. Do some research and find a dog from a non-sporting breed that works for you.Consider talking to your veterinarian about different breeds in the non-sporting group.
 If you have a family or live with roommates, you should talk with them before adopting a dog. Make sure that everyone is okay with you adopting a dog and avoid any conflicts. If a roommate or family member is allergic to dogs, you may need to reconsider your adoption.Be sure to check with your landlord about whether or not pets are allowed in your building. Depending on where you live, they may also have the right to increase your security deposit.

