 Before talking to your parents, you’ll need to know what you want. Don’t make your parents do the legwork of figuring out what kind of skateboard to buy. Plus, if you leave it to them, you might end up with a board that you don’t like. Having all the information together ahead of time shows your parents you are serious about getting the skateboard.


Skateboards have three parts: the board, the wheels, and the trucks (the piece between the wheels and board). Shorter boards are best for beginners because they are easy to balance and handle.If you have experience riding a friend’s board, use it to determine what kind of style you like.
Pick a back-up board or two just in case your parents decide that your initial choice is too expensive.
If your parents don't have a lot of extra money to spare, trying to get a cheaper off-brand skateboard might make them more inclined to buy one for you.
 Schedule a time when one or -- preferably -- both your parents can give you their undivided attention.


Do not try to talk to your parents about buying a skateboard in the morning, as they will be busy with the morning routine of eating, brushing teeth, and gathering themselves for the workday.
Do not try to convince your parents to buy you a skateboard in the evening, since they might be tired.
The best time to talk to your parents is on the weekend when you all feel relaxed and can listen with an open mind.
 Parents like knowing they are appreciated. Try to preface your question by telling your parents you know they work hard.


For instance, you could say, “Mom/Dad, I know you work hard to provide for me. I’m very thankful for you and hate to ask for anything extra, but I was wondering if I could get a skateboard.”
Be honest when recognizing how your parents provide for you and showing your thanks.
 Include pictures, models, and a well-planned speech to accompany your visual aid. This will make you look responsible and demonstrate that you’ve put a lot of thought into getting a skateboard.
 You could make them a card that reads “For the Best Parents Ever” and write a brief message within referring to how thankful you are for their gift and how excited you are to receive your new skateboard.
 However, most parents usually do what they think is best for their children. Don’t yell, cry, or make accusatory statements at your parents if they don’t get you the skateboard at first.


For instance, if your parents reject the idea of buying a skateboard, do not say, “You don’t care about me!” That will not improve your chances of getting the skateboard, and could actually increase their resolve against the idea.
If your parents are hesitant to buy you a skateboard, ask them why. Once you’ve identified their main reason for not getting you a skateboard, think about how you can alleviate their anxieties or resolve the issues that led them to their decision.
If you suspect your parents will say no despite your thoughtful planning and the considerate way you asked them, ask them to wait a few days and think the matter over before making a decision about your request. The added time might allow them to consider everything you’ve shared more carefully.

