 Bucket bags can be a fashionable alternative to a purse, backpack, or briefcase, but you need to make sure your bag can fit everything you need. Take inventory of the largest items in your current bag, and find a bucket bag that is at least half an inch (about 1 cm) larger than your largest items.Look at the depth of your current bag, as well. Make sure your bucket bag will be able to expand in all directions to hold what you need.
If you cannot fit all of your current items in your bucket bag, consider downsizing or finding multi-functional items such as folding brush and mirror in a single compact.;
, If you are looking to carry your bucket bag during the day, try to pick a bag that matches the dress code in your office or school. This may mean picking a solid color bag or doing away with certain embellishments like tassels or large accessories.If you work in a more conservative office or attend a more conservative school, this may mean choosing a solid color bag such as a black or brown leather or canvas bag.
If you work in an office or attend a school that has a less restrictive dress code, simply make sure that your bag does not have too many embellishment or accessories. Opt for fun patterns or buckles over jewels or sequins.
 Think about what type of fabric you want for your bag based on both your personal taste and the bag's use. A synthetic leather or treated canvas, for example, may be better for those in climates where it's likely to rain, as they resist water better.Consider fabric combinations, as well. You may opt for a bag that's made of a lighter material such as cotton so that it's not warm when you're carrying it, but you may want leather straps, which are more durable and will stand up better to use.
 If you plan on using your bucket bag when you’re out for the day, whether to the beach, the store, or anywhere else, make sure the bag has structure enough to keep it organized on the inside. Look for pockets and separate compartments to keep your items from getting lost in your bag.


If your bucket bag does not have any interior structure, consider purchasing a flexible bag organizer that you can use to help keep your items in place in your bag., While it is important to make sure your bag is functional and appropriate for your intended purposes, it’s just as important to find a bag that makes you happy when you carry it. Look over different styles and options to see what is right for you.Consider choosing a basic bag and accessorizing it with clips, keychains, and/or patches to customize it to fit your taste.
Look over different styles of bags in stores and online to see what colors, patterns, and different styling options you like for your bag. Shop around before you buy.
Think about buying a few different bags to make sure you have pieces to match different moods and occasions.

