 Walk with good posture and look people in the eye. If you slump or stare at your feet, people won't respect you. You have to look and feel confident in order to receive the respect you need. Don't walk too fast either because it looks like you are running away.


Smile. Be a habitual, unrepentant over-smiler, with every grin being a genuine one. If you smile when you meet someone, you instantly appear confident, friendly and relaxed. Confident, friendly, relaxed people are much more appealing than their uptight compadres.
 Being fit will raise your self-esteem and will make you look at the world in a more positive light. This doesn't mean that you need a six pack to be cool, but it does mean that taking care of your body is definitely cool. Try to exercise regularly, go to the gym, or play a sport and keep in good shape. Eat healthy too. Having the energy to be involved in many things is something that not everyone is born with, so try to workout. You will see results if you work hard.


Know that you will never be able to please everyone. Try hard, but don't be so concerned with judging yourself or being judged by others. People have millions of ways to get under your skin. Learn to spot them and become immune. Be happy with yourself and do what you enjoy.
 Be sure to brush your teeth every morning and every night. And whenever you can, even after lunch. Wear perfume (if you're a girl) and spray on a bit, just a bit of cologne (if you're a boy). Shower every day and wear deodorant. Also use lotion so that your skin is not ashy and put on some lip balm if your lips are dry. You should wash your face every morning to keep fresh and pimple free.


You don't have to spend hours on your looks each day to be cool. But hey, 20-30 minutes spent showering and grooming won't kill you.
 If you want to look cool, then your body has to project confidence at all times. If you're talking to someone, make eye contact, use your hands to gesture, and sit or stand with good posture. Smile, even if you're feeling a little nervous, and don't fidget with your hands or look at the floor when you're talking to someone, or you won't look like you believe what you say.
 As long as your personality shines through, you can wear whatever you like. Guys have been known to get girlfriends even though they wear sweats all the time. Some of the dorkiest, "uncool" guys are known to get girlfriends because everyone has a different perception of cool. That is definitely an affirmation of coolness.


You don't have to follow trends to be cool; you just have to be able to look comfortable and happy in whatever you are wearing.

