 Let your child complete tasks for themselves. You show them you don’t think they are capable of doing it themselves when you step in. Letting them accomplish things on their own shows you believe in and respect them.


Choose age-appropriate tasks for your children to complete on their own. For instance, picking out their own clothes, dressing themselves, and brushing their teeth are good options for younger children. Allow older children to make their own food, complete job applications, and drive themselves, if they are capable., Children come up with and express a variety of different emotions. You may not agree with some of them. You should still show that you accept they have these feelings and thoughts and not shut them down.


Tell them you understand what they are saying to you. For instance, you could say, “Not being able to go to the movies when your friends are is upsetting, isn’t it? I’m sorry you are feeling this way.” Here, you’re validating what they feel, but you’re not giving in to your decision. You’re showing them you respect what they say, even if you don’t agree with it., Show your children the kind of respect you want them to show you. They may not know or understand what showing respect looks like. Displaying it towards them and those around you demonstrates how you want them to behave.


For example, speaking kindly and being polite is an excellent way to show respect. Not constantly criticizing them and giving compliments also shows that you respect them. They will likely display this type of behavior after seeing you give it to them., Adults often talk over children's heads like they're not even there. This can come off as disrespectful, particularly when questions are being asked. Allow your child to answer their own questions and speak up during a conversation. Speaking for them shows that you don’t trust that they know what they’re talking about.


If someone asks you a question about your child say, “Ask them. They would know better than I do.” Your child will likely feel proud that they are given the chance to answer for themselves. It also shows that you believe they are capable of doing that., Kids need structure and discipline to understand appropriate behavior. However, yelling or having an outburst when they act up, doesn't support positive behavioral traits. To create a sense of respect and rule-following, make it your business to be compassionate yet consistent when correcting misconduct.


Instead of lecturing or getting angry, find a reasonable response to kids' whining or complaining like "That's the rule." If you must, validate their feelings with something like, "I know you were hoping to eat dinner in front of the TV to watch the show, but we'll have dinner at the table like always. That's the rule."
If your kids are attention-seeking with bad behavior, don't offer a reaction. Instead, praise positive behaviors. For instance, if you see them sharing, you might say, "Oh, that makes me so happy to see you two sharing your toys. Great manners!"