 This is one of the best exercises you can do to start strengthening those abs right away, in your home, without ever needing to go to the gym. You don't need any special equipment - just a comfortable spot on the floor. Here's how to do it:


Lie on the floor with your knees bent and your feet firmly planted.
Cross your hands over your chest.
Using your ab muscles, lift your head and upper torso up and forward, so that your shoulders leave the floor. Pause at the top, then slowly lower yourself down.
Don't lift your back off the floor, as this can cause you to strain it.
Do 3 sets of 20 crunches to start.
 Get in the same position you use to do regular crunches, with your knees bent and your arms crossed over your chest. This time, crunch to one side, moving your head and arms to either the left or right of your knees. Crunch on the same side for ten to twenty reps, then switch to the other side. Do two to three sets.
 This exercise might seem easy, but you'll feel the burn that tells you you're doing something right! This is a good exercise to do if you're worried about making your ab muscles look too big, and you just want them sleek and toned.


Lie on the floor on your stomach, with your legs stretched out behind you.
Lift yourself up onto your forearms. Your elbows should be directly below your shoulders, with your arms pointed forward, like a Sphinx.
Raise your torso and legs up so that your arms and tiptoes are holding your body's weight. You should feel your ab muscles tighten.
Hold the position for 30 seconds.
Try to repeat this move 2-3 times. Work up the length of time you remain in the plank until you are able to hold it for an entire minute.
 Get in the same position you assume for the basic plank. This time, raise yourself up on just one forearm - either the right or the left - and point the other hand toward the sky. Your body and head should be turned sideways. Hold the position for 30 seconds, then do the same thing on the other side. The side plank strengthens the oblique muscles on either side of your abdomen.
 Lie on your back with your arms at your sides and your legs stretched out. Keeping your legs together and your back straight, lift your legs off the floor until they reach a 90 degree angle. Hold them for a beat, then lower them back to the floor. Do 3 sets of 15 leg lifts.


You can also do alternating leg lifts, lifting one leg at a time in rotation.
Make this exercise harder by attaching weights to your ankles or keeping an exercise ball between your feet as you raise your legs.
 Lie on your back with your knees bent so your shins are parallel to the floor. Straighten out your left leg, and bring your left elbow and your right knee together by twisting across your body. Then, straighten out your right leg, and bring your right elbow to your left knee and repeat the repetitions.
 Lie on the floor on your back with your knees bent. Slightly lift your head towards your chest. Pull your left leg into your chest, and grab it with your hands. Then, lift your right leg to a 45 degree angle, hold for a few seconds, then switch legs.
 Perform cardiovascular exercise, like running, walking, biking and swimming, a few times a week. Remember that your body needs to burn fat so that your abs will be visible, and cardio will help with full-body weight loss.


How long you do cardio depends on the intensity of the exercise. Twenty or thirty minutes of a vigorous exercise like running, where your heart rate is at 75-85% of your maximum, has similar effects to ninety minutes of a low intensity exercise like walking.

