 Verizon users are allowed to block up to five numbers for 90 days each. This block can be reapplied after 90 days, but if you no longer care to keep the number blocked, you can allow the 90 day limit to expire. Then the number should be automatically unblocked.

For a more permanent blocking service, you can subscribe to Verizon's FamilyBase program. This will allow you to permanently block up to 20 numbers., With your computer or phone web browser, navigate to verizon.com to access Verizon's homepage. There you should see the Sign In/Register button at the top right corner of the page. Click this and follow the prompts to log in to or create your account.

When setting up your account, you'll likely need to know the account owner's phone number, the account number, and the billing zip code registered to the account., Once you've logged in, your browser should be redirected to your account homepage. On this screen, you should see several options. From these, select My Verizon → My Account → Manage Verizon Family Safeguards & Controls., Selecting "Manage Verizon Family Safeguards and Controls," should have revealed a new list of options. From these you should choose "View Details and Edit," which you should be able to find on the right under a section labeled "Usage Controls." Then select the Controls → Blocked Contacts to reach your blocked number directory.

When you access the "View Details and Edit" page, the "Controls" option should be the middle tab between "Activity" and "Profiles." Choosing controls will drop down associated sub-tabs, where you should find "Blocked Contacts" on the right., Once you click on the sub-tab labeled "Blocked Contacts, a list should populate containing all the blocked numbers for your device. Scroll through these numbers until you find the number(s) you wish to unblock, then for each:

Select the number by clicking or tapping it.
Select delete.
Save changes to your directory, if necessary., Now that the blocked number has been unblocked, you can log off your account. If you want to contact the person whose number you blocked to let him or her know you're ready to talk again, call or text without fear of return messages or calls being blocked.