 For instance, if your child is from Ukraine, you might arrange for them to visit their home country. Travel with your child to the country of their native culture if they are underage or if they wish for you to do so.Some cultural heritage organizations offer financial help for kids belonging to particular ethnic traditions. For instance, the nonprofit Birthright Israel provides trips to Israel for Jews living outside of Israel., Culture camps are basically summer camps where kids of a certain native culture can meet other adopted kids from the same native culture. For instance, a culture camp might specialize in bringing together kids adopted from India in order to expose them to Indian dance, music, and cultural practices.Since every culture around the world is unique, the experiences offered by culture camps are also unique. It is impossible to generalize about what a culture camp experiences entails.
Your adopted child might get to try the food of their native culture, or get to dress in the traditional style of their native culture.Some camps offer guest speakers or natives of your adopted child’s native culture.
Other camps provide simple language lessons that help your adopted child learn the language of their native culture.
You can find more information about these camps online or from cultural enrichment or heritage organizations that promote the native culture of your adopted child.
 The best way to learn another language is through language immersion – that is, using the language all day, every day while living in a country where the language is native tongue. However, there are other routes through which your adopted child can learn the language of their native culture.For instance, if your adopted child’s parents were Vietnamese, locate Vietnamese language classes in your area.
If this proves impossible, find online resources to help your child learn Vietnamese.
Visit your local public library for language books that teach the language, or order books of your own through your local bookstore.
The best foreign language books will include a CD or digital download that allows you and your child to actually hear the foreign language.

