;
, If you are 21 years old or older, you can use your valid driver's license as your identification as long as it shows your correct name and your date of birth. If you are under 21 years old, you have to show a state-certified copy of your birth certificate, a valid passport or an active military identification card.There are no residency, physical or blood test requirements in the state of Arkansas.
 You have to be at least 18 years old to marry without parental consent. You can contact your local county courthouse if you have questions about the age requirements. Females as young as 16 and males as young as 17 can get an Arkansas marriage license with parental consent., The price of an Arkansas marriage license usually runs around $58, but the cost will vary by county.You also need to bring cash as most offices will not accept checks or credit cards.
 Ministers are required to have either an Ordination Certificate or Minister’s License. Record of this certification must exist in an Arkansas county. Any officiant will need to fill out the Marriage License with the information required for a Marriage Certificate.


Any current Justice of the Peace is allowed to officiate a marriage. If a former Justice of the Peace held that position for two terms since 1977, then he or she may also officiate. Communicate with the county in order to find out if there is another type of officiant that you may use.
 You are required to use your license in the sixty days after you receive it.
 Send the marriage license back to the County Clerk's office where you applied. After you receive it, you have sixty days to do this.
 Arkansas’ weather is generally temperate throughout the year. Summer and winter are volatile seasons. If you are looking for nice, agreeable weather, then you should try to have your wedding in the spring or fall. The average high temperature in spring is 81°F (27°C) and the average low temperature is 40°F (4°C).The average high temperature in fall is 75°F(24°C) and the average low temperature is 34°F(1°C)., Choosing a venue will involve different factors. For example, you probably will want an indoors space during the winter. There are many resources available on the web. Try looking through the state tourism website venue list.Generally, you will not need a wedding permit. However, if your wedding is on city property, then you must apply for a permit. Venues with parks usually necessitate permits. A huge event may require a permit as well.
 You will want to find a place that will accommodate all your guests. Again, the Arkansas state tourism website is a resource you can use.


Try searching through websites, such as the Knot or Weddingwire, that keep lists of wedding reception venues.
Very popular Arkansas wedding reception venues include:

Alda's Magnolia Hill (Little Rock, Arkansas)
1905 Park Basin Hotel (Eureka Springs, Arkansas)
1886 Crescent Hotel & Spa (Eureka Springs, Arkansas)
The Garden Room (Fayetteville, Arkansas)



