 You can try using multiple coding methods to hide different messages in your note. These can act as added layers of security, stopping anyone from discovering sensitive parts of your message. Try combining a few of these coding methods in your documents or letters to help keep your messages secret.


You can combine ciphers with other code methods to increase the security of your message.You might use the acrostic method to hint at the real message which was encoded using the spelling error code. You could try writing "SPELLING ERRORS" with an acrostic code to indicate the another message using the spelling error code.
You could try encoding half the message with the keyboard method and the other with the acrostic method.
Try encoding the first letter of a word with one code method and the next letter with another method. Keep alternating codes, using both coding methods, to build a more secure message.
 Spending some time breaking coded messages can give you a better understanding of how codes work. You'll be able to learn what works well or how someone might be able to break your own codes. Try working with a friend to try and break each others codes, allowing your secret messages to stay secret., Whenever you are encoding a message into a larger document, it's important that you keep your overall document natural in tone and writing. Any irregularities could draw attention to your message, causing your code to be broken and intercepted. It's important that your messages always look and read as if they were nothing special.
 If you receive a message using a certain code, you should reply using that same code. Sending a different code might make the original sender think that you missed the message and may cause them to miss your own message. Always communicate using the established code method to ensure the messages are passed clearly.


Ciphers will require you and a contact to use the same cipher., Coming up with a coded message system after it becomes necessary can be difficult. For this reason, it's a good idea to establish which codes you will use and how they will be used before it becomes an issue. This will allow you to more easily encode, decode, and return secret messages in any situation.

Some codes require you to share them with a friend. For example, if you and a friend were using a cipher wheel, you would both need to know the what cipher you are using to decode the message.Get in plenty of practice using your method of choice.
You and a friend can practice both send and receiving coded messages to each other.

