 Choose at least four to five simple rules for the classroom and write them down. You will use these rules to manage the classroom and establish boundaries among your students.Your rules may include: all students must come to class on time and ready to learn, all students must be prepared to listen and ask questions by raising their hand, and all students must be aware of the consequences of missing class or turning in assignments late.
You may also have a rule about playing fair with others in the classroom and listening respectfully to others when they speak. Make sure you have at least one to two rules that directly address discipline and behavior towards others in the classroom.;
, Start the school year on the right foot by printing out the rules and handing them out to all students. You can also post them on the blackboard or put them on the class’ online message board so they are readily available throughout the year. Explain to your students that you expect them to all follow these four to five rules and to enforce these rules among themselves., You should be clear about the negative consequences of disruptive behavior in class. If a student talks over another student when she is speaking, for example, this could be considered disruptive and the consequence could be a reprimand from you. As well, if one student refuses to share an item with another student, this could be considered a violation of the rules and could lead to points deducted from her participation grade. Explain possible situations that may be considered disruptive or against the rules of the classroom.You should also discuss the positive consequences of following the classroom rules, such as verbal praise, or entering a class raffle for a prize. You may also use the star system, where a student who follows the rules receives a gold star beside her name or a check mark. Group rewards can be effective, where you put a marble in a jar every time the group interacts well and follows the rules, and when the marbles reach a certain height in the jar, the entire class is allowed to go on a special field trip or event.
Once you explain the rules and expectations of the classroom, you should have the class verbally agree to the rules or raise their hands to show they understand the rules. This will act as a commitment to the class rules by everyone in the room.
 Doing this will ensure parents are aware of your classroom rules and understand how you will discipline your students. Parents may need to be involved in classroom issues if they get out of control, so it will be useful to share the classroom rules in the first week of class.You can also ask parents to go over the rules with their children at home so the rules are clear. This will also signal to children that their parents approve of the classroom rules.
 Children respond to fair, consistent behavior, and will often lead by example. Make sure you review the rules and expectations for the classroom at least once a week so your students can remember them.It is also important that you ask your students if they have any questions or concerns about the rules. Some students may feel a certain rule needs to be more specific or to be adjusted. Be open to a discussion about the classroom rules and allow your students to voice their opinions. Though you may decide not to shift or adjust any rules, this will show students that you respect their opinion and indicate they are thinking critically about the rules.
 In the event of an issue or problem in the classroom, draw on the established rules and expectations for the students. Do not be afraid to be strict about the rules, as this is the only way they will be enforced in the classroom. Be prepared to give out appropriate punishments, but avoid yelling or getting angry at students. Instead, use punishments that encourage self awareness and discussion, rather than humiliation or embarrassment.You should also try to maintain positive consequences throughout the school year when a student or the class follow the rules. This will remind the class that the rules are made to reward, as well as to discipline.

