 When you go to the courthouse to get your marriage certificate, the clerk should ask you if you want to change your name. Make sure your full new name is listed on the marriage certificate.If it's not, the name changing process will be more complicated.


If you've already obtained your marriage certificate and it doesn't include your name change, skip down to the general name-changing method.
Getting married makes changing your name easier than it would otherwise be, so think carefully about what you want your permanent name to be. You can use your former last name as your middle name or hyphenate two last names if you don't want to drop your maiden name entirely.;
, Once you've received your marriage license, your next step will be to obtain a new social security card, which will require you to fill out a form and either visit a Social Security Administration office or mail it in with the required documents.Gather your paperwork together. You'll need your marriage certificate, birth certificate, photo ID (driver's license, passport, or state ID card) and a completed application for a new Social Security card, available online.Submit your documents to the Social Security Administration. You can make an appointment to change your name in person, or you can mail in the appropriate documents. All original copies will be mailed back to you with a receipt.You can find the address for the Social Security office nearest you via a locator on the Social Security Administration website.Your new card should arrive within 10 days of processing (that is, the date shown on your receipt or the date on which you visited an SSA office).
 Visit your local DMV with your new Social Security card and your old driver's license or ID card to receive a new ID card., Here's a short list of what you might consider:Bank accounts
Credit cards
Leases or mortgages
Car title
Voter registration
Medical offices
Post office boxes
Passport

, For the first few months you'll probably have to deal with some confusion on the part of people who aren't aware you changed your name.


Start introducing yourself with your new last name, signing checks and other documents with your new last name, and politely asking people to use it when they address you.


