 The big bad strings of a bass can take a lot of abuse, and you should feel free to really play with them. Strum softly with your thumb, then pluck hard on a lower strings to get the crisp, satisfying pop. Slap the string with your palm to get it ringing. Play muted notes, where you aren't pressing fully on the fret, to get a percussive "note" instead of a melody. Varying these "textures" is a great way to build an essential sense of rhythm into your bass lines., Funk gains power through repetition. You are the one keeping the band and melody on track, providing a sturdy base to dance on. You don't want to be switching up your licks or grooves every 2-3 bars, you want to be reliable. However, the occasional deviation is exciting, fresh, and funky. Every 4 bars or so, mix it up -- hitting a higher version of your root note, sliding out of the lick, etc. By restraining yourself, you make your subtle deviations even more exciting.


Stevie Wonder's "Higher Ground" has a kicking, relatively regular bassline. But, when Stevie's' voice kicks it up an octave, he switches up the final two beats with a nasty little slide that signals the shift in and out of the chord change.
 The notes you play are just as important as the ones you don't. Syncopation, which is when you leave pauses and spaces where listeners expect a note, is crucial to good funk. In general, spaces are used to make the note immediately before or after feel more important, meaning the two and four beats are great places to put a little silence.


Rhythmic variety is created by having spaces. And variety, especially when synced up with your drummer, is where the funk starts to shine.
Check out Kendrick Lamar's "King Kunta," paying attention to the just barely syncopated pause after the three beat. You expect the note to hold, like it does after the one, but the unexpected syncopation gives it a fresh, immediately danceable feel.
 Once you have the rhythm down, getting the groove with a few simple notes, you can expand your funky chops but copying the masters. Look up the tabs to every song that catches your ear. Focus on getting them perfect, note for note. How do other masters fill in the gaps? How do they emphasize the one and three? How do they use silence to their advantage? While you should listen to anything you love, some classic bassists to start with include:


Larry Graham (with Sly and the Family Stone, Graham Central Station)
Bootsy Collins (with Parliament-Funkadelic, James Brown, his own band)
James Jamerson (with the James Brown Band)
Victor Wooten (solo, with SMV)

