 You should definitely allow the group to make most decisions, but if you have certain requirements for the club (for example, if you just like to read science fiction or if you can only meet on Thursdays), you should set them out ahead of time.;
, If you feel comfortable inviting people into your home, you can have at least the first meeting at your house or apartment as long as you have enough room. Otherwise, you can usually reserve space for free at community centers, libraries or churches, or you might try to get a bookstore to let you hold your meeting there. If you can find someplace convenient where you can hold regular meetings, the better.
 Ask that people bring suggestions of books to read. Deliver copies of the flyer to local bookstores, and put them up on community bulletin boards at grocery stores, churches, etc. You can also advertise online on the community pages of sites such as Craigslist. Be sure to clarify that the purpose of the group is to discuss books, not to order books together at a reduced price. (CAVEAT: Please be aware that broad advertising of book clubs can result in the occasional bad apple that can single-handedly ruin the discussion openness and tone. Do this with caution.)

, For the initial meeting, this should include at least two items: a "Book Suggestions" page, where members can write down titles they recommend for the group, and a "Hosting and Refreshments" page where members can sign up for a date that is convenient for them to take these responsibilities. You also want to record the attendees names and contact details. A head count is not sufficient. For subsequent meetings, you'll also want to include a "Coming Soon" page or the reading schedule for the next two or three meetings. This clipboard should make the rounds at every meeting. This "clipboard" should be placed online -- some sites offer book clubs that ability to post meeting dates/locations, sent automatic meeting reminders, and add sign-up sheets for discussion leaders and sign-up sheets for refreshments. An online clipboard also allows members to add online reading guides and connect to book reviews. Also, a member should be chosen to send out an email with all the information on the clipboard; like what the next book will be, what was discussed, possible book club names, etc.
 Make sure the meeting space is clean and inviting. Check to make sure the restrooms are properly stocked. Most importantly, make sure you have enough chairs, and set up refreshments.
 Introduce yourself and try to make sure that each guest feels welcome and comfortable. Let them know you're glad to see them.
 If some of your guests don't know each other, go around and have everybody introduce themselves. You may also want to do this at subsequent meetings if new members are in attendance. Ask that people tell the group a little bit about themselves and their reading interests. During the introductions, send the clipboard around so people can write down book suggestions and sign up to bring refreshments or, if necessary, to host.
 Some issues to discuss are:


Do you want to set rules about the books, such as pricing or content?
What are the members' expectations of the group, and what are their responsibilities as members?
What is the group's policy on smoking, pets, tardiness, and telephone calls during book discussions? Are members allowed to bring their children if they don't have a babysitter? Some will not mind if children are present, others will. The tone of a meeting is very different if children are present.
Can members bring a guest? Of course, this is the best way to build book club membership. Referrals and invitations from existing members minimize the aforementioned "bad apple."
Can new people join, or is there a limit to the group size? The ideal size is less than 10 -- otherwise, people just don't have an opportunity to discuss and contribute.
 The easiest way to do this is to simply pick a book yourself -- try to pick one, such as a current bestseller, with wide appeal -- but if you don't want to go out on a limb, you can decide as a group. Ask that members bring their own suggestions and any external reviews that may help inform other members of the book. During the meeting have members vote on the next three books -- which gives members some time to find and read the books.
 This will make the book club more official and members will feel like they really belong. Don't just hastily choose a name though. Have the members suggest ideas and everyone vote.
 Now that the really hard work is done, relax and let people talk and leave as they will. Be sure to speak to each person again so they feel more comfortable and invested in the group.

