 When determining what to charge, it helps to know what you spent. In addition to material costs, be sure to account for the time you spent making your items, and the cost of setting up displays to sell them. This will help you come to a reasonable minimum price you can set to be sure you don't feel cheated when you sell.
 If you'd like to get a better idea of what to charge, investigate the competition. Try to get a sense for what the average selling price for similar items is. This will give you a range to work with, one that might very well increase your profit margin considerably.
 If you make anything that can be consumed, such as soap, bath salts, wine, or food, offer small samples to customers who pass by. If your wares can speak for themselves, customers are much more likely to come back and buy them later.
 No matter what you make, follow the rule of three to keep your customers happy: Each item costs a certain amount, but if you buy three items, you get a decent percentage off. Typically, the discount is between 20 and 30%, but you can decide for yourself based on the profit margin you've already set for yourself. You can also offer discounts for specific sets of items, such as “two jars of jam and a box of homemade cookies for $10 instead of $12.”


People love to buy in gift sets. Have gift packaging ready for all your items, and larger specialty packaging for groups of two to four items.
 These days, with the Internet everywhere, it's easier than ever to learn how to make your own crafts. Stand out from the pack by establishing a presence in the market and making yourself known.


Make social media accounts for your business, and give it a memorable name. Post regular updates related to the items you sell.
Speak with local business owners about carrying your products on commission, or helping stage a community event to generate business for all of you. Be proactive and establish yourself as a businessperson to get the support of the business community.
Provide relevant supplies to community causes. If a local children's organization is planning to make gift baskets, offer to supply some basic homemade soaps; make a weekly donation of home-canned (and properly licensed!) soup or jerky to a soup kitchen or regular church meal. The more you attach your name to positive actions, the more highly people will regard you and your crafts.

