 Roleplaying is where you step into the shoes of a character that you made up and post in various topics acting out their actions, the things they say, and, for some extra dimension, thoughts, if you'd like. In the club discussions list, there will be different topics.


The most important one is normally labelled as "Enrollments" or something similar, where you fill out and post a basic form with your characters name, age, gender, and whatever else is included in said form. When you look at the clubs discussion list, you will see that there are topics that state a place.
When you are posting there, you will post as if you are in that place. When starting a post, always start with a heading, your name and Clique. Then, begin your post below. You can represent actions by putting symbols like -, *, or -- around them, and quotation marks around their words. Or, if you would like to seem more advanced, you could attempt writing a first or third person paragraph.;
, Without it, you'll look like your character isn't intelligent or that you don't care enough to make a post look good, neat, and interesting. This means no run-on sentences, proper commas, and absolutely no text talk! You'd be surprised at what a huge difference this can make.
 The first step to achieving this is stepping out of the basic format of having symbols around actions and into paragraphs, because you have more room for detail and creativity in that form. Adjectives are essential, because they make sure that another Roleplayer can read the post and construct a good visual in their minds eye. Keep a keen eye on detail. If your character has an accent, every now in then, just throw in a "... in her lilting Irish accent," to remind another Roleplayer that they should add this in to the mental scene they may be forming.


Also, adding in little things that people do all the time, but they're not thought much of, like, fidgeting, or playing with the hem of a shirt, crossing their legs, playing with their hair, or biting their lip. These will keep your character feeling and sounding real, and not like a mechanical list of actions and words.
Make sure that you throw in facial expressions your character may be making when they see someone or say something.
 Make friends, and have fun!

