 A cleansing enema is what most people think of when they hear the word "enema": designed to be quick and easy, this enema is supposed to cause quick evacuation and help clean the colon. There are several different kinds of cleansing enemas. Here are just a few that you can safely use at home:


Lemon Juice. Helps cleanse the colon and adjust the pH in the colon. Reputed to detoxify the system.Apple cider vinegar (ACV) and water. Also a way to adjust the pH in the colon. Supposed to help clear out mucous from the body.Catnip Tea. Helps with constipation and has the ability to bring down a high fever.Burdock Root. Widely used in Asian societies, is reputed to help flush out calcium deposits and sanitize the blood.Chamomile tea. Very soothing and effective.;
, Err on the side of caution: Always dilute the enema solution more than you think is necessary. An enema is supposed to be mainly water. The supplements are the supporting acts, not the main gig.
 Hold the insertion end of the tube over the bathtub or toilet. Open the clamp to let the water travel through the tube until it comes out steadily. Be sure that there aren’t any air pockets in the tube. Once you are sure of this, clamp the tube to stop the flow.
 Depending on your comfort level or size, you might also find it more advantageous to lie down on your side; some people find it easier to take in more liquid while resting on their side.
 Stop if you feel any resistance and adjust the angle slightly until you can easily insert the tube.
 Go slowly, as going too quickly can create the need to evacuate immediately. The key to a successful enema is to take in and hold in the liquid until the body's natural peristaltic movements begin. If you experience cramping, clamp the tube and take a deep breath before continuing. Lightly massaging the abdomen will also help.
 Continue lying on the floor, or move to the toilet.
 Wait until you are able to expel what you need to.
 Clean your equipment and let it air-dry before storage.

