 Initiate the game by showing doggie where one hidden treat is. Exclaim in an excited voice, “Oh my! A yummy treat for a good doggie!” This will inspire curiosity and excitement in your canine friend.


Place treats in locations where they can be found, but are not immediately obvious upon surveying the space.
Do not forget where you placed the treats. They might attract bugs if left to sit for too long, or they might be found by doggie much later when they are no longer good to eat. If needed, keep a list of where you place each treat and add new items to the list as you place new treats.;
, Tug of war is a classic game you can easily play with your dog. Dogs have a natural urge to pull, bite, and shake things in their mouths.Tug-of-war capitalizes on this tendency and allows you to spend quality time with your pet, even indoors when it rains.


Do not shake anything your dog has in its mouth too vigorously. Doing so could hurt the dog or give it whiplash.
Only play tug of war with soft chew toys of rope or cloth.
 This game work just as it does with small children. Have a partner hold the dog still so that you can run off and hide somewhere around the house. Take a doggie treat with you so that when doggie finds you, you can offer a well-earned reward. After a count of thirty, your partner should set the dog free and encourage it to find you.


The first time you play, your partner should encourage your dog to find you by speaking in a high-pitched whisper “Where’s ?” Your partner should lead the dog through the house looking for you in order to help him or her understand the objective of the game.
After checking several locations and rooms in the house without locating you, have your partner lead the dog to where you are. Administer the doggie treat and offer fulsome praise to your dog for finding you. Then, reset the game and have another go, hiding in a different place.
Alternate places with your partner so that sometimes you hide and sometimes they hide.
This game is great because it gives your pet a chance to exercise its mind and its sense of smell as it seeks you out., If you’re less energetic than your dog, you may opt to let him or her do the work of making playtime fun. Choose a ball, chew toy, or edible rawhide bone and toss it across the room. Your dog will not only get a great workout running to fetch the thrown object, but he or she will have great fun doing it.Your dog might not bring it straight back to you, in which case you’ll want to take the object again from the dog and toss it again.
If you’re worried about your house getting torn up as your dog tears through it to recover the thrown object, try rolling the ball in a fast but straight line down a hallway. This alternative (“Hall Ball”) is equally fun for your doggie.Only play fetch when you have adequate space to do so in. Do not play fetch on slippery linoleum floors where dogs might, in their haste and excitement, end up running into a wall and hurting themselves. Similarly, do not play fetch near stairs or a balcony which is not secure the entire way around at its base.
 When inviting dogs over to play with your dog, think about how they get along together. Some dogs like very physical play with lots of jumping on one another, nipping, and wrestling. Other dogs prefer chasing and gallivanting about, or playing together with a shared chew toy. Invite dogs over who you know are good counterparts for your own dog.
 Do not let them play in or around stairs or balconies which are not totally enclosed at the base. Make sure there are no sharp objects on the floor, or anything which might be ingested by one or another of the dogs in the play date. The space should be neither cramped nor excessively spacious. It is important that the dogs have enough space to run around and work off some energy, but you should be able to get to them quickly if a kerfuffle erupts., Encourage each owner to bring a variety of dog costumes. Have everyone dress their dogs up secretly, then bring them all out at the same time for a big reveal. Dog costumes and clothing are readily available at pet stores and online. You could also have contests for dogs of similar sizes like high-jump or speed trials.


To test a dog’s high jump, hold a treat above his or her head and encourage the dog to jump for it. Repeat with all dogs. Whichever dog jumps highest wins.
If you have a spacious basement, have one owner hold a given dog. Place a dogie treat 15 to 20 feet ahead of the dog and start a stopwatch when the owner releases it. Repeat with all dogs from the same starting position and with the treat replaced after each run in the same place. Whichever dog gets the treat fastest wins. Taking turns, you can do this activity several times. If your dog or another becomes winded, take a break.
 Breaks are important because different dogs have different levels of stamina, and one dog might attempt to continue chasing, playing, and wrestling with another even after the other is no longer willing to do so. When that happens, tempers flare and fun can turn into irritation and conflict among the dogs.
 Tell your guests a funny story, and invite them to share a similar experience. For instance, maybe you could tell a story about how you cut your finger so badly that the pain made you put the band aid on the wrong hand. If you don’t like telling stories or engaging in conversation, bust out a game. You can play videogames, card games, or table top games with the other dog owners. Monopoly, Scrabble, and Jenga are all fun games appropriate for multiple players.


Offer little snacks like cheese and crackers, garlic and pimento-stuffed olives, and hummus with pita bread.
Even though you’re schmoozing with the other dog owners, supervise the play date carefully.Always stay within sight of your dog. Do not let the dogs wander out of range where they might get into mischief. If you have baby gates (collapsible barriers used to block babies from certain parts of a house) you can use them effectively to keep the dogs in a controlled, central area where they can be easily monitored.
 Dogs respond well to shows which are shot low to the ground, and shows which depict animals. Channels like Animal Planet and National Geographic are good options. If there is nothing good to watch, grab your camera to take videos of your pet and let your pet watch the video. This will be of great entertainment value for him or her.


Ensure the refresh rate of your TV is over 75 hertz.This is important because if the refresh rate is lower than that, the number of frames on the TV will be too low for the dog to identify as a moving image.
Ensure your dog can see the screen. Dogs need the TV to be at their eye level, which is lower than that of humans.Letting your dog sit on the couch or a comfy chair with you is the best way to ensure your dog has a good seat from which to see the action.
 Sit your dog next to you on the couch or bed. Using a clean brush, brush your dog gently, starting at the top of his or her head. To brush your dog’s ears, place your hand between the dog’s ear and the comb so that the fur of the ears pokes up from between your fingers.Use the same technique when brushing your dog’s chest. Roll them over on their back to get better access to the chest and belly fur. Always pull your brush with the grain of your pet’s fur. Move slowly to ensure you don’t make any sudden movement which might hurt your dog.
 Dogs should be bathed about once a month on average. If your dog is small you could plop it in the sink; if it’s larger, you’ll need to get it in the tub. Brush your dog before a bath, as matted fur tends to retain more water than smooth, well-brushed fur. Use lukewarm water when bathing since dogs have more sensitive skin than we do. Work a handful of dog shampoo into your dog’s coat, being careful not to get any in his or her eyes. Rinse the shampoo off. A detachable shower head is a useful tool to have during the rinse.


When you’re finished, rinse your dog off and let them shake off a bit inside the tub or sink. Give them a gentle pat down with a towel, then let them air dry the rest of the way.
Don’t bathe too often; doing so could remove the natural oils of your dog’s skin, making it more likely to develop dandruff and matted fur., Your dog has a unique personality. Let it shine by putting him or her in an appropriate outfit.If your dog is a tough guy, for instance, always barking at people he doesn’t know, give him a doggie-sized leather jacket and spiked collar. If your dog likes reading with you in bed, dress her up so bring out her inner librarian -- think horn-rimmed glasses and a fluffy sweater. Your dog will look adorable and enjoy shaking up its daily routine.


Don’t forget to take pictures and post them to social media so everyone can see what an adorable doggie you have.
 Ensure your dog wears a rain slicker and little boots when going out in the rain. If it is cold as well as damp, have your doggie wear a warming jacket beneath his or her raincoat. Thus clothed, your dog will stay warm and dry despite the yucky weather. This will also save you time later when otherwise you’d have to wash and dry your dog.


If you don’t have a doggie raincoat, keep your dog relatively close to you and try to keep the umbrella over it.
 Dog strollers are like baby carriages for your dog.If you have a good dog stroller, it will have a waterproof collapsible top which you can pull down over your dog. Pull it down when going out into the rain. There should be a transparent or nylon mesh front out of which the dog can see everything around it. Using the dog stroller in nasty weather is a good way let your dog go out into the world without getting soaked.


Ensure you get a stroller which will accommodate your dog. Check the size of the stroller before purchasing. If possible, talk to a pet store employee about a stroller which would be a good choice for your dog, read reviews online, and try some out in the store to find one you like.
 Just like the outdoors, shopping centers offer a multitude of sights, sounds, and smells.


Do not bring your pet into a large shopping center if they are still a puppy and not yet potty-trained.
 Doga is the doggie counterpart of yoga. Doga classes are offered in most big cities. Bring a yoga mat, your dog, and your workout or yoga outfit. Before beginning the class, get limber by stretching out, rolling your shoulders and neck, and touching your toes. By helping your dog stretch and get into a variety of contorted poses, you will get your daily dose of exercise as well. Use the doga class to bond and grow closer to your dog as you learn and move together., Take your dog to the park. Besides the many new and wonderful smells your doggie can encounter, the park offers new encounter for not just your dog, but potentially for you as well. Many dog parks are even indoors, so you can go no matter the weather.Find a park near you and keep your dog entertained even when its raining. Check out this list of over 5,300 dog-friendly hiking trails at http://www.bringfido.com/attraction/trails/.If the weather permits, your pet may want to go out
Check the park's policy about pets before visiting. You will probably need to keep your dog leashed at all times and collect and poo he or she makes.
 When a dog plays shy, it will cover its face with one or both paws. Inspire the dog to cover its face my placing a sticky note or band-aid on the place between its eyes. Immediately after placing it there, say “Play shy!” Continue encouraging your dog to play shy with the verbal command until it brings its paw up to remove the object on its face. When it does bring its paw up to its face, hold it there for a few second, then say “Good boy/girl!” Reward the dog with a treat.


Continue training this way for some time, then stop using the sticky note or band aid, and the dog should be able to play shy with simply the verbal command to do so.
 Kneel down on your dog’s level. Hold a treat close to their nose with your palm up, but don’t let the dog eat it. Say “Roll over!” Push your dog’s body down (if it knows how to lie down already, use this trick to get it into the correct position). Turn the dog’s nose toward its shoulder by bringing the treat in the direction of the shoulder. From the shoulder, continue to move the treat over the center of it back. The dog will become unbalanced and flop over onto its back. Reward your doggie with a yummy treat and fulsome praise.Repeat the move and command until the dog can perform the maneuver with your command alone and none of the physical assistance provided during training.
 Get on your dog’s level. Hold a treat close to his or her nose and say “Sit.” Bring the treat up in a vertical motion. As your dog's head comes up, his or her butt will go down. When their butt hits the ground, release the treat and give doggie a pat on the head. Repeat a three to four times a day for several more days. Remember to issue the command “sit” before every trick.

