 Before you write your letter, you obviously must know the rules for writing it.


You must start your letter with Dear friend or Dear sister. Though men can get breast cancer, your letter will most likely be given to a woman. If you want to be safe in case your letter is given to a man, you can always just write Dear friend.
Close your letter with your first name and last initial (for example, Jane D. or John S.). You aren't allowed to share your last name for privacy reasons.
Your letter must be hand-written. Typed letters are quicker to make, but since hand-written letters have more of a personal feel to them, this is an official rule.
There is no prediction on when your letter will actually be read, so don't date it around seasons or holidays (for example, You must feel like your Christmas is ruined by this).
Don't comment on prognosis, the type of treatment, race, religion, or anything else that you don't know.;
, You'll need to know how to write a correctly-formatted letter, as well as open and close the letter correctly, for your message to really count and to ensure that your words are actually shared.
 The Girls Love Mail envelope that your letter will be packaged in as it is mailed to the hospitals themselves is 4.75 inches (12.1 cm) by 6.5 inches (16.5 cm). Before you start writing, be sure that you can either fold your paper to that size or that your paper is that size.
 This isn't a business proposal; it's a sentimental letter. Rather than trying to make perfect poetry, focus on being realistic, as if you're speaking in person to a friend rather than writing a college thesis.
 The last thing your reader wants to hear is that he or she may die or that treatment for you was extremely hard or painful. Even if it's true, the letter's purpose is to console, not to inform.
 It's a good idea to share personal experiences, stories, and advice, because it will make the letter sound more realistic. If you've known anyone who had or has any type of cancer, it's a great idea to tell how that person overcame it. A great idea is to share a personal experience or story. If you've known anyone who had or has any type of cancer, especially yourself, this is a great story to share. If you don't know what the person is going through, it's okay to admit it and say you couldn't imagine being in his or her situation. The last thing your reader needs is a load of cheesy, stolen, or fake words.
 If you're going to write a lot of letters, don't make them all identical. The Girls Love Mail website suggests that if you're going to make letters identical, you should only do five copies of the same letter. You can change up your words a little, but don't write the same things every single time - it will ruin the personality.
 Once you have finished writing, send it to the address for Girls Love Mail. Don't mail it to a hospital yourself; the facility will likely ignore your letter without knowing who it is for.


Send your letters to 2330 E. Bidwell Street, Suite 200; Folsom, California 95630.

