 Most cysts are completely harmless and will go away on their own, while others may require medical attention. Call your doctor if the cyst is painful or swollen, or if the skin around the affected area becomes warm, as these are signs of an infection., If the cyst is interfering with your everyday life, don't attempt to pop it yourself. Talk to your doctor to determine whether it would be safe and advisable to have it surgically removed., These will vary depending upon the location, the size, and how the cyst may be interfering with bodily functions. There are three options for the removal of cysts in the body. You and your physician should discuss each to determine which is the best option for your circumstances and the type of cyst you have.


Incision and drainage (I & D) is a simple procedure where the physician makes a 2-3 mm cut in the cyst and gently expresses the contents of the cyst. This can be done in the office for skin cysts, such as epidermoid and sebaceous cysts and surface pilonidal cysts which are not deep or infected if necessary. I & D can be used for breast cysts, ganglion cysts, testicular or bartholin gland cysts on an outpatient basis using either general or local anesthesia.However, there is a higher incidence of recurrence when the cyst wall is not removed. In an incision and drainage the wall cannot be removed.
A minimal excision technique will remove the wall of the cyst and the cheesy center material.The cyst is opened and drained before the cyst wall is pulled out. Sutures may or may not be necessary, depending upon the size of the incision. This technique will be the treatment of choice for breast cysts, testicular cysts, bartholin gland cysts, and ganglion cysts. Surgical excisions are very rarely done for cystic acne. Surgical excision is generally done under local anesthesia and often as an outpatient procedure, while general anesthesia is used for children.
Laser removal is an option for only epidermoid cysts when they are large or are in an area where the skin is thick. It entails opening the cyst with a laser and gently expressing the the fluid inside. One month later a minimal incision is made to pull out the cyst wall. This gives good cosmetic results in cases where the cyst is not inflamed or infected., However, it is important to seek medical care if the area appears infected, if the cyst grows rapidly, if the cyst is in a spot that is constantly irritated, or if you are bothered for cosmetic reasons.
 If you haven’t reached menopause, your doctor will ask that you monitor the cyst each month. Your physician may do a fine needle aspiration to drain the cyst.


If you notice a cyst through two or three menstrual periods that does not resolve spontaneously, or increases in size, your doctor may order an ultrasound.
Your physician may recommend oral contraception to regulate your menstrual cycle hormones. This treatment is only used in women with severe symptoms.
Surgical removal is necessary only when the cysts are uncomfortable, have blood-tinged or green-colored fluid on aspiration, or the physician believes there may be a non-benign growth pattern. In this case the entire cyst will be removed with anesthesia as an incision and drainage technique would leave the capsule and increase the risk the cyst will reappear.
 If you do not receive good results, the doctor may recommend the use of isotretinoin or Accutane.


Accutane is an effective medication that helps manage acne. However, may cause serious side effects, such as birth defects, can increase the risk of depression and suicide, and can affect your lipid levels, liver function, blood sugar, and white blood cell count. You will need to have blood tests done once monthly to monitor your response to the medication.Women must be on two forms of contraception to take Accutane.
 Treatment for this type of cyst is usually nonsurgical and will include observation. The area can be immobilized if activity increases the size, pressure or pain to the area.Aspiration of the fluid in the ganglion cyst might be done if it is causing pain or limiting activity. In this procedure the physician takes the fluid out of the cyst with a fine needle, in the office under sterile conditions.


If symptoms are not relieved through nonsurgical methods (needle aspiration or immobilization), or the cyst returns after aspiration, your doctor may recommend a surgical excision of the cyst also known as total ganglionectomy. During excision part of the involved tendon or joint capsule will also be removed. There is a small chance that the cyst will return even after complete removal. This is a surgical procedure done under local anesthesia and is often an outpatient procedure.
 The type of treatment is dependent upon the size of the cyst, your discomfort, and whether or not it’s infected.Warm sitz baths (sitting in several inches of warm water) several times a day can help the gland to drain on its own.


Surgical incision and drainage will be used if the gland is very large or infected and sitz baths are not effective. Local anesthesia or sedation will be used. A catheter will remain in the gland to keep it open for up to six weeks to allow for complete drainage.
Antibiotics may be prescribed to treat the infection.
 First a physician must determine that the growth is non-cancerous.If the cyst is large enough to trigger a feeling of heaviness or dragging in the testicle, surgical excision will be discussed.


Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia does not initially recommend surgery for their adolescents. Instead, they recommend that the young men learn to do self-examinations and report any changes or increases in size which may indicate the need for surgical treatment.Cysts in children often resolve on their own.
Percutaneous sclerotherapy is an option that reduces the risks of surgery to the scrotum and has had good results in research.Using ultrasound to guide the injection of a sclerosing agent, 84% of the men used in the study were symptom free in six month. The sclerosing agent will reduce the size and symptoms of a testicular cyst. This procedure has significantly less physical risk and less risk of recurrence of the cyst.

