 Brachycephalic airway syndrome is a problem in cats that have flat faces. Their flat faces make abnormalities much more likely because there is less room in the cat's head for proper airway development.Persian, Himalayan and Burmese cats are more likely to get brachycephalic airway syndrome than other breeds.
 When a cat cannot breathe very well it is common for it to open its mouth to breathe. This signals that the cat is having difficulty getting enough air in through its nose.A cat will normally breathe through its nose most of the time if its airway is clear.
 Noisy breathing is another sign of trouble in your cat's airway. Noisy breathing happens when the airway is obstructed and air does not have a clear pathway.This can happen when the cat is congested due to sickness, but it can also signal that the airway is compromised if it does not go away once the cat is well.
 In extreme cases of brachycephalic airway syndrome your cat may faint due to lack of oxygen. This signals that the condition is life threatening and and the cat needs veterinary care immediately.It can be difficult to tell the difference between when a cat is sleeping and when it has passed out. However, if you can't wake your cat up easily, then it has likely passed out.
 If you suspect that your cat has difficulty breathing due to brachycephalic airway syndrome, you should have it seen by a veterinarian as soon a possible. If your cat is having a particularly hard time breathing, you should have it seen by a veterinarian immediately.The earlier that the condition is identified and treated, the better the chances are for successful treatment.
If your regular veterinary clinic is not open when you notice your cat's breathing problems, take it to an emergency veterinary clinic or hospital.
 There are a variety of tests that may be done on your cat if their veterinarian suspects brachycephalic airway syndrome. Some of these tests can be done while the cat is awake, but some need to be done while the cat is put under anesthesia.

If your cat needs to be put under to have testing done, your veterinarian will do a variety of tests on it first to make sure that it is healthy enough to undergo anesthesia. Cats with breathing problems can have a hard time under anesthesia, so your vet will want to use extra care when putting the cat under.
If your cat is put under anesthesia to have testing done, your veterinarian may suggest that any surgical treatments that need to be done are done then as well. This will limit the risks to your cat that are inherent with anesthesia.
 Brachycephalic airway syndrome is actually a group of abnormalities of the airway. If your veterinarian tells you that your cat has this syndrome, they will then discuss your cat's specific abnormalities within the larger syndrome. There are four types of abnormalities that are included in this syndrome. They include:Stenotic nares: abnormally narrowed, small nostrils
Elongated soft palate: the soft palate is too long for the length of the cat's mouth, blocking the entrance to the trachea or windpipe
Eversion of the laryngeal saccules: sacs or pouches inside the voicebox that go into the airway and inhibit normal airflow
Narrowing of the trachea : the trachea is a smaller diameter than normal

