 Depending on the type of pollution or environmental hazard present, you may need to file a complaint with a particular state or local agency to get the problem resolved.You may have to call your state agency in charge of environmental affairs to find out the appropriate agency with which to place your complaint.
You also may be able to find information on your state or county's website. Look for an agency with "environmental" or "pollution" control or prevention in its name.
Particular types of pollution may be handled solely on a local or county level. Knowing which agency has the ability to do something about the problem you're experiencing can save you a lot of time and hassle.;
, Before you can file a complaint with a state or local agency, you must have as much detail as possible about the situation that's occurring, including the names of the owners of the property and the type of pollution involved.Keep in mind that the more details and specifics you have, the more likely it will be that the agency will decide to investigate the problem.
If your report is vague and gives them little to go on, investigators may lack the basic information necessary to launch an investigation, which may require obtaining search warrants or other permission to enter private property.
 Most state agencies allow you to file an anonymous complaint. However, if you don't provide your name and contact information the authorities will have no way to get in touch with you if they need more information, and you will have no way to check on the status of your complaint.There are some situations in which the value of remaining anonymous outweighs any of the benefits of giving your name – but you want to weigh the pros and cons carefully.
For example, if you are filing a complaint about your neighbor and you want to preserve a reasonably civil relationship with them, you might consider remaining anonymous so they don't harbor ill feelings and resentment toward you.
However, you should keep in mind that in most cases the property owner won't learn the identity of the person who filed the complaint. Your identity and contact information will only be shared with investigators.
If you're concerned about maintaining the confidentiality of your name and other personal information contained within your report, speak to someone with the agency about it.
 Typically you can find a complaint form to fill out online, however, you may have to go to your local agency office to request a paper form. Some agencies also have a hotline you can call to submit your complaint.If you call a hotline, you should be prepared to tell the representative the same information that you would've included in a written complaint.
Generally, the agency needs to know where the property is located, who owns it, what type of pollution is occurring, and whether the pollution was a one-time thing, is sporadic, or continuous and ongoing.
Some agencies also allow you to attach photos or other information as evidence of the pollution.
 Once you're satisfied that the information in your complaint is true and complete to the best of your knowledge, file it with the agency using the agency's procedures. If you had to fill out a paper form, it usually will include instructions on where and how to submit it.You may want to make a copy of your complaint for your own records before you send it.
If you receive a confirmation or reference number when you submit your complaint, keep it in a safe place. You may want to write it on your copy of the complaint so all the information is together in one place.
 If you provided your name and contact information on your complaint, you may have the ability to contact the agency and find out if any action has been taken on your complaint.When you submit a complaint online, some agencies will send you an email confirming receipt of your complaint. That email may contain a reference number or contact information if you want to update or check the status of your complaint.
If you receive further information after you've submitted your complaint and weren't given a procedure on how to update it, you may have to file an additional complaint. Mention the previous complaint when you file a new one.
Keep in mind that agencies have broad discretion on whether to launch an investigation as a result of a single complaint. If you have neighbors who also are experiencing problems with the pollution, encourage them to file complaints as well.

