 In the middle of the bread, cut a hole with approximately a 2-inch diameter. An alternate way to prepare the bread is to cut a square into the bread with a knife.


Choose any bread you like. White, wheat, sourdough, baguette, rye - anything you'd like will make a tasty dish.
You can make a hole with a glass, a jar, or the top to cooking spray. Press the item into the bread and the hole should be easily removed.
To make a treat for the kids, you can also use fun-shaped cookie cutters to cut out the shape in the middle. Suggest that they use the remaining cut-out piece to dip in the yolk.
For a romantic breakfast, use a heart-shaped cookie cutter to cut out the center. If you don't have a cookie cutter, try cutting a heart with a knife.;
, Add butter to the frying pan. While the butter is melting in the pan, spread more butter on both sides of the bread. Place the bread in the pan. Fry the bread on medium until it begins to brown.Flip the bread over. Allow this bread to cook until it is a golden brown.


You can butter the removed "hole" and fry it along with the egg for an added treat. Many people dip this bread into the yolk.
You can also use vegetable, coconut, or grapeseed oil instead of butter.
 Before placing the egg in the hole, add more butter to the pan in the open hole of the bread. Crack the egg open and drop the egg into the hole.


If you would like less whites in the dish, separate the egg whites from the yolks. Place the yolk in the hole and add a small amount of whites. This will cause the egg to cook faster.Add ham or bacon to the egg, place a piece of cheese on top of the bread, or you can add spices, such as salt, pepper, or paprika for a slight variation.
 Let the egg cook for an additional minute or two. Then, carefully flip the bread to fry the other side. Make sure the egg whites are fully cooked. The whites should not be runny or jiggly.Before you flip the bread and egg, lift the edge of the bread up with a spatula. Make sure the egg has solidified and started to brown before you flip it over.The egg will start to set into the bread when it is done.
If you like runnier eggs, cook for less time. If you like harder yolks, cook for longer.Try spraying the top of the uncooked side with some cooking spray or adding butter before flipping to make sure it doesn't stick.
If you wish, season with salt and pepper, or even paprika and other spices, as you cook eat side of the egg.
 Place your eggs in a basket on a plate. You can eat it with a fork or like a piece of toast.

