 Freshwater fishing rods for adults typically run from 5 to 7 1/2 feet (1.5 to 2.45 m) in length. For a young child, however, a rod of 3 to 5 feet (0.9 to 1.5 m), or roughly the length that the child is tall, is a better choice. The rod should have the same type of metal line guides found on an adult rod, not wire loop or plastic guides, which can bend or break easily, and there should be enough guides so that the line follows the arc of the rod when it bends.


Be sure the rod matches the type of reel your child will use. Spincasting reels rest on top of the rod, whose reel seat is recessed and features a trigger-like rest for the index finger of the casting hand. Open- and closed-faced spinning reels rest below the rod, which features a straight seat with a retaining clamp; the guide nearest the seat is also larger than that for a spincasting rod.
Some anglers choose to start their children out with cane poles, which are usually equipped with only a short length of line. These may be suitable for very small children but may be frustrating for children who see that rods and reels can cast much longer distances.
 Although you may be proficient with either a baitcasting or fly reel, the best type of fishing reel for children and most other first-time anglers to learn to use is the spincasting reel. A spincasting reel is a fixed-spool reel covered by a housing. One or more pickup pins spool the line on the reel when retrieving, and the line is released whenever you push the thumb button on the back of the reel. A spincasting reel goes on top of the rod and is cast roughly the same way as a baitcasting reel, making it easier to transition to the more complex reel when your child is older.


If you primarily fish with spinning tackle, however, consider starting your child with a closed-face spinning reel. These reels rest below the rod as do open-faced spinning reels, but they release the line with a lever trigger above the reel instead of cocking back the bail as on an open-faced reel. Closed-face spinning reels are less common than either open-faced spinning reels or spincasting reels, but they are made by most major fishing reel manufacturers.
For a first-time fisherman, the reel should be equipped with 8 to 10 pound test (4 to 5 kg class) monofilament fishing line.
 Initially, you may want to let your child share your tackle box, although some anglers prefer to provide their children with their own tackle box before their first outing. A child's tackle box may include any or all of the following equipment, which may be purchased beforehand or as the child develops the skill to use it:


Hooks, in sizes 4 and 6. Include single hooks for fishing with worms or minnows and treble hooks for fishing with marshmallows.
A package of split-shot sinkers. (One form of package is a plastic "wheel," with a cover that rotates to provide access to sinkers of different sizes. Look for split shot with little nibs at one end to allow for easy removal from the line with pliers when changing sinkers.)
A package of bell or Dipsey sinkers, in weights from 1/4 to 1/2 ounce (14.15 to 28.35 g).
2 to 3 small bobbers.
Stringer for keeping caught fish.
Needle-nose pliers, for removing hooks from the fish's mouth. (Some anglers keep 2 pairs, 1 to remove hooks and the other for holding onto the mouths of toothed fish such as pike or walleye or barbed fish such as catfish.)
Fingernail clippers, for clipping the end of the line.
Rag, for cleaning hands and for gripping fish with when removing hooks.
You may also want to include small artificial lures, such as jigs or grubs, with or without spinners.

