 You can start determining if your cat's overweight by looking at him. Examining your cat from above and from the side should help you determine if his weight is a problem.


Look at your cat from above. The area between his ribs and hips should move inward slightly, creating a clearly defined waist. If there is no waist or if his waist is wider than either his hips or ribs, your cat may be overweight.You should also look at your cat from the side. Cats who are at a healthy weight have what is called an abdominal tuck. This means the area just behind their ribs should have a smaller diameter than the chest. If you do not see an abdominal tuck, your cat may be overweight.;
, You can further examine your cat by touching him. Run your hand over your cat's sides. You should be able to easily feel his ribs. If you cannot feel his ribs, or have to push down to do so, your cat may be overweight., You should also be able to feel bones near the base of your cat's tail. While there should be a small layer of fat protecting this area, you should be able to feel the outlines of his bones without much effort. If you cannot easily feel bones here, your cat may be overweight., A cat's spine, hips, and shoulders should also be fairly bony. While very visible and pointy bones may indicate your cat is underweight, in a healthy cat you should be able to easily detect hip bones, spine bones, and shoulder bones through gentle petting. If you're unable to feel these bones due to layers of fat, your cat is overweight., Many cats have a saggy bit of flesh that hangs down between their back legs. If your cat is otherwise bony, this small pouch of skin is unlikely to be an indication of a weight problem. This skin flap is referred to as the "primordial pouch" and its purpose is to protect the stomach during fights with other cats. Cats often kick with their back legs when angry, and this flap of skin protects your cat from such attacks. Many cats will develop a primordial pouch at some point in their lives and it is not necessarily an indicator of feline obesity.However, excess fat may be stored in your cat's primordial pouch if he is overweight. If he shows other symptoms of obesity, check his pouch. It should hang loose and be mostly comprised of skin. If the pouch seems to be filling out with fat, this can be an indicator of obesity., If you're concerned after doing a body check, you should take your cat to see a veterinarian. You can weigh your cat yourself at home but it's better to take him to the vet. The scales at a vet's office are specifically designed for use on animals. A vet will also be able to determine if your cat is medically obese considering his body type. While a body check can give you insight as to whether you should be concerned, professional veterinary evaluation is important when diagnosing your cat as overweight or obese.
 When you're at the vet's office, your vet will ask you a variety of questions regarding your cat. This helps determine whether your cat's weight is due to environmental or medical factors.


Obesity in cats can be the result of environmental factors. Your vet will want to know how often you feed your cat as overfeeding can lead to weight gain. If your cat hides a lot due to fear of children or other pets, he may not be getting enough exercise. Your cat also may be bored and not have enough toys or entertainment. You might have to adjust your home environment to help your cat lose weight.However, environment is not always the cause. Some medications, diseases, and medical conditions can cause your cat to gain weight. If your cat has any other troublesome symptoms, like vomiting or diarrhea, let your vet know. He or she may want to conduct certain tests or lab work on your cat to rule out an underlying medical problem., If your cat's weight gain is environmental, talk to your vet about how you feed your cat. He or she can suggest changes you can make to get your cat to a healthier weight. It's important you talk over major changes to your cat's diet with your vet beforehand.
 If your cat is overweight, you'll need to change how you feed him. Changing a cat's feeding schedule can make a huge difference in regards to his weight.


Always make transitions gradual. If you suddenly swap out a cat's old food for a new diet brand, he may act out or refuse to eat. Keep your cat on his regular food but offer him a little bit of the new food you're trying each day.Cats will work for food. You can use a foraging device, which is a puzzle-like device a cat must dismantle to get food trapped inside. This encourages exercise which is also important to help a cat lose weight.In nature, cats are pure carnivores. A lot of dry foods are primarily wheat-based and can lead to weight gain if used as a primary food source. Talk to your vet about switching your cat over to canned food., Many cats do not get enough exercise. If your cat is an indoor cat, it's especially important he gets moving each day. Buy your cat a variety of toys and take 20 to 30 minutes each night to play with him. Consider getting electronic, interactive toys a cat can use while you're away at work., Treats are also a major culprit when it come to cat weight gain. Try swapping out normal treats for low-calorie diet treats. Your cat won't have to give up a luxury and will still be able to lose some weight., Keep an eye on your cat's weight to make sure he's losing weight as needed. You can weigh your cat at home, using your own scale. This may not be as accurate as a vet's scale, however. Some veterinary clinics allow you to do free weigh-ins if your cat needs to lose weight. Ask your vet is you can periodically bring your cat in to check his weight.

