 The key to having a chill, relaxing day is to make arrangements ahead of time. It's hard to truly relax if you've got to buckle down on a work project or look after a screaming infant, so plan ahead to make sure there will be few opportunities for distraction. Below are just a few things you may want to consider doing — everyone's life is different, so you may have commitments that don't match these exactly:



Ask for time off from work. If necessary, use a vacation day. Note that most managers appreciate advance notice — a few weeks is often enough.

If you have children, hire a sitter. Children can be adorable most of the time, but sometimes they're nightmares. Eliminate the risk of having a hair-pulling day with your children by putting them under the watch of a responsible caretaker for a day.

If necessary, make travel arrangements. Sometimes, a change of scenery can be just what's needed to relax. If you'd like to get out of town, buy tickets and make hotel reservations ahead of time to avoid hectic last-minute shopping.;
, As soon as you've decided to get out of bed (which, on your chill-out day, is whenever you want), start your day off with some relaxing time in the shower or tub. Warm baths and showers are proven to help ease the mind, relax tense muscles, and focus scattered thoughts.More importantly, however, they just plain feel good and give you a temporary chance to forget about everything else and focus on the pleasing sensation of the water — in other words, to chill.


People's tastes in terms of water temperature can vary greatly. Scientifically speaking, the most relaxing baths are a little less than piping hot — any hotter can actually force your body to work harder, rather than relax (though your bath will still feel good.)
Note that pregnant women should not take hot baths., Drinking caffeinated beverages may not be the first thing on everyone's list of relaxing things to do, especially if you're someone who gets jitters, headaches, and so on.However, if you're able to handle a little caffeine, drinking some in the company of friends can be a very chill, relaxing experience. In fact, according to some research, drinking coffee in the company of people you enjoy can have a noticeably relaxing effect. On the other hand, drinking coffee alone tended to lead to more stress., Are you an amateur Picasso? Have you been dying to hammer out some jams on your old guitar? Today's your day to indulge your passions! Chill-out days are great because they give you plenty of time to do the things you secretly wish you were doing while you're fulfilling your life's commitments, so don't be afraid to spend a few hours (or all day, if you wish) to sources of personal pleasure. Some things you might want to consider are:



Try your hand at a creative task. When was the last time you painted a picture, wrote a song, or composed a short story? If you can't remember, consider tackling one of these art projects today at your own pace.

Do a DIY home improvement project. Putting a little work into your home can be an immensely fulfilling activity (plus, it's usually a good use of time and energy in the long term if it cuts down on maintenance costs.)

Read a book. Real, honest-to-goodness paper books can be a rarity today. There's nothing quite like sitting by the fire with your favorite paperback for a few hours, so consider this relaxing option.

Play some video games. There's nothing wrong with vegging out on the couch for a few hours with your favorite game. However, if this is something you already do on a regular basis, you might want to consider devoting your time to a hobby you get to pursue less often.
 Filling up with a great meal can be a very satisfying way to chill out. If you want to practice your cooking skills (and save money compared to eating out), try cooking yourself (and/or any friends who can spare the time) a nice filling meal. There are literally thousands of high-quality recipes available online. A quick search engine query for your favorite dish should reveal dozens of good results (or, alternatively, try browsing our wide selection of recipe articles.)


If you don't feel like cooking, don't hesitate to get a table at your favorite restaurant or order take-out. Chilling with good food is too satisfying an experience to ignore!

, Just because you're taking a chill-out day for yourself doesn't mean you can't get anything done. Don't be afraid to deal with any long-term issues that need taking care of with your free time. Not only is it satisfying in the short term to accomplish meaningful tasks, it's also a good way to reduce stress in the long term. After all, every duty you take care of today is one that you won't need to worry about tomorrow. Below are just a few examples of things you may want to consider:


Paying bills
Sending letters/packages
Applying to jobs
Dealing with customer service problems
Taking care of government/civic duties (i.e., going to the DMV, voting, etc.)

, Movies are the ultimate form of passive, chilled-out entertainment (unless, of course, you choose a horror film or a high-octane thriller.) Try curling up with a loved one or some friends in front of a screen for a few relaxing hours at the end of your day to enjoy an old favorite or a new selection.


If you have time, you might even want to plan a movie night with your friends. You can pick a theme (i.e., creature features, etc.) or go freestyle — it's up to you.
Though it can be somewhat pricey today, heading to the movie theater/cinema with friends can be another way to enjoy a movie. If your friends aren't available, you can still go by yourself, though some people don't like this. Try looking for matinee showings to save money if you don't want to shell out unneeded cash.
 Some people enjoy ending a chill-out day with a fun night on the town, while others prefer to stay in and get to bed early. The ideal end to your day of chilling is up to you (and no one else!)


Don't feel pressured to go out if you don't want to — your friends will still be around tomorrow if you skip one night to get some sleep.
Conversely, don't be afraid to enjoy a single night out with your friends if it's been a while since you've had the opportunity to cut loose. The exception, of course, is if you have major obligations the following day, in which case staying up late and partying can leave you too exhausted to function.
 Let's face it — with daily stresses from work, school, and/or personal commitments, it can sometimes be easiest to relax with a little chemical help. This is OK as long as it's not overdone. For instance, a drink or two with friends at the end of the day isn't likely to be a problem for most people. There is even some evidence to suggest that moderate alcohol consumption (on the order of one pint of beer per day) can actually have some minor health benefits.Keep in mind, however, that getting over-intoxicated can be a major stress. For instance, not only can heavy drinking lead to hangover, nausea, and other unpleasant physical symptoms, but also poor decision making, which can lead to long-lasting stresses (like jail time) if you're not careful.

