 Lean in slowly for the kiss to build dramatic anticipation. The more excited you and your partner are for a kiss to commence, the more intense it will be when you finally connect your lips.


Start off with small pecks and build up to bigger and more intense kissing. By starting small you can slowly ease into an intimate act with your partner.
Take breaks between kissing your partner to look at one another without touching lips. You can leave your hands on your partner's hips, shoulders, or run your hands across your partner's face in smooth caresses. By staring into your partner's eyes, you can show him/her that you are truly absorbed in them as a unique person.;
, There's nothing worse than a slobbery kiss. Just nothing. Other than making you appear to have no idea what you're doing, nobody wants to have your spit all over their face. Well, maybe just a little bit of spit.


Avoid opening your mouth too wide. A wide-mouthed approach can cause you to lose a ridiculous amount of saliva to your partner's precious face.
Swallow often. Don't forget to swallow your excess saliva while kissing. Your spit has to go somewhere, just don't make it your partner's face.
 You want your lips to be in a nice plump purse, but avoid pursing your lips too tightly. If you tighten your lips together too strongly in a protruding kissy face, your lips will lose their plumpness and will not be as luscious for kissing.(Ladies: this is the same kissy face you make when putting on your lipstick!)

, Most right-handed people will feel more natural tilting their head to the right, and left-handed people will prefer to tilt left. The important thing is that you and your partner are tilting the same direction (i.e. both to the right or both to the left), which will create a mirror-effect and allow you to lock lips.


Transition smoothly between tilting your head to the right and the left. You can make your kissing game more interesting by changing up movements from side to side every few kisses. The transition should come at the end of a kiss and the beginning of another.
Don't move your head from side to side too frequently. Doing so can create sloppy rhythm and can become uncomfortable for both people involved.
 Slowly and lightly sweep your tongue along your partner's lower lip, tongue, and gums. Start off very gently and slowly increase in pressure and pace as your partner starts to return the tongue action.


Don't stick your entire tongue in your partner's mouth, you really only need to use about the front third of your tongue. Use quick, sweeping motions and make sure that your tongue is constantly moving. Letting your tongue fall limp in your partner's mouth is not sexy.
This is where it can really get slobbery. Make sure to swallow often to avoid allowing too much saliva to build up in your mouth and spill over into your partner's mouth. There is a fine line between sexy and slobbery. Try not to cross it.
 Pull your lips apart every once in a while to put some space between you and your partner and gaze into each other's eyes. Taking a break can make your kissing all the more intense once you reconnect. Plus, there's no better way to show someone you are truly paying attention to them than by staring sweetly into their eyes.
 Try different gentle nibbling/sucking/kissing/tongue combinations to keep it fresh and exciting.


Give the "lip-o-suction" move a try. Kiss your partner's upper lip while your partner nibbles and sucks on your lower lip, then switch.Interrupt your kissing with small bites and nibbles. A sensual nibble on your partner's bottom lip can break up with rhythm of lip kissing in a good way. Be careful not to bite your partner's lip too hard, you're not trying to eat your partner's face.
Mix in small pecks with larger, more passionate kisses. Doing so adds variety and allows you to take breaks in between intense make-out sessions.

