 Your first step in evaluating a landlord will be to call the landlord and have an initial discussion. This discussion will establish a relationship and provide you with a lot of worthwhile information you can use to make a judgement about the character and professionalism of the landlord. Ask yourself a number of questions after this initial discussion:


Did the landlord answer the phone on your first call? Was it difficult to get in touch with him or her? If it was difficult to get in touch with the landlord, it may bode poorly for the future.
Was the landlord open to meeting you at a convenient time for you? If the landlord is completely swamped and overcommitted, they’ll probably carry this problem into their responsibilities with tenants.
Did the landlord communicate well and were they happy to talk to you? If the landlord communicates poorly, this may be a problem for the future. If they seemed annoyed to talk to you, they may treat their tenants the same way.;
, After making initial contact, you’ll want to set up a meeting to meet the landlord and to view the property. You can gather a lot of information from this initial meeting. Consider the following questions:


Was the landlord on time? If the landlord was late, it may suggest how they will behave in the future when dealing with you as a tenant.
Was the landlord pleasant and motivated? If the landlord seemed grumpy or bothered, they may not be the best landlord in the world. If they did not seem motivated about showing the property, they probably won’t be motivated to take care of your needs as tenant.
Did the landlord communicate effectively? Now that you are meeting in person, the landlord will have the ability to communicate their position as a landlord. They should be able to give you an idea about their policies. If the landlord does not really say much, this could be a problem. Proceed with caution., The most effective way to assess a landlord is find out his or her business practices and policies. During your meeting or afterward, make sure to inquire about a number of important things related to money you will pay and how long the lease will be in effect.


Ask about important issues like lengths of lease.
Find out about deposit requirements.
Ask about rent schedules.
Be wary if the landlord cannot answer your questions, or if they flip-flop on rent or deposit amounts., Maintenance responsibilities are one of the most important things you’ll need to find out about in order to effectively evaluate a landlord. As a result, you need to ask a series of explicit questions about maintenance.


Ask about your responsibility (as tenant) in maintaining the property.
Ask about their responsibility (as landlord) in maintaining the property.
Find out what safeguards are put in place by the prospective landlord to protect you and the property in case of emergencies like plumbing leaks, wiring malfunctions or power outages. Determine whether they handle these issues themselves or contract with a maintenance company to deal with emergencies., In a lot of bigger cities, landlords (i.e., the property owner) will delegate their tasks to companies whose responsibility it is to manage a large number of properties at once. Property management companies make a living by collecting rent, lining up repairs, and negotiating rental agreements on behalf of the landlord. In fact, in a lot of instances, if you work with a property management company, you will never see the actual property owner. Talk with current tenants about the property management company and look at online reviews to get an idea of what you might prefer., If a property is managed by a large company, you will need to assess the benefits and pitfalls of such a situation. One difference between landlords and property management companies is the availability of services. When you are dealing with an individual landlord, they may not be available if you lock yourself out of your house on a Saturday morning at 3 a.m.. On the other hand, property management companies will usually have round-the-clock services and numbers you can call 24/7 in order to get these types of issues resolved. However, landlords who only have a couple properties may live close by and may be quick to respond to these issues.


Another difference is the quality of service. On one hand, property management companies may contract with professional maintenance people to handle repairs. This may lead to maintenance requests being fixed sooner and in a more professional manner than if the individual landlord was making the repairs themselves. On the other hand, individual landlords may spend more time fixing things right because they own the property and they want it to remain in the best shape possible. Property management companies, however, may have an incentive to make cheap and fast repairs to save money and time.
Also, property management companies tend to be more formal and rule-oriented than individual landlords. For example, property management companies may not be willing to negotiate about the presence of pets or the payment of carpet cleaning fees. On the other hand, individual landlords may be willing to work with you on certain issues., The overall condition of the property may be able to tell you a lot more about the business practices of the landlord than anything they might tell you. As a result, you should scrutinize the condition of the property.


Pay attention to detail. Try to notice the little things.
Get an idea of the cleanliness of the property. If the property is dirty and looks like it has not been cleaned in months, that means the landlord probably does not take care of a lot of little things.
Notice the general condition of major appliances and systems. Take a look at the HVAC system, for example. If it does not look like it has been serviced (a new air filter) or if it looks extremely dated, this may not bode well.
Look for wood rot, broken windows, or signs of roof leaks. If the property has any of these problems, that may be a sign that the landlord does not take care of basic maintenance issues.
Take note of whether grounds are mowed, shrubs cut, and dead tree limbs have been removed.
 Talking to other tenants may be one of the best ways to get worthwhile information about the quality of the landlord. Tenants will be able to tell you, from experience, how the landlord behaves in a professional relationship.


If you’re looking at a property in an apartment or townhome community, casually approach someone in the parking lot and say “Hi, do you live here? I’m considering renting here, too.” Then ask the person whether they like the property and the landlord.
Ask questions about whether maintenance is taken care of promptly.
Ask about any problems with the landlord. This should include: whether they can easily be reached by phone, how well they function in emergency situations and how personable they are.
Listen to the little things they say and how they say it. Some people might not want to explicitly criticize the landlord for fear of reprisal. Others might have a personal grudge. Use your best judgement when interpreting what other tenants say., One important thing to do is to find out how long the landlord has actually owned the property you are interested in renting. This can give you a lot of important information you can use to evaluate the landlord.


If the property has been recently purchased and the landlord has not taken care of obvious problems with the property, chances are they won’t fix them in the future.
If the property has been recently purchased, and it is an apartment or townhome community, chances are management has also changed. You’ll need to take this into account when evaluating information you’ve gotten from prior or current residents.
If the landlord has owned the property for a long period of time, you might have a lot more information to go on. In this case, talk to neighbors or people nearby to see how the property has been maintained or neglected over the years., When evaluating a perspective landlord, you should do a little digging to find out the size of the landlord’s rental business. While some landlords just own a single rental property, others may own dozens or even hundreds of properties. This is very important in evaluating the type of person (or entity) you’ll be dealing with if you choose to rent the property.


Do an internet search for the person’s name, the business’s name, or the address of the property you want to rent. Go from there to determine if the rental property is part of a much larger organization.
If the landlord has a website, go to that website and dig around a little bit. Chances are that they will list other properties they own and rent.
Ask the landlord how big their operation is and what other properties they own and/or manage., Depending on the sort of property you are renting, there might be online reviews about your landlord. Online reviews can be an extremely important tool in learning about the character of your potential landlord. Having this information will be indispensable in choosing the right landlord.


Do an internet search for reviews of the landlord and/or business. You may be able to find reviews by current or past tenants.
If you find reviews on a particular website, search around and look for more. Make sure you get a full and well-rounded view of your landlord and the perspective of their current or past tenants.
Ask the landlord if they have personal testimonies or reviews from past tenants. While they may be cherry-picking these testimonies, you might be able to gain valuable information from the reviews., By doing a search of court records, you’ll be able to find out if your landlord has been in any legal conflicts with past or current tenants. Lawsuits – whether successful or unsuccessful – can give you a lot of information to help evaluate a landlord’s professionalism and character.


Conduct a search of your county's public court records for the name of the landlord you're evaluating. This will allow you to evaluate a prospective landlord by reviewing any claims filed against him by previous tenants or contract holders.
Review complaints or actions taken so you know how closely the landlord follows laws governing property agreement and tenant rights.
In addition to court records, run a search on academic search databases like LexisNexis and local and national newspapers. You might find something that can help you better evaluate the landlord., Perhaps the most important part of truly understanding your relationship with your current or potential landlord is forming a good understanding of your agreement. The only way to do this is to read your lease in detail so you know every specific of your arrangement (or potential arrangement).


Get a copy of the lease.
Read it with aid of a pencil and highlighter. Highlight sections you might not understand.
Use a different color to highlight important sections, like the day of the month on which rent is due.
Reread your lease.
Consult a lawyer if you have questions about the lease., When evaluating a potential landlord, you’ll want to find out their notification policy. Notification is the amount of time a landlord must let you know before they enter the property when you are renting it. Often times, notification is a major point of contention between landlords and tenants. As a result, make sure it is clear before you sign a lease.


Find out how much notice the landlord gives tenants before entering the property for routine maintenance and upkeep and how they deliver this notice.
Laws in most states require landlords to provide tenants with written notice 24 hours before entering an apartment, but many private landlords hold different practices about notifying tenants., Like landlords, tenants are protected by a wide array of local, state, and federal laws. Because of this, you should be acquainted with your rights under the law before you sign and lease. This is important, because knowing the law will enable you to make a better decision when evaluating a prospective landlord.


Review the laws governing landlord-tenant relationships and contracts before you sign any paperwork with the landlord.
Use this information to judge the landlord's fairness and practices regarding lease negotiations, property upkeep and communication.
Make sure that the landlord’s lease lives up to and abides by laws that protect you. If their lease does not, you should be wary of renting the property.
For information about tenant rights laws in your state, visit: http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/topics/rental_assistance/tenantrights