 Depressed patients participating in exercise often improve their symptoms more quickly than non-exercisers, and regular physical activity can be a good way to reduce stress.Aim to exercise three to five times a week for 20 to 30 minutes to get the most benefit. Set small goals, such as a short walk or easy swim, to help you establish a pattern of increasing your physical activity.


Exercise may possibly alter the mood-regulating brain chemicals norepinephrine and serotonin, and it possibly can also release “feel-good” endorphins, both of which can help alleviate mild depression.You can exercise any time of day, but some people find that exercising in the morning lifts their spirits and helps to set the tone for a good day.
 Some symptoms of depression, including stress and emotional distress, can be alleviated by practicing yoga. Yoga can also help improve your sleep quality and improve energy levels.Continued yoga practice can help control your body’s stress response systems., Being chronically tired can stress your system and enhance anxiety and depression. To combat this, go to bed and wake up at regular times. Don’t eat a large meal or drink alcohol just before sleeping. Try calming rituals, like listening to soft music or massaging your head and hands, before going to sleep.The neurotransmitters in your brain that support mood are replenished by sleep.People who are sleep deprived are more likely to see neutral images as “negative,” thus leading to a skewed impression of everyday items., If you have too much on your plate, then you are more likely to feel stress. Try to cut back on your obligations whenever possible and avoid taking on more than you can handle. Get into the habit of saying “no” when someone asks you to do something that you do not have time to do., Deep breathing exercises, meditation, and progressive muscle relaxation are all helpful ways to relieve stress. Make sure to set aside some time every day to use one or more of these stress relieving techniques. Don’t do anything else during this time. Just focus on relaxing.