 If you are planning on asking somebody out, you should present the person with a clear invitation on a particular day for a particular activity. Avoid making vague invitations like "Want to hang out sometime?" or "Want to do something on Saturday?" These types of questions should be used to segue into asking the person out, but are not concrete enough, and plans may fall through if the date and time have not been agreed upon.


Take the person's interests into consideration when coming up with date ideas. If you share similar tastes in music, then invite the person to a concert. If the person loves film, then invite them to the movie theater, and so on.
If you don't know the person very well, you should make a highly interactive, low-commitment plan like meeting for coffee or lunch. These types of activities allow you to talk to the person and get to know them (as opposed to going to the movie theater and sitting in silence), and also don't require as much of a time commitment, in case things don't work out.;
, Before you jump into asking the question, start out by greeting the person with a casual "Hey, how's it going?" Ask them how their day has been, what they have been up to lately, etc. These types of conversations give you an opportunity to determine whether or not the person is interested before you ask them out. If they respond quickly and ask you questions in return, then they are probably interested, whereas short, delayed answers are signs that the person is uninterested.


If you are not sure whether the other person has your number saved in their phone, be sure to let them know who you are at the beginning of the conversation. If you have just met this person, remind them when and where you met in order to jog their memory.
 Once you have gotten a conversation going, let the person know that you'd like to spend time with them. Try something like "We should hang out sometime" or "Would you want to get together sometime?" If they say yes, then follow up the question by asking whether they are free on such and such date to do such and such activity.


One good way to gauge whether or not the person is interested in you is to determine whether or not they come up with alternative plans if they turn down your initial invitation. For example, if the person says they are busy on a particular day, see if they tell you which days they are free. If the person turns down your invitation for whatever reason without proposing alternative plans, then they probably aren't interested.
 If the person says yes, then be sure to make the necessary plans. Set up a time and place to meet, and make driving arrangements if applicable. Let the person know that you are looking forward to spending time with them, and end the conversation with a closing statement like "See you this weekend," or "Talk to you soon."


If the person says no, don't continue to pressure them to hang out or ask them why they don't want to see you. Let them know that there are no hard feelings, and end the conversation.

