 As with any pet, you will need to feed your millipedes a healthy diet. Millipedes are detritivores, which means that they feed off of decaying live matter in their environment. In the wild, this means trees, moss, and other plants.You can feed your millipedes a wide variety of produce. Try cucumbers, lettuce, and zucchini.
Giant African Millipedes will also eat grapes, yams, and apples.
You can place the produce in the cage and the millipedes will eat it over the course of the day. Just add more food when they are running low.
 Make sure that the atmosphere in the cage meets the millipedes' moisture needs. Millipedes thrive in slightly damp soil. Add some soil and some moss to their cage. You can purchase this at gardening stores, and it provides the needed moisture.Purchase an organic soil with no added chemicals.


You do not need to provide water unless the cage is in a very dry area. If you are concerned, you can soak some cotton wool in water and place that under the soil or moss.
You can also use a spray bottle to mist water into the cage. Do this every couple of days.
 You can touch your millipedes, just make sure to be gentle. Pick them up using two hands and hold them lightly. Remember, millipedes can be very long, so you want to support their entire body.Millipedes do not sting or bite. They will not harm you.
If you have children, you can teach them to gently hold the millipedes. This will be a great learning experience.
Millipedes often curl into a tight ball when scared. If this happens, place them gently back in their home.
 Millipedes are typically sedentary during the day. At night, they generally like to move around their cage and interact with other millipedes. If you notice that your millipede is not moving much, it could be a sign that it is unhealthy.Another warning sign to look for is remaining tightly curled. Millipedes curl up when they are scared or threatened. If it doesn't relax, it may not feel well.
Contact a zoo to ask how to treat an ill millipede. Since they are not native to the U.S., many local vets won't have experience handling them.

