 Bail is money or other property given or promised to a court to convince a judge to release a defendant from jail, under an agreement that all or most of the money will be refunded when the defendant returns court for the trial. A "bail bond" refers to the promise made by the defendant or a "surety" (someone who promises to pay for the defendant) to the court to give up the bail money if the defendant fails to return for the trial.A surety can be a professional bail bond agent, or a friend or relative., Bail is usually set the first time the defendant appears in court, which is either a bail hearing or an arraignment.The purpose of bail is to ensure that the defendant appears at trial without having to keep the defendant in jail. The judge will set an amount that is high enough so that the defendant will not simply give up the bail money and disappear. Many courts have preset bail amounts for each type of crime. However, the judge can deviate from the guidelines if he or she believes it to be fair or necessary to do so.For example, the Los Angeles County Felony Bail Schedule suggests that judges set bail at $50,000 for campaign violations, and $100,000 for kidnapping.Judges can decide not to release the defendant on bail if the defendant is a flight risk (not likely to return to court for trial), or a danger to the public.Defendants who have family and community ties to the area, a job, minimal criminal history, or a record of appearing as required in the past are less likely to be considered a flight risk., Once the judge sets a bail amount during a court hearing, the defendant or a surety can post bail with the court clerk during regular business hours, or at the jail after the court clerk's office closes. The court or jail will issue a receipt for the bail bond, which proves that bail was posted.Keep the receipt for your records.
 Bail agents, sometimes known as bail bondsmen, act as sureties and post bail on behalf of defendants. A bail agent charges the defendant a non-refundable fee (usually 10% of the bail amount). If the defendant fails to appear in court, the bail agent loses the bond amount. The agent is also legally permitted to arrest the defendant for the purposes of bringing him or her back to court. In some states, the agent can hire a bounty hunter to find and arrest the defendant.The agent can also bring a civil lawsuit against the defendant or anyone else who signed the bail agent's contract to recover the bail money the agent paid to the court.You can find contact information for local bail agents by searching online or consulting a phone book. Since bail agents do most of their business at courts and jails, you can usually find their offices near those facilities.
Posting bail for profit is not allowed in Oregon, Nebraska, Wisconsin, Illinois, Kentucky, and Maine, which makes it illegal for professional bail agents to operate a business in those states. However, those states are more likely to allow a defendant or surety to post a percentage of the total bail amount instead of the entire total., If the defendant does not return to return to court for trial, the court will schedule a forfeiture hearing and issue an arrest warrant. At the forfeiture hearing, the defendant will have an opportunity to explain why he or she missed the court date. If the defendant does not return for the forfeiture hearing or does not have a legitimate excuse, the court will keep the bail amount., For a cash bond, the judge requires that the defendant or a surety deposit the entire bail amount in cash. That money is held until the case is over, and is refunded to the person who deposited it. If the defendant posts his or her own cash bond, the court can deduct any fines and court costs before returning the money.Cash bonds for the full bail amount are more commonly required where the defendant is a flight risk, has outstanding unpaid fines, or has failed to return to court before., For a percentage bond, the judge sets a bail amount, but only requires that the defendant or surety deposit a percentage (typically 10%) of the total bail amount up front, with a promise to pay the remainder if the defendant fails to return to court., Immigration bonds are governed by federal law, rather than state law. A surety may be able to post a bond for a defendant who is an undocumented immigrant detained in the United States. If the defendant does not return to court for trial, the surety has the opportunity to find and deliver the defendant to court to regain a percentage of the bond.


If the surety delivers the defendant within 10 days of the missed court date, the surety can recover 66.67% of the bond. 50% is recoverable within 20 days, and 30% is recoverable within 30 days.
After 30 days, the surety will not be able to recover any percentage of the bond., In some states, the defendant or surety can post bail by signing over title to real property (such as a house or other real estate ) worth at least the value of the bail amount. If the defendant fails to return, the court can levy or foreclose on the property.


If the property has multiple owners on title, each owner must agree to sign the bail bond.
The court may also require the defendant or surety to proof of ownership and proof of the value of the property, such as an appraisal by a local real estate agent., For an ROR, the judge releases the defendant upon the condition that the defendant continue to appear in court at all future hearings. The judge may also impose other conditions, like requiring the defendant to contact the court regularly to verify his whereabouts, or prohibiting the defendant from traveling out of the area.., With an unsecured appearance bond, the defendant merely promises to return to court and is released. The defendant can be ordered to pay a fine if he or she then fails to return., For minor offenses, an arresting officer will often issue a citation to the arrested person requiring him or her to appear in court.The arrested person is not taken into custody, so you don't need to post bail. Failing to appear may result in additional fines, criminal charges, and an arrest warrant., A judge can impose certain conditions in addition to bail arrangement. For example, the judge can ask the defendant to give a DNA sample, check in with the court by phone or in-person, submit to drug testing, etc.