 Hop onto the internet with a browser such as Chrome or Safari. Type “https://jobs.disneycareers.com/” in the address bar to navigate to the Disney World job site. The top of the site shows a cool Disney graphic, and under that are boxes to enter information into.;
, Enter a job title or keywords, as well as a country, state, or city. To search for jobs at the main Walt Disney World parks, select United States in the country box, Florida in the state box, and Orlando in the city box. Click “Search” to submit the search request.If you are interested in working at other Disney parks throughout the United States or other countries, select the location you want.
If you want a seasonal job, enter “seasonal” into the keyword box. This is a great way to get your foot in the door if you aren’t ready for a full time job yet!

, When the page loads, you’ll see another colorful graphic at the top. Scroll down past the search boxes. Notice the huge number of awesome jobs available! Look at the job titles that are currently open for applications. You’ll probably find all kinds of jobs that sound like your dream!, The listings show the job title and the department or area that the job is in. Click on a job with a fun title and see what it’s all about. It will load a page that shows you the various responsibilities and requirements of the job. Get excited about the possibilities!, At the top of the page for each job, you’ll see a purple button that says “Apply Now.” After you have carefully read through all of the qualifications and responsibilities, click the Apply Now button to navigate to the application. Follow the instructions and enter the required information.

Before you fill out an application, it’s good to write a resume of your work and life experiences that are applicable to the job you’re looking at.
You’ll be asked to provide basic information like your birthdate and social security number. You’ll also be asked personal questions, like, “What would you uniquely offer to Disney?”
Other questions might include: What was your favorite Disney movie growing up and why? How good are you at working with children? Can you agree to keeping a drug-free lifestyle and clean legal record?

