 Always begin by cracking open the eggs into a large bowl or other container. Raw egg, just like any material that contains significant amounts of water, will expand when frozen. If the eggs are frozen in the shell, this expansion could crack open the egg. Besides mixing shell fragments into the edible part of the egg, this could introduce harmful bacteria from the outside of the shell.If the eggs are near or past their expiration date, crack each one into a "test bowl" before transferring to the larger container. Discard eggs with obvious discoloration or a strong, unpleasant smell, then wash the test bowl before cracking the next egg.;
, Mix at least enough to break the egg yolks, or create a more uniform substance by beating them together until blended. However, try not to beat too much air into the eggs., Raw egg yolks tend to become gelatinous when frozen. When mixed with egg white, this can cause a grainy texture in the frozen egg mixture. There are two main ways to prevent this, depending on your intended use for the eggs. If you are using them alone or in savory dishes, stir in 1/2 tsp (2.5 mL) of salt for each cup (240 mL) of raw egg.If you are using them in sweet dishes, instead stir in 1 – 1.5 tbsp (15 – 22 mL) of sugar, honey, or corn syrup., If you want to make the mixture more consistent, strain it through a sieve or colander over a clean bowl. This will also remove most shell fragments if any were mixed into the egg while cracking them.
 Pour the mixture into freezer-safe containers, leaving 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of space between the egg and the lid to allow for expansion. Tightly seal the containers.


Alternatively, freeze the egg mixtures in a clean ice cube tray first, then pop the cubes out into a larger, freezer-safe container. This may make it easier to thaw the amount of egg you need., The eggs typically remain high quality for several months to a year, so it's a good idea to label them rather than relying on your memory.Remember to include:


The date you froze them.
The number of eggs you froze.
The additional ingredient you mixed in (if applicable). This helps you avoid the unpleasant surprise of using sugary eggs in a savory dish.

