 If you just got your dentures and they are not fitting properly, your prosthodontist should work with you to get them adjusted properly. You shouldn't be experience sharp pains, at the very least. Tell your dentist where it is hurting, and ask him or her to look for small surface tags or irregularities that may need to be filed down. You should also inform your dentist if you've had any bleeding or gum pain in the first few days of wearing the dentures.
 After your dentist identifies any issues with your dentures, he or she may recommend trimming them down. He or she will likely use a trimmers or trimming bur to adjust your dentures.Low-speed hand-pieces generate less heat and, therefore, won’t harm your dentures. And your dentist will have a variety of acrylic trimmers available, with varying degrees of roughness, so he or she will be able to customize the repair.
 After trimming, your dentist can polish the dentures (except for the tissue surface, which would alter the fit). Polishing will make your dentures smoother and shinier., After you wear dentures for a period of time, they wear down your jaw bone, which means they won't fit as well. Most of the time, your dentist can reline them to fit better again. Sometimes, you may need new dentures.Relining just means that your dentist adds material to the dentures to make them fit better.
You can have soft lining or hard lining put in. The soft lining will only last a few months, but it can be good if you have trouble with harder dentures. It can be reapplied. Hard linings are made of resin and are meant to last longer.
 Another, less common, procedure is rebasing. Basically, your dentist makes a new base for your dentures. The downside to this process is your dentist must keep your dentures for a few days. However, they should fit better when they come back to you.
 Once the dentures have been examined, trimmed, and polished, your dentist will evaluate the fit. First and foremost, let your dentist know if anything feels painful or uncomfortable. Then he or she will check for a variety of issues, including the extension of the flanges, the lip support, proper height, and your dentures affect your pronunciation

