;
, One of the hardest things to give up is clothing or a car.
 A truck that burns 13 miles (21 km) per gallon costs almost 22 dollars a day in gas. $22 x6 days a week = 132 dollars. For someone making about $215 a week, this leaves $83. If one were to buy a $600 car, that got almost 30 miles (48 km) per gallon, would make gas mileage less than half, costing somewhere around 55 dollars a week. This would leave about $160 per week. It would be wise to sell the truck and to buy a nice, newer car.
 One could buy his/her clothes at Walmart, and buy what he/she needs.
 The only thing an employee there has to do is bring the drinks, talk nicely to the patrons, always keep the drinks filled up in order to see a nice 3 to 5 dollar tip! If an employee can wait more than 6 or 7 tables an hour, he/she can get up to 21 dollars right away. If he/she can do that for at least 6 hours a day, it us almost guaranteed to generate at least 80 dollars a day!

, This generates almost $400 a week. If one can do that for 8 summer weeks, he/she can have somewhere around $3000 saved up by the end of the summer, after expenses.
 One can spent up to $20 for just one dinner. Does it really sound worth it? Think about it. If one is paid 7 dollars an hour, that's almost three hours of work. Isn't it a shame to stay 3 hours extra after work for just one dinner? Is it really worth 'driving around town' just to get nothing or to see other people who are 'friends'? If they really are friends, they'll come to see their friend.
 It just means that that person is wise enough to save. Also, that person is setting a good example to others with will power! That just makes the person who is saving worth more than other people who aren't thinking clearly. Why spend $20 for a diner when eating at home only costs five bucks? Think about those poor kids who are dying hungry. Think about how much 15 dollars can help them. It is possible to save a life, instead of just thinking, "Whatever." Each one has a human life like everyone has. They are not the only ones who are going to thank the person who helps them. Someone, the Holy One, will thank the person who helps even more!

