 This will reduce eye strain. If the depth of your desk doesn’t allow this, move your monitor to a corner, request a flat screen monitor (if applicable), or purchase an attachable computer tray to create a deeper working surface.
 The monitor should always be directly in front of your face (preferably no more than 35 degrees to either side) and at or slightly below eye level. However, if you wear bifocals and usually tilt your head back in order to look down through them at the monitor, lower the monitor (or raise your chair) so that the monitor sits 15 to 20 degrees below eye level; note that this may require you to tilt the screen slightly upwards toward your face. Avoid the need to tilt the head back, causing tension in the neck and shoulders.


Consider getting a dedicated pair of glasses for computer work.



If you need the text larger to see, learn how to adjust the font and zoom in and out, without decreasing the resolution.
 Choose and arrange these peripherals individually.
 Don’t extend your arms far forwards or bend your elbows back to type.
 To reach the keyboard, your forearms should bend no more than 20 degrees above horizontal (if sitting) or 45 below (if standing).


Keyboard trays can lower the keyboard and mouse, and help keep them within easy reach. Good ones allow you to adjust the position and angle, as well. Consider a keyboard tray, especially if you are shorter.
 Keep it in a position that will enable you to transition between typing and using the mouse with as little effect on your arm and wrist posture as possible. If you have a 10-key on the right side of your keyboard, you may want to use your mouse on the left side; this centers the part of your keyboard that you use most. You can also alternate left and right-sided mouse usage to dilute the effects of repetitive use.


Choose a mouse which is the right size for your hands. Don't rule out "portable" mice (if your hands are smaller) or "gaming" mice if your hands are larger. Try to find a shop where you can try out a variety of mice.
Adjust the mouse drivers in software, if you wish to change the speed of the cursor movement relative to the mouse movement. Adjust it so it feels right for you.
 If you have cables on your keyboard, mouse, or other peripherals, collect them so they are out of the way and do not pull against your work. Bundle monitor and other cables so they are out of the way.
 Place your phone, writing equipment, books and other frequently-used items within easy reach from where you sit. You should not need to stretch to reach frequently used objects.


If you use a document holder, do not place it to one side of your monitor (unless you also use a second one on the other side); turning your head in one direction for prolonged periods fatigues the neck muscles. Instead, position the document holder directly beneath the monitor, angling it between the monitor and keyboard. If you touch type and do a lot of transcription, consider placing the document holder in front of you, with the screen to one side. The main focus of attention is then straight ahead with occasional movements to view the screen. Another option would be to provide a lectern that is positioned between the keyboard and screen.
 If you spend a lot of time on the phone, a hands-free set will leave your hands for other tasks. It will also prevent awkward neck positions from perching a phone between your shoulder and your ear.

