 Although jogging and walking seem to be the norm, there are many other workouts you and your best bud can do together. Mixing up your exercise routine can help prevent boredom; variety also helps ensure that neither of you are overworking some muscles at the expense of others., Especially if you have a dog that loves water (such as an Irish Water Spaniel), swim a few laps with your pal. Keep an eye on your dog throughout the swim to ensure he isn’t struggling or having trouble while in the water––some dogs may need a flotation device to help keep their head above water.This is a good exercise for dogs with joint problems. However, you may not be able to do a lot of lap swimming if you need to keep an eye on your dog––keep this in mind when selecting this as a team exercise. If your dog does not feel comfortable in the water, don't put them in.
Like people, some dogs — even if they belong to a supposedly water-loving breed — simply never become good swimmers. Give it a try, but don’t force the issue.
 Make an obstacle course (hurdles, tunnels, ropes, etc.) for your dog. Use the same obstacles, or create comparable ones, for yourself. Running, jumping and crawling are a great way to use different muscles. They also spur both of you to exercise another important muscle––the brain. In the meantime, you have the obligation to keep up!As with every other human-plus-dog exercise routine, keep in mind your respective fitness levels and watch for signs of exhaustion or injury.
 A slow bike ride with your dog by your side is a great way to help your pup expend some pent up energy. Keep an eye on your dog throughout the entire ride. Your dog is expending considerably more energy than you, so look for telltale signs that he is pooped. Also be sure to take breaks for your dog as they need to do their business.


For bigger and more athletic dogs, you might try “bikejoring.” This exercise involves connecting your dog to the bike with a harness so he can pull and run while you ride.The winter equivalent to “bikejoring” is cross-country “skijoring.” Winter sports can be a blast with your dog. Instead of taking a brisk walk in the snow, strap on some cross country skis and work out with your pup by your side.
 Slipping some wheels on your feet can make for an enjoyable exercise time for the two of you. However, only a fully confident rollerblader/skater should attempt to perform this workout with their dog. Also, make sure your pup has mastered the skill of heel and is generally obedient so he doesn’t pull you off the path.


Make sure to wear a helmet and proper safety equipment, even if you are an expert roller. You never know when your canine pal may dart off after a rabbit or toward a hot dog cart.
 This can be a calm and pleasant workout experience for the two of you; look for a class in your area. If there isn't a class, check out videos online and follow the instructions with care.Not surprisingly, some dogs may simply be too active or high-strung for “doga.” But it’s worth a try.

