 Grab 2 bowls. You can use 1 bowl to hold the green beans and another to hold the discarded tips.;
, Find the small browned knot at 1 end of the green bean. It is usually thicker and harder than the other curved end of your green bean, and it is where the bean connected to the stalk.
 Separate the tips from the beans.



It is a good idea to cook fresh green beans within 1 to 2 days of buying them.
, Throw in 10 ice cubes to make an ice bath.
 It will flavor the beans and help the water heat up faster.
 Pour your green beans into the water. You will need to wait until it regains a boil to start timing again.
, Place them directly in the ice bath.
 Drain them. Either store them in the refrigerator until you are ready to use them another day or set them aside while you heat up a pan. , Heat 1 tbsp. (14.8 ml) of olive oil and 1 tbsp. of butter in a large skillet on medium heat. Sauté for 3 or 4 minutes, and then season with salt and pepper.


Add garlic to flavor the oil and remove it before you add the green beans. Place the garlic over the final green bean dish.






You can also use 2 tbsp. (29.6 ml) of bacon grease for more flavor or sauté bacon with the garlic and green beans.
 Instead of blanching, reduce the amount of water you are using to just cover the green beans by 1 inch (2.5 cm). Salt the water, and then boil the green beans for 10 minutes.


Drain the beans and salt them.






Try adding a squeeze of lemon for extra flavor.
 Place the blanched green beans inside a microwave safe container. Add 2 tbsp. (29.6 ml) of water and cover the dish.


Microwave on high for 5 minutes.






If you are using unblanched beans, microwave for 8 to 10 minutes.






Season as desired.
 Mix 12 oz. (340 g) blanched green beans with 1 10 3/4 oz. (304 g) can of cream of mushroom soup and black pepper. Place the mixture in an oven-safe dish and top with French-fried onions or breadcrumbs.


Bake your casserole for 25 minutes at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius). The dish should be golden when you take it out. 