 You risk many diseases when you over-drink, such as liver disease. And if you are underage, it opens up a whole new variety of illness. Drink in moderate amounts only. No, it is not okay to not drink for a week or so and then drink the night away on Friday.


If you have drank more than two glasses of alcohol, wait around twelve hours (depending on how much you had) before driving. Don't think that if you drive home fast, you can get home before alcoholic effects take place. Because of ethanol; a strong molecule in alcohol that dissolves quickly into the bloodstream; you will barely have any time before you start going into a daze. Can't wait that long? Ask a friend (who hasn't drank any alcohol around that time) to give you a ride. It may be a bit of a hassle, but it's worth not getting into a serious car accident.;
, If you do, do so only in small doses. It has 80 milligrams of caffeine in one can, the equivalent of a cup of coffee. There have been recorded deaths that Red Bull has been presumed to be the cause of. It has an unhealthy amount of caffeine and other vitamins, and shouldn't be consumed too often. And if you drink it, do not mix it with vodka or other alcohol. Red Bull masks the drunk effect, so you're more drunk than you know.Caffeine isn't only unhealthy for your metabolism, but it also rots your teeth and causes osteoporosis. Avoid caffeinated foods and drinks as they are not the best for your body.
 Smoking is the second leading cause of death in the United States of America. It's also the leading cause of cancer. Smoking puts you at risk for multiple illnesses, such as cancer, and several organ problems. If you already smoke, it's never too late to quit. People who quit smoking at age thirty were able to gain ten years of life, people who quit at fifty were able to add six. Smoking has bad effects on your body, and the people around you. So if saving yourself isn't a good enough reason, think about how it takes a toll on those close to you.
 Obesity is the number one cause of death in the United States. Make sure that you don't overeat, and that you maintain a healthy weight. If you are underweight or overweight, or have a fear of being one of the two, contact your doctor. They can help you set up a healthier diet for you. If you want to know if you're considered healthy or not, calculate your BMI. Under 18.5 is considered underweight, 18.5 to 24.9 is considered normal, 25 to 29.9 is considered overweight, and anything above 30 is considered obese. Try calculating yours, and see where you stand. If you are anything other than normal, contact your doctor to see how to approach the situation., Yes, it's okay to go ahead and have a slice of that sugar-filled cake at the wedding. However, it isn't okay to be overconsuming sugar commonly. If you absolutely can't stand not having a packet of sugar with your iced tea and such, look out for sugar substitutes. Most people can't notice the difference, and many restaurants supply them. Try brands such as Sweet N Low out and see how you like it. It will greatly change your life and make you healthier.
 Just because you're driving in a straight line for the time being, it doesn't mean that you can take your hands off the wheel and text. It's illegal in some states to text and drive. It's also illegal in others to eat and drive. Clip on your seatbelt before you turn the key in the ignition, and always keep an eye on the road. Driving is not the time to multitask.
 It's okay if you have a prescription and are under medication, but drugs can be very dangerous. Most present some sort of dependency, and can also put you at risk. You could be risking injury, illness, or even death. It can also become hard to quit taking drugs. It's better not to start at all. However, if you are addicted to a certain drug, you can still quit. Contact your doctor so you can get help and become healthier.

