 If you are in an unfamiliar situation, trying to solve a complex problem, or need to make an important decision, do some research or seek advice before letting your gut take over. Your intuition will work better for you if you use it along with practical knowledge, reasonable expectations, and an understanding of your options.
 Our brains are great at recognizing patterns. This allows us to come to decisions quickly and without much conscious thought. You have probably used this type of intuition while driving or riding a bicycle. Once you’ve practiced something a few times (like giving a speech, performing a musical piece, or playing a sport), try letting go and letting your intuition take over instead of referring to your notes, looking at the clock, or thinking about every step., Our gut reactions to other people are a survival instinct. If you find yourself in a situation where you feel fearful of or nervous about another person for no obvious reason, you may be picking up on subtle signs that are not apparent to your conscious mind. Be on guard when interacting with someone who gives you a bad feeling, even if you’re not sure why. If you feel like you are in immediate danger, remove yourself from the situation or seek help., You know your body better than anyone else. If you feel that something is wrong, even if it’s subtle or you can’t clearly explain it, seek medical advice or attention. If you still feel like your concerns have not been addressed after seeing a medical professional, get a second opinion. You may be picking up on something your doctor hasn’t.You may also develop a strong intuition about the health needs of people you are close to. If you are the parent or guardian of a child, or if you live with someone who has health problems, pay attention to your intuitive signals about their condition. You may get the sense that something is wrong even if they do not bring it to your attention or notice it themselves.
 If you’re faced with a big choice like making a major purchase, deciding which college to go to, or getting married, logic and practical considerations are important. But once you’ve weighed all the pros and cons and narrowed down your options, you are likely to get the most satisfaction out of your choice if you let intuition guide you to a final decision.