 Some colleges might look to your high school performance when deciding whether you need to take a remedial course. Others will require that you take special tests after you are accepted. In the latter case, you need to be sure that you not only did well in high school, but also retained what you learned.To retain the math you learn in high school, don’t focus on memorizing formulas. Instead, try to understand the logic behind the formulas. You might forget the formula’s over time, but, if you understand how math works, you can figure out the process on your own.
 Many high schools only require three years of math instruction. However, you are likely to forget much of your math knowledge if you go a full year without studying it. This will leave you unprepared for your placement exam.
 Most four year colleges use scores for the SAT, ACT, or Advanced Placement exams to determine whether or not you need remediation. Community colleges typically used specialized exams like ACCUPLACER or COMPASS. Despite some myths to the contrary, you can study for these exams in advance and improve your score.


Before taking an exam, search online for it. Most exams have some practice tests available that you can take. This allows you to familiarize yourself with some of the concepts that will be tested in advance.
There are also online courses that you can take to brush up on your math skills prior to an exam. Consider KhanAcademy or IXL.ACCUPLACER is used by 62% of community colleges and COMPASS is used by 46%. Therefore, almost all community colleges use one of these two exams to determine if you need remedial courses., When you know what colleges you are interested in applying to, search online to see what they require to skip remediation and plan your course and test schedule to meet these requirements. To make sure that nothing slips by, visit your high school counselor and ask if you are on track for college.
 Many students assume that their senior year is not vital to their success, because they have already passed all the hurdles necessary to get into college. Actually, much of what you do in your senior year will be important to how you are placed once entering into college. Stay on task and see if you can get ahead for college.


If possible, take a class at a local community college during your senior year to familiarize yourself with college expectations., If you have been placed in a remedial class and believe it is unnecessary, talk to a counselor at the college about why you received this placement. In some cases, she might be able to help you get out of the course.


Usually, if you retake and pass the placement exam, you can get out of the remedial course. However, not all of these tests are offered regularly and you might have a limited amount of time to retake the test between your placement and when you begin class.

