 The SSA issues three forms of social security card.If you are an employer seeking to verify the work eligibility of a potential employee, this information is the first thing you should check.


The first shows a person's name and social security number, and authorizes that person to work without restriction.
The second, in addition to the name and number, notes that the person is "valid for work only with DHS authorization," meaning the person is allowed to work on a temporary basis so long as they have authorization from the Department of Homeland Security.
Finally, a card that bears a name and number and states "not valid for employment" represents an individual who has been issued a social security card for a non-work purpose and is not eligible for employment in the United States.;
, It should match the name on the person's other forms of identification, such as a driver's license or passport. Most of the time, when you will be checking the veracity of a person's social security card, you will also have access to other forms of identification for this individual. Make sure the name is spelled the same across all of these documents.


The social security card also has a line for the person's signature. Make sure this signature matches other instances of the person's signature, both in spelling and handwriting format.
 The card should be printed on banknote paper,similar to the paper used for currency, and has a distinctly different feel and weight from regular paper. The card should bear the words "Social Security" on the front, along with the SSA's official seal. It should also have the words "This number has been established for" printed across the seal, and the person's name and social security number should be printed on the front. There should be a place for the person's signature, and blank space enough so the person can sign his or her name.The back should not be blank, as the back of a valid social security card contains official information such as where to mail found cards and certain identifying numbers for the card itself.You should also pay attention to the actual card itself. It should not look like it was cut with scissors or other home implement.The sides should be clean, and at least one of them should show evidence the card was perforated at one point (able to be easily torn off a larger piece of paper).
The card should be not laminated, as this is prohibited by the SSA due to the fact this process may compromise some of the security features on the card.Looking at the card with a magnified lens should reveal no smudging or running of the ink used on the card.
 Since the SSA began issuing social security cards in 1936, the administration has issued over 30 different versions of the card, all of which are valid today.You can ask the person whose card it is when it was issued (for U.S. citizens, usually at birth, unless the card was re-issued because it was lost or stolen), and then check this listprovided by the SSA detailing how the card has changed throughout its history to determine which features should be on a particular individual's card.
 While these features will vary based on when the card was issued, there are several security features that commonly appear on most cards.The background of the card should be an erasable random blue-tinted pattern, meaning any attempt to erase information on the card would erase this pattern as well.
Planchettes—small, multi-colored disks—are randomly placed in the paper used to make the card, and should be visible to the naked eye. They are yellow, pink, or blue.
Some areas on the front of the card should be raised such that you can feel them when you touch the card. This type of printing is known as "intaglio" printing, and is also used on U.S. currency due to the fact it is difficult to replicate.
 In an effort to comply with the Social Security Act, the SSA is required to ensure, as best it can, that a social security card cannot be counterfeited. As such, new security features are introduced as they become available. This list,for instance, details some of the security features that may appear on cards issued after October 31, 1983, and remains current.

