 Different varieties of sorrel grow to different heights, and each has a unique flavor. Many nurseries offering sorrel will just label it "sorrel," without naming the variety, but if you're offered a choice or if you're buying seeds instead of established plants, look for the following distinctions:French sorrel: Grows 6 to 12 inches (15.2 to 30.5 cm) tall; lemony leaves are used in salads.

Garden sorrel: Gets very tall, up to 3 feet (0.9 m), and is good for salads or sautéing.

Blood sorrel: Has beautiful reddish leaves that are only edible when very young.

Common sorrel: A wild variety that is edible when the leaves are very young.;
, Sorrel grows best in full sun, so choose a planting spot that gets at least six hours a day. A spot with a little partial shade is fine, but be sure not to plant sorrel in a very shady place.


If you're in growing zone 5 or warmer, your sorrel will grow as a perennial once established. Bear this in mind when you choose a planting spot.
Do not plant sorrel near other vegetables that will grow tall, such as beans or tomatoes. Strawberries make a good companion plant.
 Test the soil in your preferred planting bed to make sure it's suitable for sorrel. Sorrel needs a soil pH of 5.5 to 6.8. When you've chosen a good patch, till the soil to a depth of 6 inches (15.2 cm). Mix in organic compost to enrich the soil so that it's very fertile.


Sorrel needs well-draining soil. Dig a hole and fill it with water to see how well the soil drains. If the water stands for awhile before draining, mix in more organic compost and a little sand to help it drain better.
You can get a soil pH testing kit at any local nursery. It's a good tool to have on hand for any vegetable gardener.
If you wish, grow sorrel in a pot filled with fertile potting soil. Make sure it's at least 6 inches (15.2 cm) deep.
 Sorrel is frost hardy and can be planted several weeks before the last frost of the season. Work the garden bed and plant the sorrel seeds in 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) deep holes spaced 2 to 3 inches (5.1 to 7.6 cm) apart. If you're planting sorrel in rows, allow 6 to 8 inches (15.2 to 20.3 cm) between each row. Water the planting bed well.


You may start sorrel seeds indoors if you prefer. Plant the seeds in seed substrate. Start them in very early spring so you can transplant the seedlings right around the last frost of the season., Once they sprout, thin them out so that the strongest seedlings are spaced about 5 or 6 inches (12.7 or 15.2 cm) apart. This will give them the best chance of surviving and prevent overcrowding.
 Sorrel needs plenty of water throughout the growing season. Test the soil to see if it needs water by inserting your finger in the soil near the sorrel's roots. If it feels dry, go ahead and water the sorrel.Water near the roots, rather than sprinkling water over the leaves. This will prevent the leaves from catching mold and rotting.
Water in the morning, when the sun has time to dry the plants before nightfall. If you water too late in the day the plants will be prone to growing mold at night.
 Sorrel beds tend to get very weedy, so be diligent throughout the growing season. Pull out weeds by the base to make sure you extract the roots, so they don't end up growing right back. Avoid using an herbicide, since it will harm the sorrel as much as the weeds.
 Aphids are the one pest that pose a threat to sorrel. The best way to get rid of them is by simply picking them off the leaves when you see them. For mature soil, you can spray the aphids off using a steady stream of water from your hose.
 Male sorrel plants produce flower spikes that produce a lot of seeds. Examine the spikes and cut them away before they mature, while seedheads are still green. If you leave the seedheads on the plants, the seeds will mature and fall off, and the plant will reseed.


Remove flower spikes by simply pinching them off at the base with your fingers.
Sorrel will also bolt (go to seed) in hot weather unless shaded.
 After a year or two, when your sorrel plants are established, you can divide them to create more sorrel plants. Divide the plants near the base, making a clean cut through the root system without damaging it too much. Plant the new sorrel plant in a sunny, fertile spot and water it well.
 Sorrel leaves taste best while they are still young. The flavor becomes bitter as they age. Pick off the young leaves before they grow too large.Not only will the young leaves taste delicious, but removing them helps the plant grow more vigorously.
 After you pick off a leaf, a new one will grow in its place. You can harvest sorrel all season long in this way. Don't forget to remove the flower spikes before they mature, since the plant will stop growing new leaves if the flower spikes are allowed to remain.
 Like other leafy vegetables, sorrel is best eaten soon after picking. It will keep in the refrigerator for about a week if you can't eat it right away. Sorrel may also be dried or frozen, but processing it causes it to lose much of its flavor. Prepare sorrel in the following ways:


Toss it in a salad
Sauté it in a little butter
Add it to leek and potato soup
Add it to a quiche
Put it on sandwiches

