 Laughter can help bring your mind and body back into balance fast. It can relieve stress, improve your mood, help decrease conflict, and relax your body.Find opportunities to laugh frequently and remember it’s for your health.


Seek to be around people who are funny and make you laugh, especially if you’re having a difficult day.
If you’re low on laughs, watch funny videos, play with a dog, goof around with a child, or read something that makes you chuckle.
Laugh every day, even if it’s a tough day. Make a point to laugh often and find the humor in life.;
, There may be things you have to do on a regular basis that you do not look forward to, such as going grocery shopping, doing laundry, or commuting to work. Try to look for little ways to make these activities more fun.

For example, if you dislike grocery shopping, then you might try to make it more fun by focusing on the meals you will get to prepare from the food you buy. You could even purchase something exotic each week to make grocery shopping a little more interesting.
If you dread your daily commute, then try getting an audiobook to listen to on the way. This can help make your commute something to look forward to rather than something to dread.
 Exercise is a great way to have fun and decrease stress. It can help manage depression, anxiety, ADHD, PTSD, and more.Exercise doesn’t mean having to go to the gym. You can attend dance classes, go for a hike, or take karate classes. You may even enjoy some things at the gym, like yoga classes, spinning, or aerobic dance classes.


Find time several days a week for exercise. See when classes are offered and make time to go to the ones that interest you.
For more information, check out How to Exercise.
 Having a pet can help you boost your mood and health. Having and playing with a dog can help lower your stress levels, increase relaxation, and improve your physical health.A dog can provide you with companionship, give you structure and routine to everyday, help reduce your anxiety, and help you meet new people.


Have designated “play time” with your pet. This can be immediately when you get home or after a walk.
When you adopt an animal from the shelter, you help to improve its life and give it a chance at having a home. Plus, you gain a companion who will help improve your life. Check out How to Adopt a Pet from a Shelter for more information.
 Eating a healthy diet is important to balancing moods. Yet, it can feel taxing to prepare meals or focus heavily on nutrition. Play around with foods that boost your mood. These include nuts, beans, avocados, and fresh fruits.Have fun weaving these foods into your daily meals and find ways to make eating healthy enjoyable.


For example, try one new recipe a week, or cook different cuisines on different ways. Designate one day a month to try a new restaurant.
Try to practice mindful eating as well. This can help you to feel more satisfied with the food you eat, which may make you feel happier. Mindful eating is the process of slowing down and noticing the sensory details of your food, such as the smell, texture, and taste.Put away distractions when you eat to help you focus more on the food in front of you.
 Find a healthy outlet for stress through relaxation. Practicing relaxation exercises every day for 30 or more minutes can help with stress, depression, anxiety, and stabilizing moods.Find a time you can commit to setting aside each day. This may be first thing in the morning and last thing before bed. Then, stick to it.


Use methods that you enjoy and that make you feel good. Some examples include daily yoga, qigong, meditation, and progressive muscle relaxation.
 As a child, you could not wait to play, yet now, you may struggle to find anything playful in your life. Play can help relieve stress and improve brain functioning.Engage your playful side by inviting people over for a monthly game night, going out for miniature golf, frisbee, or bowling, or playing with a pet.


If you have kids, spend time playing with them, and if you don’t have kids, offer to take a friend’s kids to the park. Get on their level and play with what interests them. You may be surprised at how fun it can be.
 Volunteering has several benefits, including reducing stress and anxiety, creating social bonds, helping your community, and learning new skills. You can meet new people and make friends with other volunteers.Choose a volunteer opportunity that appeals to you and that you may enjoy. Volunteer regularly, like weekly or bi-weekly.


Try volunteering at an animal sanctuary or animal shelter, children’s after-school program, nursing home, or hospital. There are lots of ways you can volunteer in your community and give back.
Check out How to Volunteer for more information.
 It’s great to keep in touch with friends through social media, calling, and texting, yet nothing replaces seeing friends in person. If you feel isolated, call a friend and arrange to meet. Having a friend to talk to can help reduce stress and help you face stressful situations more effectively.Meet with someone you know is a good listener and who you feel comfortable sharing yourself with fully.


Meet for lunch, dinner, or coffee. Or, you don’t have to spend any money if you invite a friend over to watch a tv show or movie with you.
Prioritize your friendships by committing to seeing at least one good friend each week face-to-face.
 Find an interest group and join it. Perhaps you’re interested in painting, martial arts, or hiking. Find community groups that meet regularly and join in! This can be a great way to meet new people who share similar interests with you.Think of group social activities that sound fun or that you’ve always wanted to try. Then, look online for groups that meet near you. You may find a group of dog walkers, play groups for children, or culinary groups.
 If you’re looking to meet new people, involve yourself in sports. Go to a sports game or watch the game at a restaurant or bar. This is a great way to meet new people and connect through something you already know you have in common.The atmosphere is usually lively and upbeat when watching sports games. Take the opportunity to introduce yourself and make new friends.
 If you’re feeling stuck in mental health problems, it may be time to try something new. Perhaps your therapist or psychiatrist encouraged you to have more fun, or you recognize that you’re missing some key ingredients that could improve your quality of life. Before you make a plan, you may want to think about why it’s important to make fun a priority. That way, you can stick to it.


Do you feel like your life lacks enough fun? How can adding fun to your life improve it? Why should fun be a priority?

, Part of prioritizing something is making a commitment to it. For example, if your fun activity is a dance class, commit to going each week, even when you feel tired or nervous. Choosing to commit to having fun may help you keep it a priority. Keep your promises to yourself to show that you value your priorities.Choose to do something fun every day. Do something silly, like make up a song or dance.
 If you just can’t seem to fit fun activities into your life, you may want to develop a schedule or plan of activities. Having a plan helps you to reach your goals as well as frees up resources in your brain for other things.Figure out how many activities you can juggle per week and go from there. Having fun with friends every night may sound great, but you may end up feeling tired each morning before work or school.


For example, if you know you work late 2 nights a week, plan activities on your free nights or weekends. Then see what fun activities line up with your schedule.
 While some people associate alcohol or drugs with having a good time or loosening up, don’t rely on drugs or alcohol for fun. Alcohol and drugs can aggravate mental health problems.If you use substances to self-medicate or to escape your problems, you may struggle with substance abuse.


If you think you may have a problem, check out How to Find Substance Abuse Treatment and How to Beat Drug Addiction.

