 You can purchase over the counter morning after pills at most pharmacies and some grocery or large retail stores. Most morning after pills, if you're paying full-price, cost around $35-50.


Morning after pills will likely be among other family planning methods such as condoms.If you don't see the morning after pill on the shelves, visit the pharmaceuticals counter and ask there.There may be generic and brand name options. Both are equally effective and you can decide based on budget and if you’re sensitive to any of the active ingredients.Be aware that some stores may not sell the morning after pill because of the company’s moral code. Consider calling ahead of time if you have reason to suspect the store's owners might be opposed to family planning.;
, You may be able to get the morning after pill from your nearest sexual health clinic or walk-in health center.If you're within business hours, this may be easier and more discreet than a retail outlet.


The morning after pill may not have any cost, or a clinic may price it on a sliding scale for those that can't afford full price.You will be asked about your income and insurance to determine your fee.
If you live in the United States, see if there's a Planned Parenthood Health Center near you: https://www.plannedparenthood.org/health-center

Most universities have a health center that may offer emergency contraception. If you are not sure how or when it is available, ask a member of staff or talk to the nurse.
 Your doctor can prescribe you emergency contraception. If you’re unsure of your options or have any questions about taking the morning after pill, schedule an appointment with your doctor. Tell the receptionist that the matter is urgent so that you can see the doctor as soon as possible.


You will have to explain the situation to your doctor and she may then prescribe emergency contraception for you. She may also suggest using a regular form of birth control.
The most common prescription pill is Plan B.
NorLevo is not as effective in women with a BMI over 35; the case may be the same with other brands of the morning after pill.Bear in mind that you should get the pill as soon as possible, as the effectiveness decreases over time.
 If you’ve had unprotected sex and are concerned that you could get pregnant, take the morning after pill, which is also called emergency contraception, as soon as you can. In most cases, you can take the morning after pill up to five days following unprotected sex.Be aware that many states require women under the age of 17 to get a prescription for morning after pills.You can take the pill anytime during your menstrual cycle.The morning after pill is a safe and effective way to prevent pregnancy.However, you shouldn’t use this as a regular form of birth control., While everyone can use over the counter emergency contraception, it may not be as effective for every woman and some may be allergic to it. Make sure to read and understand any indications or contraindications that come along with emergency contraception.The morning after pill may be less effective for women with a Body Mass Index (BMI) over 25.Certain medications such as barbiturates, or other supplements such as St. John’s Wort may decrease the effectiveness of the morning after pill.If you are allergic to any component of the morning after pill, it may be less effective., If you use any kind of morning after pill, you may experience some side effects. These usually subside after a few days.You may experience nausea or vomiting after taking the morning after pill.You may feel tired, dizzy, or have a headache after taking the morning after pill.You may have breast tenderness, and lower abdominal pain or cramping after taking the morning after pill.You may experience bleeding between periods or heavier menstrual cramps after taking the morning after pill.Contact your doctor immediately if you experience bleeding or spotting that lasts longer than a week or if you have severe abdominal pain 3-5 weeks after taking the morning after pill. This can help rule out an ectopic pregnancy., One of the most common side effects of using emergency contraception is nausea. If you vomit within an hour of taking the pills, repeat the dosage.Don’t repeat the entire process, just the dosage you threw up.You may need to take an anti-nausea medication to help your stomach., Only use one form of emergency contraception. Not only is using two forms of emergency contraception not more effective at preventing pregnancy, but the different types of morning after pill may actually make the other less effective.You’re much more likely to have nausea, vomiting, and other side effects from using multiple forms of emergency contraception., If you’ve taken the morning after pill and don’t have a regular form of birth control, use a backup form of contraception. This can help prevent unwanted pregnancy.Consider using condoms as your backup form of contraception.Use backup contraception for 14 days after taking the morning after pill., If you take regular birth control pills, and have simply missed a dose, you may be able to increase your dose as a form of emergency contraception. However, you should talk to your doctor or a pharmacist about the number of pills you should take.You can also call 1-800-PLAN to discuss your options with a Planned Parenthood representative.
Depending on the kind of oral contraceptive, one dose may be 4 or 5 pills.
 After establishing how many pills you need, take two doses within 12 hours of one another. This is considered a safe and effective pregnancy prevention method.Take your first dose up to 5 days or up to 120 hours after unprotected sex.
Take the second dose 12 hours after the first dose. An hour more or less won't make a difference.
 You may be tempted to take more than 4-5 pills to make sure it works, but this will not actually reduce your risk. The only thing it will do is raise your chances of an upset stomach.If you experience severe stomach pain, seek medical attention.
 When you decide to use birth control, there are many factors you should consider such as if and when you want children, if you want to take pills or not worry about taking daily medication, and your lifestyle, including if you travel frequently. Thinking about these questions can help you determine the most appropriate form of birth control for you.For example, if you are in a long term relationship and want to wait a few years to have children, you might opt for a long term birth control method such as an intrauterine device (IUD).
If you have multiple partners, you may opt for birth control pills and condoms to protect from pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases.Consider questions such as “do I want to plan every time I have sex?,” “do I want to remember to take a pill every day?,” “do I want to end my fertility permanently?”.You’ll also want to think about your health. For example, if you suffer from migraines, birth control pills may not be a good choice for you.
 You can choose barrier methods that are put on or inserted right before sex including male and female condoms, a diaphragm, a cervical cap, and spermicide.If used properly, these methods can help protect against pregnancy, but you may want to use a secondary method to help ensure that you don’t get pregnant. For example, if you’re using condoms, which have a failure rate of 2-18%, you may want to also use a spermicide.The advantage to barrier methods is that they also protect against STIs.
 Hormonal birth control, which has a low failure rate of less than 1% to 9%, is a good option if you want to avoid pregnancy and are in a long-term relationship.The different types of hormonal birth control are the Pill, a patch, or a vaginal ring.Birth control pills can have the added benefit that they can help regulate your menstrual cycle., You can choose a long-acting reversible contraception (LARC) method such as an IUD, hormonal shots, or a contraceptive implant if you want to wait to have children. It can take some time to return to fertility after using these methods, but they will not affect your ability to conceive in the long-term., Sterilization is a birth control option if you are sure you never want children. Vasectomies and tubal ligations are generally irreversible procedures and must be seriously considered before making a final decision to go through with them., Every birth control method comes with potential risks, including unwanted pregnancy. Being aware of potential risks and side effects of the different birth control methods can help you choose the best method for you.


Hormonal birth control, such as pills, patches, and vaginal rings may increase your blood pressure and affect your cholesterol.Barrier methods such as condoms, spermicides, and caps can cause allergic reactions and may increase your risk for urinary tract infections or STDs.The risks for long-acting reversible contraception (LARC) methods include perforation of the uterus, increased risk of pelvic inflammatory disease and ectopic pregnancy, and pain and heavy menstrual bleeding.