 Before purchasing, check the expiration date on the package. Then, before use, make sure you also check the expiration date printed on the condom wrapper. If it’s expired, toss it out. Never use an expired condom. It could tear or fail.Check out the wrapper for any signs of obvious rips or tears. If the package is torn or ripped, toss the condom out and use a new one.
 Female condoms are polyurethane or nitrile pouches with flexible rings at each end that you insert into the vagina or anus. They collect pre-cum and semen, preventing pregnancy and reducing the transmission of STDs.Female condoms don’t protect women during oral sex. For that, you will need to use a dental dam, or a condom that is cut open.
Don’t use a female condom and a male condom at the same time. It doesn’t provide twice the protection — in fact, it can cause breakage in either or both condoms., These are the zig-zag edges on either side of the wrapper that are designed to tear apart quickly and easily.Don't get carried away in your passion. Don't shred open the package, and stay away from scissors, teeth, machetes, or any other sharp instrument to open a condom wrapper, or you could tear the condom itself! A torn condom won’t protect against pregnancy or STDs.Female condoms are more expensive than male condoms, at about $4 apiece., Many women find it easy to stand with a foot on a chair, lie down, squat, or raise one leg up.You’ll find out what works best for you with a little practice., Female condoms have a flexible ring at each end. One end will be closed, a lot like a male condom. Pinch the ring at the closed end of the condom with your thumb and middle finger so it narrows. The open end should be hanging down., If you’ve used tampons before, this is the same process. Squeezing the ring to keep it narrow, insert the closed end of the condom as far as it will go. Insert your index finger into the condom and push it gently into your vagina. Be very careful if you have long nails — tearing the condom will render it ineffective.You should feel it meet resistance at some point. That’s a sign you’ve reached your cervix.Make sure the condom is not twisted inside your vagina.
 If you’ve inserted the condom correctly, the outer ring should be hanging about an inch outside your vagina.It is possible use the same method to insert a female condom into your anus for anal sex;however, the easiest way is to remove the inner ring and place the the female condom on the penis (or sex toy). The penis is then inserted into the anus., Regardless of what’s going into your vagina (or anus), adding some lubricant will help reduce friction. This makes it less likely for the condom to tear.Because female condoms are made from polyurethane or nitrile (a synthetic latex)and not latex, it is safe to use oil-based, water-based, or silicon-based lube with a female condom.
 It’s important to use your hand to guide the penis or sex toy inside you so that it doesn’t end up sliding outside the condom pouch., You should stop having sex immediately, remove the condom, and insert a new female condom if any of these things happen:The condom slips
The penis or sex toy enters your vagina (or anus) outside the condom pouch during sex
The outer ring of the condom enters the vagina
You may wish to consider using emergency contraception (the morning-after pill) if your partner has ejaculated inside your vagina, on the vaginal opening, or if semen drips from the anus onto the vaginal opening.
 Squeeze the outer ring closed with two fingers. Gently slide the condom out of your vagina or anus.Don’t yank or tug on it, as this could break the condom., Tie the open end in a knot to prevent spillage. Wrap it in toilet paper or tissue, and throw it in a trash can.Don’t flush condoms down the toilet. Most septic systems can’t handle them, and they may clog up the toilet.Don’t reuse female condoms. Sure, they’re expensive — but accidental pregnancy or an STD costs way more.

