 Although you should also have your own interests, take some time to figure out what your crush likes to do. If he likes to hang out in the library, for example, you could go there sometimes too, and eventually he might start talking to you.


Trying out his interests will create a common conversation and make you appealing to him. If you’re in science class with him, talk to him about an assignment or what you’re learning.
Don’t talk to him constantly about things he’s not interested in. This will bore a boy to tears.Determine his personality type. If he’s an extrovert, he will respond differently than he will if he’s an introvert. Extroverts are personality types who need a lot of interaction and conversation with people, so be friendly, talkative, and reach out. Introverts need their space. They feel drained after too much interaction with people. So don’t crowd him too much. Don’t feel rejected because he needs a little time to himself.
 This is part of the confidence building part. You should never become a chameleon who turns into something you are not to hook a boy. Boys can spot a fake a mile away. There are a lot of things girls do subconsciously to make guys love them, and these should come naturally.


The way they move, their laughter, their sadness, their energy, their intuition, their sense of humor, their common sense, their enigmatic mystical nature. These are some of the things that boys like about girls. These things will come naturally if it is a good match.
Focus on other things in your life sometimes – your studies, your family, your circle of girl friends. This will show him that you are confident in your own life, and he will see you in a better light.
Show him you're smart. If a guy is threatened by intelligent girls, he’s probably someone you shouldn’t like anyway. Don’t try to “play dumb” because you think boys like that. They don’t.
 If you can make a guy laugh, he will probably feel positively about you. Don’t take yourself so seriously all the time. Be able to make jokes – including about yourself. Don’t overdo it, though. You don’t want to come across as never serious either.


You have to be a little assertive. Strike up conversations with him. Ask him about his day. Seem positive. Some girls think if they act sad or depressed, they will get a guy’s attention. They might – but it won’t be the right kind. Being happy is attractive.
Laugh at his jokes too! Even if his jokes aren’t really that good, what does it hurt to smile and act like it’s funny? This is a way to flirt with him, and he won't even realize it's flirting.