 From your laptop or desktop computer, open your favorite web browser, type in www.facebook.com, and hit Enter on your keyboard. On the login page, enter your username and password into the text fields, and then click on “Log in.”


You must use a laptop or a desktop computer. Smartphones currently do not support adjusting security settings.;
, To get there, once you’re signed in, look towards the top-right corner of your home page where you will see a tiny arrow-down button. Just click on it to display a drop-down menu. Scroll down, and click on “Settings.”

, Look to the column on the left side of the General Account Settings screen. Right under the first option (General), you will see the Security tab. Click on it to go to the Security Settings page.


Each item in the Security Settings page can be edited with the goal of tightening the security of your Facebook account. To the right of each item is a clickable “Edit” button.
 Click on the “Edit” button to the right of the option if you want to be notified by email and/or text message/push notification when someone tries to log into your Facebook using a computer or mobile device you have never used before. Mark the appropriate box with a check.
 Click on the “Edit” button for Login Approvals, and tick the box that appears if you want your account to require a security code when it is accessed from unknown browsers.
 Click on the “Edit” button for Code Generator if you want to enable and set up another way to get security codes. Leave unchecked if you want to disable Code Generator.


This option defaults at “Code Generator is enabled.”

, Click on the “Edit” button for App Passwords if you want to generate and use special passwords to log into your apps instead of using your Facebook password or Login Approval codes.
 Click on the “Edit” button for Trusted Contacts if you want to add friends who can securely help you if you ever have trouble accessing your account.


The window will then expand to display a clickable “Choose Trusted Contacts” tab so you can add up to five friends to this privileged list.
 Click on the “Edit” button for Trusted Browsers to review browsers you saved as the ones you often use. When you log into your account using a browser that is not on your Trusted Browsers list, you will be notified.


You can remove browsers you don’t want to use on this page too.
 Click on the “Edit” button to Where You’re Logged In to review and manage the places where you are logged into Facebook.


Should you notice any unfamiliar devices or locations, click on “End Activity” to end the session.

