 Ensure there are no gaps in fences that the foal can get its hoof stuck in. Ultimately, you should either have a paddock with small chicken wire, or with post and rail. The foal shouldn't go too close to the fence, but they do silly things!;
, A simple shelter with a door would be sufficient, but ultimately a stable would be far warmer, and protect the foal from the sun, rain, wind or the cold.
 If you watch a newborn, they are leggy and look like their on stilts. Imagine if they were confined to a small paddock with no room to run.........which would you prefer???

, The foal may need vaccinations or the mare may need treatment, a smaller paddock means you don't have to run after the mare whist scarring the foal.
, Usually a rubber dish or a tyre feeder are great. You can also use a bathtub, making sure it has no sharp edges.
 The larger the facility the better, the mare and foal should have adequate water, and be unrestricted access to it. Water allows milk to be produced and water is another liquid the foal will drink. Although the foal won't drink it like the mare, the foal will play with it with its nose, and will introduce water to him, and when its time to wean, he'll know what it is.
, you need to reduce certain feeds and increase other feeds. Depending on the current weight of the mare, breed and age as well as if you are showing the mare and and foal or if the mare is a broodmare, will suggest what feeds to feed. The following feeds are a basic recommendation for a basic feeding ratio. Bear in mind that some feed wouldn't suit certain horses and that it depends on access and availability.




Lucurn chaff or alfalfa: This provides the mare and foal with the correct amount of calcium, which makes the milk and helps the foal develop.
Oaten or wheaten chaff: This is simply a bulking feed, commonly used as a filler. It provides little or no essential vitamins or minerals. And can be given without any restrictions. It is non-offensive.
Cereal flakes etc- This is basically your wheat mix or cereal which we eat for breakfast. However, it has no fruit etc. You can buy this product in Australia from most feed companies. In America i am not sure if you can buy it, ask your feed stockist and they may be able to help.
Grain is often a feed that is reduced. However, it puts the weight back on the mares, and the foals often are much better and gain weight faster.
Vitamin supplements: This helps to improve the milk and helps when weaning the foal.
, You can wet the food or moisten it, which makes it more palatable. Make sure though, that you remove any left over feed at the next feed time, as when wet the feed with become sour and may cause colic.
 This makes it easier when weaning also.
 Foals only defecate about 6 to 12 times a day, sometimes they hardly defecate at all. Watch the foal and if it has manure around its bottom and looks to be constipated, seek veterinary advice. Okay, back to defecation, you should remove manure every day, as this will remove the worm population. Foals often will eat the mare's manure-though gross, it's completely normal. When they eat it however, the worms are passed onto the foal. So removal of manure stops the cycle of worms.
 TRUE! But make sure you get a wormer paste that is suited for foals, even though you are not worming the foal, the wormer will be passed onto the foal through the milk and the manure. A wormer that has no boticide is best. But seek advice from vet or experienced breeders as wormers differentiate depending on area or country.
 Just make sure you keep an eye on the foal and the mare. If you think that something is wrong, go with your gut instinct.
 As well as buckets with handles, wire or rope.
