 You should already be familiar with the temperament and personality of the horse you are trying to train, and the horse should already be able to stand still on command. Horses differ drastically in their level of energy, attention and patience, just like people. Take some time to practice simple obedience exercises with your horse, such as walking on a lead rope, or gentle riding in a safe environment.;
, The ground should be relatively soft and comfortable. Otherwise, your horse may not wish to put their knees down on the ground. Soft grass or relatively rock-free dirt is a good choice. Also make sure the area is calm and quiet, and clear of distracting or noisy objects like running machinery. This will ensure that your horse is comfortable, and can pay full attention to your instruction., You will need a lead rope and halter that fits your horse, as well as carrots, apples or another horse treat to use as a reward during the process. You should also wear leather gloves and boots for safety. Make sure to show your horse your equipment, allowing them to touch, taste, and feel them before you begin training so that they do not become frightened by them., Horses are very sensitive to noise and emotion, and if you become impatient or try to work too quickly they may become resistant or even frightened. Throughout the process, speak soothingly to your horse, offering reassurance and praise. If you are not comfortable around large animals, take some time to practice simply interacting with your horse until you are at ease., While all horses are different, any horse will become frustrated and lose interest if you try to teach them too much in a single session. Limiting the length of each session will ensure that you don't stress your horse out, causing them to resist the training and potentially hurting your progress., You may wish to walk them around, guiding them with their lead rope, until they have had a chance to familiarize themselves with the environment. Once they are calm and attentive, listening to you and responding to your voice and gestures, you may begin training.

