 Do not rinse out the oil. If you do not have any olive oil at home, here are some other great options:Avocado oil is moisturizing, making it ideal for dry and frizzy hair.
Castor oil tends to be slightly drying, but it also adds strength, making it great for oily hair as well as brittle hair.
Coconut oil is moisturizing and suitable for all hair types. It will leave your hair soft and shiny.
Jojoba oil is weightless and ideal for oily hair.
Sesame oil is great for all hair types. It will condition your hair and add shine.
 Warm ¼ to ½ cup (60 to 120 milliliters) of olive oil in the microwave; you want it to be very warm, but not hot. Apply the oil to your hair, focusing on the ends and avoiding the roots. Tuck your hair under a shower cap and leave it there for 20 to 60 minutes.Once the time is up, take the shower cap off and wash your hair. You may need to wash it a few times to get all of the oil out. If you have particularly weak hair, consider adding any of these strengthening ingredients to the olive oil:1 teaspoon of neem oil
1 teaspoon of aloe vera gel
4 drops carrot seed oil

, Mix 2 tablespoons of olive oil, 1 tablespoon of coconut oil, and 1 egg in a bowl. Apply the mixture to your hair, focusing on the ends and avoiding the roots. Tuck your hair under a shower cap and wait 30 minutes. Remove the shower cap once the time is up, and wash your hair using cool water; do not use hot water or you may get scrambled eggs in your hair.


Olive oil is very moisturizing. It is also full of fatty acids, antioxidants, and vitamin E.Coconut oil is not only moisturizing, but it is also full of proteins and vitamins E and K, all of which are important for keeping hair healthy and strong.Egg contain vitamins A, D, and E, which are important for hair health. They also contain moisturizing fatty acids and plenty of protein., Mix together 2 tablespoons of coconut oil and 1 tablespoon of honey. Massage the mixture into the ends of your hair and leave it on for 30 to 60 minutes; you can tuck your hair under a shower cap to prevent the mixture from drying out or getting everywhere. Once the time is up, wash your hair.


Coconut oil is full of proteins and vitamins, all of which are important for keeping your hair healthy and strong. Coconut oil is also very moisturizing.
Honey will help draw moisture into your hair. Split ends usually happen to hair that is brittle and dry, so keeping your hair hydrated can help prevent split ends—and keep existing ones from getting worse.
 You will need 1 avocado (pitted and skinned), 2 tablespoons of egg whites, and 3 tablespoons of olive oil. Mash the avocado with the rest of the ingredients until you get a smooth, creamy texture. Spread the mixture throughout your hair, and tuck everything under a shower cap. After 45 to 60 minutes, take the shower cap off and wash your hair as usual.Avoid using very hot water, or the eggs may cook in your hair.
 You will need 1 papaya (skinned and with the seeds scooped out) and ½ cup (125 grams) of plain yogurt. Mix the two ingredients using a blender until you get a creamy consistency, then spread it throughout your hair. Tuck your hair under a shower cap and leave it there for 45 minutes, then wash it out using your usual shampoo., Wash and shampoo your hair first, then mix 1 cup (240 milliliters) of water with 1 tablespoon of unflavored gelatin and 1 teaspoon of apple cider vinegar in a cup. Spread the mixture throughout your hair and leave it on for five minutes. Rinse the mixture out after the time is up. This will help strengthen your hair and prevent the ends from getting split. It may also help prevent existing split ends from worsening.