 Weight-bearing exercises, which include anything that forces you to work against gravity, are among the best types of exercises to help build bone strength. Essentially if you’re supporting your own weight and moving around, you’re placing stress on your bones, and encouraging them to grow or maintain their strength. The best options for most people include walking, hiking, jogging, and dancing.Anything that keeps you moving up and down or side to side will help strengthen your bones. For instance, tennis, soccer, dancing, and more.
Choose an activity you enjoy. This will increase your desire and willingness to exercise consistently.
Examples of exercises that don’t require you to bear your own weight include swimming and cycling. While these exercises can help keep your heart healthy, and even strengthen your muscles, they are less effective in strengthening your bones.;
, Start doing a weight-bearing exercise as many days of the week as possible. Ultimately, you’re shooting for 30 minutes per day, but work up to this amount of exercise if you’re not accustomed to physical activity. Pay attention to the way your body feels and tone it down if exercise starts to be painful.If you've been living a relatively sedentary lifestyle, start with a daily ten-minute walk. Keep as brisk a pace as you are able for those ten minutes every day. Once you can comfortably walk briskly for ten minutes, start walking or jogging for fifteen or twenty minutes, and so on.
Muscle soreness, and even some moderate discomfort are entirely normal. If you experience soreness for more than 48 hours after exercising, however, decrease the duration or intensity of your exercise sessions. See a doctor if you have persistent pain in one location.
Stop exercising immediately if you experience chest pain, or noticeably irregular breathing or heartbeats. Talk to your doctor before exercising again.
 Keep increasing the duration and frequency of your workouts until you’re exercising for 30 minutes at least four times per week. Take a day off if you feel like you need to, but be sure to return to exercising the following day.If you prefer, feel free to split your 30 minutes of exercises into multiple sessions. For instance, a 15 minute jog twice a day is a good way to get in the habit of exercising consistently.

