 Although groups used to release software just to show off that they had hacked the encryption of a game, it has now become a scene of spammers, virus creators, and people who will steal your information and empty your bank account before you get an hour into your game.


When you trust a P2P network, you are giving up all of the information in your computer to a hacker that has exceptional technological skill. This hacker can easily get into any details on your computer, making it easy to steal your bank account information, or anything else you may have stored. It doesn’t matter how often you play the game or watch the video. Just downloading it from a P2P network gives these hackers free reign of your information. Along with the download comes the installation of a keylogger, trojan, or root kit, and that is what gives them access. , Although games are going to still run you more than a couple bucks, downloading them gives you some freedoms. For example, you can do so from home, and you’ll have the ability to re-download it if anything happens. Use some of these safe programs to download games: GameFly
GameTap
EA Store
GamersGate

, Just as with downloading games, you will need to pay for these downloads. The fees, however, are typically smaller than if you were to buy a DVD. Use the following safe programs to avoid harmful downloads:


Amazon
Netflix
Love Film
Redbox Instant
Crackle.com
Vongo

, Just because you pay for a video download, doesn’t make it legal. The programs previously listed are trusted, however there are many more programs available. Just because they require you to pay, doesn’t mean they are trusted. Avoid torrents. Torrent files are often bootleg or pirated and, therefore, illegal. Even though these programs are set up for an easy download, they will most likely add viruses or allow a hacker into your computer.
Entertainment companies often link placebo files to these downloads. These are intended to frustrate users and dissuade you from using the sites that don’t have proper copyright holders.

