 It's important to remember that Rockabilly takes influence from Blues and Country, so your song topic will most likely be along the lines of heartbreak, drinking and smoking, women, gambling, hard times, hot rods, or even the genre itself. This is just a guideline, and is not set in stone. Sing about whatever you want!;
, At this point, just get your lyrics out on paper. When you start creating your Rhythm Guitar chording, the lyrics will most likely be tweaked to fit. Check out the web for info on 12 Bar Blues song structure if you're unsure. A good example of a simple song is Johnny Cash's "Folsom Prison Blues". There's four sets of rhyming verses and two guitar solos. Start with that example if you're unsure on how to structure your lyrics. Don't forget about choruses, too! They're optional.
 The most common chord progression is E-A-B. Other common ones are C-F-G and G-C-D. These three follow the 1st, 4th and 5th major chords of a key. You can either keep it simple with three chords, or add in as you see fit. Or, you can combine other chords within a given key. Rockabilly also takes influence from old jazz, so don't be afraid to throw in some jazz chords. Just play with it and see what sounds good. Remember to have your chord progressions follow the "12 Bar Blues" format.
 The simplest way is a 1 - 5 bassline. A good source of info is www.rockabillybass.com. Don't forget to add slaps, especially if you don't have a drummer. The slaps act as a backbeat. Keep your basic baseline in the same key as your rhythm guitar. A bass solo is great to add in!

, A good start for the drums is snare hits on two and four and eights on a ride cymbal. Add bass drum on one and three as you like. Fills should be played mostly on the snare drum; you can also use crashes and snare to accent strong beats and unison riffs.
 This step is essential in forming the "sound" of Rockabilly, as the lead guitar carries the song through. The most common format is an opening riff to start the song, a couple of riffs after the verses or chorus, and a closing riff to end the song. There are also small riffs played during the verses, and possibly at the end of each sung verse. You are free to experiment here. Scales are an excellent tool to improv riffs. You can also listen to Blues, as a lot of Rockabilly riffs are simply Blues riffs sped up. Old Country pickin' is a good source for inspiration, as are of course existing Rockabilly songs. Have fun here, as you are limited by your imagination and playing skill.
,!

