 Any writing instrument will do for note-taking. However, a rollerball pen has less friction against the paper and will allow you to write more quickly across the page. If you are left-handed, you may want to buy a felt-tipped pen to prevent smudging.;
, Sometimes professors or speakers upload or share their notes. These notes can take the form of a slideshow, an outline, or just a text document. If you have access to these documents, print them out, read them ahead of time, and bring them to class. This way, some of the notes are already taken for you and you can simply add additional thoughts during the lecture.
 Writing down everything the teacher says will waste time. Instead, pick up on larger, overarching issues. You should be writing out short sentences, no more than five words. , You can always come back to a concept or ask a question. You will waste time if you move at your own pace, so don’t spend time finishing up a section to your satisfaction while your professor moves on. Instead, switch concepts when they do.
 Professional stenographers use a special system of writing called shorthand.But there is no need to learn this specialized knowledge. Instead, figure out a personal shorthand that works best for you.Here are some ways you can try shorthand:


Use abbreviations for both proper nouns and long and tedious words. For example, write “US” for “United States,” but also "w" for "with," "b/w" for between, "ex" for "example(s)."
Drop articles like “the,” “an,” and “a.”
Drop vowels. For example, write “trnsfrmtn” instead of “transformation.”
Use arrows and lines to convey relationships instead of cumbersome sentences. For example, instead of saying “the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand IN 1914 caused World War I,” say, “ass. F Ferdinand → ww1 - 1914”
Write in cursive. Like the gel pen, writing in cursive will shave off note-taking time because your pen never leaves the paper.
 Take a moment after the lecture or class and revisit your writing. This time is when the information will be freshest in your mind.At this moment


Add any information you were not able to write down.
Look for sloppy handwriting and rewrite any illegible words while you still know what they mean.
Pick up on larger overarching concepts that you missed in class.

