 Miniature roses like bright and direct light. The flowers won’t bloom unless they have enough sun. Make sure to keep them next to a sunny window.


The humidly in the environment should be high to moderate.
Keep the miniature roses at room temperature., Roses need to be watered regularly. Check their soil every day or two to make sure it is well hydrated. Water the roses thoroughly when they are growing. Make sure the top 2.5 centimeters of soil dries out between watering. Don’t get water on the leaves because that can cause fungus to grow.


In the winter, keep the soil only slightly moist. , Miniature roses grow best in potting mix with a neutral pH level, such as pH 7. In the spring and summer, give your miniature roses a fertilizer every two weeks. Use a high-phosphorus fertilizer that has micronutrients. , Whenever you see a flower that is dead, remove it. This will keep the roses looking their best and encourage the flowers to bloom longer. Use sharp pruners to pluck off the dead flowers. Using your hands can damage the stem and give your roses diseases. Cut the flowers at a 45-degree angle. , They won’t need pruning when they are still new plants, but they will when they get older. When branches start dying or crossing and rubbing each other, you need to remove them. Fall is the best time to prune because it is after flowering. If you prune your miniature roses yearly, you will promote growth and health. Pruning also helps your roses have a better looking shape. Use pruning shears and cut the stem a quarter inch above the leaf axil at a 45-degree angle. , Not pruning, not giving your roses fertilizer, and leaving them alone in the winter will give your roses a longer life and better health. Keep your roses cool during this time. Don’t leave them outside where they will freeze. Move your roses to a basement or garage where they will be cool. , Black spots on the leaves means that they have a fungus from being in damp conditions. Cut off the affected leaves and treat the foliage with a blackspot fungicide. Keep your roses in good air ventilation to avoid blackspot.


Yellow leaves on your roses can be from not enough sun, dry soil, or dry air. 