 Many people with hyperacidity settle their stomach by eating an apple. Apples are generally safe for this condition, so why not give the wisdom of the crowd a go?Just remember this is anecdotal evidence, and claims about apples having antacid properties are completely false., While there's no solid evidence behind its use as a hyperacidity treatment, ginger does seem to soothe the stomach.Either get ginger tea bags or better yet, cut up about 1 teaspoon of fresh ginger, add boiling water, steep for about 5 minutes and drink. Do this anytime during the day, but especially about 20-30 minutes before meals.


Ginger can also help with nausea and vomiting. Ginger tea is considered safe for pregnant women., Although not definite, many specialists believe that late night eating can make symptoms worse.Don't eat for 2-3 hours before bedtime to reduce the risk of food putting pressure on your lower esophageal sphincter (LES) as you sleep.
 Based on early research, stress makes reflux symptoms feel subjectively worse but does not affect the objective condition.For your own comfort, identify situations that you find stressful and exhausting. Find ways to avoid those situations or prepare for them with various relaxing techniques.


Start incorporating meditation, yoga, or just regular naps into your daily routine. You could also try deep breathing, acupuncture, getting a massage, taking a warm bath, or even saying a series of simple, affirmative statements in front of the mirror.
 None of these are proven treatments. However, if your hyperacidity symptoms are related to ulcerative colitis or bowel inflammation, there's a little evidence that these could help. Do not rely on these as your main treatment.


Drink 1/2 cup of aloe vera juice. You can drink this throughout the day, but don't drink more than 1 to 2 cups a day. Aloe vera can act as a laxative.
Drink fennel tea. Crush about a teaspoon of fennel seeds and add a cup of boiled water. Add honey to taste and drink 2-3 cups a day about 20 minutes before meals. Fennel helps settle the stomach and decreases the acid levels.Take slippery elm. Slippery elm can be taken as a drink or as a tablet. As a liquid, you'll want to drink about 3 to 4 ounces. As a tablet, follow the manufacturer's instructions. Slippery elm is known to soothe and coat irritated tissues.Take DGL tablets. Deglycyrrhizinated licorice root (DGL) comes in chewable tablets. The taste might take some getting use to. But, it works very well to heal the stomach and control hyperacidity. Follow manufacturer’s instructions for dosage. You'll usually take 2 to 3 tablets every 4-6 hours., Probiotics are mixtures of "good" bacteria normally found in your gut. They may include a yeast, Saccharomyces boulardii or cultures of lactobacillus and/or bifidobacterium, all naturally found in your intestines. While studies so far show generally improved bowel health, it's not yet possible to make specific claims.For the simplest way to get your probiotics, eat yogurt with "active cultures".

