 Wearing proper clothes during prayer is very important. You are preparing to talk to the King of Kings, and you should be dressed appropriately. Proper clothes include, but are not limited to     


Dress coat
Dress pants
Dress shirt
Regular shoes - NO clogs or sandals. Sneakers are acceptable if you're outdoors.
 Certain prayer objects are a necessity for the morning prayers. These objects can be purchased online or at your local Judaica store:


A Jewish prayer book.
Skullcap
Prayer shawl

, In general, the minimum amount of men that you should pray together with is 10.  However, there are situations where one can pray by themselves. These include sickness, travel, and time availability.
 The three prayers per day correspond to the three periods of the day, as mentioned before. For the morning prayers, the appropriate time is between sunrise and mid-day. It is best to pray before 9:00 AM.
 This is in order to wash off the spiritual impurity which has accumulated on your hands while you were asleep. There is a specific way to do so:


Start with pouring water from a cup on your right hand. The water must cover all of your hand all the way to your wrist. You may need rotate your wrist in order to make sure that your entire hand is washed     
Do the same thing for your left hand ·       
Repeat until you have washed each hand three or four times apiece, depending on your custom. This step only applies to you if you are married, or if your family has the custom to wear a tallit. If you do are not wearing a tallit, proceed to step 7.
Start by unfolding your tallit. The part of the tallit that has a section of collar is the top end of the garment     
Put the top of the tallit over your head until the front covers your face and say the proper blessing as found in your prayer book      
Wrap the rest of the tallit over your shoulders, and then wrap all for corners over your left shoulder for the amount of time that it takes to walk approximately 6–8 feet (1.8–2.4 m). This should be around four seconds     
While the tallit is wrapped around your head, it is an appropriate time to ask God for things that you need.

