 A guy who is a player isn’t going to be satisfied with just the attention of one girl, you. Instead, he will seek affirmation from many girls and in many corners, and he will sometimes do this when he is with you.


He likes being in the spotlight, and he derives pleasure from female attention. He wants to “capture” as many girls as he can, as if making another notch on his belt.
He will do this by flirting with many girls because he likes to have many girls chasing him or interested in him. He will entice girls to crush on him by indicating interest in them through things like steady eye contact.
He will flirt with playfulness by smiling, telling jokes, and initiating friendly conversation. He will do these things to you. And then he will do them to others, sometimes when you’re not there or looking and sometimes even if you are; then he will deny he was flirting with other people.
 A guy who is a player is interested in physical contact with you right away. Since that’s often his central goal, he sees no reason to take it slow. He is eager to cut to the chase and get what he’s really after.


He will see no reason to develop any emotional intimacy because all he is really interested in is physical intimacy. Thus, he will go for it faster than a guy who is truly interested in developing a longer term relationship with you.
He will touch you on the first date, perhaps by kissing you (or even trying to move farther if you will let him). He sees no reason to patiently wait.
By the second date, his patience will be exhausted, and he will likely try to initiate some type of physical intimacy with you. If he senses that you want to go slower and don’t give him what he wants, he will probably move on to someone else he has a better chance with because his central goal is physical intimacy.
 A lot of girls make the mistake of focusing on a boy’s words instead of paying attention to his actions. A player will do things like act like it’s a chore to find time for you. It’s a cliché but true: Actions speak louder than words.


His flowery language may be designed to flatter you by luring you into liking him. To determine whether the boy you love is a player, focus on what he does, not what he says. Actions reveal more and they are harder to fake.
Does he text you at the last minute instead of trying to develop a strong in-person relationship? This can be a sign of a player. Someone who isn’t a player will do things like call you or ask you to study in the library. A player will rely on texting and try to make hasty last-minute plans. If he always controls the timing of when he sees you, that’s bad too (especially if he vanishes for long periods of time).
Does he ask you to go on actual dates? Does he want you to meet his parents or his friends? These are all signs that he is not a player. A player will try to stage a hook up behind the scenes without introducing you to others. If he's mysterious and hides aspects of his work schedule or life, be very suspicious.The player will text you right as bars are closing or, if he’s underage, he will text you at the last minute and try to see you. That’s because he doesn’t really want it to be a date. Or he might not want anyone to see you with him because he has other girls he’s doing the same with right now.
 A player thinks he’s charming, and he plays it to the hilt. He’s a flirtatious, overly confident, braggart. He thinks he’s all that, so he doesn’t try to pretend to be humble.Watch how he walks. A player will swagger when he walks. He will almost strut, walking with utter confidence. He will smirk sometimes, as if he has a hidden secret.
A player will touch other people a lot, putting his hand on their lower backs and putting his hand on their shoulders, often while uttering a compliment. That is, except you. A player will show more physical affection with you in private, but may avoid public displays of affection.
A player will be an extrovert, who is very outgoing, talks a lot, and enjoys being the center of attention. He will use a lot of direct eye contact, and will move into yours and other people’s personal space. In fact, intense eye contact is one of the strongest signs of a player.
 A player won’t be able to answer the phone right away all the time. The reason: There are people he doesn’t want to know about you, and he might be with one of them at that time.


Perhaps he’s with another girl. Perhaps he’s with guy friends. Perhaps he’s with family members. The key is that he doesn’t want them to know you’re calling.
Thus, he screens his calls. He will call you back, but he doesn’t answer the phone right away. Similarly, if he doesn’t answer his phone when you’re with him, it might very well be another girl calling him that he doesn’t want you to know about.
The same goes for texting. If he takes forever to respond to a text, there could be a reason for it: He’s busy with someone else. He will closely guard his phone, password protecting it and showing that he is trying to keep you from using it. He certainly would never let you see his texts.

