 Nut shells have no nutritional value and cannot be consumed. Doing so could cause them to lodge in your throat, and you could choke. Therefore, always buy shelled nuts, or shell them yourself. In either case watch out for the occasional shell piece that might be left behind.If you shell nuts yourself, crack the nuts over a clean bowl or container to contain the mess of flaky shell bits. Discard of any shell bits after you’re done.;
, Toasting nuts in a dry skillet or in the oven can enhance the flavor. You could even toast nuts in the microwave. The length of time you spend toasting your nuts depends on how flavorful you want them.To toast nuts in the oven, lay them in a flat, even layer on a baking sheet. Set the oven to 325° F (162° C). Place the tray in the center rack for as long as wish your nuts to toast.
To toast nuts in the microwave, place them in an even layer on a microwave-safe plate. Microwave them in one-minute intervals. Taste-test them after each minute-long round to see if they have attained the desired crunchiness and flavor.
To toast nuts on the range, place them in a large frying pan over medium heat. Don’t add any grease or oil. Stir the nuts frequently until fragrant and golden-brown in appearance.
Different nuts require different toasting times to bring out their most delicious flavor. Almonds, for instance, require about 10 minutes in the oven. Peanuts, on the other hand, require closer to 20 minutes in the oven. Experiment with different toasting methods and times to identify how long you want your nuts toasted.
 Crusting fish or meat with nuts basically means coating the fish or meat with a layer of crushed or sliced nuts mixed with other ingredients. The oil in the nuts adds to the flavor of the meat and gives the final dish a pleasing crunch.For instance, to make a simple spicy cashew crust, blend 100 grams of crushed cashews, four mild red chilies, 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil, 1 tablespoon of cumin powder, six large, peeled garlic cloves, and a thumb-sized piece of finely-chopped ginger.
Pat a 140-gram fish fillet with paper towel until relatively dry. Take a handful of the cashew crust and press it into fish. Place the fish on an oiled baking tray, then bake in the oven at 375° F (190° C) for about 13 minutes.
 Nuts are a delicious way to give your salad a healthy dose of lean protein. You can add nuts to many kinds of salad, including Caesar salad, blueberry chicken salad, apple cranberry salad, and house salads. Just choose your favorite type of nuts and toss a handful over your salad of choice.You could also sprinkle a handful of crushed nuts over a savory butter squash or pumpkin soup to give it texture and flavor.
 Some recipes might call for nuts you don't like or can't have. For instance, if you dislike peanuts but love cashews, you can substitute cashews in most – if not all – cases with little difference. You can use chopped cashews or even almonds in pad Thai if you have a peanut allergy. You can also customize your recipes by adding nuts to recipes you already love. For instance, you could toss a few handfuls of walnuts into a muffin or brownie recipe you already like.