 Crackers, bread/toast, bananas, rice, and applesauce are all good options.It is also best to avoid alcohol and caffeine, as they can exacerbate motion sickness. Stick to water, non-caffeinated tea, or juice instead, and make sure you stay hydrated during the trip.
Don't eat heavy, greasy, or fried food.



In the car, sit in the front seat or drive. Mentally visualize the route before and during the trip to prepare yourself for the movement.
On a boat, try to stay towards the middle as this is where it rocks the least. Keep your eyes on the horizon. Staying outside in the fresh air will also help.
On an airplane, make sure you get a window seat. Stay away from the very back of the plane (this will be bumpier) and from the bulkhead (you'll have no visual cues when the plane is tilting). It's probably best to get a seat towards the front middle of the plane, above the wing.
 A distraction, such as calming music, can bring your focus away from the movement of the plane or vehicle. Other things that might help include sucking on a flavored lozenge (ginger in particular may be helpful) or using aromatherapy scents like mint or lavender.Do not read in an attempt to distract yourself. Reading can lead to or worsen motion sickness.
 Motion sickness occurs when your balance-sensing system (which includes your eyes, inner ear, and sensory nerves) experiences a conflict. You may sense movement with your inner ear, but you may not see any sign of movement (such as when you are on a plane or in a cabin on a boat).Reducing sensory input — closing your eyes, or lying on the ground if you have the space — can help lessen this conflict and may reduce motion sickness., It is unclear whether they are more than simply a placebo, but studies have shown that some people have success when wearing them.


It is hypothesized that, when placed on the wrist, they stimulate the median nerve with pulse-like activity that counteracts the neurological signals for nausea from the stomach.If you are someone who prefers to combat your nausea without using medication, this may be a good option to try!

