 The majority of headaches are caused by tension. Engaging in some yoga breathing exercises and spinal twist is an excellent way to improve circulation, increase relaxation and lesson tension-all of which are important to relieving headaches. There are a number of recommended yoga poses known for relieving headaches.For example, form the cat pose by getting on the floor with your hands and knees, and carefully rounding the spine up as you exhale and then returning your spine to its normal position as you inhale.Another easy pose is the seated forward bend. Sit on the floor with your knees straight, and then with you arms straight, leaning forward and holding your flexed feet. This pose helps to relieve heart pressure, helping blood flow to the brain. The corpse pose is formed just as it name suggest. Get on the floor lying flat on your back with your legs straight and together and your arms straight beside your body. This pose is good for settling the mind and allowing your body to relax. , Engaging in some simple stretch exercises helps to reduce headaches by reducing muscle tension in the body. Stretching is a great exercise since you can easily do stretches no matter where you may be.


The neck range of motion is a simple stretching exercise. Place the chin forward, upward and in the direction of both shoulders.Do the shoulder shrug by first shrugging the shoulders forward, then up and forward, and finally up and back. Aim for two 20 minute stretches each day. To maximize the stretches, hold and relax each stretch for five seconds, and do each stretch three to five times. , When you exercise, your body releases endorphins that act as a natural pain reliever for the body. In addition, regular exercise helps reduce stress and improves sleep-both of which are important in preventing headaches.Aerobic exercises such as brisk walking, jogging, biking and swimming are known to reduce the intensity of headaches. Don’t forget to warm up before beginning your more intensive aerobic activity. For example, do some walking before jogging or running.
Exercise causes some people to get headaches. However, it is not recommended that people avoid exercise because of this. Instead, there are several things that you should do as part of your exercise regime to prevent headaches

, Make sure you stay hydrated before, during and after exercise. Also, make sure you are sweating while exercising because when you don’t sweat, that is a sign that you are dehydrated. , Eat an hour and a half before your exercise to provide your body the energy it needs since exercising decreases blood sugar levels.


High protein foods such as nuts and protein bars are good snack choices to eat before exercising.