 It not only keeps you healthy but also you will be happier. As it is rightly said "Early to bed, early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise", so make sure you go to sleep earlier or if there is any problem that you don't keep a perfect time for sleep, then you can use an alarm reminder (cell). No worries. Usually, it requires about 8-9 hours of sleep for an adult and 9-10 hours for all children mostly teenagers and below that level. The benefit of sleeping matters to a much extent in terms of your brain prototyping as it removes all that intoxicated toxins which distracts you, which may obstruct your happiness and perhaps prepares you to be a positive thinker, to start the day better than the previous day. Always be sure to settle down and relax an hour before you go to bed because it will help you drift off more easily; read a book, watch TV (preferably not something violent, aggressive, or even the news) but avoid doing things like homework or anything too stressful that requires you to think, especially if you are a parent or have an elderly relative you need to take care of or a very stressful job.;
, Avoid junk foods and prefer eating fruits and green leafy vegetables every day. This will leave you feeling generally more energetic and happy. Replace unhealthy snacks like a chocolate bar containing lots of calories, boasted with a piece of fruit or perhaps some nuts but do make sure to treat yourself once in a while which is okay. Also avoid too many processed foods altogether..Prefer eating apples, watermelons, papaya, grapes etc. the fruits which contain ultimate source of water. These fruits act as an enriched source for growing immune system, skin clarity/glow, and enhances your eye-vision, as opposed to your ear-hearing.
 Water is good for everything in your body, the benefits of water are too great to list them all but it's never ending. Water helps to give you clear skin which leaves you feeling happier about your appearance as well! Water is just simply an amazing source in itself for your overall health. So make sure to have it with you at all times whenever you are at work or at studies, or even during exercise sessions. So try to drink 8 glasses a day. Also if you do not really like the taste of water, try flavored or sparkling and maybe add some lemon slices; and of course you can always have Robinson's squash or anything like that.
 Whether it's a brisk walk, a quick jog, martial arts, cardiovascular exercises, aerobics, dancing in your room, playing Wii Fit, anything like that will keep you feeling strong, happy and increase immunity of course, even if you are HIV positive or have a weakened immune system, probably. Obviously you don't have to exercise daily because, lets face it, we don't always have the time, unless you are an athlete, gym instructor etc, but try to fit it in a little and there will surely be the major difference in yourself. You will notice that your immunity system has a certain big hand in bringing such a change.
 By this is meant, buying those shoes you always wanted, purchasing some inspirational books from the book store in which there is a great desire in you to love to read (genres depending on) like technologies, health, discovering strengths, developing leadership skills, fiction, novels, thriller stories and many more like that. You can also go to a park, a garden, or any place where you think you can spend some time thinking alone.
 Bond with true friends and compliment them and appreciate them. Always show them how much you love them and treat them how you would like to be treated. Do not back stab, always stick together and stick up for each other. Do not believe any rumors; and once in a while go out and hang out with your friends; you'll create memories and become closer.
 Don't get sad over small issues or take any joke seriously which hurts you. Instead if you feel so hurt, prefer to stay away from that friend, but don't show him that you don't like him/her. Respect your friend from a good perspective. Overall do not be pessimistic; smile and laugh all the time and you will be happy; also who knows maybe your smile might make somebody's day.
 This can be art, music, collecting things or whatever that makes you happy and makes you yourself. Try to be active and celebrate your achievements. Give gifts without expecting to receive anything else; keep yourself busy and happy.
 Help your mom do the dishes, help out your dad in the kitchen, hoover your room, or anything that could help your family. It will not only make them love you more, but you will feel happy knowing you have done good even if you moved out twenty years ago and are a father yourself.
 Unfortunately, sometimes there are people who you know that only cause drama and stress in your life. Therefore, moving away from these types of people is possibly one of the hardest things to do, but when you succeed you will have a weight lifted off your shoulders. When that stupid boy or girl calls you ugly, do not respond, just walk away with your head held high because at the end of the day, they will give up if they don't get the reaction out of you that they want. Not only will you realize these people aren't worth it but it will keep you out of a lot of trouble at school or work and in general. If there is the most irritating rumor or rumors about you going round for maybe a year and it's just gone too far, just take a deep breath and think about the fact you know it's not true and that is all that matters; this is the most powerful thing. Ignore and avoid anybody who thinks otherwise because they are just trying to wind you up. Bad people - this can even be a whole bunch of boys and girls. Just ignore them and avoid them, don't associate with them, don't embarrass yourself around them and generally steer clear of these people and you will be happier and more relaxed in life.
 Remember popularity isn't everything and you would much rather choose true friends over that. Remember, sometimes you have to let a friend go and make another one. Remember that words can hurt. Remember you only live once and life is what you make it. Remember all these things and much more and you'll know what to make out of your life.
 This keeps you healthy, definitely happy and keep you with light mind, especially during stressful times such as being made redundant, divorce, a family death etc. It was rightly and truly said by the world' renowned martial arts legend "Bruce Lee", that more you comfort yourself and if you are doing things in a relaxed position, then your mind will be more powerful and you may be accomplishing big tasks in small time". It means to work anything but in a relaxed position, as it keep yourself to be truly you. It also includes that you should be calm, relaxed and happy even if you are handling stress, because that will give you endurance and power to solve the complex and highly critical problems too. Consequently, as you start tackling tougher situations, you also realize yourself. Taking deep breaths, doing yoga, meditating, relaxing and avoid stress at all times, will give you a better result. Read and write, keep a diary, listen to music to calm you down, sit on your windowsill and look at the beautiful sky.
 Give yourself a makeover, inside and out. Look in the mirror and see your beauty. Use a day and night wash to get rid of acne. Moisturize and replenish your body. Smile and embrace happiness. Know that we all come in different shapes and sizes and it's the inside as well as the outside. Wear that great perfume or aftershave. Strut your stuff. Stand up straight and keep your head held high. Learn to be confident and who you are because nobody's perfect. You are amazing!

, Failure comes in can't and success comes in cans. Always believe you can achieve. If you can dream it, you can achieve it; no matter what. Of course keep goals and dreams realistic. You can't become the Hulk or something but you can get As in all of your exams, if you work for it. Organization plays a very important role in achieving goals, so organize yourself.
 Get homework over and done with and hand it in on time. Revise for that test, get that promotion. Keep things neat and tidy. Have a workspace and a timetable. Store work in folders and make sure you know where everything is so you don't panic, and whatever you do, don't procrastinate. We have all been there but don't go there again.
 Go out with friends, go to a party, get together with the family, go on a bike ride, take a walk with your pet, and enjoy!

, Never change yourself for anyone and anything. Always stay true to your faith and beliefs. Always have your dignity, never have regrets, always be the best that you can be! Also surround yourself with the people and things that you love.
 It's unbelievable how much this can affect you and change your whole life. So get inspired and love it.
 It doesn't do anyone any favors. Better to be hated than loved for what you're not.
 You have to love your life! Be proud, and laugh lots! Dream and wish, be whoever you want to be. Take life and make it what you want. When life gives you lemons squirt life in the eye with the lemons! Explore, dream, discover. Be smart enough to hold on to and be brave enough to let go. Find and create yourself. Take risks. Reject the status quo. Stick up for yourself. Take chances, you never know where they can lead you to. Life goes on. Follow your gut. Love yourself. If you are doing your best, you won't have time to worry about failure. Don't give up. A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. Life is music, love are the lyrics. Stay strong. Failure is the door to success. You must make a choice to take a chance or your life will never change. You don't forgive people because your weak, you forgive people because you are strong enough to know people make mistakes. When you want something you have never had, you have to do something you have never done. And lastly, you are beautiful!

