 Wash your face with your regular soap or cleanser before applying any makeup. Makeup will stay on a clean face longer. This will also help remove any sweat that's already stuck to your face.
 Moisturizing can help your skin stay hydrated throughout the day. Healthier skin will retain makeup easier. Go for an oil-free moisturizer and apply it to your face in the morning before adding your makeup.Check any products you're buying to make sure they're catered to your specific skin type. If you have oily skin, for example, opt for a moisturizer aimed to help with that.
As you want to protect your skin from the sun in the summer, look for a moisturizer with built in SPF for optimal protection.
 Not only does primer make makeup go on easier, it can help you stay cool. The less you sweat, the less damage is done to your makeup. Look for a primer that hydrates the face and helps cool down skin.You can find these primers online, at a salon, and in some department stores.You can also try adding a splash of a naturally-cooling essential oil, like peppermint, to keep your face cool. Just make sure to dilute any essential oil you use with a carrier oil, like olive oil, before applying it to your face.
 Liquid foundations hold up much better under the heat than powder varieties. In addition to opting for a liquid foundation, look for a sheer and light brand. This will minimize sweat and keep your makeup intact longer.Consider a matte finish, as matte tends to reduce shine.
Look for liquid foundations labeled as "long lasting," as these may stay on easier during the summer months.
 Only apply a light layer of foundation to keep your face cool. Instead of applying foundation across your face, focus on covering things like blemishes and discoloration., If you use concealer, only use a small amount. Focus on areas that aren't covered adequately with foundation, such as discolored spots or blemishes only.For best results, use a tinted concealer.
 You can purchase waterproof mascara, eyeliner, and eye shadow at most salons and department stores. These items are vital if you want to keep your eye makeup from running during warm days., Before applying eye shadow, opt for a smooth primer over your lids instead of eye cream. This helps minimize creasing. It also provides something for eyeshadow to stick to. In the heat, it can be difficult to get eyeshadow to adhere naturally to your eyelids., In general, the less eyeshadow you use the better during the summer. Go for a light layer of a cream-based shadows. Creamy eye shadows tend to stay on better than powder varieties.If you're comfortable, you can ditch the eyeshadow altogether and skip straight to the eyeliner.
 Before applying your lipstick, go for the liner. Lip liner helps your lipstick look neater, which can help your makeup look intact in the event of sweat or smudges.It's a good idea to add a lip balm before applying a liner, as this will help lip products better adhere to your lips.
 Big, bold colors don't always look great in the summer months as they can look heavy. Opt for soft nude shades that mimic your natural lip color. You can also try invisible lip liner or lipstick, which makes your lips look smoother without altering the color.Make sure your choice of lipstick matches your lip liner.
Go for matte formulas over creamy glosses/formulas, as mattes look less shiny. Finding lipstick labeled as "long lasting" can also help it stay on despite the sweat.
 Bronzer shows up more dramatically in the sunlight, so don't go overboard with contour lines. Keep your bronzer light and natural by applying a light layer to the places where the sun naturally hits your face. Dust some bronzer on places like your forehead, cheekbones, chin, and nose., Too much highlighter can cause caking and creasing. Only apply a light layer of highlighter to areas where it's needed, like to cover circles under your eyes.For best results, use a tinted concealer.
 Powder is generally not a great choice for the summer months. Instead of using a powder blush, add some cream or gel blush to brighten up your cheeks., Spray or dust on a setting powder or spray when you're done with your makeup. This will add some extra protection to help prevent your makeup from smearing or caking in the hot sun.