 The advantage of using a hot iron for disbudding is that it is bloodless and can be used in calves that are up to four months old. The disadvantages are that is is more painful that caustic paste, and it requires more restraint of the cow in order to keep you safe., You will need a heavy duty electric hot iron dehorner. There are many dehorners to choose from, and some may be made for a specific size of cow. Check the label before selecting your dehorner to make sure you are getting a dehorner that will work on the calf (or calves) you wish to dehorn.


Once you have purchased your dehorner, plug it into an outlet to let it charge. It has automatic temperature control and maintains heat at 100 °F (38 °C).
 To do this, find a piece of wood and press the dehorner into it. If it makes a deep, dark ring in the wood within 10 seconds, it is hot enough.After the test, wait at least three minutes before using the disbudding iron on the calf.
 Have your assistant press the cow’s head against his thighs using both hands. One hand should hold the head against his thighs, while the other hand should restrain the muzzle.


When restraining the cow, use walls to restrict the cow’s movement. Do this by pressing your hips against the body of the cow and sandwiching the cow between you and the wall.
 Find the occipital groove, which runs behind the eye and up into the horn. Take the needle guard off and place the syringe in the flat of your hand. Use your index finger to stabilize the needle by pressing it on its base.


Use the other hand’s thumb to locate where the horn bud is, and inject the anesthetic at the base of the bud, making sure that the syringe is held at a 45 degree angle away from the cow’s eye. Inject 3 to 5 ml of Lidocaine per horn bud.
 Release the needle and use your hand to massage the horn bud and the area around the horn bud to help the anesthetic sink in.


Let the anesthetic sink in for 10 to 20 minutes.
 Place the hot iron over the horn bud and twist several times. Continue to do this until you hear the skin pop.


Look for a white ring, which means that you have burned enough of the bud.
 Take the horn bud out by using the iron like a scoop and flicking it so that the bud snaps out. Doing this will leave a clean circle that is sealed and does not bleed.Look for a small white circle around the depressed area where the horn bud used to be. You should also check for bleeding, though the hot iron should not have drawn any blood. When you determine that the horn has been removed successfully, consider giving your cow some pain medication (this will be covered in the next section) and release the cow back into the stall or out into the field.

