 Switch the electric grill to high heat. Allow it to warm up for at least 5 minutes.The grill needs to be as hot as possible before you add the steaks. If you have a grill with a temperature dial, set it to a minimum temperature of 450 degrees Fahrenheit (230 degrees Celsius).
 Brush the liquid smoke over both sides of each steak, then sprinkle both sides with smoked paprika and smoked salt.


Liquid smoke is an all-natural product flavored with real barbecue smoke, making it a great way to add outdoor barbecue flavor to meat cooked indoors.To further enhance the smoky barbecue flavor, use smoked paprika and smoked salt instead of standard, non-smoky alternatives. Add these spices sparingly, though, to avoid over-seasoning the meat.
Also note that the steaks should be room temperature before you work with them, and you should season the steaks immediately before barbecuing them so that the salt will not have time to draw out any of the meat's inner juices.
 Place the seasoned steaks directly on the preheated grill.


Any type of electric indoor grill will work, but you'll need to alter the grilling technique slightly based on the grill style.

For single-sided open grills, simply lay the steaks flat.
For single-sided grills with a lid, lay the steaks flat and cover the grill with its lid.
For double-sided press grills, lay the steaks on the bottom grill plate and gently close the upper grill plate on top.
 After 1 to 3 minutes, use tongs to flip both steaks over to the other side.


Note that this is only necessary for single-sided grills. Do not flip the steaks when using a double-sided press grill.
Only flip the steaks once throughout the cooking process.
You can also rotate the steaks by 90 degrees (1/4 turn) if you want to create cross grill marks.
 Grill the steaks for another 2 to 9 minutes, depending on the level of doneness you wish to enjoy.


Single-sided open grills will take the greatest amount of time, single-sided closed grills will be somewhat quicker, and double-sided press grills will be the quickest.
Test the texture of the meat with your tongs. Rare and medium-rare steak will be very soft. Medium and medium-well steak will be springy with a little firmness. Well-done steaks are very firm.
You can also check for doneness by inserting a meat thermometer into the thickest part of the steak:

Rare: 120 to 125 degrees Fahrenheit (49 to 52 degrees Celsius)
Medium-Rare: 130 to 135 degrees Fahrenheit (54 to 5 degrees Celsius)
Medium: 140 to 145 degrees Fahrenheit (60 to 63 degrees Celsius)
Medium-Well: 150 to 155 degrees Fahrenheit (66 to 68 degrees Celsius)
Well-Done: 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius)



, Pull the finished steaks off the grill and allow them to rest on a separate plate for 5 minutes.


During this time, you may wish to loosely cover the steaks with aluminum foil to prevent them from becoming cold.
Letting the steaks rest will ensure an even distribution of juices throughout the meat.
 The steaks should be ready to enjoy, and they should have a taste similar to the taste of outdoor barbecue.

