 Since ERP forms the crux for a business to scale up, it is imperative to first review and analyse currently practiced business processes, strengths, and pinpoints as well.


The analysis drill ought to include projecting what future processes should look like as well as making sure the processes conform to business requisites. These requisites and process evaluation data comes in handy when approaching potential ERP solution vendors and screening their product’s capabilities before deeming it a fit.;
, It is important to understand how a potential ERP solution will adapt to the current IT infrastructure and/or platform. For instance, a business that is aboard Microsoft platform is most likely to find a great technical fit with an ERP software built on .NET platform.
 It is quite common for businesses to fall prey for marketing gimmicks used by substandard vendors out there only to regret later. Ensure to unravel any hidden costs related to software maintenance, hardware upgrades, additional implementation costs, etc.
 Devise an all-inclusive ERP project implementation plan well beforehand.


This plan should not only include activities required for installing the system, but should also entail the list of resources responsible for ensuring that the solution is tested, optimally functional and well-accepted by end users.
Devise this plan prior to finalising a particular ERP software in order to acknowledge the resource and cost requisites to make its implementation a huge success.
Further more, the implementation plan ought to include all the nitty-gritty right from workflow design to test iterations and data migration to core organizational activities.
 Failing to do so plays a huge spoilsport for a successful ERP rollout. For instance, if a business intends to curb costs, boost revenue and scalability, it is essential to assess and project ERP software’s benefits against these three metrics.
 It is quite relevant when choosing ERP software. Many business owners tend to commit the grave mistake of choosing a solution based on what their competitors are opting for or go for a solution simply based on brand name.


A sound and intuitive practice is considering a number of options at hand and select the one that best fits the business requisites, budget and objectives.
 Rope in expert advice and supervision of an ERP consultant. ERP solutions are quite complicated especially the high-end ones thus, getting aboard a consultant will help sail smooth and choose the best ERP software as well as will help in seamless implementation.

