 A dormant bare root tree is best planted in the spring, after the soil has thawed enough to dig a deep hole. This is especially important in colder regions. The trees' roots need a chance to take hold before the next winter, or they'll suffer from the frost. If you live in a place with mild winters, you can plant apple trees in the fall without worrying that they'll die from the frost before they get a chance to set., Buy a soil testing kit to find out whether you need to adjust your soil's pH. Different apple trees need different types of soil to do well, so talk with a local horticulturist, an expert at your local nursery or your County Extension Center to find out what pH is correct for the apple variety you're growing. Your County Extension Office may also be able to help you test your soil sample. If necessary, amend the soil to adjust the pH level before planting.


You should also adjust the soil to account for nutrient deficiencies. Again, conduct research to find out how rich or poor the soil should be for the variety you're planting.
Amend the soil to a depth of 18 inches below the planting hole, so that the tree's roots grow into healthy soil.
 Apple trees need full sun, so choose a spot that gets at least six hours a day. They like soil that is moist, but not sopping wet. If your soil is clay-heavy or doesn't drain quickly, amend it by working in straw, compost, or another organic material to create better drainage. Using an organic material will also provide nutrients to the tree as it decomposes over time., If you are planting seedlings, which will grow into full-sized trees about thirty feet tall, they should be planted fifteen to eighteen feet apart. If you're planting dwarfing rootstock, plant them four to eight feet apart.


Dwarfing trees tend to fall over under the weight of a heavy flush of apples, so it's a good idea to plant them near something sturdy, like a fence. If no fence is available, you can set up a trellis to support them.
If your property is hilly or sloped, plant the trees in higher areas. During the winter, cold air settles in the lower areas, and these "frost pockets" can be harmful to the trees.
 Use a spade to remove all grass, weeds and stones in a circle about four feet in diameter. Dig a hole twice the diameter of the root system. It should be just deep enough so that the tips of the roots graze the bottom of the hole, and the graft union (where the scion is joined to the rootstock) is two inches above the soil line.


Put some of the loose soil back in the hole so it will surround the roots.
Loosen the soil on the bottom and sides of the hole so it will be easy for the roots to penetrate as they grow.
 Position it in the center of the hole. Spread out the roots so they aren't cramped or curled in the hole. Replace soil around the roots to fill in the hole. After you've replaced a few inches of soil, use your fists to tamp down the soil around the roots, so no air pockets will form around the roots. Keep going until the hole is completely filled in.


As you work, check the tree to make sure the trunk is standing upright at a ninety-degree angle to the ground. If you plant the tree crooked, it will grow crooked.
Don't add fertilizer to the hole. The soil should have already been amended so that it's nutritious enough for the tree to grow well. Fertilizer could burn the roots.
Make sure the graft union is not buried; it must be above the soil.
Water the tree well. This removes air pockets and helps the roots and soil make firm contact.

