  Take your own pictures of flower boxes.  Ones on storefronts are most likely fair game to photograph, but ask permission before snapping the window boxes on private property.;
,  Never copy them exactly, but taking inspiration from them is good.
 Get a pencil, ruler, eraser, an assortment of brushes, tissues or sheets of paper towel, a dry pan watercolor set, or tube paints in an array of colors with a palette.  Set up your palette and activate the paints with a little water.  This gets them moistened so they are ready when you are.
  Leave the piece attached to the pad so the backing serves as a support board as you work., This will assist you in composing your painting.  You will need two big index cards, 5” X 8” or two sheets of heavy white paper, a ruler, pencil and scissors.  

,   Draw in 1 ¼” from two of the outside edges and cut out the two pieces. Place these pieces over your reference photo and by moving them around, try out various compositions.   When you settle on one, tape the masking pieces onto your photo with masking tape.
  Use a ruler to get the long lines of the box. windows and siding straight.  The box will appears as a rectangle since it is being seen straight on.
,  Again, use your ruler, making sure the vertical lines are precisely parallel to the sides of the paper.  Draw layers of moldings on the window frame where they show.  If desired, break up the glass area with smaller rectangles.
  This will show mostly in three places, on either side of the window and below the window box.  There are numerous types of building materials, from bricks to all kinds of wood or other siding, each with its own pattern.  Indicate this lightly in pencil.
  Double check for absolutely straight vertical and that horizontal lines. Make corrections, if necessary.  ,  You can start wherever you please. The flowers will be what is closest to the viewer, so make them generous and bursting from the box.
  Paint leaves various shapes and sizes.  Allow the piece to dry.,  Do the siding, but try not to go overboard with precision and details.  Pick a body color for the siding and paint it lightly.  Allow it to dry.  Go back in and texture it any way you wish.  To make your job easier, pick a brush the same size as the shingles, or bricks and do them in one stroke.  Allow the piece to dry.
  If possible, study photos of window glass with reflections.
  If trees are reflected, pull greens onto your palette and prep them with some water to the consistency of heavy cream.  If sky is reflected, pull blues and have them ready.  Mix a puddle of dark from red, blue, and a touch of yellow.  Blue mixed with brown also makes a good dark and diluted, a good gray.  Keep all paints for the window glass fairly thick. It will go on an area that has plenty of water.  Consider using three brushes for the three colors of paint.  Keep the colors squeaky clean and let them blend by themselves on the wet window.,  Wet them with a wide brush and plain water.  Guide your brush around the flowers. Try keep the window moldings dry and free of paint, but mistakes can be corrected later, if necessary.    ,   Do strokes of green, blue and deep neutral.  Crush up a piece of tissue or paper towel and randomly blot the glass in one or two places.  Let the entire thing dry undisturbed.,  Analyze where the colors need to be intensified.  Sharpen the edges all around the windows and glass.  Use a small, pointed brush and a neutral gray or tan to straighten lines on the moldings.  If there is a lot to correct, mask the moldings and scrub them.  

, They are what will give depth. Mix a puddle of neutral gray and with a ¾” flat brush, add shadows around the windows, under the window box and under the flowers.
 Put in contrasting colored centers, veins in the leaves, creeping vines coming down from the box., The cat's body needs trimming down.,,