 If the belt is intact and your vehicle comes equipped with a tensioner pulley, you may not be able to tighten the belt without replacing the tensioner. Most tensioners are installed using only one bolt. Start by inserting a half inch drive breaker bar or ratchet into the hole in the center of the pulley. Twist the breaker bar clockwise to reduce the tension in the belt.This may not be particularly difficult if your tensioner has broken.
You may also consider replacing the drive belt while doing this, as it will have to come off anyway.
 Slide the belt off of the tensioner pulley first, then release the tensioner. You may choose to leave the belt where it is to avoid having to run it back through all of the pulleys, but you may also want to remove it if it is in the way of where you will be working.Take note of how the belt is run through all of the pulleys if your vehicle and owner’s manual does not have a diagram to follow.
If you do not have a diagram, try taking a picture of the belt with your phone to use as a guide.
 There will be one bolt holding the tensioner in place that passes through the tensioner into the engine block or a bracket attached to it. Use a hand or socket wrench to remove the bolt. Note the position of the locking pin sticking out of the back of the tensioner as you remove it.The locking pin provides the tensioner with leverage to exert force onto the belt.
You will need to re-use the bolt you remove from the old tensioner when installing the new one.
 Slide the new tensioner into place, paying attention to slide the locking pin into the engine block in the same fashion the old one was when you removed it. Insert the bolt and tighten it using the same wrench you used to remove the old one.Make sure to make it tight, as there will be a good amount of force on the tensioner when the vehicle is running.
The tensioner will likely not seat properly without the pin inserted in the right place, so if you are having trouble getting it in, check to ensure the pin is sliding into the hole in the block or bracket.
 Run the drive belt back through and around all of the pulleys. Use a diagram or the picture you took of them to ensure you run the belt properly. Slide a breaker bar or half inch drive ratchet into the hole in the center of the new tensioner pulley and turn it clockwise to lower it as you slip the drive belt over the tensioner pulley last. The new tensioner should hold the belt at the proper level of tension once you release it.Test the tension of the belt by placing a ruler alongside it and pulling the belt away from it. If the belt will come further than a half inch away from the ruler, it is still not tight enough.

