 Listening plays a large role in establishing the quality of your relationships with others and can help convey that you are friendly and approachable. When engaged in a conversation with someone, allow the speaker to complete their thought or story without interruption. Maintain eye contact, smile, and nod to demonstrate that you are listening and focusing on them.People will be more inclined to approach you for a conversation if they feel that you are interested and focused.


Do not check your phone when you are talking to someone. Be polite and make it obvious that you are listening and focusing on the conversation.
Focus on what the person is saying. Don’t drift off into a daydream or be sidetracked by other conversations going on around you., When someone describes a sad or upsetting situation, be empathetic and respond appropriately. Avoid questioning their emotional response and refrain from offering advice unless specifically asked. Sometimes the speaker may wish to express an emotion for support rather than for guidance. Showing support and understanding will make the speaker feel comfortable around you. Others will notice and be more likely to strike up a conversation with you.


If someone tells you that they are upset because their dog is sick, validate their feelings. “I’m so sorry. This must be a really difficult time for you. I understand how upsetting it can be when a pet is unwell.” Show the person that you are supportive, friendly, and that you understand their emotional response., If you don’t understand a person’s point or would like to hear more about their perspective on a certain topic, ask them to clarify or elaborate. Show that you are being attentive to what they are saying and you are interested to hear more. This will make the conversation more pleasant. The speaker and others around you will take note of your attentiveness, making it easier for others to approach you.


It is also useful to ask questions when you know you have a common interest with someone. “Jane told me that you recently traveled to Berlin. I visited Berlin years ago! What was your favorite thing about your trip?” Establishing a common ground can allow the conversation to continue and flourish.

