 To make a flat poster, you can either draw the planets or cut them out of construction paper and glue them down on the poster board. You will need a large poster board (white or black), colored construction paper (optional), scissors, markers, and white craft glue or a glue stick.


Metallic markers will show up really well on a black poster board. Use these for labels.
 The first step in making a solar system poster is to know how the solar system looks. Start with the sun and then add the planets in the correct order: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune.


You can also include dwarf planets like Pluto, Haumea, Makemake and Eris outside of Neptune.
 Make one for every planet in the solar system: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Try to cut your planets to scale: Mercury and Mars will be the smallest; Venus and Earth are slightly larger; Uranus and Neptune are about 5 times larger than Venus/Earth; Saturn is about 12 times larger; and Jupiter is the largest, about 14 times larger.Alternatively, you can print pictures of each planet and cut those out.
Glue the planets onto the poster in their proper order.
 Instead of making cutouts of the planets, you can draw them directly onto the poster board. In order to draw the planets, it would be better to use a white poster board instead of a black poster board.


Use markers of different colors to draw each planet.
Use a geometry compass or trace circular objects of different sizes to make perfectly sized planets.
 Either draw asteroids with a brown marker or cut them out of construction paper and glue them down. The asteroid belt separates the inner and outer planets.


Add other embellishments like comets, shooting stars, or rockets.
 Find out specific information about the planets like their size, distance from the sun, number of moons, origin of the name, and any other interesting facts there may be. Type up a small blurb about each planet and paste it next to the planet.Make your poster really interesting by having flaps for people to lift up or different textures (tin foil is good for a space theme).
Facts about the planets and solar system can be found online, at the library, or in your school textbook. Ask your parents to help you search online for information.

