 To make sure that the oven is hot enough to bake the popcorn chicken, set the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set it aside.You can substitute a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper if you prefer.
 Place 2 pounds (907 g) of skinless chicken breasts that have been cut into 2-inch (5-cm) pieces into a large plastic zipper bag. Add 1 cup (125 g) of all-purpose flour, and close the bag. Shake well until the chicken is well coated with the flour.If you prefer, you can use whole wheat flour.
 Add 2 large eggs and ¼ cup (59 ml) of milk to a large bowl. Whisk the two together until they are fully combined and set aside for the moment.If you prefer, you can use egg substitute in place of the eggs.
 Add 4 ½ cups (415 g) of lightly crushed corn flakes, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt, ½ teaspoon (2 g) of pepper, ½ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of garlic powder, and ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of paprika to a separate shallow bowl. Mix well to ensure that all of the ingredients are fully combined.You can adjust the amount of the seasonings to suit your tastes.
 When you’re ready to coat the chicken, remove the pieces from the bag with the flour. Add them to the bowl with the egg mixture, and stir well to ensure that they’re coated on all sides.Allow the excess egg mixture to drip off the chicken back into the bowl as you remove the pieces.
 Once the chicken pieces are coated with the egg mixture, place them in the bowl with the cornflake mixture. Press them into the mixture so the pieces are well coated on all sides., Place the coated chicken pieces on the prepared baking sheet, and add them to the preheated oven. Allow the chicken to bake for 10 minutes and then turn the pieces over. Bake them for another 7 to 8 minutes, or until they are golden brown., When the popcorn chicken is finished baking, remove it from the oven. Transfer it to a platter, and serve while it is still warm.You can serve the chicken with whatever sauce you prefer, but barbecue and ranch dressing work especially well.

