 They came out to you because they trusted you, and it's important to show them that you care. Believe them. If it really turns out to be a phase (unlikely), then they will figure it out themselves.


Never dismiss it as a phase or attention ploy.
Recognize that their sexuality does matter—it will shape their life. Acknowledge it as a part of who they are, and don't brush it off as unimportant.
Don't ask when they "became" gay/bi/whatever they identify as, ask them how long they've been "that way", or ask when they knew. Those are somewhat strange questions, and once again, they never decided or chose their sexuality/gender.
Don't wave it off or pretend to understand if you aren't part of the queer community. Coming out is a difficult experience, and they need you to listen.
Don't disown them, hurt them, or end your friendship.
 Your sexuality doesn't define your personality or attributes, and neither does theirs. It's best not to...


Say "you're too pretty to be a lesbian" or "but you don't look gay" or "you can't be (their gender), you still look like a (sex they were born as)."
Say "OMG I love gay people!! Yay!" It's totally great to love gay people, but don't love them for their sexuality. They want equality, not superiority.
Claim that you're a strong ally simply because you like Ellen Degeneres or Tyler Oakley.
Ask them if they're going to hit on you, or if they have a crush on you, simply because they're attracted to your gender.
Assume they want to know all about your gay friends, or that they need you to set them up on a date. (You can offer "I have another friend who is pansexual, and I can introduce you to her if you'd like." That way, they can take you up on it if they're looking for other LGBTQ+, but they won't feel like you're pushing something on them.)

, It's okay to ask for clarification, but too many questions can feel like an interrogation and tire them out. If you don't understand very well, or you think a particular question might violate their privacy, it's time to research.

