 It is a common myth that when you are in a relationship you “owe” your partner sex. This is untrue. If you are being coerced, intimidated, or forced to participate in sexual activities when you do not want to, this is sexual abuse.Men may also be victims of sexual abuse. For example, coerced sex, unwanted sexual contact, or being made to penetrate a partner are all examples of sexual abuse that men can experience in relationships.Demanding you to perform particular acts that you do not want to do is also abuse. Even if you enjoy some sexual activities, a healthy partner will never force you to perform any activities that you are not interested in, or that frighten or disturb you.
Some people believe that it is impossible to be guilty of rape within a marriage or intimate relationship. This is not true. Marriage or a romantic relationship does not bind you to a contract where you can never say no to sex. A spouse who forces his/her spouse to perform sex acts through violence (or threats of violence) is guilty of marital rape, which is illegal., An abusive relationship does not have a healthy, mutually enjoyed sexual relationship between partners. The abusive partner may withhold sex as a “punishment” for perceived wrongdoing. Or, the abusive partner may punish you by making you perform sexual acts that you don’t want to do.Abusers may also use sex as a “make-up” after a violent incident, even if you don’t feel like it.
 Abusers are usually extremely jealous and overprotective of their partners. An abusive partner generally believes s/he should be in complete control of how you dress and present yourself.Your partner may restrict what clothes you buy and what you are allowed to wear.
Your partner may become angry or violent if you wear something s/he does not approve of, especially if it is considered “too sexy.”
Your partner may become angry and jealous and blame you if others pay attention to your appearance.
Your partner may demand that you wear things that you do not like or that make you uncomfortable.

