 Although your body requires sodium in small amounts, consuming too much sodium is bad for you and can lead to hypertension, heart disease and stroke. If you suffer from high blood pressure, take steps to reduce your sodium intake:Do not add salt to foods when cooking but use other spices instead (cumin, lemon pepper, fresh herbs).
Rinse canned foods to remove sodium.
Buy foods that are labeled “low sodium” or “sodium free.”
Avoid processed foods, such as crackers, fried items, and baked goods, that often are high in sodium.
Also avoid eating fast food and ask for reduced sodium when ordering in restaurants.
 Whole grains are high in dietary fiber and studies have shown that adding more fiber to your diet may reduce hypertension.Make sure you get at least six to eight servings of whole grains every day.
Switch refined grains to whole grains, such as brown rice and whole wheat pasta and bread.
 Potassium-rich foods should be a part of your hypertension management diet. Foods you should add include sweet potatoes, tomatoes, kidney beans, orange juice, bananas, peas, potatoes, dried fruits, melon and cantaloupe.Keep your target potassium levels moderate (around 2,000 to 4,000 mg a day)., According to a clinical study, dark chocolate may actually assist in lowering blood pressure.Eat a half an ounce of dark chocolate that has at least 70% of cocoa per day.Because dark chocolate is high in calories, be sure not to overindulge.
 Besides being bad for blood pressure, caffeine and alcohol also have other negative health effects to you and your baby during pregnancy. Thus, you should avoid both, especially if you suffer from high blood pressure.


Drinking caffeine during pregnancy has been linked to declined placental blood flow and a risk of miscarriage. Although more studies are needed to confirm the effects of caffeine, it is best to switch to decaf during your pregnancy.High alcohol consumption is known to raise blood pressure and it is also known to have negative effects on your unborn baby. Before drinking any alcohol, even just one glass of wine, consult your doctor., A clinical study demonstrated that systolic blood pressure can be lowered by adding these foods to your diet.Add low-fat or fat-free dairy products (such as milk, cottage cheese, yogurt) to your diet.
If you are lactose intolerant, try a milk alternative, such as almond, coconut, or hemp milk. You can also try soy milk, but you may want to limit soy products during pregnancy since it may increase estrogen levels in your fetus.Go easy on the amount of cheese you eat (even low-fat) due to their high sodium content.

