 It is advised to seek medical advice if you have any of the symptoms of prostate cancer. There are many other possible diagnoses, such as prostatitis, urinary tract infection, and benign prostatic hyperplasia, that can mimic cancer but it is best to rule out prostate cancer as soon as possible. Your doctor will take a detailed history and physical examination to order the appropriate workup, and will ask about your symptoms, family history, diet, sexual history, and the use of any substances such as drugs or tobacco.
 While you can tell your doctor about your symptoms, a clear diagnosis can only be done with specific medical tests. If cancer is probable or needs to be investigated, your doctor can perform a variety of screening exams or tests:Digital rectal examination (DRE). Your doctor will feel for your prostate with a gloved and lubricated index finger through your rectum. The doctor will then palpate the part of your rectum facing your belly button; the prostate lies above/in front. The doctor is feeling for any irregular shapes (lumps and bumps), contour (smooth or not smooth), size and tenderness. Abnormal findings include firm, bumpy, nonsmooth, and enlarged prostate. Normal DRE does not rule out prostate cancer unfortunately.
Prostate specific antigen (PSA) blood test. Your doctor will insert a needle in your arm and collect blood and send it out for detection of PSA. This is a specific protein found in your prostate. Most doctors conclude a level of 4ng/ml or lower is considered normal. Men with a PSA level between four and 10 have about a one in four chance of having prostate cancer. If the PSA is more than 10, the chance of having prostate cancer is over 50% (10). PSA levels cause false positive or false negative results. Elevated levels may not indicate prostate cancer or issues — it serves as a guide. Normal levels do not indicate you don't have cancer. Ejaculation (recent sexual activity), prostate infection, digital rectal examination and bike riding (this puts pressure on the prostate) can cause elevations of PSA. Those without prostate symptoms and elevated PSA may require repeat testing after two days. Repeat elevated PSA levels may warrant a DRE and/or biopsy of the prostate (needle inserted to take a piece of the prostate tissue for analysis) if symptoms are present. Cancer can occur even with normal results from the PSA test.
TransRectal Ultrasound (TRUS). A small lubricated probe will be inserted into the rectum and emit sound waves that can produce a picture on the screen. What the doctor is looking for is enlarged size, abnormal shape and contour. This method cannot always tell the difference between normal and prostate cancer.
Biopsy. This involves using a TRUS to guide a needle into the prostate gland and take a sample of the tissue for analysis. Your doctor will sample more than one area of the prostate for analysis. This is a definitive test for both BPH and prostate cancer. Your doctor may elect to undergo this if there is high level of suspicion but previous studies have come back negative/normal. A pathologist will use a Gleason grading system to analyze the tissue biopsy of the prostate. A grade from one to five can be assigned with five being cancer cells present and one being normal tissue present. If cancer is present, most biopsies are grade three or higher, and grades one and two are not often used.
 For example, your doctor may order a urinalysis if they suspect a urinary tract infection. Analysis of the urine will show high white blood cells (immunity cells) and possibly nitrites if a bacterial infection is present.


Benign prostatic hyperplasia — The same tests and exams will be done to determine BPH as in prostate cancer with many of the results possibly overlapping; however, the biopsy will not show cancer cells.
Prostatitis — The prostate will be tender upon DRE unlike in cancer.

