 If your house is overly cluttered, you're likely to make your new cat feel uncomfortable or nervous. It's important that your cat be able to jump on furniture and high surfaces without getting lost in the mess. Your cat is a part of the family now, so do your best to give him/her a proper welcome.;
, The best way to introduce a new cat into your home is to have a litter box (assuming he/she will be an indoor cat) set up and ready for use before the cat is brought inside. This will let him/her know that there is a space that's automatically theirs. They will most likely investigate the box soon after entering the home. If they don't find it on their own, show them!

, Your new cat will need to be able to exercise and exert their energy in healthy ways. Purchase some scratching posts and toys from your local pet store as soon as possible, even if you adopt a more mature cat. Your cat will thank you, young or old. The posts will naturally file your cat's nails and the toys will help them exert their nerves while they adjust to their new home.
 When I first adopted my cat, all I wanted to do was feed her whatever I thought she would like. But too much variety can be a bad thing. If your cat starts throwing up, you might be changing her food too much or over-feeding him/her. Most cats will prefer canned food over dry food, but too much canned food weakens their teeth and can be too rich for their tummy. A healthy balance is key.
 Cats don't like loud noises, so if you're used to blasting music or you parent several screaming children, adopting a cat might not be right for you. If there's a lot of nervous energy in the house, your cat will pick up on it.
 If you let your cat sleep all day, you won't get much sleep during the night. You have to set aside some playtime during the day to play with your cat to thoroughly wear him/her out. Some cats will meow through the night, some will play loudly with their toys right when your eyes begin to close and some will even bang the lower cupboards in the bathroom or kitchen open and shut until they're sure your awake.

