 Place the butter in a medium skillet and set it on the stove over medium-high heat.


As the butter melts, turn the skillet back and forth to evenly coat the bottom. Wait until the butter completely melts before continuing.;
, Add the chopped onion and green bell pepper to the melted butter. Cook the vegetables, stirring frequently, for about 3 minutes.The exact time may vary depending on how large your pieces are. Only cook the vegetables until they become tender, and do not wait for the onion to turn translucent or brown.
 Flake the crab meat into the vegetable mixture. Stir to combine, then continue cooking for another 3 minutes.


Stir the mixture frequently as it continues to cook.
Cook the crab meat until it becomes warm throughout.
 Place the mayonnaise, sour cream, lemon juice, Dijon mustard, and parsley in a medium mixing bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until evenly combined.Fresh parsley is ideal, but if you don't have fresh parsley, use 2 tsp (10 ml) of dried parsley instead.
Note that this amount of dressing will just barely coat the crab salad. If you prefer crab salad with heavier dressing, you may need to double the dressing ingredients.
 Remove the crab mixture from the stove and spoon it into the bowl of dressing. Mix gently until the crab mixture and vegetables are evenly coated.


If there's extra butter in the skillet after cooking the crab and vegetables, drain it before combining the mixture with the dressing. Keeping the butter could cause the salad to become runny.
 Sprinkle and mix in as much salt and black pepper as desired according to your own sense of taste.


Start with small amounts, like 1/8 (0.6 ml) each, and increase the salt and pepper as needed until satisfied.
 You can enjoy the crab salad immediately or store it in your refrigerator for later. The crab salad may need to chill for 30 to 60 minutes before it becomes cool.


Store crab salad in a sealed plastic or glass container and keep it in your refrigerator for three to four days.

