 If you have to or want to communicate with ignorant people, try modeling the behavior you’d like to see from them—even if they’re not showing it. Show sympathy and patience when listening to them, even if you strongly disagree.Eventually, your modeling might rub off on them. Try saying things like:”This is a really complicated issue. I can see that you think X. I see things differently, because of Y and Z”
”There are a lot of facts to consider in this situation. Maybe we all need to do some more research before making a judgment.”

, If a person says something ignorant, it might be your instinct to react by telling the person that he or she is wrong. Never underestimate the power of silence, however. If you respond to this person by saying nothing at all, and only staring at them blankly, you are sending a powerful, silent message that his or her ignorant comment is so far off the mark that it’s not even worth a response.
 Remember that it is very common for people to jump to conclusions, and that we often aren’t aware of our own ignorance.If you are dealing with people who display ignorance by refusing to believe the facts or stating false information, offer references to the right information rather than just telling them that they are wrong.


Try saying something like “I hear you when you say that X is true, but if you read Y it actually states that Z is true.”
If you can’t remember the details, or just want to be extra-diplomatic when pointing out someone’s ignorance, try saying something like “I’m not an expert on the subject of X, but I think that if you read Y it says Z.”

, If you can’t seem to communicate convincingly with an ignorant person, politely state that you don’t agree with him or her. Put yourself in the other person’s shoes, hard as it may be, and try to reach a compromise:Offer to talk more about the issue later, after you’ve both had time to think.
Suggest that since you don’t agree with each other, it might be best to respectfully acknowledge the difference of opinion and move on (otherwise known as “agreeing to disagree”)

, You can’t win every battle. If someone’s ignorance is insurmountable, sometimes its best to just let it be. If you can’t change the way the person thinks, you can at least preserve your emotional well being by letting it go and moving on., Bullying can happen anywhere, to anyone, and at any age. Often, harassment and/or bullying happens because of ignorance, and can take the form of ignorant comments based on race, sex, gender, political or social beliefs.You do not have to accept this.


Bullying based on ignorance can show up as rude or lewd jokes, inappropriate comments concerning gender/race/age/etc., sharing of not-safe-for-work materials, demeaning comments, unequal work distribution, and so on.If you are the victim of bullying, try to document it. For instance, save screenshots of comments on social media, save emails, and try to find witnesses.
If you are bullied at work, ask for a face-to-face meeting with your bully’s superior to discus. Bring any documentation you have. You can also speak to your human resources department (or equivalent) about the bullying/harassment.
If you are being bullied at school, let your school counselor, parents, or another trusted authority know about it so that you can get help. Schools should have anti-bullying policies.Be persistent if you are not believed.

