 These combinations include pairs, three of a kind, and four of a kind. These hands have cards that are the same numerical rank. To get these hands, hold two or three cards that are in the same rank. The more matching cards you have, the higher your payout will be.


Don’t hold an unpaired card in the hope that you’ll get a pair on the second deal. The chances of you getting the exact card you would need are slim.
 A Straight consists of four cards in numerical sequence, regardless of suit. You have the best chance of getting this hand if you’re dealt three cards in sequence on the first deal. However, only attempt to get an outside card, not an inside card. An inside card would complete the Straight by filling an inside spot. For example, if you had a 3, 4, and 6, you would be looking for an inside card. The chances of getting this card are low.
An outside card would complete the Straight by filling an outside spot. For example, if you have a 4, 5, and 6, you could get a 3 or a 7 to complete the straight.
 A Flush occurs when you have five cards in the same suit. These cards can have any numerical value. You have the best chance of getting this hand if you’re dealt four cards of the same suit on the first deal. Hold these cards and hope for the fifth card of the ​same suit.
 A Full House has three cards of same numerical rank and two cards of a different but matching numerical rank. If you have two pairs on the first deal, hold these and try to get a Full House. Similarly, if you have three of a kind on the first deal, hold these for an even better chance to get a Full House.


For example, if you had three jacks, hold these for a chance to get another pair and make a Full House.
 A Straight Flush has five cards in numerical order from the same suit. This excludes a straight using of all the face cards (a Royal Flush.) If you have three or more cards in the same suit and in numerical sequence, hold them to try to get a straight flush.It’s easier to get an “outside” card than an “inside” card. For example, if you had a 3, 4, and 5, of hearts, you could get a 2 or 6 of hearts. If you had a 3, 4, and 6 of hearts, you would HAVE to get a 5 of hearts.
 A Royal Flush happens when you have a ten, Jack, Queen, King, and Ace in the same suit. This is the highest payout hand in the game. Your chances of getting this hand are best if you get three or more relevant cards in the first deal.For example, if you’re dealt a two of hearts, a three of diamonds, and a ten, jack, and king of hearts, hold the last three cards to try to get a Royal Flush.

