 Make sure that your arm and fingers are curved. Check your thumb that it is supporting the cello but not squeezing it tightly. If you are squeezing it too tightly, relax your hand and gently place your thumb at the neck of the cello.
 Only hover them over the strings. Try not to get too close to the strings as the shifting movement will be much harder, however, having your fingers too high above the strings will make it hard to accurately place your fingers., This action must be done smoothly so that there is less tension in your arm., Gradually increase the speed of shifting to each position. Avoid yanking your arm towards the position. Keeping your thumb loose helps you shift easier., Make sure you are completely accurate. Press all four fingers down and play the D string. Lift your fingers off one by one to see if each note it in tune. Once you have checked and the notes are in tune, place your hand gently on the D string in first position again., Your third finger should be on the G# note and your fourth finger should be on the A note. This A is the same A as your open string A. Press down all your fingers in this position and play.

To test if your second position on the D string is correct, play your open A string and compare. They both should sound the same.
 Lift your fourth finger to see what G# sounds like, then lift your third finger to listen to G and so on. If the notes are out of tune, adjust your fingers and try again., Remember to move your thumb with your fingers. Ensure that you are not squeezing too tightly. Remember to lift your fingers slightly first then move. Avoid sliding up and down the strings with your fingers as it is very slow. Always keep your fingers and arm curved over., Improve your speed and accuracy. Practice shifting to second position on the other strings too:

In second position on the A string, the notes are (first to fourth finger):

C#; D; D#; E


G string:

B; C; C#; D (this D is the same D as your open string D)


C string:

E; F; F#; G (this G is the same G as your open string G)



, Move your hand so that your first finger is on the G note and your second finger is on the G# note. Your third finger should now be on the A note and your fourth finger should be on the B♭ note., Lift your fourth finger up and play. This should be the A note. To check if it is accurate, play your open A string to compare. Then, lift your third finger up and play (this should be the G# note) and so on. If the notes are out of tune, adjust your fingers and try again., Always check your thumb. Do not make it a habit to keep your thumb in one spot while shifting as this will cause problems., Always adjust your fingers if the sound is out of tune.

In third position, the notes on the A string are:

D; D#; E; F


G string:

C; C#; D; E♭


C string:

F; F#; G; A♭



, Practice slowly and gradually increase the speed. Try shifting from:

First to third position
Second to third position
Third to first position
Third to second position

, Check to see if all your fingers are accurately placed. Adjust your fingers to the correct position if necessary., Your third finger should be on the B note and your fourth should be on the C note., Note that the C note is the same C note on the A string in first position. Lift your fourth finger up and play, then lift your third finger up and play and so on. Adjust your fingers if the notes are out of tune.,

In fourth position, the notes on the A string are:

E; F; F#; G


G String

D; E♭; E; F


C String

G; A♭; A; B♭



, Moving from first to fourth position (and back) is difficult to do quickly and accurately.