 If you want to get really elaborate by making a die that is adjustable, you have to open up the inside of the die without visibly altering the outside. This will take some practice and some patience to get it right, but it's possible if you start by drilling out several of the holes on different sides of the die, using a thin drill bit.


Make as few holes as possible. If you're struggling to scrape out the interior, however, you will need to make several holes. In that case, it may be better to drill out all the holes, so at least they'll be uniform.
 The best tool for hollowing out a die is a dentist’s pick or another small poking device. Carefully and gently scrape out the interior of the die a little bit at a time. If you can work the pick into each hole, scrape out as much as possible from each different angle. Eventually you should be able to hollow out the entire interior.


From each angle go as deep as you can and try to scrape out as much as you can. You won't be able to hollow out the entire die from one side, but you can get it all by approaching it from several directions.
 Smear some super glue over each hole and let it dry. This will help contain the weight you insert. Don’t worry if the glue makes the die look different. You can smooth it up later using fine-grained sandpaper and some care. Now, you're just trying to get the weight correct.
 Fit a few small bearings into the middle of the die. You want to get the final weight of the die to match the basic weight of a normal die, so keep a normal die on hand to compare while you're working. The average handler won't notice subtle differences, but you don't want your weighted die to feel hollow and fake.


Insert a few small lead bearings into the open hole. Feel the heft of it and add more if necessary. They'll be rattling around on the inside, but don't worry about the sound. You'll take care of that with the next step.
 You're going to fill the die with a mixture of waxes that will be hard enough to secure the bearings and hold them still at a cool temperature but soft enough that you'll be able to melt it with body heat–the heat from your clenched hand. The ideal mixture is paraffin and coconut oil, both commonly available and relatively cheap. You will mix them together to form a solid but meltable mixture that you can create quickly at home.


In a pan melt your paraffin to liquid. Add 80% more coconut oil to the wax and mix thoroughly in a bowl. Let harden.
Test the consistency of the mixture by holding some in your hand and letting it melt back to liquid. If it’s too difficult to melt, add more coconut oil. If it’s too easy, add more paraffin.When you're satisfied with the consistency fill the die with the wax mixture.
 Go back over the hole thoroughly with glue, taking care to fix up any cracks, gaps, and other little leaks that might have resulted from your drilling. This is a much messier process than the single-hole method, so it'll take some work to clean everything up, color it, and make it look like a normal die. Spend some time making it look right.
 When you’re ready to use the die, hold it firmly with the side you want facing up. The wax will slowly melt, allowing the weights to sink to the opposite side, weighting the die. Let it sit on the counter, or put it in the fridge for a few minutes to reset the wax and keep the die weighted.

