 While you are seeking treatment, you may find that your goal of sobriety can be aided by some lifestyle changes. One of the most important changes you can make is to identify and deal with your drinking triggers, or things that make you feel like you want to drink. Removing temptation for yourself is key to your success.Consider any prior attempts to stop drinking. Think about what triggered you to drink again in the past and deal with that as a trigger now.If the sight or presence of alcohol is a trigger for you, remove all of the alcoholic beverages from your house.Get them out of your refrigerator or cupboards and give them to a friend or dump the contents down the sink.
If going to clubs or out dancing with your friends triggers your urge to drink, then change plans for a little while. See if your friends want to take a salsa dance class with you instead.
 It is possible that a drinking trigger of yours could be a certain group of people you spend time with.During your recovery, it is important to stay away from anyone you considered a drinking buddy, or anyone that does not respect your sobriety goals.Surround yourself instead with individuals who are encouraging and willing to adjust their plans to support your recovery.
 Often times, alcohol is utilized as a way to cope with negative emotions or stressful situations.Change your lifestyle to accommodate your new recovery by altering the way you respond to negative emotions or stress. Begin by changing the way you think about your ability to handle or cope with stress.You've made it this far, you are stronger than you know! Try the following:


Make a list of five things you believe you are the good at. It can be an activity or a trait. Maybe you are a very good writer, or you are skilled at motivating others.
Try and apply those five things to how you handle stress or urges to drink to increase your chances of being successful. If you are a good writer, write a blog or essays about your journey through recovery. If you are skilled at motivating others, try using that to motivate yourself or motivate others in their recovery.
Focusing on your strengths will help you be more engaged in your recovery, and more satisfied with your efforts., It may also be helpful to change your lifestyle by picking up some sort of exercise. Exercises such as running provide you with a mood boost and also help work out any stress or anxious energy you may be feeling. Exercise can help you work though urges and cravings as well.Physical activity can provide you with a go-to coping skill for when you feel the urge to drink or having repetitive thoughts.Try the following exercises.


Running including marathons or triathlons
Yoga
Pilates
Kickboxing or mixed martial arts

, Breathing the correct way can be very helpful to overcoming your urges and practicing active relaxation. Breathing exercises can kick start a relaxation response within your body which can be helpful with stress. Try diaphragmatic breathing, or breathing from your diaphragm.Place one hand on your stomach and the other hand on your chest.
With every breath attempt to keep the chest hand still and move the stomach hand out and in.
It can be helpful to lay down on the ground while practicing if you are struggling to get started.
 Mindfulness is a form of meditation that can help you focus your mind and find peace. Using mindfulness will help you focus on your recovery, and train your mind to process thoughts, emotions, and experiences differently. With practice, you should be able to utilize mindfulness to get past urges and cope better with daily stress. Try focusing your mind on your senses by eating something mindfully.Choose a food item. Take time to notice qualities you may not have noticed before. How does it look? How does it smell?
Place the food in your mouth and pay attention to how it feels. Is it hard or soft? How does it taste at first?
Pay attention to how your sensations change as you eat the food item.

