 Go to the drugstore or beauty store and buy a bottle of nail polish remover. It's usually in the cosmetic section near the selection of nail polish and other nail products. One bottle contains enough nail polish remover to remove plenty of manicures' worth of polish.





Nail polish remover usually comes in a plastic bottle with a screw cap, but you can also buy it in tubs that have sponges inside, where you submerge your fingers to take off the polish.
The main ingredient in nail polish remover is usually acetone, and some removers are enhanced with aloe and other natural ingredients meant to soften your skin while you remove the polish.;
, Nail polish remover needs to be applied and rubbed onto your nails using an applicator to be effective. Some applicators are better than others are for different types of manicures. Consider these options:





Cotton balls are great all-purpose applicators, especially for removing just a coat or two of regular nail polish.
If you have two or more coats of thick nail polish, you might want to use paper towels instead. The relatively rough surface of the towels helps scrape off the nail polish.
Cotton swabs are helpful for removing nail polish from the edges of your nails and your cuticles.
 Spread a newspaper or paper towel on a table or countertop. Set out your nail polish remover and cotton balls, paper towels or cotton swabs.





Removing nail polish may get messy, so it's best to do it in the bathroom or another area without linens and surfaces that could get ruined by a stray splash of nail polish. #*Choose a room with good lighting so you will be able to see your nails clearly.
 Unscrew the nail polish remover cap, place the applicator over the opening, and invert the bottle to soak it. Alternatively, you could pour the nail polish remover into a bowl and dip the cotton ball or paper towel into the solution.
 Using a circular motion, wipe your nails until the old nail polish comes off. Continue until you've removed the polish from all your nails.





You may need to use a new applicator every few nails, especially if you have more than one layer of nail polish to remove.
If you're having trouble taking off your nail polish with a cotton ball, try switching to paper towel.
 Nail polish remover is made with strong chemicals that can dry out your hands, so it's best to wash off the residue when you're through.




