 It is much easier to straighten your hair with a curling iron that has a larger barrel, at least 1 to 2 inches in diameter. A larger barrel will allow you to run the curling iron through sections of your hair more easily and much more quickly than a curling iron with a smaller barrel.If you only have access to a curling iron with a smaller barrel, .75 to 1 inch in diameter, you can still use it to straighten your hair. But it may take more time due to the smaller barrel size.;
, Look for a curling iron that is made of ceramic and/or tourmaline. Ceramic irons are ideal because they help to disperse heat through your hair more evenly. Tourmaline irons are also good for controlling frizz and for locking moisture in your hair when you style it with heat.Many professional grade curling irons are made with ceramic or tourmaline. You may be able to get a more affordable curling iron that is only partly ceramic or tourmaline if you are on a budget.
 You should also check that the curling iron comes with several heat settings so you can control how much heat you are applying to your hair. This will ensure you do not burn or damage your hair when you use the curling iron.If you have fine hair or hair that is color treated, you should use a low heat setting of below 200 degrees. If you have curly, thick hair, you can use a higher heat setting of 200-300 degrees.
Make sure you pay attention to how your hair responds to the heat of the curling iron. If you notice a burning smell coming from your hair, the temperature is likely too high. Never go above 400 degrees as this can damage your hair, no matter what hair type you have.
 You should prep your hair for the curling iron by washing and conditioning it in the shower. You should use a shampoo that will give your hair moisture and does not leave residue in your hair.








You should also use a small amount of conditioner on the ends of your hair so you do not put too much conditioner in your hair. Too much conditioner can make it more difficult for your hair to stay straight or hold any styles.
 Apply a heat protectant gel or spray while your hair is still wet. Run the heat protectant from the root to the ends of your hair, scrunching your hair with your fingers. This will protect your hair from heat damage and prevent frizz.








You may also want to apply a hair mousse to your wet hair, especially if your hair is lacking in volume and body. Run the mousse from the roots to the ends.
 You should avoid trying to straighten wet hair, as it can damage your hair and create split ends. Your hair can also become frizzy and rough looking due to heat being applied to wet hair. Make sure you dry your hair well with a blow dryer so you are straightening hair that is prepared and ready for the curling iron.








You should blow dry your hair by flipping your hair over and running the blow dryer down to the ends of your hair. Move the blow dryer around your hair, dispersing the heat throughout, until your hair is completely dry., Turn the curling iron to the right heat setting for your hair. It may take a few minutes for the curling iron to warm up.









You should also position yourself in front of a mirror so you can see what your hands are doing and how your hair looks as you straighten it. You may also place a hair clip on a table in front of you so it is easy to access.
 You should straighten your hair in stages, starting with the bottom layers first. This will ensure you do not miss any strands of hair and that your hair appears uniform when you are done straightening it. Clip back the top layers of your hair so you can access the bottom layers.








Even if you have short hair, you should still clip back the top layers so you can access the bottom layers. This will allow you access each layer of your hair more easily.
 Hold a section of hair at the nape of your neck with your hand. Then, open the clamp of the curling iron and place the upper part of the hair between the barrel and the clamp. Keep a firm grip. Slowly pull the curling iron downward, through your hair. Hold the clamp shut with your hand as you do this.








Pull the curling iron all the way to the ends of your hair. Then, release the clamp. You should have a straightened section of hair.
Repeat these steps for the bottom layer of your hair. Make sure you keep a firm grip on the clamp as you run the curling iron down to the ends of your hair.
 Once you have finished straightening the bottom layer, you should take the top layer of your hair out of the clip. Then, repeat the same steps on the top layer of hair using the curling iron.








You may need to straighten the shorter hairs around your face in smaller sections to ensure you catch all of the shorter hairs. Use the curling iron to straighten out the sections around your face for a full straight look.
Try to avoid going over the same section of hair multiple times, as this can damage your hair. Instead, pull the curling iron through and down your hair slowly and firmly to ensure you straighten the hair the first time through.
 Once you have straightened your hair completely, you should set your look in place with hairspray. Use a hairspray that will give your hair shine and prevent frizzing.








You may also run your hands through your hair lightly to give your hair volume and body. However, try not to touch your hair too often once you have straightened it, as this can make it appear messy and undo your perfect straight hair look.

