 Open a new tab on your web browser and visit the Godaddy website at http://www.godaddy.com/.;
, Select “All Products” from the navigation menu at the top portion of the page and choose “Web Design Services” under Professional Services.
 Godaddy offers two different bundles:



Standard — Choose from 300 different web design templates you’d like to use on your 5-page website. The package also includes 30 minutes of update monthly and the entire project can be completed in just 2 weeks; perfect for small, online catalogues or personal portfolios.

Premium — Designers will create your own custom design just for your website. The bundle includes 30 minutes of update monthly for a 20-page website, consultation with a designer and twice the media space (pictures, videos, links, etc.) than the Standard package. You’ll also receive a mockup design that you can approve before the site is completed, which takes only 4 weeks.
 Click the drop-down list below the names of each bundle and choose the length of subscription you like, either 12 or 24 weeks.


The web design service is also paid in monthly terms, with prices subjected to the legal policies of Godaddy.
 Click the “Add to Cart” button of the bundle you like to subscribe to and you’ll be directed to the Cart section of the page where you can process your order.
 Click “Proceed to Checkout” on the righthand area of the Cart page and enter your personal details and credit/debit card information on the text fields provided.


Click on “Continue” to save the information you entered.
 Click the “Place your Order” button to confirm your subscription. You’ll receive an email containing your service details once your payment has been processed.
 There are two ways you can choose the design of your website, depending on the kind of package you subscribed to:


For Standard bundles, you’ll be able to choose from 300 Godaddy design templates that you like to use on your website.
For Premium packages, you’ll have a one on one interview with a designer during which you can give out your custom design samples or state your own preference.
 Before your site gets online, the Godaddy designers will show you a mockup site that you can either approve or point out necessary changes for revisions. This step is only applicable to Premium subscribers.
 The designers will let you know and show you the final design once it’s ready to be launched.
 After your site gets online, contact the Godaddy support center (listed in the Sources and Citations section of this guide) and they’ll sign you up for this service, which usually costs $35.88 per year.


The Search Engine Visibility service will submit your site to popular search engine sites like Yahoo and Google so that visitors can easily search and find your site, therefore increasing its traffic volume.

