 This will be useful for us to act further.;
, I was neatly dresses and enjoying a lot over there with all my friends, relatives and family. After some time, I have seen a guy who is really awesome and I fell in love with that person at the first sight. He was very simple in style, good looking, good personality good hair style.... In simple words, he is smart and simple.
 So, finally I felt like this is the person whom I was dreaming about and felt like he is correct to me. I used to have a feeling like "love is wicked". But now, it is my turn. For me, now it is.. "love at first sight". A great feeling. Next, I was looking at him all the time. Suddenly, he came near to me and said.. "How are you?" I was stunned, it was shocking.. I never saw him.. But, replied slowly saying 'Fine, thank you" and gave him a kiss on his hand(proactive). I was not thinking about, who is he... But, whatever... "I fell in love".
 I said "Ya sure!" (thrilling&happy). We went on bike. But, along with us there was another guy who was my hero(love) friend. I felt very uneasy, and thought of killing the third person(kidding). There he(my love) spoke to me normally with a smile on his face and I spoke to him with heart full of happiness. It continued... Everything was a casual talk. Finally, we reached home.
 During nighttime, all our families left. I was feeling very sad at that time, because I will have to leave my love in few more minutes. I did not even see his face before leaving that place, if so I would feel like not leaving the place at all because of him. We left to our homes.
 He recognized my voice. The talk went on... In this way, we used to talk daily for about 15 minutes daily. One fine day, I made a call to him and said "I love you". He said...?? "Even I like you, I have never seen a girl of your kind. I have never seen a girl like you".. and many more compliments. I felt really very happy.
 But, there is a problem here. What is it?? we both are brothers and sisters in a way. From the beginning I felt like he is my hero and never thought what he is to me. And nobody told me about this unfortunately. All my feelings are collapsed. Stopped talking to him there after. Those are really very sore days in my life. But, the common thing in both of us later was.. we were unable to forget each other. But, it was our fate.
 I should not bring a bad name to my family. So, what every girl should think while choosing a guy is whether if he reaches our expectations and also how the situations are if we marry that guy.
 Happiness is the most important thing in our life. We should behave in such a way that nobody(not even one) will or should feel sad or bad because of us. We should be happy and make others happy all the time. Nobody knows their death time. So, we have to be good and happy and pure which god wants from us. Finally which brings a good name to our family because of us. Which every parent wants.

