 There are several documents that you must fill out to begin the process of getting your name legally changed. These forms must be notarizedand include the following:


A Petition for Name Change form.
The Notice and Order for Name Change Hearing form.
An Order for Name Change form (the Clerk of Court in your county may fill this form out for you).
 Be sure to check with your county's Clerk of Court to see if any additional copies are required. Submit the forms and copies (if applicable) to your county's Clerk of Court office. Fees may apply, so check with the Clerk of Court office before submitting to find out how much you may be required to pay in fees at the time of submitting forms., Wisconsin state law requires that you publish a third class notice of your Notice of Hearing once a week for three weeks prior to your hearing in the classified section of your local newspaper in the city, village or town where you reside. The Clerk of Court may direct you to a specific newspaper. You will be responsible for the publication fee.Upon successful publication for three weeks, you will receive an Affidavit of Publication from the newspaper. Contact the Clerk of Court to file this affidavit prior to your hearing., Be sure to arrive on time and be polite throughout. The reasons for which you are changing your name or your child's name may be emotional for you, but try to keep it to yourself during the hearing.Bring an original or certified birth certificate for the judge's review.


You will also need the Affidavit of Publication.
You will be placed under oath, and the judge may ask you questions about the information you have included on your petition.
If the name change is approved, the judge will sign the Order for Name Change. If not, he or she will fill out an Order Denying Name Change form.
 The order must be filed with the Clerk of Court. If any stipulations to the order were made at the hearing that require your attention, address those before filing.The Order for Name Change will act as your official certificate to change your name at any public or private institution, such as your work place, etc.
 Procedures for recording the Order for Name Change may vary by county. You must register your certified copy in the county where the name change occurred.Check with the county Register of Deeds to see what fees may apply.

