 In the simplest of terms, you want to publish your music because of the money. If you want all the money due from a public performance of your song (such as radio play), the song (and/or album) should be published by a music publisher and registered with a performing rights organization (PRO).


You can try to find a reputable music publisher who’s willing to take you on as a client, or publish your own music and register with a PRO.
It is possible that you may be able to register your music with a PRO and earn royalties without working with or becoming a publisher. Consult an attorney for the laws and rules where you live and/or create music.;
, In the U.S., you can choose between three PROs: ASCAP, BMI, or SESAC. Look them up on the Internet, gather information on them, and choose the one that best suits your needs.


As a publisher, you can register with multiple PROs, but you can only (and need only) register a single work (like an album) with one PRO.Outside the U.S., look for PROs that operate in your country, such as SOCAN in Canada.
 To become the publisher of your own album, you’ll need to create a business name. It's suggested that you pick three names out, just in case your first preference is already being used. PROs (and you) do not want the money you should be receiving going to someone else, so they will reject names that are even similar to names already registered with their or another organization.
 After the name clearance with your chosen PRO, you should form a business in your state or country. This process will vary based upon where you live and/or operate, but may be fairly simple if your business is just going to be you.


However, if more than one person is involved in the business (such as co-writers, band mates, etc.), it's strongly recommended that you form a more structured business, for example a Limited Liability Company (LLC) or Corporation. The operating agreement or by-laws for the business should address who does what, who owns what, how members are compensated, how new members join, and how members can leave.
It is entirely possible to set up a LLC or alternate business entity without assistance, but it may be easier for you to consult with a knowledgeable attorney.
 After acceptance of your publisher application by the organization, each of your songs/albums published by your publishing company should be registered with the organization. Register your new album, and make sure to include the name of your publisher (the company you’ve created) and your PRO on distributed copies of your album (physical or digital).


For example: If your songs are played, the radio station lets ASCAP know that they played your songs and sends ASCAP a check. ASCAP then looks up the album on their registration, finds it registered to “Your Name Music Publishing,” and cuts you a check.