 The most defining characteristic of a Civil War buff is his or her extensive knowledge about the Civil War. There are many great sources of information about the Civil War, available online or at your local bookstore.


There are hundreds of books on this topic, so choosing some might seem daunting at first. Many writers have published lists of their favorites, which may help you choose some books. Generally speaking, Bruce Catton, Shelby Foote, and James McPherson are considered the most essential historians who have published books about the Civil War.There are also several monthly magazines about the Civil War that can keep you up to date on the latest research and knowledge about this period. Among the best known are Civil War Times, North and South, and Blue and Gray Magazine.There are several informative documentaries about the Civil War, but best known among them is Ken Burns's The Civil War, a PBS documentary that inspired widespread interest in this historical period.;
, The Civil War was long, and there are many facts to be learned about it. To start, don't get too bogged down in the details. Learn the basics facts of the Civil War, such as why it happened, when it started and ended, and so on.


The Civil War began in 1861 after several southern states that allowed slavery decided to secede from the United States and form the Confederate States of America following the election of Abraham Lincoln. The free northern states fought the war to restore the union, the southern states in an effort to found their own nation.The Civil War ended in 1865, shortly after Ulysses S. Grant's defeat of Robert E. Lee's Confederate army at Appomattox.
 Next, you can delve into the important battles of the war. Learn about where they happened, who the generals involved were, who won, and how these battles affected the war effort.


The battles of Fort Sumter, Antietam, Gettysburg, Vicksburg, and Appomattox are among the most important and interesting battles.There are specific books about many of these battles that will allow you to dive more deeply into the specifics of each, such as Stephen Sears's Gettysburg., Another essential area of knowledge about the Civil War is that of the key figures involved in the war. This includes generals, politicians, anti-slavery activists, and many others. Learn as much as you can about these important figures.


Abraham Lincoln was the President of the United States for the duration of the war, while Jefferson Davis was the President of the Confederate States.Important generals include Ulysses S. Grant, Robert E. Lee, William Sherman, "Stonewall" Jackson, and George McClellan.Other important figures include abolitionists like Fredrick Douglass and John Brown, whose attack on Harper's Ferry is considered one of the most important events leading up to the war., There are many other aspects of the Civil War you can learn about. Pick an area that interests you and do some research on this specific topic. You might choose, for example:


The role of slavery
Civil War weapons
Music of the Civil War
The everyday life of common soldiers
International politics and the role of diplomacy
The navies and naval battles of the Civil War

