 Pick a good username. It should be catchy, a name that is easy to remember. You can never go wrong with using your first name and then something that describes your channel, such as BeautyByRachel or TiffanyNails.


Avoid long strings of numbers. This looks unprofessional and isn't easy to remember.
Avoid being silly. If you want guru status, you need to be taken seriously.;
, Add a nice background, for example. There are many programs that you can use to do this. Remember, don't overdo it- just chose something that best describes you. A good way to get views is to set the video on your channel to autoplay.
 Watching other gurus' videos is a great way to learn about what types of videos are successful.


Obviously, don't copy what they're doing. Use their examples to inspire your own unique take on presenting your videos and content.
 Just remember that they have been on YouTube for a long time, so they have lots of experience.
 Plan your videos out ahead of time; if you don't, there is a risk you'll ramble on or fail to engage the audience. Find some topics you think people are ,most interested in, but also throw in some unique ideas from your own head. Be sure to vary your videos. (For example, don't make every other video a makeup tutorial.) You can also occasionally collaborate with other Youtubers you do the same things as you.


Make sure to have good lighting (sunlight or a bright inside light) and good audio.
Speak clearly and loudly.
 Keep the videos at around 6-8 minutes (or shorter). Try not to ramble; instead, get to the point and discuss the video topic. (This is why planning before shooting matters.)

, Use a program such as iMovie (Mac) or Windows Movie Maker (PC).
 Keeping things new and fresh is important and brings your viewers back frequently.
 This is how new viewers will find your videos, because they will find them through searching YouTube.


Use a descriptive title as well. So instead of "My Hair Routine," use a title such as: "My Curly Hair Styling Routine for Shiny, Defined Curls."

,, Make sure to reply to comments and answer questions. In the start, reply to as many as you can. After you gain a lot more subscribers, it's basically impossible to reply to all of them, but at least try to do 2-3 per video.


Ignore any negative, non-constructive comments. Everyone gets nasty comments on YouTube, and the best policy is to not reply to them (don't feed the trolls). If they bother you, delete the comments. And if they leave multiple negative comments on your videos, just block them.
If negative feedback is constructive, respond to it properly. Thank the viewer for pointing out what you could do better, promise to try a different way and let them know that they have been helpful. Not all negative comments are a fail.
 This will help to keep your subscribers updated with the latest news and videos. Do this once you've accumulated a lot of subscribers.
 Do this once you have a solid amount of people that watch your videos when you upload them. This is around 750-2000ish views. If you are accepted, you will get more capacity to personalize your channel and you will be able to earn money from video ad revenue.
