 Ask your doctor exactly what type of type of psychiatric drug you are taking and how long a half-life the medication has before you ever start the discontinuation of any medication.The shorter the half-life -- the amount of time it takes the body to metabolize the drug -- the slower the weaning process. The transition between doses, higher to lower, is much more difficult with short half-life medications. Ask your doctor for equivalent meds with long half-life as this will make your tapering process much smoother.For example, if you are on Klonopin ask to be switched to Valium, and explain your reasoning to your doctor. However, ultimately your doctor will likely know best so it is best to listen to her should she disagree with your assessment of the situation.Some of the most commonly prescribed antidepressants are Cymbalta, Effexor, Lexapro, Paxil, Prozac, Wellbutrin and Zoloft.Ambien is probably the most well known among the sleep medications.Anti-psychotics include, among the most widely-known, Abilify, Haldol, Olanzapine, and Risperdal.Benzodiazepines, often used to treat anxiety, include Ativan, Valium, and Xanax.
Well-known ADHD medication include Adderall, Concerta, Ritalin and Strattera.;
, If so, ask your doctor if she thinks you would benefit more by getting off the drug than staying on it. If it is in your best interest to get off the medication, your doctor can advise you about how to get off psychiatric drugs safely.
 Find out whether your specific pills can be split in half without harming the action of the drug.


Some pills are time-release while others are not. Time-release pills and capsules should not be split, but other tablets are easy to cut in half. You can then use the halved pills to help you “step-down” your medication, then cut the halves into quarters after using the halved pills for a doctor-prescribed time period.
 Ask your doctor if the manufacturer makes a dosage specifically manufactured for tapering off usage of the drug.


Some higher-dose tablets and capsules can simply be dosed down with a new prescription of a lesser dose.

