 Understanding what how ADHD works in your body can inform you on how to live your life or choose activities. Knowing the science behind the disorder can help someone rationalize and explain their behavior.


Scientific analyses show the brains of persons with ADHD are slightly different in that two structures tend to be smaller.The first, the basal ganglia, regulates the movement of muscles and signals which should be working and which should be at rest during given activities.If a child is sitting at his desk in the classroom, for example, the basal ganglia should send a message telling the feet to rest. But the feet don’t get the message, thus remaining in motion when the child is seated.The second brain structure that is smaller than normal in a person with ADHD is the prefrontal cortex, which is the brain’s hub for conducting higher-order executive tasks. This is where memory and learningand attention regulation come together to help us function intellectually.
 A smaller-than-normal prefrontal cortex with lower-than-optimal dopamine and serotonin means greater struggles to focus and effectively tune out all the extraneous stimuli flooding the brain all at once. The prefrontal cortex influences the level of the neurotransmitter dopamine.Dopamine is tied directly to the ability to focusand tends to be at lower levels in persons with ADHD.Serotonin, another neurotransmitter found in the prefrontal cortex, impacts mood, sleep, and appetite.Eating chocolate, for instance, spikes serotonin causing a temporary feeling of well-being; when serotonin drops low, however, depression and anxiety result. , The jury’s still out on the causes of ADHD but it’s well accepted that genetics play a large role, with certain DNA anomalies occurring more often in people with ADHD. In addition, studies show correlations between children with ADHD to prenatal alcohol and smoking as well as to early childhood exposure to lead. , Neurology and behavioral science are discovering new facts about the brain every year. Consider investing in a consistent journal or magazine that reports on brain development, teens with mental differences, or brain research. Try to invest in peer-reviewed articles.


If you cannot afford a peer-reviewed journal, try other public or free sources of information. Other magazines include National Geographic, your government website, and nih.gov. Most news portals now also have a "Health and Fitness" section that might report on brain research.
If you are truly at a loss of where to find current information, ask your local librarian, high school teacher, or college professor. Alternatively, if you have access to a smartphone, try to find a telemedicine app, ADHD information app, or medical textbook app.

