 The biggest mistake you can make in selling a self-published book is putting it out on the market while it still has mistakes and needs editing. Make sure that your book has been well-edited, is formatted correctly, and has a matching cover and appearance with the story. A good-looking and clean book will sell many many more copies than a book that has numerous mistakes or an obviously hand-made cover design.


It is worth your money to hire a professional editor or cover designer to help get your book ready for selling.
Don’t rely on friends and family only for opinions/editing help on your book. It will be clear if you were lazy and took the easiest way out for getting your book prepared for selling., You need to make as many people aware of your novel as possible, which means using multiple social media platforms to get the word out. You should be posting regularly about your book on various platforms to get people other than your close friends and family involved. Try using social media like:


Blogs/Tumblr
Facebook
Twitter
Goodreads (like Facebook but for books/authors)
Instagram

, If you make appearances in places where your book-buying audience is likely to be present, you’ll be sure to sell plenty of books. See if any local bookstores, radio stations, or libraries will host you for a public interview or book signing. If you make a public appearance and can use your charm and wit to lure people into reading your book, you’ll be able to get plenty more buyers than just sending your book off to be sold somewhere.


If you can get a book deal at a local store and a book signing event, you’ll be golden.
Getting published in a blog or online magazine might be a great way to get word out about your book. Look into blogs/magazines that tend towards your reading audience, and ask if you can be hosted on their page.
 If you’re able to get a group of fans to sign up for a mailing list, you’ll be one step closer to getting your book into the hands of people who may not have heard of you before. Have people sign up for either letters or emails (the latter are more popular these days) which you can send out any time you have an event or need their support. Using this mailing list strategically will help build stronger relationships with your fans, while using it too frequently and not professionally will cause people to stop following you. Do your best to stoke interest in these lists, and your fans will likely forward them on to other friends and family.
 Marketing isn’t easy; there’s a reason entire college degrees exist in the field. However, if you treat selling your book like a business and do tons of marketing, you’ll sell way more books than a self-publishing author who does not. Hire a marketing agent to help you get your book out in the world, or do a bit of research in marketing on your own. In the end, it will be worth the money and time spent, as you earn it all back and open the eyes of hundreds of readers to your writing.