 Natural sunscreens often use ingredients that physically, rather than chemically, block the sun. Because these don't offer a high SPF on their own, you need to make sure they have a high enough concentration in the sunscreen to actually block light. Choose a sunscreen that has a 10 percent or higher concentration of zinc oxide or titanium dioxide.These two ingredients are the only FDA-approved ingredients for blocking the sun that are often used in natural sunscreens.;
, You may think going for the highest SPF is the best plan. While that won't cause any harm, higher SPFs actually don't provide a significant improvement in protection. Plus, they'll take a larger chunk out of your pocketbook.An SPF of 30 will block 97 percent of the sun's rays. Moving up to SPF 60 will only block 1 percent more, 98 percent. If you're are very fair-skinned, you may find SPF 50 helps some on vulnerable areas, such as the nose and ears.
Try not to go below 30 SPF, though, particularly if you're light-skinned. 15 SPF only blocks 93% of the sun, and you'll get a lot less protection the lower you go., Even if you're using a natural sunscreen, you still want it to protect you from all the sun's rays. Look for "broad spectrum" or "full spectrum" on the label, which means it protects you from both UVA and UVB rays., While most natural sunblocks won't use these ingredients, it's still a good idea to check for them if you have sensitive skin. The ingredients include dioxybenzone, oxybenzone, para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA), and sulisobenzone., For sunscreen to be effective, you need to reapply it frequently. However, bug repellent usually doesn't need to be applied as often. Therefore, it's a good idea to keep your sunscreen and bug spray separate., Natural sunscreens may still have ingredients that could irritate your skin, as it all depends on what your skin can take. Some will add essential oils, which you can have a reaction to. If you know you react to certain ingredients, check the label before buying.

