 This will help you maintain a healthy diet and have more energy. Fresh, whole foods are a better choice than processed foods because they contain more nutrition and healthy vitamins. Processed foods — such as those found in microwaveable meals, fast food, and prepared foods — are high in calories. They often include preservatives, added sugar, added fat, dyes, and more. Such foods provide little nutrition, which translates to less energy.Whole foods — which are rich in nutrients — provide much more energy to your body. They include fruits, vegetables, unsalted nuts, lean meats, fresh fish or shellfish, eggs, low-fat milk, plain yogurt, and low-fat cheese.;
, Keep in mind the importance of whole foods and make sure your diet is well-balanced, meaning all food groups are represented. A balanced diet will promote optimum nutrition and help you feel more energetic every day.


Fruits and vegetables should make up half your diet.
Eat the amount of grains that corresponds to your age, sex, and level of activity. The USDA MyPlate initiative can help you find the correct amount to eat, half of which should be whole grains.Eat the amount of protein that corresponds to your age, sex, and level of activity. The USDA MyPlate initiative can also help you with protein.Dairy is also part of a balanced diet, and MyPlate can help with that as well., Eating too little, or eating too much, can effect your energy levels. Skipping meals or skimping on calories slows your metabolism, as your body is attempting to conserve energy, and may lead you to feel lethargic. On the other hand, overeating (especially refined carbohydrates and sugary snacks) can cause a spike in your blood sugar levels, which will cause a burst of energy, followed by a crash that will leave you feeling tired (and probably cranky).Try eating three meals daily or six small meals, spaced evenly throughout the day.



Avoid binge eating. You may be good at controlling portions; however, if you find yourself suddenly losing control and eating large amounts of food all at once, you are binge eating. This behavior can interrupt a healthy diet. If you find yourself binge eating, keep common items eaten during a binge out of your house. When you feel the need to binge, find distractions such as crafts, exercise, etc.
Do not skip meals. Always have a healthy snack on hand in case you are rushing around and don't have time to eat.

Avoid emotional eating. If you have the tendency to eat when you are upset, whether you are angry, happy, sad, or lonely, you are allowing these emotions to act as triggers to eating. Emotional eating contradicts a balanced diet. Instead of eating, find other activities to relieve emotional stress.

Avoid nighttime eating. Eating many more calories after dinnertime can be problematic, particularly if you tend to eat foods that are not wholesome or are high in fat. You can combat nighttime eating by getting most of your calories during the day.Make lunch a bigger meal than dinner.
 Keeping yourself hydrated by drinking water throughout the day is an important way to avoid fatigue and feel more energetic. If you are not in the habit of drinking enough water throughout the day, you run the risk of being fatigued.


If you are an adult male, about three liters per day of water intake is recommended.
If you are an adult female, just over two liters per day of water intake is recommended—2.2 liters to be exact.When you exercise you lose water through your sweat, so make sure you are replenishing by drinking more water on top of your recommended daily intake.
 There are many products that claim to give you energy when you consume them, but they do not always deliver. Even if they do give you energy, the effects are often short-lived. Many of these products may have negatives that outweigh whatever energy they might provide.


Coffee can give you a quick boost in energy, and studies now show that coffee is not as bad as was once thought.However, the caffeine in coffee is mildly addictive,and the amount of time it takes the body to metabolize it can interfere with sleep patterns, which can affect your level of energy during the day. Coffee with added sugar and cream does add extra calories and fat, so this should be considered when drinking coffee.
Energy drinks have high levels of caffeine, which, in itself, is not necessarily any worse than coffee, but energy drinks have also been linked to heart problems where excessive use is involved. The high levels of sugar in many energy drinks are empty calories and can lead to a crash later in the day., Many herbal teas and supplements are available to help people feel more energetic. Always speak with your doctor or pharmacist before taking a new supplement, especially if you are taking other medications.


Vitamin B-12 may improve your energy if you have a deficiency. If you are not getting enough vitamin B from your diet, it may be appropriate to take a supplement. Talk to your doctor about whether or not this is right for you.Siberian ginseng helps increase stamina, counteract fatigue, and reduce the effects of stress. It can be found in both teas and supplements.Ginkgo is another herb that helps with the production of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which helps with the brain's metabolization of glucose, in turn giving you mental energy and clarity. Ginkgo can be purchased loose in health stores for tea, but it is often in tea blends and it can also be bought as a supplement.Green tea is sold as an extract and in tea form. It contains caffeine naturally and has other health benefits—such as being an antioxidant—that can make you feel better and therefore more energetic.Peppermint essential oil is another performance-boosting supplement. Exercise performance has been studied with peppermint oil as a supplement, and the conclusions suggest that peppermint can be effective for feeling more energetic.