 When people speak of modern chivalry, door-holding is often the immediate thought that pops into their heads. While holding doors open has become something of a cliché, it is still a valid expression of chivalry in modern times. You should not go out of your way--such as running ahead of somebody--just to open a door for them, as that can be seen as rude. However, when you open a door and someone nearby is about to use the door as well, be respectful and hold it open for them.;
, The term chivalry often conjures up images of a gentleman pulling out a dinner table seat for the lady. However, this act of chivalry can be applied in a broader context. For example, if you are on the subway and there are no available seats, offer up your seat to someone else, like an elderly person, pregnant person, disabled person, or a parent with children.
 Chivalry can be manifested in the form of putting someone else before yourself. There's nothing wrong with wanting to speak out and be heard, but try to listen and pay attention when someone speaks to you. Truly listening to someone can be a simple but effective way to show them respect.
 At one time, chivalry was thought to mean that men would have to take charge of everything, allowing the woman to take a backseat. Nowadays, a man should not only allow a woman to voice her opinions, but he should ask for them. On a more general level, when participating in an activity that involves people other than yourself, ask for their opinions when making a decision.
 One of the foundations for chivalry is honor, and that means that you must not break your word. If you're asked to make a promise, do not agree unless you are willing to see it through. This applies to all people, not just women.
 Women, men, and nonbinary people can both be chivalrous and receive acts of chivalry. Chivalry is different from benevolent sexism (the idea that women are delicate flowers who must be protected). To see if you are accidentally being a benevolent sexist, ask yourself if you would treat a man the same way you'd treat a woman, and if you'd be okay with a woman treating you this way. If so, you're doing well.
 Offer to help them remove their coats when entering a building, and to put them back on when leaving.

