 A nerd dresses practically, so you don't want anything itchy or uncomfortable. Wear clothes that fit and are easy to move around in. Although nerds are seen wearing ties or tight pencil squirts, you don’t have to wear them to conform to the style. There are plenty of other ways to dress like a cool nerd without compromising your comfort.Jeans, T-shirts, hoodies, sweaters, loose skirts and dresses, and flat shoes count as comfortable clothing.;
, Argyle, plaid, and pinstripes are nerdy staples. Try polka dots for a quirkier look. You can wear these patterns on your shirts, sweaters jackets, or even on your pants. Look at vintage shops and stores that sell conservative clothing, like J.Crew to find these patterns.Try wearing an Argyle sweater or a skirt with polka dots on it.
Flannel plaid shirts also work well.
 Consider T-shirts or other clothing items with video game characters, superheroes, science fiction themes, comic prints, and other media motifs. Choose clothing items with interests that you at least know something about so that it can be a topic of conversation if someone brings it up.You can buy this clothing at stores like Target, Hot Topic, and online.
For example, if you like Star Wars, look for hoodies and/or T-shirts with your favorite characters on them.
 Wear a long or short-sleeved button-down shirt. Especially look for shirts with collars. You can wear it in a solid color or with a pattern. You can wear these on their own, or under a sweater. For a casual look, wear a button-up under a favorite “nerdy” T-shirt. To appear dressier, add a simple tie and keep the shirt buttoned up all the way.If you don’t already own a button-down shirt, one can be purchased from most department stores.
 A simple crew or V-neck sweater is a staple of nerdy style. It can be styled to look casual, like with jeans, or dressed up, like with dress pants or a skirt. If you don’t like sweaters, hoodies are another popular option for nerdy style. You can wear a fitted zip hoodie over a button-down and skinny pants.If you don’t like plain sweaters, you can find sweaters with “nerdy” themes, like Star Wars.
Look for a basic cotton hoodie in the color of your choice.
 In recent years, brightly colored pants have become a staple of cool nerdy style. Skinny jeans are popular, but you can wear any fit of pants that are comfortable for you. You can choose bright colors like lime green, yellow, red, or blue. Or, if you prefer muted tones, you can choose maroon, brown, or navy blue pants. Pleated or plaid skirts are also classic nerd staples that can be styled in a variety of ways.If you’re not into brightly colored pants, khakis are a classic alternative.
You can find eye-catching pants at stores like Hot Topic and American Apparel.
 Try loafers or Chuck Taylor All Stars. Loafers work better with dressier outfits. Chuck Taylor All Star’s are usually more casual, but you can wear them with dress pants or a dress if you want to. Mary Jane’s, ballerina flats, and any type of sneakers also work.Heels that are too high will hurt your feet long-term. Stick with kitten heels or platforms if you want to wear heels.
Leather sandals work well for a summery look.
 Suspenders are a staple of nerdy style. You don’t have to wear them to pull up your pants. They can be worn purely for style. Choose a plain, brightly colored, or patterned pair of suspenders. Wear them over a T-shirt, like your favorite superhero shirt, or wear them with a button-down. You can pair the suspenders with dress pants, jeans, or a skirt., If you’re wearing a skirt or shorts, try wearing knee socks or leg warmers with them. Knee socks can be worn during any season because you can wear a thicker or thinner pair. Leg warmers are better suited for colder weather, and they can be paired with tights.If you’re having trouble finding legwarmers, go to your local dance store to purchase a pair.
Try wearing themed knee socks, like Dr. Who or Harry Potter, with a pleated skirt or long shorts.
 A beanie can work with almost any type of outfit you wear, even if it’s a dressier outfit. A plainly colored, brightly colored, or even a beanie featuring one of your favorite, nerdy interests will work. If you don’t like beanies, try an Eskimo hat, or any other type of hat that you like is okay to wear.You can even make a top hat work for you.
 Glasses are yet another nerd staple. You should only wear prescription glasses, however, if you need them and they have been prescribed to you by a qualified optometrist. If you still want to wear glasses, but don’t need them, you can wear glasses that don’t have a prescription. Thick-rimmed, Ray-Bans, cat-eye, and half-frame glasses are popular nerdy choices.Choose glasses that can be worn with a variety of outfits.
 Pick a neutral color like brown or black so that it matches everything. Or, you can choose a messenger back that reflects your interests. If you can’t find a messenger bag that reflects your interests, you can always sew a patch onto the bag. This completes your nerdy look, and can fit a book and/or laptop easily.Pack lightly, and switch shoulders every once and a while. Hurting your back is definitely not cool.
 Two ponytails with thin scrunchies is a classic nerd look. You can wear mismatched scrunchies if you want to. Ponytails, headbands, braids, and barrettes also work. If you don’t want to wear accessories in your hair, you can put your hair up in a simple bun.For shorter hair, consider slicking it back with gel.
 If you want to pull of the cool nerdy style, be consistent with it. Dress the part on a daily basis. This may mean purchasing some new clothing, or planning your outfits ahead of time. If you can’t purchase new clothing, choose an accessory, like glasses or a messenger bag, and wear it often.You can find clothes at an affordable price in thrift shops.
 Nerds are known for being passionate about what they love. Don’t be afraid to show off your passion for your interests, no matter what it is. Talk about it to your friends. If your interest has accessories and apparel, put it on your clothing, school supplies, or other accessories, like purses. Showing off your knowledge is cool.If you don’t have a passion that you know a lot about, think of what you already like and make an effort to learn more about it.
 If you live in or near a city, consider attending a convention. Some popular and nerdy conventions are Comic-Con, Dragon Con, and anime conventions. You can meet people that share your interests at these conventions and get inspiration for style and/or interests. Conventions are also a great place to buy apparel that you can show off on a daily basis.There are conventions for almost any interest you can think of. Check online to see if there is a convention dedicated to your passion in a city near you.
Conventions can be costly. Start saving up well before tickets go on sale.
 Having books not only emphasizes your nerdiness, but it also lets you expand your knowledge in your free time. Always have a book or comic book on hand to read, whether you're on the bus or waiting for class to begin. Be careful if you're going to read while you walk. People will get upset if you bump into them.