 You can keep others from using words or images that you use to identify your business or work.


Trademarks typically protect brand names or logos used on products or affiliated with particular service providers – they don't protect the products themselves.For example, if you invented a new tool, you would get a patent for your tool design, and a trademark for the brand name of your company or the logo that appears on the tool's packaging when it is sold to consumers.
 Depending on the scope of your business, you may not need or even qualify for federal trademark protection.


Generally, you must use (or intend to use) your mark in interstate commerce to qualify for federal trademark protection. State trademarks only protect usage within that state., Before you apply to register your trademark, you must make sure someone else isn't already using a mark that is the same or similar.


If you want a federal trademark, you can use the electronic search system on the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office's website. This database includes registered trademarks as well as pending applications and abandoned marks.States also have their own trademark databases for state registrations. Typically you can find these on the secretary of state's website.If you need to search the federal database as well as one or more states, you might consider using a screening service such as trademark.com, which will search multiple databases for you for a fee., The application includes information about your business and the words or image you want to protect.


You must decide what format you'll use for your trademark and the goods and services to which the mark will apply. Federal trademarks have specific commercial classes, and you must register your mark in the classes that apply. Keep in mind you'll have to pay an additional fee if you want to register your mark in multiple classes.If you're filing a federal trademark application, you also must decide whether you want to file your application on the basis of use or intent to use. If you've not yet begun operations, you would file based on intent to use, which requires filling out additional forms and paying an extra fee.Many states only offer trademark registration based on use and don't recognize a trademark based on an intent to use it in the future., Once you've completed your application, you must file it with the appropriate agency and pay any associated application fees.


State trademark registration typically requires a minimal fee compared to federal trademark registration, with a much simpler application process.To file for federal trademark registration, you must pay a minimum of $375 in processing fees to register in a single commercial class. You'll pay additional fees if you intend to use your trademark in other classes or industries.You can file your federal application electronically on the USPTO's website. Once filed, the pending application becomes a matter of public record and will appear in the USPTO's public database., If you've applied to register a federal trademark, your application will be reviewed by an attorney who works for the USPTO.The attorney may issue a letter requesting additional information or revisions to your application before it can be approved. If you don't respond to the letter within six months, the USPTO will mark your application abandoned and you'll have to start over if you still want federal trademark protection.If the examining attorney decides to approve your application, the USPTO will publish notice of the mark in its official gazette. Other people or businesses have 30 days to file opposition to your mark. Assuming there is no opposition, the USPTO will issue your registration certificate., Protect your trademark's status and keep its protection active by regularly monitoring the way it is used.


Audits review the legal and marketing context of your trademarks and verify that they are being used correctly in any advertising or product packaging. You also should verify that the appropriate symbols or trademark notices are being used.You also must maintain your mark by filing maintenance documents periodically and paying fees to keep it active. If you miss these deadlines, your trademark protection will expire and you'll have to file a new application.