 If your cat has IBD, pooping outside of the litter box may be the first symptom you notice.Because IBD commonly causes diarrhea, your cat may not make it to the litter box each time it needs to poop.


Don’t punish your cat if you see poop outside of the litter box. Clean it up without making a fuss.;
, Looking at your cat’s poop won’t be a pleasant task. However, knowing what the poop looks like can help determine what part of your cat’s GI tract is affected by IBD (stomach and small intestine vs. large intestine). For example, if your cat’s large intestine is affected, the poop may be watery (indicating diarrhea) or have flecks of blood in it.If the stomach and small intestine are affected, the poop may look completely normal.Pay particular attention to see if blood or mucus are present in the feces, and report any blood or mucus to your vet.


Consider writing down what the poop looks like, or even taking a picture. This information will help your vet diagnose IBD in your cat.
 Straining to defecate is another sign of IBD in cats.If you see your cat squatting for a long time in or out the litter box, then it is likely straining to poop. Straining can be painful, so your cat may cry out in pain while trying to poop.Straining during urination and defecation can look similar. Check your cat's litter box to make sure that they are passing urine. If not, then this indicates that your cat may be in a life-threatening situation and require emergency treatment. Take your cat to see your veterinarian right away if this happens.
 Vomiting is a sign of IBD in cats, especially when the upper GI tract (stomach, small intestine) is inflamed. The vomiting may be occasional in the beginning of IBD, then become more frequent until it occurs everyday.The vomit will either be liquid or contain digested food.Sometimes, owners may think the vomiting is caused by hairballs., Cats with IBD will eat less, stop eating completely, or develop huge appetites.If your cat is eating less or wants to eat much more than usual, it may have IBD.


Your cat may lose weight when it eats less, or when it eats more.If your cat is losing weight despite eating more, it may be because the GI tract is not able to absorb nutrients and is losing them through diarrhea or vomiting.
 In cats with IBD, symptoms can appear in cycles. For example, symptoms may be present for days or weeks at a time, then disappear for days or weeks.Or, the symptoms might appear only with specific situations, like vomiting after eating.Write down when the symptoms appear and disappear. This can also be helpful information for your vet.
 It’s normal for cats to occasionally vomit or have diarrhea.However, if your cat regularly vomits or has diarrhea, or if these symptoms are occurring frequently than before, it’s time to take your cat to the vet.


Be aware that some cats with IBD may show signs only once or twice a month.If this describes your cat, it would still be a good idea to take it to the vet before the vomiting and diarrhea get worse.
 Your vet will first physically examine your cat. They may be able to feel the thickened walls of the GI tract when touching your cat’s abdomen. Your vet may also be able to feel enlarged lymph nodes in the GI tract.A large portion of a cat’s immune system is in the GI tract. Therefore, if your cat has IBD, the lymph nodes in your cat’s GI tract may enlarge in response to the disease.
 Because other health conditions can resemble IBD, your vet will need to rule them out using diagnostic tests. Blood work will show elevated levels of inflammatory cells. It will also show decreased levels of various nutrients (potassium, protein, calcium) due to diarrhea and vomiting.Your vet will also run specific blood tests. For example, they’ll take a blood sample to test for feline leukemia and feline immunodeficiency virus.They may also evaluate thyroid hormone levels in the blood.
A fecal sample is useful for identifying intestinal parasites., After taking blood and fecal samples, your vet will want to look at your cat’s GI tract. An abdominal ultrasound will help your vet see thickened GI tract walls. However, if the walls are only mildly thickened, they may look normal on an ultrasound. Mildly thickened walls can also look normal on an x-ray., Food allergies can cause symptoms similar to those of IBD. Your vet may recommend conducting hypoallergenic food trial to rule out a food allergy.For the food trial, you will feed your cat a protein it hasn’t eaten before (kangaroo, duck), then re-challenge your cat with its old diet to see if the symptoms come back.


Food trials are very lengthy. They can take as long as a few months.
 A biopsy is the only way to confirm IBD. With your cat anesthetized, your vet will perform an endoscopy or surgery to take a tissue sample, then have a veterinary pathologist example the sample. The pathologist will identify the inflammatory cell types in the sample.An endoscopic tube is long and thin with a camera and biopsy instrument at the end.
For an endoscopic biopsy, your vet would pass the tube down into your cat’s upper GI tract, or up through the rectum into the large intestine. The sample would be fairly thin.The endoscope may not be able to reach the inflamed area of your cat’s GI tract. Also, because the sample will be thin, making a definitive IBD diagnosis may be difficult.A surgical biopsy would be thicker than an endoscopic biopsy. However, surgery is much more invasive and expensive than endoscopy.Given the pros and cons of each procedure, talk with your vet about which procedure will be best to diagnose IBD in your cat.

