 Look at a spoonful of the mixture to see whether there are enough seeds. If the seeds are not crowded next to each other, add a little more chia.
 This can take a few minutes. Check by taking a spoonful of the pudding and dropping it back into the container. If it makes no sound or a soft sound, it’s ready., Put in a little bit at a time, mixing in well, to see how much sweetener you prefer. If your container has a lid, shake the pudding to mix it., Overnight is a safe bet, to get the proper thickness. If it’s not thick enough after a night, drain off some liquid or add in more chia by the teaspoonful., Add the Cinnamon, Chocolate, or Ginger (powder or juice) flavors. Slowly pour the flavors in while mixing. If there are lumps, take them out and mash them with the bottom of your spoon. This will separate the lump into pieces that you can place back into the mixture., Leave overnight again to let the powders and flavors dissolve into the pudding., You may have to add more powder to get your desired level of flavor, but since the initial powders have melted into the pudding, just mix it well into the finished pudding., The skin should not be wrinkled or dark brown. It should look fat and juicy and have no mold. Squeeze the piece to see how dense and firm it is. It should not give or be soft., Peel only a thin layer of skin, so you won’t lose any valuable ginger pieces. Hold over a small dish while you peel to catch any juices. Add the juices to the Basic Pudding., You can chop it into pieces, then smash them with the flat part of your knife. Or, use a food processor or pestle and mortar. It is essential to get a juicy pulp, so the ginger will melt into the pudding. No one wants to eat an unexpectedly spicy, large ginger chunk! Use a plate that will catch and keep juices to add to the mix., Mix well and refrigerate. If you don’t like the stringy pulp, press and strain before adding to the pudding., Since fresh ginger is strong, adding extra sweetener to the finished pudding is good. Add a little at a time, mix well, then taste. Some people like it spicy, so experiment!, Leave in the fridge overnight. This is for softening the flakes, making them blend into the pudding better., Mix well. If you feel the pudding is too thick, you can add the milk used to soak the coconut., Cut the banana into thin ¼ inch rounds. The pineapple should be cut into small cubes the size of your thumbnail. Kiwi should be cut into the same size as pineapple, but if you want slices of kiwi, make slices the size of the banana rounds.

You can add juice from the pineapple, usually canned in juice (if you used it) to add more flavor. Stir in a little at a time.
Do not soak kiwi or pineapple in the pudding for too long; it might turn out mushy or leach juices.
 Add a sprinkle of extra coconut on top if you like. Eat while thinking of a warm beach, if you want., Leave in the fridge overnight. This will plump up the raisins and make them juicy. The cashews will soften and be easier to eat., Add the solid pieces of cashew and raisin, without the milk they soaked in. This way, you can see if the pudding is too thick later on. If it is, add the soaking milk as needed., Or, since rice pudding is usually made with condensed milk, drizzle some on top or mix it into the finished pudding. This will also sweeten it.