 Kid is the smack-talking, poorly-dressed female protagonist of the game who seeks the Frozen Flame. She is also a member of the Radical Dreamers. Kid appears right after you get transported to Another World.

Kid will try to join your party numerous times, so there’s no chance of missing her.
Kid uses a dagger as a weapon.
Use her Pilfer skill often during battles to steal items from enemies. Getting armors, weapons, and even skills is usually done in most first tries.
Her level 5 skill, Red Pin, allows Kid to throw daggers at the enemy.
Her level 7 skill Hot Shot is a skill that uses a nifty device that Lucca invented.;
, Doc appears to be a hippy but a very good healer in the game.

Get the Medical Book from the Tower of Gheddon.
Opt not to help Kid at Hydra Humour.
Return to Guldove in Another World and then talk to Doc after he heals Kid. He will then join your team.
Doc uses a dagger as a weapon.
His tech level 7 Hang Ten skill can heal the whole party. It’s very useful during boss battles, but you need to have the Medical Book before letting him join the party.
 Draggy is an adorable little dragon with a ferocious bite.

Get the Big Egg from the Dodo's nest in Another World's Fossil Valley.
Take it to the working incubator in Home World’s Fort Dragonia. The egg will then hatch and Draggy will join your party.
Draggy uses gloves as a weapon.
Obtain his level 7 skill, Big Breath, by visiting Home World’s Fossil Valley with Draggy. Big Breath calls forth his mother to help him toast the enemy.
 Greco is an ex-wrestler who turned to an exorcist with psychic powers. He attacks enemies with a variety of pro-wrestling moves, but his magic skills aren't too impressive.

After the Viper Mansion sequence, you will meet Greco at his house and he'll join.
Greco uses gloves as a weapon.
Obtain level 7 skill, Grave Digger, at his Home World house by talking to the old man. Grave Digger makes him do a body slam off a tombstone.
 Known as the Dynamite Dancer Miki, she is popular throughout the Nido Archipelago.

After ridding Marbule of the Lagoonates, go back to the Zalbess' Restaurant and speak with Miki.
There's a very narrow window of time you can do this, so don't miss this chance.
Miki uses gloves as a weapon.
Her magic power is high and by far the highest of the Red Innates.
 Zappa is the blacksmith you stumbled upon during the early part of the game. He works in Termina near to Van's home. He's the rough and tough father of Karsh and the chief blacksmith of the Acacia Dragoons.

Have Radius in your active party then talk Zappa in his ship at the Home World’s Termina City.
Zappa can use axe, hammer, or master hammer as a weapon.
He has high strength and HP, but is low in magic defense and extremely low in magic power.
 Wander around the Viper Manor and you will find Orcha in the kitchen with his spy assistant. He's a rough, robust chef from Guldove who worked as the primary cook in Viper Manor for the Acacia Dragoons.

Recruit Orcha after Riddel is rescued and Hell's Cook is battled.
Orcha uses Kitchen Utensils as his weapon.
He possesses good strength and good magic power.
Talk to the diner chef in Home World’s Arni Village to obtain his level 7 skill, DinnerGuest.
 Fargo is the pirate figure of Chrono Cross not quite like Captain Hook but still just as untrustworthy. He's more than willing to help you with his stealing ability.

Fargo will automatically join your party later in the game.
Fargo uses a sword as a weapon.
Obtain his level 7 skill and most powerful ability, Invincible, by talking to evil Fargo while the real Fargo is in your party.
Like Kid, he has Pillage that even be used on bosses.
 Irenes is a mermaid that can walk on land, the very same mermaid who married Fargo. She's also a good healer and one of the most powerful blue-magic wielder in Chrono Cross.

Speak to Toma while you're at Marbule in the Home World.
Spend the evening in the first hut. In the middle of the night, Irenes will lead you to Zelbess where you will have to fight a Sage.
Defeat the Sage and go with Nikki back to his ship; Irenes will then join your party.
Irenes uses a harp pick as her weapon.
Despite of her low HP and physical defense, Irenes possesses high magic power.
Get her level 7 skill, Siren Song, after the Magical Dreamers quest in the main story. Speak to the witchdoctor inside the house at Marbule twice.
 Korcha is a ferryman from Guldove and is the son of Macha.

Korcha will join only if you agree to help get the Hydra Humour for Kid. He joins your party after he takes you back to Termina.
He uses a fishing lure as a weapon.
Obtain his level 7 skill, Big Catch, by checking the mermaid tank in Another World’s Termina and then speaking to the mermaid by Greco's house.
 Nikki is the Rock Star of Chrono Cross and the lead man of the Magical Dreamers. He is also the son of Fargo and Zelbess.

Recruit Nikki after going through the Fossil Valley in the Another World.
Watch the scene in Termina regarding the statue polish, and then after this, you'll need a guide to infiltrate the Viper Manor.
Go down to the docks and onto the large green ship to talk to Nikki's manager and costar, Miki.
Go to the Shadow Forest after that, save Nikki from Cassowaries, and he'll join in.
He uses a pick as his weapon.
Nikki has a large element grid and can learn double techs.
Obtain his level 7 skill, LimeLight, by taking Nikki from Another World to meet his Home World counterpart.
 The youngest of the four Devas, Marcy is a fiery girl who gets her way while maintaining strong likes and dislike for others. She's also Nikki's youngest sister.

Marcy will join your party automatically right after you save Riddel from Viper Manor.
Marcy uses gloves as her weapon.
She is strong in both magic and melee, has a large element grid, and very high evasion rate.
 Leena is your character's childhood friend. The daughter of Miguel and the sister of Una.

Turn down Kid's invitation to join the party at Cape Howl in the Another World, and Leena will join your party the next morning along with Poshul.
Leena uses kitchen utensils as her weapon.
She has high magic power and already possesses two techs, but she also has low HP and physical defense.
Obtain MaidenFaith, her level 7 skill, at the beginning of the game. You must tell Leena that you remembered her promise and would never forget this day; then take Leena to see her grandmother in the Home World later in the game.
 A self-proclaimed hero, Pierre is a knight in training who aims to become a noble.

When in need of a guide to Viper Manor, show the Hero's Medal to Pierre in the back of Zappa's Smithy in Another World’s Termina to recruit him.
Pierre wields a sword as his weapon.
He is quite strong with Hero's Medal, Hero's Shield, and Hero's Blade equipped. He also has a high evasion rate.
 Funguy is Lisa's father in Home World who collects mushrooms and helps oversee their Elements shop in Termina. His body has been mutated by a rare form of mushroom, giving him the appearance of a mushroom.

Earn a mushroom in the Shadow Forest Cave to recruit Funguy.
Fight the wraith near the hold and save the boy. Or, if you covered the hold in the sewers under the Viper Manor while in the Another World, catch the bug that is further down the sewers.
Give the mushroom to the man under the waterfall in Shadow Forest.
Funguy uses an ax as his weapon.
Despite his funny look, Funguy possesses high HP and strength but is low in magic power and magic defense.
Obtain his level 7 skill, Myconoids, after Terra Tower rises. Go back to where Funguy was transformed in Shadow Forest while he's in your party and attempt to eat the small mushrooms there.
 Leah was born in a prehistoric village of hunters and warriors. Despite her adorable look, she's quite fearsome because of her brute strength.

Leah will join the party when you reach Gaea's Navel.
Leah uses an ax as her weapon.
She possesses the highest strength and HP; she also has high defense, a large element grid, and can learn double techs, making her a very powerful melee member of your party.
She has, however, low magic power and extremely low magic defense.
 The captain of the Black Wind unit of the Porre military and a fair and impartial leader.

Visit the Viper Manor Ruins while your character is in Lynx's body. Norris will realize that the feline is not the real Lynx and offers his assistance to your character. He will then join your party.
Norris wields a gun as his weapon.
He has high strength and can learn double techs.
Obtain his level 7 skill, TopShot, by taking Norris to see his other self in Another World’s Viper Manor.
 Glenn is Dario’s brother as well as a powerful member of the Acacia Dragoons. He is heir to the Einlanzer sword.

Choose not to help Kid when given the choice to help her.
Go to the entrance where you first met Glenn when Macha takes your character into Termina. You will find Glenn talking with the flower lady at the entrance.
Return to the boat after that, and Glenn will hop down from a ledge and request if he can join you.
Glenn uses a sword as his weapon.
Glenn is devastatingly strong when equipped with Einlanzer.
He has high HP, strength, and accuracy, and has a good defense rate.
It is advisable to have Glenn in your party if you're new in the game.
 Just like Glenn, Karsh is one of the four Devas of the Acacia Dragoons.

Go to the back room of the ship in Another World’s Termina right after you finish the Dead Sea.
Choose Karsh to help rescue Riddel. If you have chosen Zoah, Karsh will join after Riddel is rescued.
He uses an ax as his weapon.
Despite his small element grid, Karsh has high strength, HP, and defense; he is also strong in single tech skills and can learn double techs.
Get his Axiomatic level 7 skill by defeating Solt and Peppor on Isle of the Damned with Karsh in your party.
 Find Razzly, a whimsical fairy, in Water Dragon Isle along with her sister Rosetta.

Agree to save Kid after she is poisoned.
Head to Home World's Hydra Marshes and save Razzly from the Pentapus before killing the Hydra. She will then join your party.
Razzly uses a rod or a floral rod as her weapon.
She is by far the highest of the Green Innates.
Her first tech is extremely strong once it becomes available, and she also learns triple techs.
Obtain Razzly's level 7 skill, Raz-Flower, by not including her in the battle with the Hydra in Hydra Swamp. Let Rosetta die, and when the Terra Tower surfaces, go to Water Dragon Island in the Home World and examine the flowers that grow in the middle of the sprite village.
 Radius is the wise old chief of Arni and a former member of Acacia Dragoons. He appears as an elderly man with thick eyebrows. Despite his old age, he's a strong character.

Visit the Home World’s Opassa Beach after Lynx joins your part you and you return from the Dimensional Vortex.
Talk to your character's mother in Arni Village. Radius will then challenge you and then join your party right after the battle.
Radius has well-balanced stats and can learn double techs, but he has low HP.
His level 7 skill is already available.
 Sprigg is a pointy-eared, blue-skinned dwarf wearing a bandanna, green britches, and yellow shirt with patches. She is the sole resident of the Temporal Vortex in Chrono Cross.

Shake the tree in the Temporal Vortex as Lynx to lure Sprigg out.
Sneak into her house before she gets back.
Sprigg uses a staff as her weapon.
She has high magic power and can learn Doppelgang. She can also learn triple techs, such as slash.
Her Doppelgang makes her morph into another monster. Learn new morphs by dealing the killing blow to an enemy.
 Turnip is a living sword-bearing turnip dug up by Poshul in Home World Hermit's Hideaway.

Use the ice gun or ice breath on the dark patch of ground in Hermit's Hideaway in the Another World while Poshul is in your party.
Go to that same patch of ground in Hermit's Hideaway in the Home World, and Poshul will dig up Turnip.
Turnip uses a sword as his weapon.
He has good strength and can learn double techs, but his other stats are generally low.
Get his level 7 skill, VegOut, by bring him to the pond where you found NeoFio at Viper Manor while NeoFio is in your party. Turnip and NeoFio will exchange words and then Turnip will jump into the pond and turn pink.
 NeoFio resembles a flower. She was planted and then grew for five years before receiving life with the help of Life Sparkle.

Find the Life Sparkle in Another World’s Hydra Marshes.
Bring it to the pool at the top of Another World’s Vipor Manor. She will then grow and become a member of your party.
NeoFio uses gloves as her weapon.
She learns double techs but has generally low stats.
Gain her level 7 skill, BamBamBam, by talking to the Octo chasing a  butterfly in Home World's Sky Dragon Isle. Go up the stairs and return, then talk to him until he spits out the butterfly.
 Van is the practical-minded, penny-wise son of the artist Gogh in Chrono Cross whom you find earlier in the game.

Visit Van in his father's house north of Termina in the Home World.
Speak to them and say that you really are looking for the Frozen Flame. Van will join your party.
Van uses a boomerang as his weapon.
He learns PiggyBoink and the ability to attack all enemies at once with his stamina attacks.
PiggyBoink, his level 7 skill, is learned at 35 stars, and if you take Van to his room in the Home World, you can put money into his piggy bank.
For every 100 gil you put in, it adds 3% to the attack power of this skill. The bank holds 900 gil, maxing the boost to 127%.
The higher gil you have in the bank, the higher chance the piggy bank will break, which can cause up to twice the damage to enemies but also ends up dropping the gil to zero. 

, Lynx is the main antagonist of Chrono Cross. You automatically recruit him when your character is forced to switch bodies with Lynx at the end of Another World’s Fort Dragonia.

He uses a one-handed scythe but also uses your character's weapon when they switched bodies.
Lynx doesn't have any weakness and is the strongest character in the game.
He also has a large element grid.
 A bionic organism constructed at the military laboratories of Porre by Luccia's brother.

Grobyc will join your party after he battles you during your attempt to rescue Riddel in Viper Manor.
He uses gloves as his weapon.
Grobyc has very high HP, strength, and physical defense, but low in magic power, magic defense. He also has only a few element slots.
Get his level 7 skill, Strong Arm, by checking the coffin on the second floor of Chronopolis.
 A dashing long-haired magician from the Zenan Mainland and a member of the mysterious Magic Guild.

Watch a scene with the statue polisher when you arrive in Another World’s Termina for the first time.
Find Korcha at the bridge east of the city.
Continue on east until you find Korcha for the second time then talk to him. He will agree to take you to the Viper Manor Bluffs but needs a guide.
Head back to the entrance of the city after talking to Korcha, and enter the Termina Bar where you will find Guile. He will then join your party.
Take note that Nikki and Pierre can't join your party if Guile does.
He uses a rod as his weapon.
Guile is very powerful in using magic and also has high magic defense.
 A harlequin who aids Lynx, Harle also bears a strong resemblance to Kid in facial and physical features and also shares the same fortune given by the Fortune Teller of Termina.

Harle will automatically join your party in the Dimensional Vortex.
Harle uses a shot as a weapon.
She has high stats and no real weaknesses.
 Janice is a competitive demi-human who spends her time training monsters to fight in the Grand Slam.

Defeat 3 rounds of Janice's monsters at the Home World’s Grand Slam.
She uses a carrot as her weapon.
She has good strength, high magic defense, and can obtain her strongest weapon without using a rainbow shell.
Obtain her level 7 skill, What'sUpDoc, by talking to a green creature in the Bend of Time with Janice leading the party.
 Riddel, a very soft-spoken and elegant lady, is the daughter of General Viper and resides in the Viper Manor.

Riddel will automatically join your party after rescuing her from Viper Manor in the middle of the game.
She uses a rod as weapon.
Riddel has strong defensive techs, a large element grid, and possesses the highest magic power.
She has the ability to attack all enemies at once with her 3 unit stamina attack.
Despite having great magic strength and AoE, Riddel has low HP and is vulnerable to enemies that deal high physical damage.
Defeat Dario to obtain her level 7 skill.
 Starky is a blue alien in Chrono Cross and is a member of another intelligent species. While flying through space, his ship malfunctioned and crashed in the El Nido Triangle.

Find the star fragment in Home World's El Nido Triangle.
Take it to the peak of Sky Dragon Island where Starky will challenge you as Mega Starky.
Defeat him and then chase him down. He will then join your party.
Starky uses a gun as a weapon.
He has good strength, magic power, and high magic defense and evasion.
Obtain his level 7 skill, Star Struck, after Terra Tower surfaces. Go to Another World's El Nido with Starky in the party to find Starky's ship and open the hatch.

