 A press support is a static exercise done for time. You simply time yourself holding a weight in the press starting or ending position. The press starting position is at the shoulders and the ending position is where your arm(s) are fully extended overhead. This article is on the one dumbbell press support from the shoulder.;
,


Use the same weight and over time increase the time that you hold the weight at your shoulder. Increase the time gradually and use a clock with a second hand to time yourself. At each amply spaced workout increase the time by 5 seconds. When you have built up the intensity over several weeks, you will find it difficult to focus on anything other than what you are doing, and keeping track of your time is going to be a problem. Start your timed, press support when the second hand is on "12", or have a helper keep track of your time.
Use the same time and over time increase the weight on the dumbbell. Increase the dumbbell weight at the smallest increment and have ample rest between your workouts.
If you have a big yard, measure your press support by walking. Use a short distance for strength and a longer distance for fitness.
 At the beginning of cycle, a good starting time should be at least 15 - 20 seconds.
Choose a weight that you can easily do several repetitions with at the beginning of a cycle. Although press supports are easier to do than full range presses for the same weight, resist the urge to do too much too soon. Take it easy at the start of a cycle, after many workouts and increasing the time each time, you will have some challenging workouts and your breathing will be progressively labored.
Do press supports in the correct form. Shoulder the dumbbell using perfect form: lift the dumbbell as if it were heavy. When doing the support, keep the dumbbell in the press start position and if you are unable to do that easily - decrease the weight on dumbbell. Shoulder the dumbbell in place with two hands or with one hand cleaning motion - study the form of Olympic weightlifters. Do not copy the form of lifting from diagrams in workplaces unless you are lifting light weights, for example, do not shoulder (or put down) the dumbbell with your weight on the balls of your feet. Do not arch, round or twist your spine whether you shoulder or clean the dumbbell. Whether you shoulder or clean the dumbbell, choose one method and keep it consistent throughout your cycle. When lowering the dumbbell, with one hand, do it in a somewhat quick and controlled fashion. When watching others lower a heavy weight, in any lift, it appears that they are doing it merely fast - not so. Lower and raise the weight with control to avoid injury to your elbow, shoulder and back joints and muscles.
 For example, if your top set is to hold a 70# dumbbell for a minute, do: set 1 30# for 15 seconds and set 2 50# for another 15 seconds.
 Using the previous example and using a fixed weight of 70# for the top set, your final workout might have you supporting the 70# dumbbell for 2 minutes and 15 seconds, after 15 workouts of adding 5 seconds each time. If this cycle took 6 months, you have gotten a nice break from doing full range overhead presses.
 Before grasping the dumbbell, tense your hand, to cushion your palm and avoid the discomfort of supporting the heavy dumbbell.
 Maintain your starting position of your elbow angle and shoulder. If the dumbbell sinks too low, from the press start position, and you cannot keep it in the starting position: 1) stop the cycle: you lack the the strength and could hurt your shoulder, 2)repeat the workout the next time without adding time or weight, or 3)start a mini-cycle and work your way back to the resistance that caused your form to deteriorate.
 Always have a press in your training routine but vary your routine over time. For example: do press supports for 6 months, do press starts for another 6 months, do barbell presses for 8 months, do high repetition presses for 3 months etc.
A supplement to your full range pressing. Continue doing full range pressing at a reduced weight, such as 65-70% of your maximum. For example, if your want to break your personal record for the dumbbell press of 70# at 6 reps, reduce your full range pressing scheme to 50# at 7 reps. With the press support, gradually increase the intensity, and develop great endurance. After your press support cycle is over, blast thru your personal record by a rep or two (or a couple of pounds) with a full range press cycle.
 When nearing the end of a press support cycle and each workout, at that time, has you huffing and puffing and taxing your waist, back and shoulder muscles, decrease the effort on your other exercise for your shoulder, lower back, obliques and abdominal. For example, if doing crunches for your abdominal, decrease the amount of crunches you do to a minimum.
 Do exercises, that do not involve weights, in the support style. For example, crunches and chin ups held in the top position are calisthenics done in the support style.
 Use chalk and especially if you are perspiring a lot after doing a general warm up and specific warm up sets. Do the safer version using a barbell and in a power rack.

