 Speaking with your healthcare provider means letting them know more about the symptoms that you’re experiencing as well as the condition history.Remember, your doctor can diagnose the condition better if you’re detailed and do not leave any symptoms out.
Be aware that your doctor may refer you to a specialist in neurology, surgery, orthopedics, or rheumatology, if needed for diagnosis or treatment.
 Your physician will want to assess your wrist and hand. They will press on points to find out if there is any pain or numbness in the area. They will also check for swelling, sensation, and weakness. If the pain is intense, additional tests may be needed to rule out other health conditions.A pre-assessment where they look over the area visually is required to give indication and direction for further tests.
Your doctor may also perform Phalen's test or other carpal tunnel tests in the office.
 Blood samples may be requested to rule out additional medical issues, such as rheumatoid arthritis, a thyroid issue, or other underlying medical problems. By ruling out these problems, your physician can better diagnose the problem.Once blood tests rule out other medical problems, additional imaging tests may be needed.
 Imaging tests, such as an X-ray or ultrasound, may be requested by the physician or you can request them yourself. By having these imaging scans performed, you can be in a better position to diagnose the problem and treat the symptoms.X-ray is usually used only to aid in the diagnosis or rule out other causes of pain (such as fractures and arthritis).
Your doctor may use ultrasound to visualize the structure of the median nerve in your hand.
 An electromyogram is a test during which multiple fine needles are inserted into the muscles to measure electrical discharges. This test can determine if there is muscle damage and it can rule out other conditions.A mild painkiller can be administered prior to the test to reduce pain.
 This medical conductivity test is used to detect how the nervous system is functioning and can determine whether or not you have carpal tunnel syndrome.During the test, two electrodes are placed on your hand and wrist and a small shock is passed through the median nerve to detect if electrical impulses are slowed in the carpal tunnel.
The results can indicate how much damage has occurred to your nerves.

