 You cannot just say, "It will be scary when it is on a screen." A terrifying scene must be terrifying on the page as well, building suspense that helps the directors, producers, and actors see where the scene is coming. Make the screenplay scary, tense, and atmospheric and the movie will be full of frights.


Read horror writers like Edgar Allen Poe and Steven King to learn about creating tension through words alone.
You may have to bend some screenplay conventions to build a tense, terrifying scene on the page. Remember, however, that your first goal is to write a script that accurately portrays the movie that is eventually made., Horror already pushes the limits of "suspension of disbelief," so don't give your viewers any additional reasons to push the script away. Characters should act realistically, meaning they are afraid for their lives and don't make obviously dumb mistakes like following the killer or ignoring warning signs. The killer should be overpowering, but not so much so that you can't root for the protagonists to ultimately win (even if they don't). Finding realism in horror is mostly about writing realistic characters, but a generally consistent, realistic world, even if it is clearly fictional, will help your scares hit harder., Horror movies live and die based on their signature scenes. Scream is a great movie, but even if it wasn't the opening death would be enough to keep it famous. A great, memorable death will be the signature scene of your movie, and what helps readers remember it for years to come.The entire Final Destination series is built on 4-5 of these moments each movie. While the don't always work, each one has at least one death that viewers will never forget.

Psycho is a great movie, but without the shower scene it likely would have fallen out of collective memory years ago. The scene was so jarring, so surprising, that it is still discussed and satirized today., No one wants to sit in pure tension for two hours, and this ultimately makes the movie's later scares less effective. There is a good reason horror and comedy are so commonly mixed, and that is because they are two sides of the same coin -- surprise. Let a few jokes ease the tension, helping your audience relax here and there while still sitting on the edge of their seat. Humor is also a great way to give a false sense of calm, making the next scare hit even harder.


Pure tension gets old, and eventually doesn't feel tense anymore. Try placing a joke or two shortly after a big scare scene early in the movie. This helps the audience "get over" the rush of the first scare, letting you start building tension again for the next one., This doesn't mean you should put Vanilla Ice on. Find horror soundtracks and play them in the background while you write, creating the atmosphere of tension as you work. You can always work in silence as well, but for those looking for a little creative kick you can't go wrong with the Halloween or The Conjuring soundtrack.