 Mistakes in an employee’s name and social security number are the most common mistakes that employers make when submitting an employee’s W-2 to the government. This mistake must be corrected or the IRS may reject your federal tax return.


A common mistake on the W-2 is that the employer incorrectly listed your first name as your last name.;
, When reviewing your W-2, compare the amount of your wages and taxes withheld to your last paycheck in the tax year for which you are filing. If there is a dramatic difference, you should discuss the issue with your employer.


A common mistake on W-2s is for a decimal point to be placed incorrectly. For example, if you actually made $36,502.32 but your W-2 reported your income as $365,023.20. This mistake could cause significant issues when you attempt to file your tax returns.If there is only a slight variation between your final paycheck for the tax year and the W-2, this may be because your pay period included part of the following tax year. This would not require a corrected W-2 (W-2c).
 If you contributed to an employee retirement plan, this will be noted on Box 12 of the W-2 with a code that is meant to designate the type of plan. Employers routinely list the wrong code on the W-2.


You can check the IRS retirement codes at: https://www.irs.gov/Retirement-Plans/Common-Errors-on-Form-W2-Codes-for-Retirement-Plans

If you are unsure of the type of plan for which you or your employer contributed on your behalf, you should ask your employer., While some mistakes may be easily noticed, other mistakes on your W-2 may be less obvious unless you compare your paystub to your W-2. By finding mistakes right away, you have time to get a corrected W-2 (W-2c) and still file your taxes before the deadline. The most common mistakes on W-2s in 2014 included:


Missing or incorrect names or social security numbers.
An incorrect Employer Identification Number (EIN) or employer address.
Failure to report correct federal income tax or Medicare Tax.
Incorrectly listing the proper retirement plan.
Failure to include certain compensation in Social Security and Medicare wages.
Listing excess contributions to Health Savings Accounts or Flexible Savings Accounts. Employees are limited in how much they can contribute annually to these types of accounts and the amount changes every year.Failure to reduce your income for pretax contributions made to taxable life insurance., If you did not receive your W-2 by the beginning of February or the information on your W-2 was incorrect, you should immediately contact your employer and notify him or her of the mistake or missing W-2.


Employers who have been notified of an error on an employee’s W-2 have a legal responsibility to file a W-2c and correct the mistake.It may be best to send an email to the business manager or whoever is responsible for sending W-2s.
Your email should state that you noticed a mistake on your W-2 and you should provide information about the nature of the mistake. For example, you can state “My social security number was incorrect on my W-2. I am requesting that you file a corrected W-2. Please let me know when I should come and speak with you about the issue.”
You should not include your social security number in an email since it makes you vulnerable to identity theft.
 If you notified your employer of the mistake and you have not received a corrected W-2 by the end of February, you should contact the IRS to assist you. You can contact the IRS by calling 800-829-1040. You must have the following information available to you when you call:


Your name, complete address, phone number and social security number.
Your employer/payer’s name, complete address and phone number.
Your employer’s EIN, if you know it.
An estimate of the wages that you earned during the tax year, the dates of your employment, and the federal income tax withheld. You can locate some of this information on your pay stub.The IRS will send a letter to your employer to file a corrected W-2 form within 10 days and also notifies the employer of the legal penalties to which your employer may be subject if he or she fails to submit the form.You will also receive a Form 4852, Substitute for Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, from the IRS that can be used to file your income taxes should your employer fail to submit a corrected W-2., If you have not received a W-2c by the time you are required to submit your federal income taxes, you can use Form 4852. You can also use this form if you never received your W-2.


You should note that a tax refund may be delayed when you submit your taxes with Form 4852.If after you submit your taxes you receive your W-2c and it differs from Form 4852 and the amounts your reported on your income tax return, then you will have to file Form 1040X, Amended Tax Return.You can locate form 1040X at: https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f1040x.pdf.
 While an employer is not required to reimburse you for tax preparation costs that you incurred as a result of the incorrect W-2, some employers will reimburse employees in order to maintain good employee relations.


You can discuss reimbursement with your employer directly or submit the request in writing.
Make sure that you submit any receipts for the costs of tax preparation related solely to the incorrect W-2.
Typically, an employer will only reimburse you if you received your W-2c after you filed your tax return and you needed to take extra steps and incurred costs related to filing amended state and federal tax returns., As an employer, your are legally obligated to correct mistakes on an employee’s filed W-2. You can make these corrections by filing Form W-2c.


You can correct misstates related to an employee’s name and social security number by completing Form W-2c boxes d through i.
If an employee’s social security number was reported as blanks or zeros, you should not file a W-2c but rather contact the SSA at 1-800-772-6270 for instructions.If the W-2c has an incorrect employee address, you can issue a W-2c to the employee with the new address but you do not need to file it with the SSA.You can order a W-2c at: https://www.irs.gov/Businesses/Online-Ordering-for-Information-Returns-and-Employer-Returns.
You cannot submit W-2c forms downloaded from the internet.
 If you submit a W-2c to the SSA, you must also file Form W-3c, Transmittal of Corrected Wage and Tax Statements. This form acts almost like a coversheet for a corrected W-2 form. The form must be completed in dark ink or Courier 12 font. You must complete every box on the form, even if you only enter a 0 (zero).


The employer must sign the form.You can order Form W-3c at: https://www.irs.gov/Businesses/Online-Ordering-for-Information-Returns-and-Employer-Returns.
 Forms W-2c and W-3c must be submitted together and can be filed in the following ways:


The forms can be filed electronically at: https://www.socialsecurity.gov/bso/bsowelcome.htm after you register for an account at the same website.
You can mail the forms via the U.S. Postal Service to: Social Security Administration Data Operations Center, P.O. Box 3333, Wilkes-Barre, PA 18767-3333
You can mail the forms via another carrier to: Social Security Administration Data Operations Center, Attn: W-2c Process 1150 E. Mountain Drive Wilkes-Barre, PA 18702-7997., If an employee reports that he or she did not receive his or her W-2 but all of the information was correct, an employer can issue a replacement Form W-2.


If you are reissuing a paper copy of the employee’s W-2 it must be labeled “REISSUED STATEMENT.” You do not need to put this label on W-2s that are reissued electronically,
You should not file Copy A of the reissued W-2 with the SSA since the information did not need to be corrected.
There is no timeline for when an employer must reissue a W-2. However, an employer should be mindful of tax filing deadlines.