 Once your initial recovery period, you should start doing exercises that target your arms and shoulders. These allow you to regain arm/shoulder movements and prevent scar tissue formation. Start by doing exercises five times a day until you have regained a full range of motion.Talk to your doctor before engaging in any exercises.
You should feel gentle stretch during the exercises described.
If you experience pain, stop or reduce the range of motion to a level that you can perform without feeling pain.
 The shoulder rolls are gentle exercises that stretch the chest and shoulder muscles.Sit with your back straight and arms straight on your side with fingers pointing to the floor.
Roll your shoulders in a circular motion moving them up, forward, down, back, and up again.
The movement should come from the shoulder, while the arms and elbows stay straight.
Do 10 rolls to one direction, then switch directions and do another 10 rolls on both shoulders.
Start with small circles and then increase the diameter as you can.
 This exercise helps you regain outward movement of your shoulder and you can perform it either sitting or standing.Fold your hands to your chest so that your elbows point downward.
Holding your hands against the chest, raise your elbows to the side like a “chicken wing.”
Hold for a moment, then lower the elbows and repeat 10 times.
As your range of motion improves, try lifting the elbows higher and higher.
 This exercise helps increase the range of motion in your shoulders. Do this exercise one arm at a time either sitting or standing.With your back straight, raise one arm to the side as high as you can, keeping your elbow straight.
Start making small circles in the air with your straight arm. The movement should come from the shoulder and not from the elbow.
Perform 10 circles to forward and 10 circles backwards. Then switch to the other arm.
Start with small circles and increase their size when you feel comfortable and experience no sharp pain.
 The W exercise involves making the W shape with your arms. Raise your arms out to the side, fingers pointing up and elbows pointing down, with the palms of your hands facing forward.Pushing your elbows down toward your back, pitch your shoulder blades together.
Hold the position for a moment, then release and repeat at least 10 times.
If you feel pain or discomfort, stop or reduce the movement.
 This resembles the chicken wing exercise but instead of lifting your elbows up, you bring them forward and back.Place your hands behind your neck with your elbows pointing to the side.
Slowly bring your elbows forward, nearly touching them together.
Hold for a few seconds, then move your elbows backward as far as you can to feel the stretch in your chest, arms and shoulders.
 During this exercise, you stand next to a wall and “walk” your hands up and down against the wall. This exercise can be done forward facing and side facing the wall.During the forward facing crawl, place both hands against the wall and begin to walk your fingers up as high as you can to feel a stretch but no pain.
Walk back down and repeat.
For the side crawl, turn one side toward the wall and perform a wall crawl with one had at a time.

