 You probably have a number of responsibilities and obligations that keep you busy in everyday life. During your travels you may feel the same urgency to do everything, go everywhere, and see everything. But this can leave you feeling more stressed and tired than you do at home. Use your trip as an opportunity to get some of the rest and relaxation you miss out on at home.This can help you release stress and tension in general, which helps promote good mental health.


Take advantage of layovers and other down time by taking a brief nap, reading, journaling, or peacefully exploring your destination.
On professional travel, carve some time out from preparing, meeting, and negotiating to just sit quietly and calm your mind.
Take into account the effects of jet lag and time zone changes and make sure you’re giving your body time to adjust.
 It’s natural to want to look and feel a little special when you’re away from home. In fact, it’s a good thing. Splurging on yourself a little can boost your self-esteem, mood, and outlook on life. In other words, it helps you maintain your mental health. So, do something special to treat yourself while you’re traveling.


Put together a new outfit or try out a new hairstyle to wear out and about on your trip.
Treat yourself to a special meal (including dessert) and try some of the local cuisine. Remember to keep most of your other meals healthy, though!

, If you’re lucky enough to be able to travel with a loved one or a friend, use the trip as an opportunity to strengthen your relationship with them. The time together sharing new experiences without the stress of day-to-day life can boost the quality of your interactions.This can help relieve any tension in the relationship, which means less stress and better mental health for you.


For example, you could use your trip as a way to rekindle the romance with your partner.
Or, as another example, if the relationship between you and your teen is strained, you could use the trip as a way to reestablish communication by talking about the experience.
Talk to your travel companion about anything concerning you. They can offer support and help you problem-solve.
 It can be easy to get bogged down in your day-to-day life and lose sight of all the things you have to be grateful for. But evidence suggests that being grateful can help promote good mental health by helping you to remain positive about yourself and your life. Traveling is one great way to take a step back and appreciate all that you have in life.Be grateful for the small, positive, things that happen while you're traveling. For example, you might be grateful that your train left on time and wasn’t full.
Or, for instance, you might appreciate the amenities you have at home compared to what's available at your travel location.

