 Dark chocolate contains antioxidants, flavanols, vitamins and nutrients that are beneficial to your health. Other chocolate varieties do not offer similar health benefits.Moderation is still important, so limit yourself to one or two ounces of dark chocolate at a time.Choose organic dark chocolate that is at least 70% cacao, which will contain the least amount of sugar-based calories per serving.Organic dark chocolate with 70% cacao or higher lacks the unhealthy additives included in other kinds of chocolate.It also contains a type of saturated fat that does not raise cholesterol levels.
A 3.5 ounce (100g) bar of dark chocolate with 70-85% cocoa contains about 539 calories. A milk chocolate bar of the same size contains about 540 calories. However, milk chocolate has a lot more sugar.;
, Pre-packaged servings can help you control the amount of calories you take in. Many snack companies now offer their products packaged this way for their health-conscious customers. Each serving is typically limited to a certain amount of calories, usually between 100 and 200, making it easy for you to grab a low-calorie chocolate snack on the go.


Look for chocolate snack products that advertise as being low-fat and low-calorie. Also look for statements like, “Only 100 calories in each single serving bag.”
Popular chocolate snacks that tend to be packaged this way are cookies, cereal bars, bite-sized candies and mini muffins.
 Many frozen chocolate treats, such as ice cream, are relatively high in calories and do not make great snack choices. However, skip the ice cream and give low-fat chocolate sorbet a try. Calories per serving vary from brand to brand, with some of them offering as little as 66 calories per ¼ cup of sorbet.Chocolate popsicles, like Fudgesicles, are another low-calorie option. A fudgsicle contains 100 calories per serving.Opt for brands that are low-fat, low-calorie and sugar-free., Chocolate pudding is a great way to enjoy a rich chocolate flavor without ingesting loads of calories. This calorie-conscious pudding is premade and sold in single-serving cups that come packaged together (usually as a six pack). The pudding is typically low in calories (usually about 90 calories) which most companies advertise visibly on the front of the packaging.Enjoy a chocolate pudding cup after dinner or toss one into your lunch as a low-calorie snack.
If you want something a little more decadent but still relatively low-calorie, look for premade single servings of low-fat chocolate mousse. You’ll likely find them right next to the pudding cups in the dairy section of your grocery store.

