 You don’t have to write a full on letter to romance your spouse. Sometimes just a quick compliment or declaration of affection will make their day by letting them know you planned ahead to convey your love unexpectedly. Leave a sticky note on their computer so they’ll find it later in the day.
Refer to an inside joke or affectionate nickname in a note to bring your connection to one another to mind, even when you’re apart.
For added effect, include a throwback reference to an old nickname you used when you first started falling in love.
 Propose gestures or phrases that are code for more romantic messages, and use these gestures to communicate in sensitive environments.For instance, a double-tap with your toe beneath the table can mean, “You look incredibly attractive right now.”
Propose these codes during pillow talk sessions or on car rides, for deployment during family dinners or parent-teacher conferences.
Include codes for more meaningful messages too, such as “I’ve got your back” and, of course, “Just reminding you how much I love you.”

, Shoot to catch them during a tedious task, to supplement a normal part of their day with a romance-induced smile. For instance, if your spouse eats eggs every day, draw silly faces on every egg in the carton with a non-toxic marker.Silliness is the key here - it can be incredibly gratifying to make your partner smile, or even laugh, for no reason whatsoever.
 Face it: flowers aren’t the most original romantic gesture. You don’t want to be sending flowers for every birthday, anniversary, and hallmark holiday. Only send flowers occasionally, on days they’ll never see it coming., Mornings tend to be a whirlwind of preparation, responsibility, and hustle. Start your day together less seriously, with a playful pinch on your spouse’s booty, or a dramatic, drawn out kiss.Say good morning. Even better: “Good morning beautiful.”
Give goodbye kisses like you mean it. A quick kiss can certainly convey affection, but a dozen seconds of locked-in lipping sends a far more romantic message to your spouse.