 Those with strong character will listen to the feedback. Think with resolve and leaving emotion out of it, often agree with portion of it. Next, a strong character will incorporate feedback into their work and produce an improved work product. Guard against excessive emotion. Attaching your self-worth to the feedback creates disconnect and havoc in the mind and that will result in even more chaotic work product. A strong character listens, incorporates and acts with others in mind.;
, If the boss has some accurate points, own them. Listen to how you can improve and do it! There is nothing wrong with the ultimate result here.
 If your response to a supervisor's re-direction or feedback is anger, you want to set aside those emotion-laden thoughts and view the comments about your work as if they were directed at another person. We have 20/20 vision looking toward the outside and often cloudy vision when looking inward. Anger alienates the boss and reduces your chance for success. Most Managers want you to succeed. Feedback is designed to ensure your success. They don't want to re-hire or train a replacement. Wasted resources are never a good idea.
 If your job is routine, say taking phone calls and creating tasks. Make a 3 X 5 card of the 5 most critical steps in producing perfect work. Check these off with EVERY transaction.
 Just run through it again. Verify phone numbers, client or order numbers, return messages, follow through steps. It only takes a second and it will eliminate the next dreaded step in correction action. You will become known as a person who produces reliable work every time

, Stop in - don't be afraid - ask if she has a minute and just see if there has been any follow up. Exercise coolness and prudence in the workplace. Professionalism always pays off. Professionalism with a smile is even better.
 It is always better to produce an excellent product with a little time added, than to go back and re-do anything.
 Calmness regulates your feelings and keeps your responses reasonable. When you feel an angry or emotional response welling up inside you, grab onto in and replace it with a calm demeanor with all your senses directed at absorbing what is being said to you. Even if this action results in the worst-case scenario, being fired, you will have handled it with dignity and honesty. You will end up in a better place someday and somehow.

