 If the person you wish to communicate with is in prison, visit the prison's website to find the address where the prison accepts inmate mail, an inmate database, and the prison's mail policy. Prison systems are run by the state, not the county, so in searching for the prison website, you might search for the state's Department of Corrections, before navigating to the specific regional facility where the inmate lives., Some prisons require you to include the inmate's name and number with the address on the envelope. Locate the inmate's number by using the inmate database, or call the prison and request the inmate's number number for the purpose of sending a piece of mail to the prison.


In Arizona, for example, an inmate's number is called the "ADC" number, for "Arizona Department of Corrections."

, On the outside of the envelope, write the address in the center. On the first line, write the inmate's name and number. On the second line, write the physical address of the prison, or the P.O. box where the prison accepts inmate mail.On the third line, write the city, state, and zip code.
 In the top right corner of the outside of the envelope, write your name and return address. On the first line, write your first and last name. On the second line, write your street address. On the third line, write your city, state, and zip code.


Leave the rest of the envelope clean. Some prisons specifically prohibit stickers on envelopes because they can conceal contraband.Other prisons will not accept an envelope that smells of perfume, cologne, or some other substance., All incoming and outgoing mail to and from the prison is typically subject to being opened and read.Do not send information that you would not want the prison staff to read. This includes information related to the inmate's legal representation, since the mail is not privileged or confidential.


Most topics are acceptable, so write about anything you want. If you want to write a letter of a romantic or sexual nature, you can, as long as you are comfortable with prison officials reading it as well.Refrain from writing about illegal activities or ongoing investigations related to the inmate's case. These topics could get your letter withheld or get the inmate in trouble., Prisons have a list of items that will not be accepted through the mail. These rules are intended to maintain safety in the prison. Commonly prohibited items include:


Food and candy;
Cash and checks; and
Sexually suggestive or gang-related pictures and books., Send your envelope as your normally would, whether by depositing it in the mail or taking it to the post office. Before sending a package through a courier or delivery service, verify that the prison will accept deliveries other than through the regular U.S. Post Office.
 The Federal Bureau of Prisons operates a program called TRULINCS, which provides email access to inmates through a program called CorrLinks. Once you give your email address to an inmate, the inmate can place you on his or her contact list, which is reviewed and approved by prison staff.


Wait for an authorization email from CorrLinks. Once your are approved on the inmate's contact list, you will receive a message from CorrLinks. The message will ask you if you want to accept or block future messages from the inmate. Indicate that you wish to keep accepting messages. You will then be able exchange emails with the inmate.

