 It indicates to the reader which argument you will be using in that paragraph to develop your thesis statement. You write what you are talking about and link back to the question. For example: ‘In ‘Sameness’ there was no such thing as ‘fun’ or wonderful experiences. This also made Jonas wanting to leave the community’. The two sentences before were referring to the question: ‘Discuss why Jonas wanted to leave the Community’. See how you write the question again and the topic sentence?


A topic sentence doesn’t have to be just one sentence. Try not to pass over three sentences.
It is best to write about three ‘body’ paragraphs for beginners.
 This means that you write ‘why’ or ‘how’ it happened etc. You tell the readers in depth (depending on time limit) why did this or that happen. You give evidence as to why you said it by explaining the situations. For example: ‘His strongest feeling was for color. He was so enthusiastic about color that he even asked his friend Asher to see whether or not Asher could see it’ – wonderful experience was color. That gives a recap on what you just said in the topic sentence. It is usually good to only write two paragraphs relating to the topic sentence depending on the time limit. So, for example, you write about the wonderful memories the Give gave him and color.
 You discuss and analyze what you have just said. This can be proved by simply using a quote or a scene from the text. It’s best if you don’t use the word ‘quote’. This gives the reader an understanding of how the things you written were ‘real’ because you supported it. It is best to provide two quotes or scene in each paragraph, three or four if you have a high level. You might even have to memorize them.


For example: ‘Snowflakes. They fall, down from the sky, and they’re very beautiful’. The sentence before explains how he wants the weather to change in ‘Sameness’ and how much he loves snowflakes.
 Just like what you did in the introduction and the topic sentence. You should usually start with the word ‘therefore’ but not ‘hence’ as ‘hence’ usually only refers to one object or thing. So you tell the reader ’that’s why’ something happened.


For example: ‘Therefore, color, fun, wonderful experience, weather etc. are a necessary part of life in Jonas’ opinion. All these factors contribute to making him wanting to leave the community’.

