 In Spanish, if you want to talk about where you live, or if you want to say that someone is living, you would use vivir, pronounced like BIB-ear.If you look at the verb and the noun for life, vida, you can see that the two words are related in that they both start the same way.
The verb often is used along with the noun. For example, if you wanted to say "I live a good life," you could say "vivo una buena vida" or "vivo una vida buena" (the order of nouns and adjectives in Spanish doesn't matter the way it does in English)., In present tense, you're talking about something that is happening at the same moment as you are speaking. Since you must be alive if you are speaking (or writing), you'll typically use present tense when talking about your own life.For example, if you want to say "I live in Mexico" in Spanish, you would say "vivo en México."
To say "you live in Mexico," you would say "vives en México" (familiar) or "vivís en México" (plural or formal).
To say "we live in Mexico" in Spanish, say "vivimos en México." For "they live in Mexico," you would say "vivían en México."

, Sometimes you need to talk about life and living in the past tense. This could be the case if you used to live in one place, but then moved to another place. You also might speak about living in the past tense if you're referring to someone who has died.If you wanted to speak about your own living in the past tense, for example to say "I lived in Mexico," you would say "vivía en México." The third-person past is the same as the first person past, and for the second-person form you simply add an s: "vivías en México," or "You lived in Mexico."
To say "they lived" you would use the form vivían, as in "vivían en México" or "they lived in Mexico." The plural (or formal) second-person form is vivíais, as in "vivíais en México" or "you all lived in Mexico."
If you wanted to say "we lived," you would use the form vivíamos, as in "vivíamos en México" or "we lived in Mexico."
Pay attention to the accent marks when conjugating the verb vivir in past tense. The accent indicates that a different syllable should be emphasized than the traditional rule in Spanish of emphasizing the second-to-last syllable. In the past tense forms of vivir, there is an accent mark over the second i.
 If you plan to move to a new location, or are talking about someone else moving, you might want to use the future tense form of vivir, which is formed in a similar way to the past tense.Whereas you form the past tense of the verb vivir by taking off the r and adding the appropriate ending, to form the future tense you're going to leave the entire infinitive form as it is, and then add the appropriate ending. The endings are the same as they are in the present tense.
For example, to say "I will live in Mexico," you would say "viviré en México." For all future forms except we/nosotros, the last syllable is emphasized. Don't forget the appropriate accent mark.
To say "we will live in Mexico" in Spanish, you would say "viviremos en México."

