 You have a wealth of options for writing yourself a note. You will have to decide what method works best for you to help yourself remember things.


You could choose the traditional pen-and-paper method: Options here include sticky notes, a small notepad, an agenda, a journal, a diary, or a spiral-bound notebook.
Alternatively, you could choose a technological method: You can try the Sticky Notes program on Windows, a notepad app on your smartphone, a reminder app on your smartphone, or your preferred online calendar, such as Google Calendar or iCal.;
, Some people find it a challenge to use one method only for notes and reminders. The problem here is that too many systems for writing yourself reminder notes gets messy and confusing.


When you need a particular note to help you remember something, you will likely have no idea where it is if you use sticky notes, a calendar, a journal, and an app on your smartphone, as an example.
There is no way to organize your notes to yourself when you use many different systems. You might have the urge to write something down when it is inconvenient to do so using the system you normally use for that type of thought (e.g. you always write recipe ideas down in your journal, but you get an idea when you are not at home).
Your reminders and notes are simply more likely to get lost when lots of systems are involved. That may not always mean physically lost; it could also mean mentally lost (i.e. forgotten).
 This is easy if you choose a technological system using your smartphone, because most people have their smartphones on them at all times. However, if you choose a pen-and-paper method, figure out how to have that with you at all times.


When the urge strikes to write down a note to yourself, you have the tool you need to do so handy.
Your notes will stay organized all in one place if you always have that tool with you.
 Now, “write” could be figurative here, if you choose a technological method, in which case you would type it.


Writing it down immediately ensures you will not lose that thought.
If you chose an option like sticky notes, be sure that you keep the sticky note in a safe place until you can put it wherever you choose to safely store them, if you are not near that place.
You do not necessarily need to use complete sentences when writing a note, as long as you are confident that you will know what you meant when you come back to look at it later.
 Just as it is important to only have one system to writing yourself notes, it is just as important to keep all of your notes to yourself in a safe place.


If you keep notes to yourself on your smartphone or computer, they will always be there. However, if you choose to use a word processing program for writing notes to yourself, remember to save the documents.
You might want to keep all of your notes to yourself in something like a journal or diary. Always have that with you or know where it is so that you can access it when you need it.
Keeping your notes on or near your desk is usually a pretty good idea, as that is one place you likely spend much of your day.
Sticky notes work really well for some people, but they get messy quick. They also lose their stickiness eventually, causing them to fall from wherever you stuck them and potentially get lost. Keep this in mind if you use sticky notes!

