 Create a mock-up of the design that indicates where you want graphics, buttons, symbols and text placed. Research keywords that are applicable to your market. The keywords will drive traffic to your website.;
, Click "Help" to familiarize yourself with the application and tools needed to build your flash website. The main parts used to build a flash website are Stage, Timeline, Property Inspector, Library Panel, and Tools.


Stage is the setting, a rectangular box used to insert text, graphics, symbols and videos.
Timeline is used to control the timing. This is where you indicate when you want items to appear and the order.
The Property Inspector enables you to define the features you have chosen to use. You can select the font and size, position, alignment and margin setting.
The Library Panel stores your chosen animations and sounds.
The Tools menu is used to move objects on the stage, add text and draw images.
 Click "File" then select "New" to open a new document page.


Click the "General" tab to select the type of file you want to create. In this example, ActionScript 3.0 is selected. ActionScript is a programming language that enables you to add interactivity to the features you want on the website. For example, you can place a symbol to display a picture when clicked.
Click the "Properties" tab to select the dimensions. Select the background color from the "Background" drop-down box. Name the file and save your selections.
 From the "Tools" menu, select a drawing tool. Click the drawing tool and drag it to the stage. Holding the "Shift" key will control the drawing tool while drawing. Select no color to outline the object from the "Stroke Color Picker" box. After you have drawn the object, choose a color to fill the object from the "Fill Color Picker" located below the "Stroke Color Picker."

, From the "Tools" panel, select the selection tool. Click the drawing, select "Modify" then "Convert to symbol." Name the symbol then save it in the Library Panel. You can convert a symbol to a movie clip, a button or graphic.
 Click "File" then "Publish Settings." In the "Publish Settings" dialog box, click the "Formats" tab and select the Flash and HTML options. This creates the template that will display in your browser.


Click "OK," choose "File" then "Publish." Open your web browser and then open the folder where you saved your flash documentation. When you click "Publish," flash creates the files that build your flash website. The flash website will display in your browser window.

