 The shirt can be loose or fitted. If the shirt is loose, you will need to insert an elastic to help hold it up. If the shirt if brand new, make sure that its been washed and dried to remove any potential shrinking.;
, Try to cut through both layers of the shirt at the same time. This way, you will have to do less cutting. When you are done, discard the top part of the shirt, or save it for another project.


If you are having troubles cutting straight, use a ruler or measuring tape as a guideline.
 For a nice, crisp edge, press the folded hem down with a clothing iron.
 Try to sew as close to the cut edge as you can. You will need the space between the stitching and the folded edge for the elastic. Also, make sure that you leave a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) wide gap between where you started and finished sewing, or you won't be able to get the elastic inside.


Try to use a thread color that closely matches your t-shirt.
If your sewing machine has a knit fabric setting, try to use that; it usually looks like a standard straight stitch that's broken up by V shapes.
Remove the pins when you are done. Also, remember to snip off the loose ends of the threads.
 This will help hold your tube top up. Even if your shirt was fitted, an elastic might still be a good idea; fitted shirts can loosen over time.
 Find the ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) wide gap in your stitching. Push the safety pin through it, and use it to guide the elastic all the way around the top of the shirt. When you reach the gap again, pull the safety pin out. Both ends of the elastic should now be sticking out of the gap.


Be careful not to lose the other end of the elastic inside the shirt hem.
 Overlap the two ends by 1 inch (2.54 centimeters), then sew them down using the smallest stitch you can. Overlapping the ends of the elastic like this will prevent any unsightly bulges. When you are done, push the elastic back through the gap.


Once you have the elastic back through the gap, you can sew the gap shut for a nicer finish.
 Be sure to wear a strapless bra with it so that you don't have any bra straps showing.

