 Airlines will require unaccompanied children to travel using their service. Because each airline sets its own rules for unaccompanied minors, you need to contact the airline and ask about the details of its service.Unaccompanied minor services generally consist of the following:allowing your child to board the airplane early
introducing your child to the flight attendant, who will watch over the child during the flight
having an escort at the airport for connecting flights
releasing your child to the appropriate adult at the end of the flight
arranging different flights if a flight is cancelled or delayed;
, Each airline can set its own age requirements for using its program. Typically, the unaccompanied minor service is for children between the ages of 5 and 11.If your child is between these ages, then he or she has to use the service in order to fly on the airline.


Sometimes, airlines will offer some services to older children, especially if you pay the fee. You should find out what services they offer for older children.
 In order for your child to fly on the airline, you may have to comply with certain restrictions. Each airline can set its own restrictions. However, the following restrictions are common:Your child might only be allowed on nonstop flights. Alternately, the airline might only let the child switch planes if they are a certain age (such as eight or older).
Your child might not be allowed on the last flight of the day for that destination.
The airline might require early check-in (60-90 minutes before departure).
The airline might charge additional fees or higher fares to use the unaccompanied minor service.
 To make things less complicated for your child, you should try to book a non-stop flight. You could also book a “through” flight, which is a flight that stops at an airport but the child does not need to change planes.Also try to book flights earlier in the day. If there is a delay, then your child might be able to catch a later flight on the same day.
 You should send this person a copy of the child’s flight itinerary, so that they know when to be at the airport to pick up your child. You should also call the day before the flight to confirm that the person is available for pick-up.


Ask the person to call you when they get to the airport so that you can confirm that they are waiting for your child. If the person doesn’t call you, then make sure you have a back-up., The airline will want to see your ID, so make sure to bring it with you when you take your child to the airport. Also, any adult picking up your child should also have a valid, government-issued photo ID on them., If your child has a connecting flight, then he or she will likely be met by an airline representative, who will escort your child from the plane to the next flight. You should talk with your children ahead of time so that they understand what will happen.Your child will probably be given a badge to wear for the flight. Tell your child to leave the badge on for the duration of travel.
Remind your child to always stay in sight of any airline representative who escorts him or her around the airport. If your child needs to use the bathroom, then make sure the escort knows and accompanies your child there.
While on the plane, your child will probably be watched by a head flight attendant. Tell your child to speak to this person if they have a problem.
Also remind your child not to leave the airport with a stranger.
 The airline will probably ask you to complete an unaccompanied minor form at the counter on the day of the flight.You should give yourself enough time to complete this form.


You will probably have to provide the phone number of the person picking up your child. You may also need to give the airline the phone number of a back-up who can pick up your child.
Make sure your child has a copy that he or she carries throughout the flight.
 You will probably be able to walk your child through security and to the gate. Preferably, you can then go onto the plane and watch your child be seated. You will need an “escort pass” or similar document to go through security when you don’t have a ticket.Call your airline ahead of time and ask if you can get an escort pass to take your child to the plane. You shouldn’t wait until the morning of the flight to do this.
 On the day your child flies, you should monitor the flight for any delays or cancellations. If anything goes wrong, you can contact the airline and the person who is meeting your child at their final destination.You can often track flights by visiting the airline’s website. Make sure that you have the correct flight number.
The website should tell you when the flight arrives or if it has been delayed.
 The airline should tell you what it will do if your child’s connecting flight is cancelled or delayed. During winter, for example, flights can be cancelled due to a storm. Your child might not be able to get another flight until the next day.


You should understand the airline’s policies if the child has to stay overnight at the airport. Each airline’s policies may differ.
For example, some airlines might book a hotel room for your child where he or she will stay with an airline representative, with another unaccompanied child, or alone.
Other airlines might not take any responsibility for the child in an overnight delay situation. Instead, the child may be turned over to local authorities.