 This could be in your journal or just a handwritten message or letter to a friend. A small journal or a writing pad do not take up very much space in your purse, planner, or even a jacket pocket. With emails and text messages, hand-written notes and letters have become special to many people.


You don't have to get wordy if you're not feeling it. Tell a friend they're awesome and draw them a stick figure of them being a ninja and taking over the entire world -- not only will the picture lift their spirits, but they'll also find your sad excuse for an adult's drawing skills to be endearing.
 Let it be about anything you like, anything you don't like, or anything you can think of. Surely the waiting room you're in spawns enough emotions that you're feeling creative? Let them flow! A lot of things rhyme with "killing time."


Not a songwriter? Not yet! Here's how to write a song and how to write rap lyrics. Who knows? Your need to kill time could result in a very fulfilling career!
If you don't want to write a song, make a music video! It could be a parody, just you goofing off, or you pretending to be the artist. Everyone else on YouTube is doing it -- you might as well, too!

, They're easy, fun, and preserve your memories much better than a slideshow on Facebook. One trip down the scrapbook aisle at your local craft shop and you'll be a goner. There are so many options you're bound to find something you just have to try.


They make great gifts, too. If you want to commemorate your time, vacation, or a relationship with someone, scrapbooks are a great, personal way to say you care.
 If scrapbooking is a bit of a commitment (or at least requires you be house-bound), think smaller. Keeping your hands busy while you wait is a surefire way to wile away the hours! Consider:



Knitting or crocheting. Small projects like potholders or knitted mittens may be portable enough to take with you in a small accessory bag or your purse.

Doodling or sketching. Great inventions have been begun in sketch pads and even on napkins. Keep a pencil and small pad for doodling away time when you are waiting. If you're with someone else you can even create your own turn based strategy game by drawing buildings and units and expressing their actions turn by turn.
String beads or macrame. However, if using beads, make sure they don't spill all over the place!

, No one has to read it, you just have to write it. It's a great creative outlet and place to vent away. Who knows, maybe your blog will be one of the blogs someone else reads to kill time! Or you could win a Bloggie!


There does not have to be a point to your blog. It doesn't have to be about trying Julia Child's recipes or forcing yourself to date your best friend for 60 days or the war you're waging on fur -- it just has to be. Find a free website (like Blogger.com or Wordpress) and start hacking at the keys!

, Pull up a "recipe by ingredient" website and see what you can make from the ingredients in your kitchen. You get to kill time and enjoy the end product! Now that's killing two birds with one stone.


Want some inspiration? Try wikiHow's recipe section for ideas!

