 If you conduct an extensive search immediately, there's a good chance you'll find the cat close to the location where it was lost.The more time has passed increases the opportunity for the cat to roam further from home.


Stay calm. It is natural to feel upset, but getting into a panic won't help you or your cat. Taking action immediately can mitigate anxiety.
If you recently moved, go back to your old place and search. If you moved really far from your original home, ask friends, family, and old neighbors who are still living there to search for you.;
, Even in daylight, bring a flashlight so you can look in dark places, and catch the reflection of your cat's eyes.
 Don't assume your cat will respond to your voice as it normally does. A lost cat is usually a terrified cat, and may not want to leave its hiding spot even for you. Call for it in a soft, quiet voice, to avoid scaring the cat further., A cat that is trapped, hurt or hungry will likely meow. Whether you're searching by yourself or with a group, take a few minutes in every area you search to listen quietly and attentively for the cat's meow.
 Another cat in the area could have chased your cat away, especially if that cat or you have recently moved there.Ask other cat owners to keep their pets inside while you look for yours, and be prepared to increase the scope of your search as you cover the ground closest to home.


If you have dogs, their enthusiasm may frighten your cat during the search. However, if your dog enjoys looking for the cat or responds to "Find the cat," it may be useful to bring the dog if you can't find the cat yourself.
 If your cat has a favorite toy on a string or wand, like a stuffed mouse or feather, take it with you while you search and make it very visible, like you want the cat to play with you; this may allay fears and bring the cat out of hiding.
 Warn anyone searching that if they do spot the cat, remain quiet and do not chase! It's best for the owner to approach the cat, especially since the cat it likely to be very frightened.


Trade cell phone contact information with everyone involved in the search, and supply each person with a flashlight, even in daylight.
 Whenever someone walks by, ask whether he has seen your cat, showing a photograph if you have one.


Postal workers, children, and other people who spend a lot of time outside in your neighborhood can be useful resources and scouts.
Offering a reward increases motivation, even with relatively small rewards.
 If you were searching during the day, return and repeat the steps above after it grows dark when it is more quiet. Bring a flashlight, and call softly to your cat. Lost cats are sometimes more willing to leave their hiding places at night, when they can rely on the darkness for safety.
 You may be able to catch a picture of the cat on camera so that you know they are nearby and focus your search., Most cats will hide instead of run when they're lost or in a scary situation. Because of this, some cats may spend several weeks in the area, moving from one hiding place to another by night. It's not unheard-of for a lost cat to be found after a couple months.

