 If you feel like you want to cry then go right ahead, you should get your feelings out. You'll also feel angry for a while, and that's also okay. Usually once a breakup happens, you start by wallowing in sadness, and eventually anger takes over and you're going to want revenge or the chance to get back at your ex.;
, Try to be as happy as possible, especially around your ex. This is super-effective, because if your ex sees that you're sad, they'll feel on top of the world; you can't live without them. Don't let them get the better of you! When they talk to you, smile and act happy. They will think you already moved on, and that's the worst feeling they could ever have.
 If you have a group of people you've been hanging out with since childhood, then be with them. If you have any guy friends, hang out with them too, just to give him a twinge of jealousy. Be social, go to parties, have movie nights, text and call them to chat, and live life as if you'd never met him. Act like you've forgotten his face.
 If you really feel the need to send a bit of revenge his way, keep it minimal. Write a flirty text to another guy and "accidentally" send it to him.
 If you are friends on Facebook or another social networking site, post statuses which incorporate pet names that he used to call you. For example, "This Little Princess just got a manicure!" will be meaningless to anyone else, but a little dig at them.
 If you ever see them in public, seem sympathetic. Tell them that you've heard something about their "misery" or "unhappiness" and that you hope that things will get better for them. They will want to know what you heard, but won't dare ask you.
 If you've had a crush on someone for a while and you feel like you're ready for another relationship, consider asking someone else out. Don't ask this person out solely for revenge; only ask them if you actually want to date them. If you are close with his family then consider seducing his dad. This way he'll be forced to see you more often and you will have the upper hand! If you're feeling up to it, force him to call you "Mum", its a big slap in the face for him and gives him a funny Oedipus complex!

