 Each year, you can get a free copy of your credit report from each of the three national credit reporting agencies (CRAs)—Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. You don’t have to order them individually. Instead, you can order all three at once:Call 1-877-322-8228. Provide your name, address, Social Security Number, and date of birth. Your report will be mailed to you.
Visit annualcreditreport.com and supply the requested information. You can gain instant access to your credit report.
Fill out the Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC) Annual Credit Report Request form, available here: https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/pdf-0093-annual-report-request-form.pdf. Mail it to the address listed on the form.
 Go through each item listed on your reports and highlight anything that is wrong. Some of the more common errors include the following:errors made regarding your name, address, or contact information
accounts that don’t belong to you
accounts created by someone who stole your identity
current accounts listed as late or delinquent
incorrect dates
accounts that appear more than once with different creditors listed
old information that should have fallen off, such as a bankruptcy that occurred more than 10 years ago
erroneous account balance
erroneous credit limit

, When you contact the CRA, share any proof you have that the information is wrong. Don’t worry if you don’t have anything. However, go through your papers and try to find any supporting documents that you can.


For example, you might have been the victim of identity theft. You should have a copy of the police report to share.
If an account is improperly listed as in default, find old statements that show you have made timely payments.
 You should contact the CRA which has the negative information. If more than one has the same incorrect information, you only need to contact one.


You can report online. Go to each CRAs website and look for a link to “Credit Report Disputes” or something similar.
You should also send a letter certified mail, return receipt requested. Hold onto the receipt, as it will serve as proof that the letter was received. The FTC has a sample letter you can use to request that the information be corrected., After you contact a CRA, it will investigate by contacting the entity that submitted the incorrect information (such as a bank). The reporting entity must confirm that the information is accurate. If they can’t, then it will be removed. Generally, you will hear back within 30 days.You should receive a written letter explaining the results of the investigation. You’ll also receive a free credit report if a change was made.
You should also receive the name, address, and phone number of the entity that provided the inaccurate information.
You can request that the CRA send a free report to anyone who has received it within the past six months.
 If the CRA won’t make the change, you should then object directly to the entity that provided the information. The FTC has a sample letter you can use for this as well.If you are still unhappy, then ask to file a statement of dispute. This is a short statement (usually 100 words) that provides context. It will be included whenever someone requests a copy of your credit report.It’s best to include a statement if you were the victim of identity theft but the provider is insisting you really opened the account. You might also want to provide a statement if health issues caused financial difficulty.

