 One way to become more tolerant of others is to educate yourself about different cultures and values. You often react with fear if you do not understand something or have the knowledge to comprehend someone’s point of view. Take the time to do some research on different cultures and values that you do not understand. Look up information online and read news articles from a variety of publications on an issue or subject. This will show that your tolerance is coming from an informed place.Try to search for articles and texts written from first hand experience. For example, if you are trying to understand why some Muslim women wear the hijab, you may look for articles written by Muslim women explaining why they choose to do this, based on their religion. Finding information through the experiences of someone dealing with the issue themselves will ensure you get a well rounded perspective on the issue.
 Avoid making assumptions or generalizations about someone who might hold a certain perspective or viewpoint. Instead, be willing to ask thoughtful questions and engage with the person if you are confused about their perspective. Asking questions will show that you are willing to learn and get informed. This will demonstrate that you are able to be tolerant and open, even if you are uncomfortable or unsure.For example, maybe you are unclear why certain Muslim women feel the need to wear the hijab, especially young women in the workplace. Rather than make assumptions about this issue or reacting with intolerance, approach a co-worker who is Muslim and wears the hijab. Politely ask her, “I’m curious why you wear the hijab. I don’t know much about it and would like to better understand this practice. Could you tell me why you decide to wear the hijab?”

, As an interesting thought experiment, you may try taking on a viewpoint that you disagree with and debating others as if you believe in this viewpoint. Though this may be difficult at first, it is a useful way to learn how to empathize with a different point of view.You may do this for one day and do research beforehand so you can convincingly inhabit the viewpoint. Even doing this for one hour could be a good way to put your tolerance into action and better understand a certain viewpoint.
For example, you may find it difficult to connect with someone who believes that abortion should be legal in the United States. You may then decide to take on this viewpoint for a day and do research around why women decide to get abortions. You may also engage with others about the issue and discuss a perspective on abortion contrary to your own.
 An identity wheel is a good team-building exercise you can do with your coworkers or your peers to better understand where everyone is coming from. Examining the identities in the room can also help to build tolerance and mutual respect among the group. It can also allow you to get better educated about how different identities may hold different viewpoints and perspectives.Start by writing your name in the center of a piece of paper. Then, draw five bubbles around your name. Fill in the bubbles with one aspect of yourself that defines who you are. For example, you may choose “student” “woman” “athlete” “Mexican-American” and “painter”.
If you are doing this exercise with a group, have everyone in the group make their own identity wheels. Then, take turns around the room discussing why you each choose these descriptors and why they are important to you.
You may also all reflect on how these five aspects might affect your perspective or viewpoint on certain issues. You may consider how your identity influences how you see the world, and notice the differences between your perspective and someone else’s perspective based on your identities.

