 Applying an eyeshadow primer before you apply any eyeshadow can help to ensure that your eyeshadow looks flawless and lasts longer. You can also apply a little concealer to your eyelids if you do not have any eyeshadow primer.To apply primer, put a small dab onto your eyelids and use your fingers to gently blend and even out the primer.
 For a flawless eye look, start with a light color eyeshadow and then build the color with darker shades. For example, you should start with a cream color, then add some light brown to your creases. If you want to deepen the shade even more, then apply a darker shade of brown over the light brown.Keep layering the colors until you achieve the shade that you want.
You can also go with a single color, such as a bronze or champagne if you just want a bit of shimmer on your eyelids., Applying a thin (or thick) line of black liquid eye liner is a great way to get a precise, flawless eye makeup look. Try using a liquid liner pen and line your upper eyelid from the inner corner to the outer corner.Use short strokes to get a straight line.
 Highlights add shimmer and dimension to your eyes. They also draw attention and make your eyes appear brighter. Try applying a bit of highlighter to the inner corners of your eyelids and along your brow bone as well.You do not need to use much highlighter. Just a small dab will provide enough shimmer to accent your eyes.
You can also use a light shimmery eyeshadow as a highlighter. Try using a champagne, light gold, or silver color as your highlighter.
 Always finish your makeup look by applying a layer of mascara. Mascara defines and lengthens your lashes, which will help you to look flawless. Go for a black mascara and apply two to three coats for maximum effect.








To apply mascara, start by wiping any excess makeup off of the brush. Then, start near the base of your lashes and wiggle the brush slightly from side to side. Then sweep upwards and coat your lashes to the ends.
If you want a really dramatic look, then you can also try using false lashes.

