 An accurate diagnosis is essential for getting appropriate treatment. Ask your healthcare provider whether there are additional tests necessary to solidify your diagnosis prior to beginning aggressive or targeted treatment for IBD.


If your doctor is unable to diagnose your issues definitively, then you may want to consult another healthcare professional for a second opinion.;
, Record your diet and symptoms in a journal for a few weeks before meeting with your doctor. This will help a dietitian or physician develop a nutritional intervention plan to ease your symptoms of IBD.


Unless your symptoms are currently very severe, your healthcare provider may have you adjust your diet to test its effectiveness on easing symptoms before prescribing medication.
 Many medications have been developed to reduce inflammation and ease the pain and discomfort of inflammatory bowel disease. Medication options include anti-inflammatory drugs, cortisone or steroids, immune system suppressors, antibiotics, anti-diarrheal medications, and other prescription drugs that fight irritation and prevent symptoms.Specific treatments will depend on whether you have Crohn’s Disease, ulcerative colitis, or another form of IBD.
Just as with other medications, IBD drugs involve some side effects and may not be compatible with certain other medications. Be sure to discuss any other medications or supplements you take with your healthcare provider.
In some cases, the first medication you try may not be effective or suitable for your lifestyle. You may have to try several types of medicine before you find a drug that works well for you and eliminates your symptoms.
 In many cases, nutritional changes and lifestyle tweaks can help control symptoms of inflammatory bowel disease. Ask your doctor about specific dietary changes you can begin immediately to help prevent flare-ups or to ease symptoms and reduce inflammation.In general, eliminating irritating foods, such as high-fat foods, caffeine, alcohol, and spicy foods, from your diet can help minimize your IBD symptoms.
Eating a well-balanced diet that is high in soluble fiber and lean protein is typically good for people with IBD.
In some cases, your doctor with refer you to a dietician to help form a plan for dietary treatment of IBD.
 Well-managed inflammatory bowel disease may never require surgery. In some cases, however, significant bowel damage or dangerous pre-cancer cells may develop. In these cases, surgery may be necessary.Surgical treatments for IBD include strictureplasty (which widens narrow areas of the bowel), resection of the intestines, colectomy, and removal of abscesses and fistulas.
If you do not currently require surgical intervention, following your treatment plan closely and adjusting your treatment when necessary under the guidance of a health professional can help you avoid surgery in the future.
 Because there are multiple forms of inflammatory bowel disease, and due to the variety of symptoms and experiences people have with the disease, treatment for IBD is almost always individualized. They will vary depending on the severity and frequency of your symptoms and the specific type of IBD that you have.Besides working hard to keep yourself healthy and active, particularly during periods of fewer symptoms, most treatment for inflammatory bowel disease involves continued medical care.
 Even with treatment, IBD can involve painful resurgences of symptoms that do not subside with use of your medication and dietary regimen. Discuss treatment options with your healthcare provider for such instances, including which over-the-counter medications may help ease symptoms.Also ask if your healthcare provider is available for emergency treatment in severe cases.

