 You can turn regular milk into evaporated milk by removing about 60% of the water. This means 30 ounces (3¾ cups / 890 mL) of regular milk will make 12 ounces (1½ cups / 350 mL) evaporated milk, the amount typically found in one can.You can use full fat, reduced fat, or skim milk.
Non-homogenized milk (including raw milk) will separate into fat and liquid as you heat it. This makes it a poor choice for making evaporated milk unless you add an emulsifier, such as lecithin.;
, The wider the pot, the faster the water will evaporate. A thick, nonstick base helps minimize burning from milk solids that sink to the bottom.
 Place the saucepan over medium heat. Keep a close eye on the milk and whisk frequently to prevent a skin from forming. If a skin does form, remove it or break it apart, or it will block water from evaporating., Reduce heat to keep the milk at a very low simmer. Depending on the pot size, stove temperature, and amount of milk, it can take anywhere from another twenty minutes to a couple hours to finish making evaporated milk.


Alternatively, bring the milk to a low boil and stir constantly for ten minutes. This requires a deep pot to prevent boiling over, and comes with a high risk of a "scorched" taste.If you dislike a light brown color or caramel flavors, you can heat the milk below simmering, at around 160ºF (70ºC). It may take several hours to boil down, but the result will have a pure milk color and flavor., It's normal for small amounts of milk solids to separate and stick to the base of the pan. The heat will brown these slightly, adding the light caramel flavor found in most canned evaporated milk. Just keep a watchful eye on the pot and whisk at least once every five to eight minutes so the milk solids don't scorch.Reduce heat and whisk vigorously if the milk rises above a low simmer.
A rubber spatula is the best tool for scraping the base. A whisk is best for preventing skin from forming. Alternate between these tools for the best result.
 Eyeball this based on the depth of the milk in the pan, or measure the volume in a heatproof measuring cup. If you started with 30 ounces (3¾ cups / 890 mL) of milk, turn off the heat once you're down to 12 ounces (1½ cups / 350 mL). The milk is now similar to store-bought evaporated milk, with a little more than half of its water removed.


The milk might be light brown or white, depending on temperature and how often you scraped the pan.
 It's normal for some spongy solids to separate out of the milk when you heat it. Pour the milk through cheesecloth or a fine mesh to remove these., Unlike the canned product, homemade evaporated milk is not shelf stable.That said, the lower water content does increase the shelf life, so it should last longer than regular milk.Store in an airtight container in a cold area of your fridge.


Evaporated milk does not freeze well.If you are storing the milk in a glass container, let it cool to room temperature before you refrigerate it. Sudden temperature changes can break glass.

