 Select a palette knife if you have one, or a slim butter knife if you don't. Push the vertical knife down between the cake edge and the pan. Carefully move the knife around the entire cake to loosen the sides. Stay as close to the pan edge as possible to minimize the amount you cut into your cake.


If the cake is for a major occasion, you may want to try the other methods first. This one often causes minor damage.
If the cake burned onto the sides, saw up and down slowly to break it loose. You may need to go around the cake four or five times.;
, Push the spatula down at the edge of the pan, as you did with the knife. This time, lever the spatula inward as you move around the cake. This tool should be flexible enough to separate the perimeter of the base from the pan.


If the cake is seriously stuck, don't try to force it off. Skip down to one of the other methods instead.
You can use a thin metal spatula or pizza peel instead. Run hot water over it first, as the heat and moisture can help unstick the cake.
 Place a large plate over the cake pan. Hold them firmly together and flip them upside down. Shake the pan softly until the cake comes out.


You may flip it onto a cooling rack instead. Keep something underneath the rack to catch crumbs.
If the cake is damaged, skip down to the cake repair instructions.
 Knocking the base of the pan can dislodge the cake. Hold the cake just above the plate when trying this, tilted at a 45ยบ angle. If this still doesn't work, turn the pan right side up and bash the side against a countertop.
 If the cake still hasn't popped out, it might do so once the pan is fully cooled. Leave it upside down over the serving plate and cross your fingers.
 In most cases, you should try one of the methods below instead. If you don't have the time or tools to do so, you can try to remove the cake by force. Be forewarned: this usually results in a broken cake.


Hold the cake with your hands or a spatula, while twisting the pan.

and/or Lever the cake out using the same rounded knife. This time, angle the knife inward toward the center of the cake to break off the base.

