 To save time on busy weeknights, designate a block of time Sunday night to chop, slice, and dice fruits and veggies for the rest of the week’s meals.You can place chopped fruits or veggies in a plastic bag or storage container with a damp paper towel and store them in the fridge.
Place chopped onions and other go-to ingredients in a freezer bag and freeze them for up to three weeks.
Store potatoes, apples, and other items that turn brown in the fridge in a bowl of ice water with a squeeze of lemon juice.;
, Try to plan your meals for the week ahead and think of which spices you’ll need for them. Premeasure them in the morning or over the weekend and store them in small storage containers or plastic bags.Pre-measured seasonings will save you time when you actually cook your meal, ensure you use the right amount, and guarantee you won’t forget a spice.
 Instead of cooking meat for just one meal, prepare a larger quantity that you can either freeze or refrigerate for a quick meal later in the week. Reuse your leftovers creatively so you won’t get bored eating the same thing.For example, shred your roasted chicken leftovers to make quesadillas or chicken salad., Try boiling a large pot of pasta in the morning while you pack lunches, make coffee, eat breakfast, and complete other tasks. Boil it until it’s al dente, drain the water, then cover it and refrigerate it until dinner.Multitasking in the morning will save you a solid 15 minutes at dinnertime. Set a timer if you’re worried that you might forget about the boiling pasta.
 Boil your veggies until they’re not quite tender, transfer them to a bowl of ice water, drain them, then refrigerate them until dinnertime. This will cut prep time at dinner hour and, since you’ll only have to warm the veggies, reduce overall cooking time.For example, parboil veggies like broccoli, carrots, and asparagus in the morning, then add them to a stir-fry, a pasta dish, or just serve them as side dishes.
Shocking them in ice water will also preserve their color and up your presentation game.
 Compared to stir-frying or sauteing, roasting is a relatively hands-off cooking method that requires minimal prep. Instead of spending lots of time finely mincing, slicing, or dicing, you’ll only need to give your veggies a rough chop. Simply drizzle them with olive oil and seasonings, then pop them in the oven at 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) for 30 to 45 minutes.Aside from turning them once while they roast, you’ll be free to get ready in the morning or finish up that bit of paperwork you took home from the office.

