 Experts don't actually know exactly how sea salt reduces acne. It may be that the high salt concentration helps kill off bacteria or that the sea salt replenishes minerals that help heal the skin.Sea salt may also be helpful in dissolving sebum.


This method, has helped many with mild-moderate acne and will not interfere with any medications used.
Still, it's always best, if you are seeing a dermatologist, to let them know what you are doing at home to help yourself.
Be careful not to over-use sea salt, as it can dry your skin and stimulate sebum production that might cause a breakout.
 Always cleanse your face first with a gentle non-alcohol based cleanser. Place the cleanser on your fingertips and use gentle, circular motions to loosen any dirt. Wash for about a minute, then rinse with cool or lukewarm water. Pat dry with a clean towel and use one of the sea salt methods given below as an after-cleanse treatment.
 A mask is useful if the acne you want to target is on your face. Stir 1 teaspoon of sea salt into 3 teaspoons of hot water. The water should be hot enough to dissolve the sea salt completely when you stir it together. To this solution, add 1 tablespoon of one of the following:


Aloe vera gel (to help heal)Green tea (for antioxidants)Honey (for its antibacterial actions and to promote healing), Spread the mixture over your face with your fingertips, making sure not to make too much of a mess. Avoid getting the mixture near your eyes. Leave it on for 10 minutes, but no longer. Sea salt draws water out and can dry your skin out too much.


After 10 minutes, rinse the mask off with cool to lukewarm water, and pat your face dry with a clean towel.
Apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer to finish.
While you may be very tempted, use this bath or facial wash only once a day. Otherwise, you may dry out your skin too much, even with a moisturizer.
 The ingredients for the spray are essentially the same as for the mask. However, use 10 teaspoons of sea salt in 30 teaspoons of hot water, and 10 tablespoons of the aloe vera gel/green tea/honey. Once you've made your solution, pour it into a clean spray bottle.


Store this mixture in the refrigerator to preserve it.
 Every time you treat your skin with anything, you should always wash it with lukewarm water and a gentle cleanser. Close or cover your eyes to protect it from the sting of salt water, then spritz the mixture onto your face and neck.


Just as with the mask, you don't want to leave it on your skin for more than 10 minutes, after which you should rinse thoroughly with cool to lukewarm water.
Pat your skin dry, then finish with a non-comedogenic moisturizer.
 If you have outbreaks of acne on large portions of your body, immersing your whole body in treated water might be a better option than a mask or spray. While regular table salt won't hurt your skin, it also won't offer all the benefits of the other minerals found in sea salt: calcium, magnesium, sodium, chlorine, iodine, potassium, zinc, and iron.The bath won't really be worth it if you're using regular table salt.


Add 2 cups of sea salt to very warm-to-hot water as it is filling the tub. This helps the sea salt to dissolve.
Soak in the water for up to 15 minutes, but no more. Longer than that might over-dry your skin.
If you have pimples on your face, soak a washcloth in the tub water and place it over your face for 10-15 minutes.
Rinse off the sea salt water with cool water.
Pat your skin dry and apply a moisturizer to your body to prevent the sea salt from over-drying your skin.
Don’t bathe more than once a day in sea salt.

