 This one is a giveaway. If you look across the room in class or at a party and catch her looking right at you, then she may have a crush on you. If she sees that you've noticed her staring and looks away and blushes, or gives you a little smile, then she may be acknowledging that she may like you.


Just don't be too obvious about trying to catch her staring at you, or she may think that you're the one staring at her.;
, This is another sign that she may have a crush on you. If every time you walk by or talk to her, you find her turning red or getting flustered, then this may be a sign that she likes you and is shy and embarrassed about talking to you or saying the wrong thing. If you do see her blushing, don't tease her about it or mention it, or that may scare her off from talking to you.


Just make sure she's not the kind of girl who blushes whenever she talks to any guy -- she could just be shy around guys.
 A lot of girls giggle a lot around the guys they like because crushes make them feel a bit giddy and lightheaded just for being around the guy that they like. If you find the girl always giggling or laughing a lot around you, even if you've barely said anything funny, then she may like you. She could just be feeling giggly because she likes you, or she could really think that everything you say is funny because she has a big crush on you.


Next time you talk to her, see how much she laughs. Try a small joke and see if she laughs way too much -- this may mean that she has feelings for you.
 A girl's friends can tell you a lot about how she feels about you without saying much. Next time the girl walks by with her friends in the halls, see if the friends giggle when they see you, elbow her, or just nod in your direction, trying to tell the girl that you're around. This is a not-so-subtle way of letting you know that the girl may have a crush on you.


If the girl's friends always greet you with a knowing smile, then they may be telling you that the girl likes you.
 If the girl has a crush on you, then she may want to be around you as much as possible. If she likes you, she may be looking for excuses to hang out, like asking for help with her math homework, or even asking you to see a movie or to go to a concert with you. She could be very casual when she asks you to hang out to hide the fact that she likes you.


If you're in the same social circle, but she's been around a lot more lately, then it may be because she has a crush on you.
 If the girl dresses up a bit more whenever she's around you and pays more attention to her hair and makeup, then she may be trying to impress you. If you're just hanging out with her, or hanging out in a small group, but she spends a lot of time putting on lipstick or lip balm, looking at herself in the mirror, or just fidgeting with her clothes, then she may be trying to impress you.


If you see her unexpectedly, and she's dressed down a lot more, then she may be dressing up to impress you.
If you see her at the grocery store or somewhere unexpected, and she makes a joke about how casual she looks, then she may be embarrassed that she's not more dressed up for you.
 The girl's body language can say a lot about how she feels about you. If she's always making eye contact, leaning closer to you, and turning her body to you when you talk, then she may like you. Here are some other things to look for:


If she plays with her hair when she talks to you, then this may mean that she's nervous because she likes you.
If she shifts her weight from foot to foot, she may be a bit nervous about talking to you too.
If she breaks eye contact and looks at the floor once in a while, it may be because she likes you.
 This is an important point. You may think the girl likes you, but it could turn out that she's flirty, talkative, and playful around many guys. Some girls just have a lot of crushes on guys at once, or just like hanging out with guys -- some even prefer hanging out with guys to hanging out with girls. You may be misreading the signs and thinking a really friendly girl has a crush on you.


Check out how the girl acts around other guys. If she's the same way with everyone, then it's just part of her personality.
If she treats you differently, however, and pays more attention to you -- or less attention, because she feels shy about talking to you -- then she may have a crush on you.

