 If you are experiencing chronic back pain, one way to treat and reduce the pain may be through radiofrequency. Ask your doctor about radiofrequency treatment to find out if it is right for you. Your doctor will be able to refer you to a specialist in radiofrequency and pain relief.;
, To determine whether radiofrequency is an appropriate therapy, your doctor will first consider the source of your pain. It generally provides temporary relief for patients with chronic lower back and neck pain related to the degeneration of joints from arthritis., Prior to the procedure, your doctor will need to identify which nerves are causing you chronic pain and ensure that they do not control any major muscles in your back or neck. Your doctor will administer a nerve block to identify the nerves and make sure that the procedure is possible.An anesthetic is injected near the nerves that are connected to the joint that is causing pain. If this results in temporary pain relief, then the doctor is able to identify the joint causing the pain and can proceed with the procedure.
The nerve block is typically administered at an appointment prior to the actual procedure.
 Your doctor may provide you with some literature regarding what to expect on the day of the radiofrequency treatment. This literature will contain instructions regarding how to prepare for the treatment. For example, it may list what medications you should avoid on the day of the procedure. Some doctors, for instance, will ask patients to stop using any blood thinners prior to the procedure.
 On the day of the procedure, you should not eat or drink anything for at least 6 hours leading up to the treatment, discluding clear liquids, which you can drink up to 2 hours before the procedure., Bring all medications with you so you can take them after the procedure. Do not discontinue any medication without first consulting with your doctor.If you have diabetes and use insulin, ask your doctor about how you should adjust the dosage of insulin the day of the procedure. Also bring your diabetes medication with you so you can take it after the procedure.
 In most cases, you will receive an intravenous (IV) as part of the treatment. As a result, you will be unable to operate machinery or drive a vehicle for the next 24 hours.Make arrangements to have a friend or relative accompany you to the doctor for treatment and then drive you home once you are discharged., Before undergoing radioactive treatment, you should understand all of the potential side effects. Immediately following the procedure, you will likely experience mild numbness and pain around the treated area. More severe side effects can include:Bleeding.
Infection.
Long-term numbness.
Paralysis.
Nerve injury.
 Prior to the treatment you will be asked to wear a hospital gown and lie on your stomach on the X-ray table. At this point, your back will be cleaned and an X-ray machine will be positioned so that the doctor can precisely maneuver the radiofrequency needles.
 An IV line will be started in your arm or hand to administer a mild sedative. The sedative is used to keep you still and relaxed throughout the half-hour procedure., Immediately before the procedure, the doctor will give you a local anesthetic to numb the skin directly around the injection sites. This way you will not be able to feel any discomfort during the treatment.The doctor will then use the radiofrequency needles to target the nerves that are causing back pain. This will disrupt their ability to send pain signals to the brain.
 Immediately following the procedure, you will be placed in a recovery room to rest until you are ready to go home. Typically it takes about 20-30 minutes to recover from the procedure. Prior to being discharged the doctor will ask you to perform a few simple movements to see if pain reduction has occurred. Expect to spend to the rest of the day resting and relaxing.Patients should wait a few days before resuming their regular activities., It’s unsafe to partake in any strenuous activities, such as working out, for at least the first day of recovery. Make sure not to operate any heavy machinery or drive a car either., You’ll need to keep your bandages on for several hours. Once you’re getting ready for bed in the evening after having the procedure done, you can remove the bandages and gently clean the area., Patients will typically experience mild pain for a few days after the procedure. This is associated with the nerves dying from the radiofrequency treatment. In order to ease the pain you can place on ice pack on the sore area.Your doctor may recommend using an ice pack for about 20 minutes, three to four times a day.
 After this procedure, you can continue eating as you normally would. There are no dietary limitations during the radiofrequency ablation recovery process., You should not use a heating pad to treat the aches and pains associated with the procedure. Because the procedure uses radio waves and heat to burn the pain-causing nerves, cooling the area is the best way to ease pain., You should not take a bath for two days following the procedure. If you want to clean your body, you can begin to shower in warm water about 24 hours after the treatment.