 Friendsgiving should be a low-key affair. There’s no need to seat your friends in a formal seating arrangement or use a seating chart to decide who sits where. When your friends come in, say, “Make yourself comfortable and sit wherever you’d like. We’ll eat soon.”If some of your friends don’t know your other friends, introduce them and share something about each with the other that would be of interest to them.
For instance, if your friends Joe and Susan don’t know one another, say to Joe, “This is Susan. She is an astronaut.” Then turn to Susan and say, “This is Joe. He writes about astronauts.”

, As the host, you’ll be responsible for ensuring your guests all have enough to drink. You probably already know your friends’ drinking habits, but if you don’t you could just ask them at some point before the friendsgiving what they like to drink. If your friends don’t drink much (or at all), then you don’t need to have much. But if your friends like drinking during dinner parties and get-togethers, provide an appropriate amount and variety of booze.If you find the cost excessive, you could also ask each of your guests to bring a bottle of wine or a six-pack of beer along with their dish.In addition to alcohol, of course, your friendsgiving should have soda, water, and juice available for people who don’t want to drink.
Don’t forget to stock up on ice for both alcoholic and nonalcoholic drinks.
 All the dishes should be placed on the table and passed around, or arranged on the kitchen counter for buffet-style self-service. If your food is arranged on the counter, fold a notecard in half along its vertical axis, then turn it sideways to create a small sign. Write the name of the dish and the name of the person who made it on each card., After dinner, invite your friends to join in card games like 21, poker, or hearts. You and your guests might also enjoy a rousing round of Trivial Pursuit or charades. Think about what sorts of activities you and your friends enjoy and provide the opportunities to do them at your house.To keep the friendsgiving in the spirit of Thanksgiving, you could provide everyone with a small piece of note paper and a pen and invite them to anonymously write something they’re thankful on the notepad and drop it in a jar. During or after the meal, pull out the pieces of paper and read what each person is thankful for.You could also take an informal vote among your friends for the best dish of the night. Don’t vote for yourself!, If you have anything left over at the end of the night, invite each of your guests to take some leftovers with them in resealable containers or plastic bags. This will ensure they have a little something for the road.You might also be able to obtain some disposable takeout containers from certain restaurants. Just approach the restaurant managers and ask if you could have a set of eight or 10 takeout containers and lids for your friendsgiving.
 If you’re having fun, your guests will, too. Even if some small inconvenience occurs – a friend spills their wine on the table, or drops gravy on the carpet – just stay cool and don’t let it get to you. Instead, focus on the big picture – you and your friends are enjoying a great meal, great conversation, and having great fun together.