 Shooting the photo from above will provide a more flattering angle. It will likely emphasize your eyes and make your face and neck seem smaller.Shooting from below can make some people seem powerful, but it usually makes the chin and nose look prominent, which is not a flattering look for most people.It’s best not to go too high so the photo doesn’t get distorted.
Hold the camera out and a little above eye level. Then take the picture.;
, Look at your face in a mirror or the camera (or take a practice photo), and find which side of your face looks darker due to being further from the light source. Take the photo from the shadowed side for an artistic and slimming effect. This approach may not work in direct sunlight., Instead of a traditional, head-on self portrait, try taking the picture in a different way. Here are a few alternative shots you may consider:


A profile shot from the side
Half of your face—either the right or the left
Zoom in on your eye, mouth, or cheek

, The best photographs follow what’s known as the rule of thirds. This means that your eyes should be one third of the way down from the top of the photo and off to one side. This provides a more interesting photograph and probably a more flattering angle.
 The lens of the camera will distort anything that it is physically close to. A selfie, because it’s generally made by holding a camera within arm’s length of your face, often makes the nose appear larger than it is, which is not a look that many people care for.


If you want a close-up shot, zoom the camera in slightly, then hold it far away from you or take it further away and then crop the photo to make it seem as though it was taken close-up.
If your camera has a timer, prop it up against something, set the timer and back away. The resulting photo will likely be much improved.
 Though the rear-facing camera is more convenient for taking pictures of yourself, your smart phone’s main camera is likely a much higher quality, and will take better pictures., It is easier to see how you look a mirror, so if you place a mirror behind your camera or phone, you will be able to preview the picture you’re about to take more effectively. Be sure you’re not showing a fake smile!

, While this isn’t always possible, having someone take a picture for you is usually preferable. You’re more likely to be able to focus on what you’re doing and how you’re posing when you’re not worrying about holding the camera and pressing the shutter button too.


Ask a friend to take a photo for you. She may tease you about it, but she may also want you to take one of her.
If you are at an event or doing an activity, ask someone else there to take a picture of you (and your friends if you’re there with other people). Just be sure that the person is trustworthy so you don’t have your phone or camera stolen.

