 Lead is dangerous for humans and pets alike. If your home was built before 1978, you need to test the paint on the wall for lead before doing any kind of scraping or sanding. A pet may accidentally ingest some of the paint (or paint dust), which can cause lead poisoning.You may be able to remove the paint from your walls safely on your own; however, if you want to be on the safe side, you can hire a certified lead abatement contractor who will have the skills necessary to remove the paint.
A pet who is suffering from lead poisoning may lose coordination, have seizures, and/or muscle tremors. A pet can die from lead poisoning, so it is important to take a pet suspected of having lead poisoning to the vet right away.;
, The best way to keep your pet safe is to simply assume that all tools and materials related to home repairs are dangerous for your pet. Pets are often very curious creatures, so they may get into something that you didn’t even think to worry about. Thus, it is important to make sure that your pet won’t be able to get into any home repair substances you are using.For example, insulation can cause irritation to your pet's digestive tract if it is eaten. Glues, spackle, and foam insulation can cause major issues in your pet's digestive tract, and may even kill them.
Also remain aware of varnishes and paints.
Leftover materials such as sawdust and wood chips can also be harmful to your pet. They may eat or lick wood chips, which can cause harm to your pet’s stomach. They might also end up with painful splinters in their paws.
 There are several types of mold that can grow in a house, and just because you find mold in your home doesn’t mean that you or your pets have been exposed to it. That being said, if you discover mold growing in your home, you should take steps to have this mold professionally removed in order to prevent any family member (human or animal) from being exposed to potentially dangerous mold.If your dog or cat eats something with mold on it, they could suffer digestive issues, heart problems, or even neurological problems as a result.
 When doing home repairs, things often get left lying around. These objects could cause great injury to your pet. For example, a curious pet might get too close to moving part of a power tool or they might bite the electrical cord. Nails and screws left lying around could get eaten or stepped on by your pet. Thus, it is important to keep all materials secured and out of the reach of your pet.Another thing to watch out for is leaving heavy objects unsecured. For example, a heavy piece of wood left leaning up against a wall could fall and crush your pet.
 If you are doing home repairs in a specific area of your home, try to limit your pet’s access to that area while you are doing the necessary repairs. This is the best way that you can protect your pet from the dangers that home repairs pose.For example, if you are doing home repairs in a specific room, you could keep the door closed, put up a baby gate, or install a plastic curtain to keep them out.
If you have a yard that is safe for your pet, you could put them outside during the time you are doing the repairs.
If you are doing repairs that involve the entire home, you could consider keeping your pet in a kennel or having a trusted friend, neighbor, or relative keep your pet in their home while you do the necessary repairs.
 Once you have conducted the necessary repairs, you should take the time to clean the area thoroughly. Pick up and put away any tools, paints, and/or chemicals that you have used in a safe place. If you have laid plastic on the floor, pick it up at each corner so that none of the debris ends up on the floor. Once you have picked everything up, it is a good idea to vacuum and mop the floor to pick up any dust, fiber, etc. that might be left behind.


If the area has a strong smell because of the repairs, it is a good idea to let the area air out for a bit. Close off the area by closing the door and open a window. You could also place a fan in the room to help clear the air.
Don’t let your pet into an area where there is paint or some other material that needs time to dry. Wait until everything is completely dry before letting your pet near the area.
 If your pet comes in contact with paint that is not completely dry, the paint may end up in their fur. Your pet will likely lick this spot on their fur to try and get the paint off. This can make your pet very sick and it may even kill them. Therefore, it is a good idea to examine your pet's fur carefully after conducting home repairs that involve paint.Don’t forget to check the bottom of each paw. Your pet may have accidentally stepped in a drop of paint.
If you do discover paint on your pet, you’ll need to take action to remove the paint. If the paint is water based, use soap and water to thoroughly remove the paint. If it is oil based, wait for it to dry and then cut the affected fur off.
While the paint dries, use something such as an e-collar to prevent the animal from licking it. If you don’t have one, try to wash the paint out using soap and water as best you can, and then clip off whatever is left over. You could try covering the affected area with a bit of gauze and medical tape, but many animals will simply pull this off with their teeth.
You should never put any type of chemical paint remover (e.g. paint thinner, turpentine, or mineral spirits) on your pet’s skin.
 If your pet comes in contact with any home repair related materials, you should contact your veterinarian, especially if you think they may have ingested something. Many pets get injured or die because of accidents related to home repair tools and materials.


You can also contact the ASPCA animal poison control hotline. This number is 1-888-426-4435 in the United States. They may be able to help you if you believe your pet may have come in contact with something harmful.
 Change can be very stressful for pets. Even something as simple as repainting a wall can be stressful. Therefore, when you are doing home repairs, it is best to give your pet a quiet place where they can get away from the chaos. For example, you might make one room their designated space. Place everything your pet will need in that space plus a few of their favorite toys. If they have an undisturbed place to go, they are less likely to have bad reactions to the stress of home repair.If you don’t have a place where your pet can get away from everything while the repairs are going on, it may be best to let your pet stay in a kennel or with someone you trust until it is safe to return. This may also be stressful for your pet, but at least they will be safe.
If you are doing major renovations, many contractors will refuse to do work in a home where a pet is present. It is in your pet’s best interest to take them elsewhere during major renovations.
Make sure that your pet is microchipped and wearing a collar that has your contact information on it before beginning any home repairs. If your pet is frightened, they might escape. Taking these precautions will make it more likely that they are returned safely to you.
 Doing home repairs can be very time-consuming. Thus, it is important to take breaks every now and then to spend with your pet, and to help keep your pet’s routine as normal as possible. Many pets are comforted by the sound of their owner’s soft voice. When you go to your pet reassure them that everything is OK by speaking a calm voice and giving them gentle attention.For example, if you are doing a day of home repairs and you have a dog, be sure to stop working at the time you would normally take your dog out for a walk. This will help create a sense of normalcy for your dog.
If you have a cat, you can do something similar by stopping all work at the time the cat normally eats and allowing the cat to eat without having to feel nervous about the loud noises home repairs can cause.
 When you are done with your household repairs, go to your pet and comfort them. Spend time with your pet doing something they enjoy. Take them out for a walk, or go to the park and throw the frisbee. If your pet enjoys being brushed, do that. Whatever it is that will help make your pet feel happy and secure after a stressful (for them) day of home repairs.


You should not punish a pet who is upset by the noise and stress that results from home repairs. Punishing the animal will only make them even more stressed the next time you do these repairs.

