 You might need specialized treatment for a phobia rather than just being treated for another type of anxiety disorder, since you may have feelings of extreme stress from just thinking about being at a certain height. You may also experience physiological changes, such as heightened heart rate and blood pressure and increased sweating.If so, you may need specialized treatment for a phobia rather than just being treated for another type of anxiety disorder.If your fear of heights isn’t quite as severe as this, you may be able to work towards easing any discomfort you feel at certain heights with a little practice. On the other hand, if your discomfort is so severe that you can't face it yourself, you may need to move on to trying therapy or treating it with medication.


For example, have you ever not taken a job because it was located above a certain floor, or passed up the opportunity to meet with important people because they asked you to meet at a location too high off the ground? If so, it could indicate something more serious than a mere “fear of heights,” like a phobia/anxiety disorder.
If you aren’t sure how many times your fear of heights has kept you from doing what you want, sit down and make a list. Think back to all the times you didn’t do what you wanted or needed to do because of your fear. Putting them down on paper could give you a better sense of how seriously your fear has impacted your life.;
, By definition, a phobia is an “irrational” fear of experiences that most people would not find threatening.But, if your fear of heights is relatively minor, an appeal to statistics could put things in perspective. For the most part, the sorts of things that trigger a fear of heights (skyscrapers, airplanes, and roller coasters, for instance) are incredibly safe.These things are specifically engineered to be as sturdy and secure as possible. It's easy to forget just how unlikely it is for you to suffer any harm at all from normal, everyday activities like flying or working in a tall building.


For instance, depending on the airline, the odds of being involved in a fatal plane crash can be as low as about 1 in 20 million.. Compare that to the odds of any given US citizen being struck by lightning, which are estimated to be about 1 in 1 million.
 Relaxation activities that focus on embodiment, like yoga or meditation, can help you influence how your fear or anxiety affects your life.This can be something as simple as practicing deep breathing exercises while thinking about the situations you fear. Or it can include time spent attending a yoga class. These practices can help you become sensitive to how your emotions are connected with physiological processes, like breathing, heart rate, and sweating.Getting regular exercise, plenty of sleep, and maintaining a healthy diet are all great ways to regulate physiological processes related to phobias and anxiety. Starting small, like going on walks regularly or drinking more homemade fruit smoothies instead of eating fatty snacks, can get you on the right path.
 Caffeine consumption may be a contributing factor to anxiety related to acrophobia. Limiting or abstaining from caffeine could help alleviate symptoms.In addition, cutting down on caffeine is likely to make you less high-strung and more relaxed, which can make it easier to confront your fear.
 Try to slowly and progressively expose yourself to greater heights. For instance, you might want to start by simply studying on a 2nd-story balcony. Next, you could try to hike a large hill and look down over the distance you covered. When you're comfortable, continue exposing yourself to greater heights. If you can, always try to feel as supported as possible during these activities, by inviting a friend along, for example. Take pride in each accomplishment and don't lose momentum. With patience, you might eventually find yourself bungee jumping to celebrate your new strength.


It can be very difficult to force yourself to do something you know will make you nervous. To give yourself a little extra "push", create situations where you'll have to confront your fear. For instance, if you're at a carnival and a friend wants you to go on a certain scary ride, tell him you'll do it and buy yourself a ticket. You're more likely to do it if you're already invested in the experience. Don't forget that you can use relaxation techniques to calm your jitters.

