 This will give you a chance to learn what's being served and if there's anyway it can be easily modified to fit you lifestyle. If there will not be enough acceptable food, then offer to bring a dish of your own.

Offer to bring a dish others can eat. Vegetarian or not, everyone needs their vegetables. Plus, what better way to convince people that vegetarianism isn't awful than bring a delicious dish?
It is important to make it clear that you're offering by way of making things easier, not taking over. Make a suggestion that your dish will be ready to heat and won't cause anyone a bother.;
, At the dinner, try not to make too much of a big deal about your lifestyle as it will annoy other people. People are gong to be less accepting if you are talking about how bad meat is and how great vegetarianism is. They will feel defensive and chances are, you will end up making your family mad.

Don't preach about how bad meat is when at the meal table. People make and live with their own choices. If they wish to discuss this aspect of vegetarianism with you, they'll let you know. On the other hand, if they argue with you openly, you are entitled to defend yourself. It depends on your family culture as to whether or not mealtime argumentative discussions are permitted; if not, politely suggest that the discussion be had later.
 If you make an effort, then people will be less annoyed or act offended when you come across a food that you can't eat. Compliment the chef on the food you can eat.

Remember that there are many reasons for avoiding certain dishes, not just vegetarianism. This includes dislike, allergies, faith-based reasons, being full and only wanting to try some of the dishes. There's no need to make a big fuss, just take what you can and enjoy it to the fullest.
 No one will enjoy the holiday if everyone is negative. Have a bundle of alternative topics to discuss to divert potential arguments during dinner. Ask about what other people have been doing lately, follow up on things you know about family members, raise topical issues, and so forth. By being chatty about the things others are interested in, you can quickly shut down any negativity thrown your way. Most of all, try not to focus on food, but on the holiday cheer!