 You’ll have to go a locality where you can fish for Alligator gar, for starters. That means packing up and heading south to the lower Mississippi river and the Gulf of Mexico.


Places in Louisiana like the Henderson Swamp and Lake Pontchartrain near New Orleans have Gator gar.In Texas, try the Colorado, Trinity, Guadeloupe, Sabine, or other large rivers or Lake Livingston., Alligator gar spawn in the spring, around April, but the best time to look for them is in the summer in July or August or whenever is hottest.


Concentrate on slack water or sloughs. Gator gar like to hang out in slow waters and especially like to congregate in deep holes near shallower water, where they can surface to feed.Keep your eyes open for large river bends that naturally create deep holes surrounded by sandbars. Alternately, you might try an oxbow lake. These are lakes that were once bends in a large river but silted over, became cut off from the main stream, and are slack water except for during floods.
 Alligator gars are extremely large and will need very heavy gear. Growing up to 200 pounds or more, with sharp teeth, you’ll need to be well prepared and to have a clear plan for what to do when (or if) you hook one.Most people use a large circle hook attached to a steel leader as a rig – this is because the fish is generally pretty hard to hook. Some people use a treble hook, however.
You’ll want to have a stiff composite rod with pretty robust-strength test line. A typical strength is anywhere from 30 to 100 pounds and a reel capable of spinning out 150 to 200 yards.
Bait up with a small fish like a whole, descaled mullet. Other people will use live bait like shiners, scad, carp, or perch.
 Cast into the deeper areas, as this is where a gator gar will most likely find your bait. Gar like to swim away once they have taken the bait, so allow it to take a bit of line before setting your hook.


Don’t set the hook too early. Otherwise, you will hook the fish in a poor place or dislodge the hook entirely.Wait for about seven second after the bobber and line take off, then set the hook. Pull hard and perhaps several times, as the setting will require a good deal of force.
 Once you’ve got it on the line, try to tire out the fish. Being so big, alligator gars are a tough fight and can easily injure you with either their body or sharp teeth. Slowly bring the fish in, avoiding logs and other obstructions.


Do not try to pull the fish aboard a boat unless it is completely exhausted. If may be useful to use a gill gaff in this instance to position the gar’s head away from others on the boat.
Because they are so potentially dangerous, many fishermen advise against fishing for gar unless you plan to kill them. Use extra caution if you choose to release the fish.
Make sure to bring along a de-hooker or pliers in order to remove the hook, if you are planning to catch and release, as well as protective gloves and arm protection. 