 Once all the plates and silverware have been removed from your washer, you'll want to carefully pull out the bottom washing rack. Pull the rack towards you until it slides out of the dishwasher., The dishwasher drain can sometimes get clogged by larger pieces of food. Locate the drain on the bottom of your dishwasher and remove the food with your hands, before wiping down the area clean with a rag.Regularly clearing the dishwashing drain of food debris will increase the dishwashers efficiency and save you money over time.
A clogged drain can cause damage to your dishwasher's pump or scratch dishes., The filter is a screen that picks up debris from the inside of your dishwashing machine. Filters usually have screws that you need to remove to pull the filter out. Once you've removed the filter, allow it to soak in warm water and mild dish soap for 10 minutes before washing it down with a sponge., Once the filter and drain are cleaned out, you can put both of them back into the dishwasher so that it can also be cleaned by the vinegar.
 Pour one cup (236.58 ml) of white vinegar into a container or cup and place it on the top washing rack in your dishwasher. As you run your wash, the vinegar will help disinfect your dishwasher.Make sure that the container is dishwasher safe.
 Baking soda will help absorb the unpleasant odors and will leave your dishwasher smelling fresh. Measure out one cup (180 g) of baking soda into a measuring cup and pour it into the bottom basin of the washer itself., Press the high-temperature wash cycle on the front of your dishwasher and let it run. Set an alarm for halfway through the washing cycle so you remember to return to your dishwasher., Pause your washing cycle and open the dishwasher door. The vinegar and baking soda will start to work away embedded grime and will remove unpleasant odors., Use a dry cotton rag or cloth to wipe down the interior of the machine until it's dry. Performing once a month maintenance on your dishwasher will prevent food debris from building up and will stop unpleasant odors.
 The door seal on a dishwasher is prone to getting dirty. Dampen a rag with distilled white vinegar and then run it across the soft white plastic on your door seal. Examine the seal to make sure that you lifted all the dirt and gunk from it. Wipe down the exterior of your dishwasher with the same cloth., A monthly cleaning will keep your dishwasher smelling fresh and will prevent bacteria from growing. If you notice unpleasant odors or your dishwasher stops working even after cleaning it, you may need to have your dishwasher looked at for maintenance., If you want to remove built up grime or food on dishwasher racks, you can remove them from the washer and wipe them down with distilled white vinegar. Similarly, you can remove the sprayer arm on the dishwasher and soak it in distilled white vinegar. This will loosen up gunk and food particles and make it so your dishwasher runs more efficiently.The sprayer arm sprays down your dishes with water and can be found on the bottom of your dishwasher.
When removing the sprayer arm, make sure to read the instruction manual for the dishwasher.
Disconnect any energy running to your dishwasher while you unscrew the sprayer arm.

