 Maintaining your own personal blog will help you gain experience in the blogging field in two ways. Eventually, you’ll amass a portfolio of writing pieces that you can then show off to prospective clientele. You’ll also increase your own web presence, which is an absolute necessity if you ever hope to network your way into a paid blogging gig.There are numerous host sites to choose from. Many of them are free, but offer services from a low premium. Blogger and Wordpress are the two most popular blogging outlets on the web. You can start your blog in a matter of minutes on both, purchase domain names at a low premium or even get a free site address under their banner (e.g. yourblogname.wordpress.com).;
, Choose a subject for your blog that interests you, so you can be motivated to generate content for your blog on a consistent basis. If you become known as an expert on something that interests you, then you’ll find blogging jobs that fit that subject. You’ll enjoy them more in the long run.We all think that being versatile, a jack-of-all-trades, or a blogging Renaissance man will help us appeal to a larger audience. Yet, in many cases, people in search of bloggers want someone with a narrow expertise. They want someone who can thoughtfully comment on the latest board games, the newest jet propulsion engine, or innovations in cosmetics. You’ll want to market yourself just like people market products. Some of the most basic blogging "categories" or genres are gaming, politics, food, fashion, movies, books, cars, or business. Make sure your niche fits into a larger category. You don't want to pick a subject that is so narrow that no one will care.
 While you want quality material on your blog, you also need quantity. It may take you several weeks or several months for you to develop your blogging skills, to set up a routine, and to gain a web presence, but you can do it.


There is no magic number for how many blog posts you should have in order to become a successful blogger. Some like posting everyday because it sets a productive routine. Others post once a week. Find a routine that works well for you, but make sure that your readers know what to expect. Every post is like a doorway. How many doorways into your blog do you want prospective readers to have? , Since blog readers read differently than newspaper or even book readers, you want to be sure that you are doing everything you can to catch their attention. Make sure that your blog is “scannable”. Can the reader get the gist of your blog piece by quickly scrolling across the page? Are there keywords? Have you bolded or emphasized the most important lines of the text? Have you used illustrations that make it easier to understand the material at a glance? There are numerous techniques that you can employ., In order to attract readers and develop a following, you may want to advertise your blog using various forms of social media.


Submit your blog to blog directories or post links to your blog articles on social media websites. Examples of social media websites you can use for this purpose are Digg, Twitter, and Facebook.Embed a gadget on your blog that allows people to subscribe to your blog posts. People can then receive emails or notifications when you publish new content, and can also help you attract a consistent audience, or followers., Blogging for a website or for another blog that receives a lot of traffic will help your name become more recognizable. If a reader likes your piece, they’ll search out your other writings.


Verify that the blog you contribute to allows you to include your name and a link back to your own blog in return for your guest post. If the blog is popular, receives a lot of web traffic, or has a large following, you’ll be publicizing your blog in the process. Volunteer work can turn into higher-paying blog jobs, if you’re lucky and your content is solid.
There are online services like www.volunteerbloggers.com that will help link you to other bloggers with similar interests.
 Involving yourself in the blogging community and engaging in online discussions about blog posts and blogging can help you develop relationships with bloggers who may eventually connect you with paid blogging jobs.Follow Twitter feeds for large blogs and bloggers, participate in blogging forums, or comment on specific blog posts about relevant topics you are knowledgeable about.
 Blogs with a large following that publish fresh content daily usually have a large staff of contributing writers.


Ask the editor or hiring manager if freelance blogging opportunities are available, and include links to your personal blog and to other articles you have had published on other blogs or websites.
 There are a variety of websites dedicated solely to open freelance writing positions, such as ProBlogger and FreelanceSwitch.Both sites are free to use. Just create a profile and add samples of your work.


Be sure to emphasize your niche market. Be sure to relate how the materials you normally cover in your blog reflect the interests of the blog. Most blog job websites ask for writing samples. Tailor your chosen writing samples to position you are applying for.
 Other bloggers you have built a rapport with may be able to guide you toward paid blogging jobs. Or they might refer you to bloggers they know personally who currently hiring bloggers. They call it “networking” for a reason. You will slowly create an online community that can help you find paid blogging positions.
 Most blogging sites have a separate “hire me” link where you can solicit your services. In many cases, this works really well. The client will have a good understanding of your skills and your niche market by simply visiting and perusing your blog. Then they can click over to offer you employment.Don't be afraid to promote yourself on your own blog and your ability to blog for others. Emphasize your writing style and fields of "expertise".
 If you can, try to write several pieces for the same blogging outlet. You’ll quickly learn what they want out of their blogging presence. You’ll spend less time on the administrative side of the blogosphere and more time writing. Doing so might also provide you with a steady income.