 The most obvious way to soothe a burnt tongue is to counteract the heat with something cold. Try sucking on an ice cube or licking an ice pop -- even drinking a cold drink will help.;
, Yogurt is one of the best remedies for a burnt tongue, as it is extremely cooling and soothing.


Eat a spoonful immediately after burning your tongue and let it sit on your mouth for a few seconds before swallowing.
Natural Greek yogurt is recommended, but any kind of yogurt will do. You could also try drinking a glass of cold milk., One unique home remedy for a burnt tongue is to sprinkle a pinch of white sugar onto the burnt area and let it dissolve. Let it sit in the mouth for at least a minute for the pain to go away. Any pain should quickly subside.
 Honey is a naturally soothing substance that can be used to ease the pain of a burnt tongue. Not more than a spoonful is necessary


Simply eat a spoonful and allow the honey to sit on your tongue for a few moments before swallowing.
Be aware that you should never give honey to children under 12 months of age, as it can harbor toxic spores causing infant botulism, which can lead to death., Saltwater can relieve the burn while preventing an infection at the same time. Mix one teaspoon of salt with a cup of water. Take a big sip of the water, and swish it around in your mouth. Hold the saltwater in your mouth for between one and two minutes before spitting it out in a sink., Simply open a 1,000 IU vitamin E capsule and spread the oil on the burnt part of your tongue., It may sound pretty basic, but simply breathing through your mouth (instead of your nose) can help to soothe a burnt tongue, due to the cold air that rushes over your tongue when you inhale. 

, Until healing occurs, stay away from acidic foods like tomatoes, citrus fruits and juices and vinegar. If you really want to, water down orange juice so it is very weak but cold and that will soothe the area for the time you drink it. You should also avoid salty foods like potato chips, or spicy foods, like hot sauce, since these items will irritate the area.
 The aloe vera plant is a popular natural remedy for soothing and healing burns. Apply a little aloe vera gel (straight from the plant, not from creams or store-bought gels) directly onto the burnt area of the tongue. Be forewarned -- it probably won't taste very good! Or freeze the gel from the plant into ice cubes and suck on them so they're cold and relieving the pain.

