 Are you looking to improve up hills? Do you want to compete in races? Do you want to ride longer distances? Knowing your end goals will help you make a specific training program, which will cut into your weaknesses much faster than just going out and riding randomly. For example:


If you want to be a better climber, you need to design rides/routes that feature a lot of elevation change.
If you want to compete in a race, you need to build your overall speed and strength, favoring shorter, but faster, rides and minute adjustments meant to shave off seconds.
If you want to ride for longer, you need to slowly build up your endurance, increasing your mileage each week.;
, Endurance training is when you push yourself nearly to the max for 1-2 minutes, then slow down to rest for 1-2 minutes. By repeating this multiple times, you train your heart and body to push itself and then recover quickly, which translates into better overall cycling. While there are hundreds of interval routines out there, start out simple:


Warm up at a slow, even pace for 10-15 minutes.
Push yourself for 1 minutes at 80-90% top speed.
Relax to a slow, even pace for 2 minutes.
Repeat 5 more times.
Cool down for 10-15 minutes at a slow, even pace.
As you improve, lower your rest time by 15 seconds each ride., Hills may not be fun in the moment, but they are nature's way of whipping you into shape. Focus on hill riding 2-3 times a week, and push yourself up them. You can even time yourself up hills you tackle commonly, then race against your best times as you get stronger.


Try cranking up hills one gear higher than you normally would, and stay seated throughout. You'll go slower, but the training will be incredible., The century is more than a rite of passage, it is a great way to train your body for longer, more grueling rides. That said, there is a wide variety of ways to conquer a century, from all-out pushes to slower rides with frequent stops for food and stretching. No matter your speed, a century ride will push your mentally and physically into a better rider, making your next 20-mile loop feel like a breeze., At the end of the day, the only guaranteed way to become a better cyclist is to get out and ride every week. No matter where you go, or the speed you go, the more miles you log the faster you will be. Even riding to and from work, however short, will help you make slight gains.


Mix up your routes -- this not only keeps riding interesting, it presents new kinds of challenges and terrain.
Time yourself or get a bike computer for detailed information on your average speed, time, and miles covered.
Join group rides or ride with friends for added incentive. Try and find riders that challenge you to go faster and get stronger., Having a schedule makes it easier to stick to your goals and get the most out of your rides. The schedule does not have to be super complex, and there are only a few rules that you need to abide by:


Schedule two days in between major or difficult rides, like interval training or an extra-hilly day. Your legs need time to recover.
Give yourself 1-2 long, slow rides. This builds overall endurance and helps your legs stay loose and.
Ramp up the total mileage by 10-12 miles each week if you're training for longer rides.
Log each ride, time, and mileage to track your improvement.