 Ask yourself what you would do if you could do anything and money were no object. Don’t make money your primary consideration. The first things that come to mind are likely your passions. Also, think about what you’re curious about. This may lead you to uncover an interest that could turn into a business idea., These activities might provide insight into a good business idea for you. For example, suppose you liked to do outdoor activities. You might think of ideas that allow you to be outside, such as selling things from your garden. If you liked arts and crafts, you might think about selling home-made crafts., Decide if you want your business to be a continuation of your previous career. If so, you might be able to build your home business off of the skills and contacts you already have. However, it’s not uncommon for people to want to change careers and do something different. In fact, the Department of Labor and Statistics says that a growing percentage of Americans are switching careers throughout their lives., Chances are the exercises described above have encouraged you to generate a few ideas for your home-based business. But you don’t have to reinvent the wheel. Lots of people have started successful home-based businesses before you. If you do an internet search for “home-based business ideas,” you will find lists of hundreds of ideas. Some are categorized by industry, others by income-generating potential or start-up costs needed., Many stay-at-home moms (and dads) are somewhat homebound because they need to be available to their children. If you are a stay-at-home parent, you need a business that lets you work from your house. Also, you need flexible hours so you can work around your family’s schedule.Freelancing offers a great deal of flexibility and freedom. Many freelancers work in a field in which they already have skills. Also, they rely on connections with former coworkers to find work. Consider freelancing as a writer, web designer, marketing specialist or tax advisor.
Work as a virtual assistant. This means you provide administrative, marketing and technical support to other business professionals from your home office. This is a good option for someone with an administrative background.
Become a blogger. If you like to write and have a passion about a hobby or issue, start a blog. You can make money from your blog with affiliate marketing and advertising.
Make money from your creative talents. People love homemade crafts. If you have a talent for crafting and the space to create your products, you can sell them online or at craft fairs.
Run a home-based child care service. This can be a lucrative business because people are always looking for trustworthy, safe places to leave their children while they work. This is a regulated business with rules about meals, space requirements and number of children per adults. Research the regulations in your state and community before starting a child care service.
 People who are retired may be looking for a source of extra income and a challenge. If you are retired, you can convert your hobby or past experience into a home-based business. Some people build on the work they did in their careers. Others start a business based on a new passion.Sell your crafts online, at craft shows or at flea markets. Think about selling in online marketplaces like Etsy.
Become a project-based consultant. Businesses need people with expertise to help them with business initiatives. People with experience in finance, management and information technology can contact past colleagues to find work.
Work as a patient advocate. This is someone who helps patients navigate the complicated medical system. People with experience in nursing, social work and insurance are in high demand.
 If you are an animal lover, think about starting a business that caters to pets. People treat their pets as members of the family. This means that people will want to purchase goods and services for their pets, and you can make money offering them. Choose from a variety of options.Start a pooper-scooper service. Advertise in local newspapers, on bulletin boards in the supermarket and the library, and through dog-related businesses in your community. You can choose to do the scooping yourself, or you can hire employees to do it for you.
Open a pet photography business. All you need is a good camera and the ability to use it. Take pictures in a studio, in pet stores, outdoors or in people’s homes. Make it fun for the pets and their owners to generate repeat business.
Make pet clothing and accessories. People spend a lot of money every year on sweaters, rain boots, scarves, collars, hats, goggles and even Halloween costumes.
Offer pet sitting services. Lots of people dislike the idea of leaving their pets at home for extended periods of time.
Become a dog walker. Many people who leave their dogs at home while they work will pay someone to stop by their house and take their dog for a walk.
Make gourmet pet treats. People love being able to give their pets organic, healthy, gourmet and tasty treats.

