 You don't want to be too controlling, but at the same time, you still want to keep your daughter safe. Invest some money in buying her a cellphone for her, or ask her to help you out in saving. If she has one, she can have it on her at all times for when you need to get a hold of her. Talk to her about emergency scenarios. For example, say something like, "If you can't get a sober driver to take you home from a party, I'll pick you up. I don't care if it's four in the morning -- I'd rather drive you than have you get in the car with a drunk driver."


Sure, your daughter will groan a little if you're obsessed with her being safe, but it's much better than not caring and having her get into a dangerous situation.
With teenagers spending more time online than ever, it's important to encourage cyber safety. Talk to your daughter about not talking to anyone online whom she doesn't know, and about definitely not meeting up with anyone she meets online unless she has good reason to trust this person.
 She's going to come to the age where she has a boyfriend. You have to be accepting, no matter what you think. The strictness and fairness rules apply here, too. You need to be there for her during the relationship. Though you don't want to pry or ask too many questions, you should be involved and know what she's doing and where she's going.


Though it may kill you to see your daughter dating someone who may potentially mistreat or take advantage of her, you have to help her be a good judge of character herself instead of telling her if you think her boyfriend is a no good loser. If you try to discourage your daughter from dating a certain person, she'll only want to be with him even more.
Face it: it's just not realistic to keep your daughter from dating someone she likes. This isn't the Stone Ages, and the fact of the matter is, there's only so much you can do to stop your daughter from dating. You can't keep her locked in her room like a princess trapped in a tower. One day, she'll go off to college or will just move out of the house, and she'll be free to date whomever she wants.
Plus, you don't want your daughter to resent you for not letting her date. If you don't let her do what the rest of her friends are doing, which is perfectly natural at her age, she'll be bitter towards you.
 You need to be comfortable with mentioning it, even though she's going to squirm and get embarrassed (and even if you are, too!). Don't panic about mentioning safe sex and pregnancy around her, just to get the message into her head. However, don't talk about it when friends are around. Don't be too old fashioned with your principles, as this will just enhance the risk of a rebellion with her.


It's far better to talk to her about safe sex than to have her end up in a dangerous situation. Stress the importance of only having sex when she's ready, and of not letting a guy convince her to go further than she wants to go.
Of course, everyone would feel better if their teenage daughters were virgins. But the average age to lose your virginity hovers around 16 years, so it's better to talk about the importance of having safe sex and even considering taking birth control pills than to preach abstinence.
 She's going to start her period at some point, and you should have pads and tampons on the side ready for her. Like sex, don't be afraid to mention periods before she starts. You don't want her freaking out if she doesn't know. Talk to her about period pains and cravings, and give her access to books and websites that will explain more information to her. Many girls get their period as preteens, so you should be prepared for this even before her teenage years, especially if she is developing quickly.
 Yelling at her when she's highly emotional isn't going to help at all. Let her emotions sort themselves out because she can't help it. Much like a menopausal woman, your daughter will be going through many changes with her emotions, and it's important to be patient and to understand that she may not always be the happy-go-lucky little girl you remembered. Know that it will get better and that your daughter won't always feel like this.Be patient with her and let her know that she won't always feel that way. At the same time, though, don't stress the fact that she's going through a lot of hormonal changes too much, or she may say, "It's not hormones!" and may get defensive, insisting that she's feeling this way just because things aren't going well for her.Remember that while it's important to resolve conflicts with your daughter, it's also important to pick your battles. If you fight and argue with her over every little thing, especially when she's upset, you'll develop a combative relationship and she won't want to come to you when she's in trouble because she'll just expect a fight.
 You may have your personal views on smoking and drugs, but have your best interest in your daughter's health when you govern rules over these issues. Talk to your daughter about the danger of drugs and smoking, and let her know that she should avoid underage drinking as much as she can, because people her age can act very, very irresponsibly with alcohol. However, realistically, many people drink before they turn 18 and 21 and it's better to talk about safe drinking habits than to categorically ban it.


Make sure your daughter knows her limits when it comes to alcohol. Talk about how she shouldn't have more than a drink per hour, should avoid any mixed drinks at parties, and that she should avoid taking shots or she will quickly feel sick.
You don't want your daughter to avoid alcohol and know nothing about it until she goes to college and starts drinking her heart out. She should have a firm knowledge about what her limits are before she starts drinking with strangers.
Also, talk to her about drinking with care around guys and about not leaving her drink unattended at any cost.
You don't have to act like you were a saint when you were her age. If you had some bad experiences with drugs or alcohol at her age and learned from them, you can share some of these experiences with her (with discretion, of course).

