 Sea salt can reduce acne due to the bacteria killing properties of sea salt and the replenishing properties of sea salt on your skin. Sea salt can also help to dissolve excess sebum on the surface of your skin, thereby preventing the development of acne. However, using too much sea salt can dry out your skin and cause more acne to develop. Always clean your face with a gentle oil based or noncomedogenic cleanser before you use any sea salt treatments.


You can use table salt if you do not have access to sea salt. Keep in mind table salt does not contain the healthy minerals found in sea salt, so it may not be as effective as sea salt. Sea salt contains a large amount of minerals, including calcium, magnesium, sodium, chlorine, iodine, potassium, zinc, iron and trace minerals.
 Start by dissolving 1 teaspoon sea salt in three teaspoons of hot water. Then, add one tablespoon of aloe vera gel, green tea from two steeped tea bags, or honey. Mix well. The aloe vera gel can encourage healing, the green tea can provide healthy antioxidants, and the honey has antibacterial properties.


Apply the mask to your face using your fingertips. Keep the mask out of your eyes.
If you would prefer a spot treatment, you can use a q-tip to apply the mask to specific areas on your face.
Leave the mask on for 10 minutes and then rinse it off with lukewarm water. Pat your face dry with a clean towel and apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.
Only use this mask once a day, as you risk drying out your skin if you use it too often.
 This facial spray can act as another way to apply sea salt to your skin quickly and easily. Use a clean, empty spray bottle with a good cap.


Dissolve 10 teaspoons sea salt in 30 teaspoons of hot water. You can add 10 tablespoons of aloe vera gel, green tea, or honey. Then, pour the mixture into the spray bottle.
Cover your eyes or close your eyes as you apply the spray over your clean face. You can also spray it on your neck and chest.
Let the spray dry on your skin for 10 minutes and then rinse it off with lukewarm water. Pat your skin dry and apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.
You can keep the spray in the refrigerator to keep it from spoiling.
 Soaking in a sea salt bath can help to prevent acne from developing on acne prone areas other than your face, such as your back and chest.


Put two cups of sea salt in hot water as it fills the bathtub. This will allow the sea salt to dissolve.
Soak in the sea salt bath for up to 15 minutes. If you have acne on your face you would like to address, you can use a clean washcloth and soak it in the bath water. You can then drape it over your face for 10-15 minutes, keeping your eyes closed to you do not get salt water in your eyes.
After 15 minutes, get out of the bath and pat yourself dry with a towel. You can then apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer to your skin. Do not soak in the bath for longer than 15 minutes or do the bath soak more than once a day as it can dry out your skin.
 A facial mask can help to cleanse and heal your skin. Herbs that have astringent properties can also tone your skin and kill off acne-causing bacteria. You can make a very effective face mask for oily skin using 1 tablespoon of honey, 1 egg white, and 1 teaspoon lemon juice. Lemon juice acts as an astringent and also can bleach or whiten your skin. you can substitute witch hazel oil if you do not want a bleaching agent on your skin.


You should also add ½ teaspoon of one of the following essential oils: peppermint, spearmint, lavender, calendula or thyme.
Apply the mask over your face and neck. You can use a q-tip to put the mask on specific problem areas on your face or neck. Let the mask dry for 15 minutes and then rinse it off with lukewarm water. Finish with a non-comedogenic moisturizer on your face and neck.

