









Wear full-length shirts and pants with as little skin exposed as possible. Always wear full protective eyewear, gloves, and if desired, ear protection.;
,









The most common methods are T, edge, lap, corner and butt.
When choosing a joining method, take into account the thickness of the metal to be welded, joint accessibility and the required strength of the welding job.
,









Shielded metal arc welding is also known as SMAW, or stick electrode.
Gas tungsten arc welding is also known as GTAW.
Flux cored arc welding is also known as FCAW.
Keyhole gas tungsten arc welding is known at K-TIG.
Gas metal arc welding is also known as GMAW. This process is divided into two differing methods: short circuit transfer and spray transfer.










In some instances, such as SMAW, an inert shielding gas isn't necessary. The other methods vary from argon to helium to a combination of gases in varying proportions.










If both metals to be fused are the same, the base metal should mirror the composition of those base metals. If the metals differ, the filler metal will have to be picked according to which is least likely to crack and which is most compatible with the base metal.










The cleaning process eliminates the chance of oxides forming on the base metal. The entire base metal should be gently brushed with a stainless steel wire brush, removing existing oxides and burrs.
Wear gloves so you don't transfer oils from your hands onto the stainless steel.










If the stainless steel is austenitic, preheating is not necessary. Preheat when dealing with martensitic or ferritic stainless steel. Also preheat if the stainless steel is particularly thick or high in carbon.
,









The rapid cooling down of the stainless steel can cause a lot of internal stress, which contributes to cracking. Post-heat is particularly necessary when joining thick pieces of metal.
 Remove by grinding or using a chipping hammer.









SMAW and FCAW are both prone to leaving slag residue.

