 Before inserting your contacts, you need to wash your hands thoroughly. This is important, as dirty hands can transmit bacteria or other contaminants into your eyes, leading to conjunctivitis and other problems. Make sure to:


Use warm water and soap.
Lather for at least 20 seconds.
Consider using antibacterial soap.;
, When taking your contacts out of the container, you should be very careful. This is because your contacts are fragile and can be damaged easily. Damaging your contacts may result in decreased clarity and might even wind up hurting your eyes.


Move in a slow and deliberate manner.
Make sure you take your contacts out in a safe and stationary environment. It is never a good idea to work with your contacts on a bus or in a public location.
Rinse contacts with solution right before putting them into your eyes, especially if have to be in a location in which there might be dust or other debris in the air., After washing your hands and removing your contacts from their container, it will be time to place them in your eyes. You should do this in a slow and unhurried manner.


Pull the bottom of your eyes down with your middle finger, or another finger.
Tap a contact into your eye.
Blink several times to make sure your contact settles onto your eye properly., Make sure to remove your contacts every night before you go to bed. Removing them ensures that they don’t damage your eyes while you sleep and that they’ll be able to soak in cleansing and lubricating formula overnight.


Take your contacts out before bedtime.
Drop them in cleansing and lubricating solution.
Change your storing or cleaning solution every day.
Do not wear your contacts for days or weeks at a time. This will damage your eyes., By placing your contacts on hard surfaces, you may expose them to things that could scratch or damage them. This is because your contacts are fragile and can be damaged relatively easily.


You should only place or store your contacts in containers specifically designed to hold them.
Don’t put your contacts on a table.
If you drop your contacts, make sure not to drag them as you’re picking them up – they may scratch.
If you don’t have access to contact storage containers, consider temporarily storing them in a plastic zip lock bag. If you can, put some solution in the bag to minimize the chances of them getting scratched., Make sure to store your hard contacts in proper storage devices. If you don’t store your lenses properly, you may damage them or introduce bacteria or debris into your eye.


Purchase contact lens storage containers that have ridges on the bottom – this will prevent your contacts from suctioning to the flat bottom of containers.
Consider buying new storage containers every several months or less. This is because storage containers accumulate germs, bacteria, and debris.
If you don’t buy new containers, clean your old ones with antibacterial soap and then rinse them to remove all soap or residue., Another important thing to consider when wearing and caring for your contacts is making sure you give yourself enough time to get used to them. This is because hard contacts are more rigid than soft contacts, and as a result will feel more uncomfortable until your eyes get used to them.


Realize that it is normal to feel a level of discomfort when first wearing hard contacts.
It may take up to a few weeks to get used to wearing hard contacts.
Wear your contacts on a daily basis, otherwise they won’t be comfortable.
It may be helpful to build up your wear time. Start with an hour a day and increase it by an hour or two each day.
If you decide to wear glasses for a few days, your eyes will quickly lose acclimation to your hard contacts.
Consult your optometrist if you have any concerns about discomfort you may feel when wearing hard contacts., There are a variety of activities in which you should not use your contacts. These activities can indirectly result in eye infections, irritation, and potentially sight-threatening conditions. Some activities include:


Showering. This is because shampoo, soap, and other materials may be introduced into your eye.
Swimming.
Any activity in which bacteria, chemicals, or debris can be introduced into your eye., If something gets into your eyes, don’t rub them. Rubbing will make the problem worse. It may irritate your eyes or damage the contacts.


Rubbing eyes with contacts in them may cause corneal abrasions.
Blink until the debris moves out of your eye.
Consider using eye drops or eye lubricant.
Consult your optometrist., Discontinue use of your contacts if they’re causing you any problems at all. Depending on the problem, you’ll need to consider different solutions.


If your contacts are making your eyes red, you may need to soak them in solution for a while. You may also need lubrication solution for your eyes.
If your contacts are scratching your eyes or causing burning sensations, take them out immediately.
If you have any concerns, contact your optometrist as soon as possible.

