 Your child-filled life can be so crazy and time-, energy-, and thought-consuming that you don’t even notice how often you talk about it. While your friend is probably happy to listen to your troubles and triumphs, be sure to reciprocate and find out about what’s going on in their life.By the same token, don’t assume that your friend is swimming in fun and frivolous free time, or that their own concerns can’t compare with your own now that you’ve got children. Make a conscious effort to be empathetic and remember how jam-packed your life was, even before kids.
This goes for your social media interactions as well! You might take for granted that your friends tirelessly ‘like’ your Facebook posts and comment on your pictures, but ask yourself if you show the same interest and support in their social media posts.
 Ask any childless person whether or not their parent-friends have ever said something hurtful, and they’ll probably respond in the affirmative. Think carefully about certain common phrases, such as “Don't you want a family?” or “Gosh I’m so jealous of all your free time!” Seemingly innocuous, these statements implicitly assume that without children a person lacks a family, and that a person without kids is automatically less busy than parents.In particular, be careful about statements regarding work, time, commitments, and values. For example, even if you think saying, “Now that I have a baby, I can’t believe I used to think a career was important!” is an expression of how much you love your baby and nothing more, think again! To the child-free friend, you’re critiquing not only the value they’ve placed on work, but also their whole set of priorities and the very meaningfulness of their lives., Your friends—be they parents or not—care about your life and want to hear about it. That being said, even the most selfless and patient friend can get exhausted by a barrage of largely unrelatable potty time and burping stories, so be aware of how much time you spend on these mundane topics. After all, you can share all the kiddie-capers you want with your parent pals.Instead, pick a few of the funniest playtime stories, and also try to include some non-child-themed subjects, such as work, movies, or food.
 Every parent loves to photograph their child, and there’s no reason you shouldn’t take as many photos as your heart desires. Though your parents and in-laws are probably eager to see every one of them, your friends could probably live with just a smattering. Pick out a few next time you meet up and flip through them for your friend, but don’t spend all your together-time on family albums.


Conversely, ask to see pictures of your friend’s life! Even if they don’t have kids, their phones are probably chock-full of pictures of siblings, nieces, nephews, parents, pets, travel, friends, and adventures which they’d love to show you.

