 Prevention is always better than treatment. With this is mind, you should try not to expose your lungs to extra stress, particles, carcinogens, and smoke. With this in mind, you should not smoke, or quit smoking if you do. It is debilitating to your lungs, puts harmful chemicals such as nicotine into your body, and wrecks your lungs through the constant exposure to smoke. Smoking also causes tar to coat your lungs, which is extremely harmful to your lung health.


Nicotine withdrawal can be quite severe if you quit smoking. Common symptoms include mood problems, dizziness, weight gain, anxiety, depression, increased coughing and insomnia. You don't have to quit without help. You can use support groups, nicotine gum and patches, or prescription medicines, such as Chantix.
For support in this sometimes difficult process, try help site such as The American Cancer Society, Smoke Free and the American Lung Association.;
, If you live in an area with high levels of air pollution, or if you have asthma, you can take a number of approaches to protect yourself. You can wear a mask when you go outside. You may also consider getting a home air filter system. This can protect you in your home against pollution.There are special masks you need to buy for lung health. Try masks that have active carbon or charcoal in the filter to prevent you from breathing in most allergens, pollutants, smoke, and chemicals. You can also buy more specialized masks with a stronger P100 filter, those made for specifically for the effects of cold weather, or ones that help with respiration.You can also sign up for an alert system, such as EnviroFlash, which sends email alerts regarding the air quality in your area. With a bit of advance notice, you can either stay at home when the air quality is bad or be aware of the problem and wear a protective mask when you go outside., One of the best natural methods to support your lungs is to allow yourself to cough. Many people tend to use cough suppressants, but in most circumstances, you should not do this. Coughing is how your lungs get rid of the mucus in your lungs that has allergens or infection in it. Suppressing the cough allows the infected mucus and allergens to remain in your lungs.


Consider using a cough suppressant only if the coughing causes significant discomfort or if you cough so much that you can’t catch your breath.

