 Controlling when you fall asleep is easiest when you’re comfortable. Try to be as comfortable as possible when you’re trying to go to sleep.


Sleep on a comfortable bed with good blankets and pillows. You want your bed linens to make you feel cozy and relaxed. Find the best sleep position. Try a number of different sleep positions to see which one works the best for you. Keep your room cool and dark. This is the best environment to sleep, since too much light or heat can disrupt your sleep.;
, Make sure you’re not moving around too much in bed. If you’re fidgety, it’ll be more difficult to fall asleep.


Focus on staying in one position. Once you find the most comfortable position, try to not move. Moving into different sleep positions can disrupt your mind as you try to fall asleep.
Try facing one direction. Think about facing one direction all night and you can distract yourself from the impulse to move.
Consider restless legs. If you can’t stop fidgeting throughout the night, you may have restless legs syndrome. See your doctor if you think this may be a problem for you. , Try using breathing exercises as a way to calm your body and prepare you for sleep.Try the 4-7-8 technique. Sit up in bed and press the tip of your tongue to the roof of your mouth behind your front teeth. Inhale through your nose for four counts, hold your breath for seven counts, and exhale through your mouth for eight counts. Repeat four times.
Alternate nostrils when breathing. Close one nostril at a time with your ring finger. This makes you more conscious of your breathing
Exhale more than inhale. Inhale for a count of three and exhale for a count of six until you fall asleep.
Use Kapalbhati breathing. Sit in a kneeling position with your back straight and hands on your knees. Breath through you nose and exhale through your mouth by using your abs. Continue in short bursts.
 Use meditation as a way to calm your mind. Try to rid your mind of worrisome thoughts and focus on your breath. Focus on the rise and fall of your breath. Notice when you are inhaling and exhaling.
Feel your breath throughout your body. Pay attention to how your breath moves.
Let your breathing relax your muscles. Focus on how your breath moves throughout your body and helps to relax your muscles as it reaches them.
Consider using guided meditation. Listening to instructions while you meditate can help to drown out mental noise. , Don’t do any strenuous yoga, but use yoga that will make it easier to fall asleep.


Do a short yoga routine before you go to bed. A five- to six-minute yoga routine can leave tension that has built up throughout the day. Try some stretching yoga. Poses like the goddess stretch or child’s pose can put you in a relaxed state of mind. Test different yoga poses to see what works best for you. Some may relieve more tension than others depending on where you hold it in your body. Avoid any yoga that feels strenuous or difficult. Yoga should make you feel more relaxed and should not elevate your breathing before bedtime.

