 Attraction is key to most romantic relationships. If you're involved with someone romantically, you'll eventually become intimate physically. Spend some time considering the level of physical attraction you feel for this person.Think about how you feel about the person in a physical sense. Do you feel attraction? Do you think it's mutual? If so, there may be potential for a romantic relationship here.
Keep in mind mutual attraction should not be the deciding factor. Friends often feel mutual attraction towards one another that is sometimes similar to romantic attraction. For example, you may long for and miss a friend when he or she is gone. Try to evaluate whether the attraction you feel for this person is physical as well as romantic.
Do you find yourself laughing and smiling with this person? Do you look forward to dates and get togethers? Do the two of you have similar interests and passions that you pursue together? If so, this could be a good foundation for a romance.
If you're having mixed feelings, however, evaluate whether the fun you have together feels romantic. Friends often make each other laugh and have fun together. If you don't a romantic spark during fun times, this relationship may be better suited for friendship.
 As you spend time with someone, you should begin to feel deeply close to that person. You should be able to share your feelings, thoughts, and concerns with this person openly. If you're struggling to feel close, or the closeness feels more like friendship, this person may not be a suitable romantic partner for you., Common goals are important to a romantic relationship. This is one thing that helps differentiate a romantic relationship from a friendship. Friends do not necessarily have the same goals. A romantic partner, however, should have similar goals to you if the two of you are compatible.Think about longterm goals. Do you and this person have similar ambitions? Do you see a similar kind of future in regards to things like marriage and children? These things are important when it comes to navigating a romantic relationship. If your views differ in these areas, this may be why you're having mixed feelings. You may be better off transitioning this relationship into a friendship.
You should also think about your belief systems. Do you and this person have similar views on politics, religion, moral values? While you can disagree with someone in a romantic relationship, certain shared values are important. If you and this person disagree a lot, this may also be where the mixed feelings are coming from.
 In a romantic relationship, you find yourself fostering intense thoughts about another person. You may put them on a pedestal in your mind and see their faults and quirks as charming. You may also feel they have superior skills, intelligence, and personality. In friendship, you don't generally get as enchanted with a person. If this kind of infatuation is absent, you may be better off being friends with this person.