 First you need to find the manga. There are a lot of ways to get your hands on manga. One way is to go onto manga websites like onemanga.com. This site has updated manga, completely free to read.;
, Shonen (for boys) and Shoujo (for girls) are the most popular. Here are some explanations:


Shonen is for young boys and is usually full of action and adventure. A lot of girls read Shonen too. Eg Naruto, One piece, DragonBall, Pokémon.
Shojo is for young girls and usually has a lot of romance. You don't have to be very girly to read Shojo though. Sailor Moon, Tokyo Mew Mew, Fruits Basket, Shugo Chara.
Doujinshi is produced by fans and is unofficial. A lot of popular mangas are used for doujinshi where the story-line is changed somehow.
Yaoi or Shonen-ai is about male relationships. Eg Loveless, Gravitation,Super Lovers.
Yuri or Shoujo-ai is about female relationships. Eg Shiroi Heya no Futari.
Hentai is NOT for children and it is pornography with no plot or a poor plot in mayor cases. There is also Redikomi (manga with adult content for women) and Seijin (the same, for men).
Gekiga is like our (the Western countries) type of "Graphic Novels".
Kodomo is for very young children who cannot read very well. This might be good to buy for your little brothers or sisters if they have taken an interest in your collection.
 Just ask an assistant.
 A lot of libraries have manga now due to it's increase of popularity.


Once you have bought and read a manga book, you can find a few friends who are also interested in manga and swap.
Remember to always support a mangaka (manga author) by purchasing some of their works if you enjoyed them.
 before reading manga, as some mangas do not explain clearly some of the things mentioned in it.


The internet has a lot on Japanese culture but there is also library books too. You will eventually learn a lot from manga and will not need to keep looking up words after a while.
You may also learn a bit of Japanese while reading them (Romaji, if English translated) but you will not need to be fluent in Japanese to read them!!

,