 Steaming is among the best ways to cook vegetables while preserving as many vitamins and nutrients as possible. You can steam just about any vegetable, and all you need is a steamer or steamer basket that fits in a saucepan.


Wash your vegetables by rubbing them under clean water. Scrub tougher vegetables, like carrots, with a vegetable brush.
Cut off any stems, and peel vegetables with thick or inedible skins, such as onion.
Cut the vegetables into bite-sized pieces.
Some of the best vegetables to cook by steaming include carrots, broccoli, cauliflower, asparagus, green beans, spinach, Brussel sprouts, potatoes, kale, turnip, zucchini, and bok choy.;
, If you're using a special steaming device, add enough water to reach the fill line on the steamer. If you're using a saucepan with a steamer basket, add about an inch (2.5 cm) of water to the bottom of a large saucepan.


If you don’t have a steamer basket, use a heat-proof colander instead.
 Place your vegetables into the steamer basket, and place the basket into the steamer or the saucepan. Put on the lid, as this will help keep the steam in.When you put the steamer basket into the saucepan, make sure the vegetables aren't touching the water directly. If they are, pour out some of the water.
 Heat your saucepan over medium heat or turn on your steamer. As the water boils, the steam will cook and soften the vegetables. Cooking time depends on personal preference and the type of vegetable. You can check if the vegetables are done by piercing them with a fork. If the fork goes in easily and without resistance, the vegetables are done.


For smaller or crunchier vegetables, cook for three to five minutes. This includes celery, greens, peas, and leeks.
For denser or softer vegetables, cook for 10 to 20 minutes. This includes Brussel sprouts, beans, broccoli, and potatoes.
For large and very dense vegetables, cook for 25 to 40 minutes. This includes artichokes and beets.
 When the vegetables are cooked to your liking, remove them from the steamer basket and transfer them to a bowl. Season with salt, pepper, fresh or dried herbs and spices, or fresh lemon juice, to taste. Popular herbs for vegetables include:


Thyme
Oregano
Rosemary
Tarragon
Lemongrass

