 Your children will fight, and teaching them how to resolve conflict themselves can help them have a better relationship. Start by setting limits, and then teach alternate ways of responding instead of physical violence.For example, if one child hits another, you may say, “I understand you hit your sibling because they took your toy. Do not hit. Hitting hurts. Instead, use your words. Tell them to give your toy back and to ask if they want to play with it.”

, Though you may want to step in every time they are arguing, you should try to let your children work out conflict on their own. Watch over them to make sure one sibling is not being mean to the others or they are not hurting each other, but try not to interfere.Infants and toddlers should be allowed to work things out with their siblings. This helps teach them how to handle conflict in the future and learn how to approach conflict with others.
Encourage the kids to come up with solutions. You may say, “Though you are arguing, I know you can come with a positive solution that works for all of you.”
When you get involved, try not to pick sides. This can cause resentment. Instead, treat all your children fairly.
 Children can sometimes become violent or upset when they have a conflict with a sibling. They may bite, hit, kick, yell, or scream. When your children do these things, you should intervene. Let all the siblings know that violent and negative behavior will not be tolerated.For example, you may step between your toddler and five year old who are hitting each other. You may have to take their hands and say, "You do not hit your sibling."

, When you mediate between your children, make sure not to take sides. This does not emphasize the bond between them, but can instead hurt the bond. Taking on child's side can cause resentment to build between them. Instead, stay neutral.When you are mediating, make sure to acknowledge all of your children and their sides or points.
 No siblings should be around each other all the time. Let them spend time with other children or adults, or let them play alone. This helps give them space so they’re not getting tired of each other and on each other’s nerves.Spend time with each child alone. Do something each child would like to do when it’s just the two of you. This can help your children not feel jealous of the other siblings.
Plan group play activities with other children so that your kids can socialize with kids other than their siblings.

