 Some agents are members of the National Association of Realtors. These Realtors voluntarily agree to adhere to the organization’s Code of Ethics. Those agents who do not join that organization do not call themselves Realtors.


If you are unsure whether your agent belongs to a particular association, review paperwork or business cards from your agent to locate a seal or logo that represents any state or national association they may belong to.
You may also want to call the broker, office manager, or firm to determine if the agent belongs to an association with which you can file a complaint.
 To file a complaint with the National Association of Realtors, you are required to pinpoint an ethics violation in your complaint. Familiarize yourself with their ethics rules so that you can point to something specific.


Specific violations include a duty not to deliberately mislead you about market value, as well as a duty to submit offers and counteroffers as quickly as possible. , There may be time limits. For example, the National Association of Realtors requires that you file a complaint within 180 days of knowing that a Realtor has committed an unethical act., You can download the complaint form in PDF or in Microsoft Word.


Attach supporting documentation as well as a signed and dated statement in which you explain the circumstances surrounding the alleged ethics violation.
 Some associations offer alternative dispute resolution such as mediation. In mediation the parties work under the guidance of a mediator toward a solution acceptable to both parties., Once the local grievance committee receives your complaint, they will determine whether you have alleged an actual violation of the ethics rules. If so, a hearing will be scheduled.


Gather your documentation and think about any witnesses you can call. You must present evidence that supports your contention. Mere accusation is insufficient.
If your complaint is rejected, you may appeal to the Board of Directors within 20 days by filling out the appropriate form.
 The hearing will proceed like a trial. Parties may be represented by counsel and present evidence supporting their contentions.


The agent is presumed innocent. You have the burden of showing by “clear, strong, and convincing evidence” that the agent violated the Code of Ethics. Present your evidence in a crisp, clear, and coherent manner.

