 If you wear glasses or contacts, be sure to pack some. If you’re headed to a sunny location, you’ll need sunglasses. You could bring a quality pair housed in a hard-shell case, or wait until you arrive to get some. If the weather is cold or the winters harsh, pack some scarves and hats. If you’re a watch-wearing person, you could wear it abroad, though if you have a phone (or plan on getting a phone), it’s impractical to have a watch.If you like wearing makeup, you could pack a small makeup set, too.
 Over-the-counter medicines like aspirin and a first-aid kit should be part of your travel pack. You should also pack hygiene products like soap, a brush/comb, deodorant, and at least one month’s worth of feminine hygiene products. Depending on where you’re going, you might want to also pack a roll of toilet paper – it’s not available everywhere.Some items like razors and toothpaste might not be allowed on your flight.
Check the latest travel guides for your nation’s airport security bureau to ensure that whatever you pack won’t cause a problem at the boarding gate.
Check your local stores for travel sizes of various toiletries, especially toothpaste and soap.
Don’t pack too many of these. A small toiletries case should be sufficient. You can buy more soap, toothpaste, and so on when you arrive at your destination., If you’re headed abroad as part of a school program, you’ll probably need to bring insurance forms, transcripts, and other university documentation to your host institution. If you’re headed abroad to work, you’ll need to bring criminal background checks, ticket stubs, and related documents to your boss. If you’re married, you might also need to bring a marriage certificate. A folder or document organizer will be useful for organizing this paperwork in an orderly way.You might also want to bring some extra passport photos just in case you need them for a work permit or passport renewal.
If you plan on driving, you’ll probably want to bring your international driver’s permit.
Ask your host institution or company what documents you need to bring so you don’t forget anything crucial.
 A scrapbook is the perfect way to collect and organize all your pictures, tickets, and other scraps you collect while you’re making great memories abroad. When you return home, you can share your scrapbook with friends and family who are curious about your travels.You can get blank scrapbooks at most arts and crafts shops.
 Travel-sized dictionaries are indispensable for anyone heading abroad for a year. Whether you’re looking for a place to eat or just trying to say “hello,” you’ll be glad you’re armed with a mini dictionary when you head to explore your local surroundings. Take it with you when you head out and use it to learn some essential words when you arrive. Use the blank space toward the back of the dictionary to write down essential words and phrases like, “How much does it cost?” and “Where is the bathroom?”

, If you have a favorite picture of you and your family or a good luck charm that means a lot to you, you should bring it along. A year abroad is a great adventure full of neat opportunities, but having small reminders about where you’re from and who you are can help you avoid homesickness.Don’t go overboard with mementos from home. You should devote most of your suitcase to space for functional essentials like clothing., Before you leave your home, visit your local bank and exchange about $500 in your currency into the local currency of wherever you’re spending the next year. That way, when you pass through customs, you’ll be able to pay your taxi to wherever you’re headed and make purchases of things you couldn’t pack (or forgot to pack).


Place some money in your wallet for easy access, and reserve some – at least $100 – along with your passport in the event that you misplace your wallet.
Think about investing in a passport/document holder that you can sling around your neck beneath your shirt. That way, your important documents will always be with you.
 Traveling often inspires introspection and creativity. You’ll need an outlet to focus your energy on rainy days or days when you feel like simply relaxing. Journaling is a great way to express yourself and reflect on your travels when you’re on the road., Even if you have room left in your bag, it’s often best to leave it empty lest you exceed the weight limit for your bag. Find out what your airliner’s weight limit per suitcase is. Ensure your bag does not exceed the limit.