 Turning in a few pounds of aluminum cans or a 6- or 12-pack of plastic soda bottles at a time won't earn you much money, and you'll likely spend more in fuel costs turning them in than you make. Try to gather at least the maximum number of deposit containers that a deposit center accepts and/or several garbage bags full of non-deposit aluminum cans; you can always visit more than one deposit center to turn everything in, if necessary.


While gathering aluminum cans and plastic bottles, you can store the containers in your garage or basement during the winter or outside in good weather. But be aware that the sugar in the soda residue in the containers will attract ants, bees and wasps.
 Aluminum cans and plastic bottles with deposit identifiers go to the deposit center, aluminum cans without a deposit identifier go to an aluminum recycling center and plastic bottles without deposit identifiers go into your recycling bin.


Non-deposit aluminum cans can be crushed so they take up less space and so you can turn more of them in at a given time in fewer bags than if you didn't crush them. Deposit cans will not usually be accepted if crushed, however.
 Most deposit centers require cans and bottles to be separated from each other. Bottles can be placed in cardboard boxes or plastic milk crates, while aluminum cans need to be placed on cardboard flats, the shallow boxes in which cans are delivered to the grocery store. These flats usually hold 24 cans apiece, which will help you count the number of containers you have and get a rough idea of how much money you'll get when you cash in.


Most deposit centers have a number of empty flats on which you can organize your cans before you turn them in. You can also get flats in advance to organize your cans before you go.
 Although not required, you can speed your time through the deposit center by organizing your containers by brand. (This also makes it easier for the center to return your boxes and flats to you if you want them back.) Grocery stores get different brands of beverages from different distributors, and just as you return your empty containers to the store, they return the empty containers to the distributor who sold the beverage to them, requiring them to sort the containers by product line before they can be sent off to the correct distributor. Most distributors deal in the 3 largest soda companies: Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and Dr. Pepper/7-Up. Below is a partial list of products sold by each company:


Coca-Cola: Coke, Diet Coke, Coke Zero, Cherry Coke, Vanilla Coke, Sprite, Fresca, Mr. Pibb, Barq's, Fanta, Tab
PepsiCo: Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Pepsi Free, Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Sierra Mist
Dr. Pepper/7-Up: Dr. Pepper, 7-Up, Diet 7-Up, Cherry 7-Up, A&W Root Beer, Crush, Diet Rite. Squirt
Store-brand deposit containers can be turned in only at the deposit center of the store that sells the product. Keep these cans and bottles separate from the national brands you turn in at another store's deposit center.
 It helps to know in advance how many cans and bottles you're turning in, as many deposit centers will ask you how many containers you have instead of counting them for you. Any cans or bottles the store doesn't sell will be returned to you, along (usually) with your emptied flats and boxes. You may either be paid at the center itself or given a receipt to take to the store to receive your money.