 There are many ways to lose weight on your legs. In fact, it's very easy to lose weight, you just have to be committed. Here are some ways to burn the fat on your legs.


Ride a bike. Riding a bike will actually burn fat all over but because you are using your legs a lot, it will focus on them. Ride to the park, ride to school, ride to work, ride across the country, ride to your mum's house, anywhere you can ride and not drive, ride there.
Walk. If you don't have a bike, do the second best thing, walking! But don't just walk, speed walk. Walking faster will force you to use more muscles and energy, burning more fat. You could even jog or run to your destination but if you feel awkward, walking is fine.
Stretches. That's right, stretches. Not only will stretches burn some fat, they will also make you more flexible and build muscle. You should always stretch before an activity anyway. Here are some stretches.

Bend over and touch your toes.
Place your leg on a higher object like a bed. Now bend forward and touch your toes.
Pull your leg back so the heel of your foot touches your waist. Hold your leg here.

;
, A lot of people want to burn stomach fat, here's how.


Focus on calorie burning exercise rather than sit-ups or crunches.
Add resistance training. A 2006 study published in the International Journal of Sport Nutrition and Exercise Metabolism suggests that combining cardiovascular (aerobic) exercise with resistance training is more effective than cardiovascular training alone in getting rid of abdominal fat. You can do resistance training with free weights, exercise machines, or resistance bands. To get access to this equipment, you could join a gym.
Reduce your calorie consumption. Unless you restrict your calorie intake, you're not going to lose belly fat. There are some tactics that might help do away with belly fat faster (discussed below) but they are only effective when you've already consistently restricted your calorie intake. Keep a food diary for a week to see how much you normally eat per day. Once you have a baseline, a good starting point is to reduce that daily amount by 300 calories per day. Measure your waistline before you start cutting calories, and measure again a month later.
Switch out refined grains for whole grains. In a scientific study, people who ate all whole grains (in addition to five servings of fruits and vegetables, three servings of low-fat dairy, and two servings of lean meat, fish, or poultry) lost more belly fat than another group that ate the same diet, but with all refined grains. A diet rich in whole grains changes the glucose and insulin response in your body, which hastens the melting of fat, and visceral fat, that deep layer of fat, is easier for your body to burn than the subcutaneous fat under your skin (the fat that you can see and grab).
Walk as much as possible. Buy a pedometer and aim to walk about 10 000 steps a day. This ties in to losing overall weight too as you can't spot belly fat.

