 Red onions typically contain the most quercetin.However, all onions have some of the antioxidant and have demonstrated expectorant properties for those with congestion. Therefore, two red onions may be preferable, but any two medium-sized onions will do.


Onions are known to contain quercetin (an antioxidant) and phytochemicals, both of which may help the body by breaking up the mucus in the chest and head.;
, You should peel, cut, and finely chop both onions.Chop them into small pieces that are only about a quarter-inch thick.
 Don’t add much water to the saucepan. Enough water to cover the bottom of the pan will do.Bring the water to a low boil and then reduce to low heat.
 Use a sieve, colander, or a double boiler and add the finely chopped onion to steam it.Stir the onion pieces and steam for several minutes until they just begin to get soft before removing them.


You can also add fresh ginger—about one-quarter cup—to help combat the infection and reduce fatigue as ginger has shown to have antiviral properties.Peel fresh ginger and either grate the ginger or chop it into very small pieces., Cool and drain the onions in a colander or sieve. Spread the onions out in the middle of a clean cotton towel or sackcloth after they’ve drained. You don’t want to have the onion juice leaking out from the towel or sackcloth, but the towel or sackcloth will be damp with onion juice., Fold the towel so that none of the onions can leak out.You can take the four corners of the towel, gather them up, and tie it off with a string or a rubber band.
 If you are using an onion poultice on a small child, rub some coconut oil on the child’s skin. Rub the coconut oil where you are going to apply the poultice to ensure that the oils from the onion do not irritate the child’s skin.


After removing the poultice, wash the area with soapy water.
You can combat the smell of the onion by putting some lemon juice on the spot where the poultice was.
 Once the poultice has cooled enough, place it directly on your chest to to assist with congestion due to a cold or upper respiratory infection.The onion poultice often quickly induces a productive cough. A cough is your body’s method of getting rid of the congestion.Allow yourself to cough up as much phlegm as you can.


Leave the poultice on for twenty to thirty minutes.
 If you also have sinus congestion or a headache due to sinus pressure, you can place the poultice on your forehead to help act as a sinus decongestant. Ensure that the towel is cool enough to be comfortable and leave the poultice in place for twenty to thirty minutes.
 Turn your head so that the painful ear faces upward. Gently place the onion poultice over your ear. You do not need to press or apply pressure. Simply set the poultice over your ear. Ensure that the poultice has cooled enough to be comfortable.


Rest the poultice on your ear for fifteen to twenty minutes.
If you’re making the poultice specifically for the purpose of treating your earache, then you only need to finely chop one onion instead of two.
 If the glands around your throat or neck are swollen due to a throat infection, use an onion poultice over your neck and throat. Take the poultice and gently place it on your swollen neck glands. Make certain that it is cool enough to be comfortable.Leave the poultice on for twenty to thirty minutes.
 If you want to use the poultice over several spots due to severe congestion, you can gently reheat it over steam or in the microwave. As always, make sure it has cooled before placing the poultice on your skin. Apply as often as desired., Fresh onions (and fresh ginger if you include it) are the best to use. Chop and steam fresh ingredients to make a new poultice every day instead of reheating the day-old poultice., If using the onion poultice doesn’t result in any improvement within two or three days, call your physician. If you see any of the following symptoms, call your doctor right away:


Fever of over 100 °F (37.8 °C) for over twenty-four hours (over twelve hours for children under twelve years of age)
Coughing up blood (red or brown streaks in the sputum)
Any vomiting or nausea
Difficulty in breathing or swallowing

