 You need to move fast if you want to challenge an estate plan for undue influence. The deadline is usually very short. If you miss the deadline, then you can’t bring the suit, regardless of how solid your claim of undue influence is.


In Florida, for example, you only get three months to raise a challenge to a will after receiving notification that the will has been submitted to probate.If you think there was undue influence, you shouldn’t even wait for the will to be admitted to probate before contacting an attorney. Your attorney can help you get an extension of time to perform the necessary investigation for bringing your undue influence claim.;
, A qualified attorney can help you understand whether or not you have a valid undue influence challenge to an estate plan. He or she can listen to your evidence and review a copy of the will or trust. The attorney can also tell you what evidence will be helpful to gather.


You can find a qualified attorney by contacting your state or local bar association and asking for a referral.Call and schedule a consultation.
You should also think about hiring the attorney to represent you. Challenging an estate plan is very complicated and it will be difficult for you to learn all of the rules yourself. You would benefit by having a lawyer bring the lawsuit for you.
 There is no precise definition of undue influence. Generally, however, you need to prove that the estate plan does not represent the deceased’s actual intent but instead represents the intent of the person exerting excessive persuasion or control. You will need evidence of the following:An unusual gift was made in the estate plan.
The deceased was vulnerable to the undue influence of another.
A person had an opportunity to exercise undue influence because of their power over the deceased.
This person took the opportunity to exercise undue influence.
 Look to see if any of the bequests look unusual. This is usually the first sign that undue influence may have been exerted.For example, a large portion of the estate might have been given to a non-family member.


If you don’t have a copy of the will, then go to the probate court. The will should have been submitted to the probate court.
It may be harder to get a copy of the trust. Trust documents are not admitted to probate, so they are not public records. Instead, you might have to ask around. Ask friends or family of the deceased if they know who has been given most of the estate’s property.
 As part of your evidence-gathering, you should talk to people who were close to the deceased.You are trying to find evidence of “undue influence.” In particular, you should try to find evidence that the deceased was particularly vulnerable. Ask friends and family about the following:


Whether the deceased was isolated from friends or family. If so, the person isolating the deceased might have been exerting undue influence.
Whether the deceased was mentally and/or physically frail. These people are often vulnerable to undue influence.
If the deceased was totally reliant on one person for their care, and whether this is the person who received an unusually large benefit under the estate plan.
Whether the person who you suspect influenced the deceased used intimidation, threats, or other coercion. This type of behavior qualifies as undue influence.
 In many states, you can prove “undue influence” if the person who received a large benefit was a “fiduciary.” This is a legal term meaning the person had the complete trust and confidence of whoever made the will or trust. Attorneys, accountants, and other professionals are often fiduciaries, however non-professionals may also qualify if the person trusted them completely.


In some states, such as Illinois, there is a “presumption” of undue influence when the fiduciary has helped to create or obtain the will and also received a substantial benefit under it.This presumption can be rebutted, but the fiduciary will have to present evidence showing that he or she did not exercise undue influence.
 You should be sure to talk this issue over with your lawyer.


Generally, a no-contest clause states that any beneficiary who challenges the will or trust will lose any inheritance.However, some states will provide a “safe haven” if you have a reasonable belief that the estate plan was the result of undue influence. In this situation, you won’t necessarily lose your inheritance even if you lose your lawsuit, so long as you had a reasonable belief that undue influence was present.
Of course, if you weren’t left anything in the estate plan, then you don’t risk losing anything by bringing a legal challenge.
 Not anyone can bring a lawsuit challenging an estate plan. Your state law limits who may challenge a will for undue influence. Generally, you can only sue if the following applies:You are an heir, such as a child of the deceased.
You are a beneficiary under the current will.
You were a beneficiary under a prior will and you want to challenge the current one.
 You make a claim of undue influence by drafting and filing a “complaint” or “petition” with the court. You should check if your court has printed “fill in the blank” complaint/petition forms that you can use.


If you are challenging a will, then you will generally file a “petition” with the court. In this document, you state why you are challenging the will. Typically, you do not need to go into great detail in this document as to why you think there was undue influence. In your petition, you ask that the court declare the will invalid.If you are challenging a trust, then you generally will file a “complaint” with the court. In the complaint, you explain the circumstances of the dispute and ask that the court issue an “injunction” to stop the trust assets from being distributed to beneficiaries.
 Check your court rules to see if you need to attach a copy of the will or trust to your complaint. You can get the rules by visiting the court’s website or asking the court clerk for a copy.


Make several copies of the completed document. Always keep one copy for your records.
 Take your completed document to the appropriate court and be prepared to pay a filing fee, which will vary depending on the court. The appropriate court will depend on whether you are challenging a will or a trust:You should file your will contest in probate court. File in the probate court where the will has been submitted.
You should file your trust contest in regular civil court or in probate court. It will depend on how your court system has been set up. Your lawyer should know where to file.
 You have to give interested parties notice that you are challenging the will or trust. Notice can be provided in different ways, depending on the court. In some courts, the clerk will issue a “citation” which will be sent to all heirs and published in a newspaper.In other courts, you are responsible for mailing a copy of the citation to interested parties and publishing it in a newspaper. You will also need to complete a proof of service form and file it with the court., Because the petition usually doesn’t provide much detail, you may have to file an “Affidavit of Objections” after filing your complaint or petition. You generally have to file this document 30 days before the hearing date.In your affidavit, you must state the specific facts and grounds on which you are objecting to the will.See Write an Affidavit for information on how to format affidavits.
 Depending on the court, the executor or trustee may file a response. Sometimes, an interested party, such as a beneficiary named in the estate plan, will oppose your attempt to invalidate the will and will file a response. This response could be called an “answer” or a “motion to dismiss” or some other title. In their response, the executor or trustee might deny all of your allegations.


They could also ask that the case be dismissed if you waited too long to sue or if you don’t have standing to sue.
 Once a lawsuit starts, you can engage in a fact-finding stage which is called “discovery.” One discovery technique you can use is to ask witnesses to sit for a “deposition,” in which you ask questions and they answer them under oath. You should definitely depose the attorney who drafted the will or trust, since he or she will have crucial information that can prove undue influence. Be sure to ask the following:Who contacted the attorney to draft the will or trust?
Were any beneficiaries at the execution?
Did the lawyer meet alone with the client? Or were other people in the room? Were any beneficiaries in the room?
Did any beneficiaries give directions about what should be in the estate plan?
Did a beneficiary recommend witnesses for the execution?

, You need evidence to support your claim of undue influence, and there are many different kinds of records you should get in discovery. You may have to issue a “subpoena” to get these documents. For example, look for the following:medical records for at least 10 years prior to the deceased’s death
long-term care records and nursing home records
social work records
work or school records
copies of prior estate plans

, Many disputes will settle because defending against the lawsuit could eat up most of the estate’s assets in attorney’s fees. In this situation, the other beneficiaries might want to settle in order to preserve the estate.You should seriously consider any settlement offer.


If you want to negotiate a settlement, then you would benefit from having a lawyer represent you in settlement talks, unless the amount you are negotiating is very low.
Identify how much you want. You are unlikely to get everything you want in a settlement. Settlement negotiations involve “give and take”—you give up a little bit and the other side gives up a little bit.
 Settlement might fail, or you might not be interested in settling. In this situation, you need to prepare for trial. You should look at all of the documents and deposition testimony and decide what is most helpful for proving undue influence.


For example, you might think an at-home nurse unduly influenced your elderly mother. In this situation, you might present as evidence of undue influence your mother’s advanced age, her frail physical health, and the fact that the nurse took the lead on changing your mother’s will. You can call your mother’s doctor and the lawyer who helped draft the will as witnesses.
Alternately, you might think that a sibling influenced your elderly father. In this situation, you can have friends and relatives testify that your sibling kept your father isolated. They could also testify that they saw your sibling yelling at your father. You can also present evidence that your sibling got financial power of attorney and the will was changed swiftly thereafter.
 You can introduce helpful documents into evidence. For example, you will want to introduce the will or trust into evidence. You can create an exhibit by attaching an exhibit sticker to the document.


You will have to provide the other side with a copy of your exhibits. The judge should give you deadlines that you need to meet for handing over this evidence., A subpoena is a legal request to show up at court at a particular date and time to give evidence.You should serve your witnesses subpoenas. Give them sufficient advance notice. Don’t spring it on them the day before trial.


You can get blank subpoena forms from your court clerk or print them off from the court’s website.
 You will use witness testimony and exhibits to show the judge or jury that the deceased’s will was overcome by the influence of another. If you have a lawyer, he or she should handle everything at trial.


You may also have to testify, if you have helpful information. You should remember to always tell the truth and to listen to the lawyer’s questions closely. If you don’t know the answer to a question, don’t guess. Instead ask for clarification or state that you don’t know.