 Post signs around the community letting people know they can drop off materials to be recycled at your home or chosen location. Then, take the items to a place where they can be recycled. This will be especially helpful if you collect items that cannot be recycled at the local recycling center, such as electronics, batteries, and paint cans., You could organize a film festival in your community focused on ecological issues. Watch An Inconvenient Truth, The Day After Tomorrow, Soylent Green, or Erin Brockovich. If children are attending, consider adding WALL-E or FernGully: The Last Rainforest.If you plan this in advance, you could add your city to the Wild & Scenic Film Festival Tour., This shows customers that it is important to consider where your products come from and how they are made in order to leave a smaller footprint on the environment. Invite local artists and crafters who make their products sustainably.

For example, choose artists who use recycled materials in their projects, or knitters who use eco-friendly yarns to create clothing and other items.
 You could organize a poetry reading at a local coffee shop or bookstore to create a platform for people to share their opinions, worries, and hopes about the environment. An event like this also helps connect people through a love of nature. Choose poets or poems that focus on environmental issues, such as eco-poetry.

You may also want to include dramatic readings or performances as well.
You can choose to read poems like “Flood” by Pablo Neruda or excerpts from Walt Whitman’s Leaves of Grass., This is a fun way to get people together for a good cause. Invite local musicians to play music in an outdoor venue. You could even find musicians who use recycled materials for their instruments, or musicians whose music focuses on nature or environmental issues.

If possible, you could charge an entry fee and donate the money to an environmental cause, such as saving endangered species.
You could play recordings or have bands cover songs like “Mother Nature’s Son” by the Beatles, or John Mayer’s “Waiting on the World to Change.”

, Trees are great for the environment, as they turn carbon dioxide into oxygen. Gather a group of people together and arrange to plant trees in your community. Get permission before planting in public places such as parks, or choose to plant trees in your own or your neighbors’ or friends’ yards., Invite your neighbors to help clean up the area in which you all live. This is a great activity to do with children. Pick up trash, pull weeds, or even do minor repairs to fences or houses in the area., Invite adults and children from your neighborhood to participate in a nature scavenger hunt. Create a list of items to find, such as: a yellow flower, a green leaf, a ladybug, a feather, a smooth rock, a blade of grass, a puffy cloud, something blue, etc. Consider handing out prizes to the winners, like eco-friendly tote bags., Set up a booth outside the local library or grocery store, after obtaining permission. Speak to people about environmental issues or hand out brochures or information kits. This can be a great way to educate others about important environmental subjects.