 Persuasive writing is meant to create a specific outcome for a specific audience. For example, if you are writing a trial or appellate brief (i.e., a memorandum of law meant to persuade), you are going to make legal points in order to persuade a judge that they should make a particular decision (i.e., remand a case, accept a settlement, or to positively rule on a motion).In this example, the purpose of your legal analysis is to persuade a judge that your legal arguments on a specific topic are better than the other party's. By identifying your audience and the outcome you want (e.g., a remand), you can begin to think about your writing's content, strategy, and organization.


When you think about the purpose of your paper, you can begin to answer questions about your writing. For example, if you know your purpose, you might be able to answer the following, "Could this paper be organized in a way that would make my client's case seem stronger to the reader?" If your audience is a trial court judge who is known for his or her reliance on precedent, you will want to put your precedential arguments up front before any policy arguments.;
, Knowing your audience is one of the most important aspects of writing persuasively. If you fail to identify and write to the correct audience, the writing will not correct with the reader. On the other hand, if you can correctly identify your audience, you can tailor your writing to specifically appease that audience. When considering who your audience is, be as specific as possible. For example:If you are writing to a trial court, they will most often be interested in comparing the rules, reasoning, and facts of your case to previously decided cases. Therefore, your writing should try to compare and contrast your fact pattern and law to similar cases that were decided in the past.
An appellate court, on the other hand, is only interested in whether the trial court correctly applied the law in your case. If you are writing a brief to an appellate court, you will want to focus your attention on court rules and legal precedents. The trial court's reasoning will be important in these briefs., Ethically, you must make sure you are competently stating the law so your audience can make an informed decision. Emotionally, you want your audience to feel compassionate for your client and what they are going through. You also want to make sure that you persuade your audience that ruling in your favor is the right thing to do., Writing persuasive legal analysis is only possible if you have credible sources to back up your assertions. Your legal standing for making any argument must be sound and backed up by precedent. In the United States, courts make decisions by assessing the law that exists around a particular factual situation. For example, if your client has been charged with murder, a court will decide whether your client is guilty by assessing the applicable law of murder and by applying that law to the facts of your case.


The U.S. legal system operates under a series of primary laws, which are binding upon every court in that particular jurisdiction. In other words, if there is a primary law on the books in your court's jurisdiction, that court must make determinations within the parameters of that law. Primary laws include statutes, common law (judge-made law), and administrative adjudications. Each jurisdiction (e.g., each state and the federal government) will have a different set of primary laws you must follow.
You may also choose to use secondary sources of information to supply persuasive arguments in your writing. Secondary sources are materials that explain, critique, or analyze primary laws. Secondary sources include encyclopedias, treatises, and practice guides., To conduct legal research, think about key questions you want answered and write down any search words that come to mind. Use those search words to help you start your research. Try starting with secondary sources that will help you learn about a specific area of the law. Those secondary sources will often have citations to primary laws that you can use to help you.


For example, if you need to research the law of contract damages, start by asking yourself the simple who, what, when, where, and why questions (e.g., what is the contract about, where is the contract being executed, and why is it being signed). Next, make sure you understand the legal issues at play (e.g., what jurisdiction are you in and is it a civil or criminal case)
Use the words you came up with to search through legal materials. If you do not have access to online legal libraries (i.e., Westlaw or Lexis), then you should try to visit a law library. Start by looking at practice guides and treatises on your subject.
Finally, track down the primary laws you found and read them., Once you have a good idea of the applicable law, your facts, and your purpose, you can begin to structure your persuasive legal analysis. When you structure your writing, do it in the way you think will be most logical and convincing to your audience. Begin your writing with any threshold issues (i.e., legal issues that, if ruled in your favor, would automatically get the audience on your side). If there are no threshold issues, begin with your most compelling argument. If one of your arguments is weaker than the others, put that argument in the middle of your writing. You do not want to start, or finish, with a weak argument., When you present each of your arguments, always begin with an affirmative statement of your stance. For example, you might state, "The plaintiff provided adequate warning. Twice he tried to reach the defendant by telephone before leaving messages when no one answered." As you can see, this argument starts by telling the court what your conclusion is., For example, do not write, "The defense argues that the plaintiff gave no warning. This is not the case, however, because the plaintiff left messages on the defendant’s answering machine on two occasions." Instead you should write, "The plaintiff provided adequate warning. Twice he tried to reach the defendant by telephone before leaving messages when no one answered." As you can see in the latter example, you are emphasizing your own arguments and de-emphasizing the other party's., In general, persuasive legal arguments should be outlined, and written, using the IRAC/CRRACC format. This writing format will help you persuasively convey your arguments to the audience within the body of your legal analysis. IRAC is an acronym standing for Issue, Rule, Application, and Conclusion. Each of your arguments should be written in this order. CRRACC is an acronym standing for Conclusion, Rule, Rule Proof, Application, Counterargument, and Conclusion. CRRACC is an expanded version of IRAC.When you outline your legal writing, make headlines for each uppercase letter and fill them in with the information you have.


For example, begin your analysis by stating the issue clearly. Your issue should be the legal question that, when answered, determines your entire case. An acceptable issue statement might ask, "Is there an agency relationship if there was no compensation paid?"
The rule statement will describe the law or test that applies to the issue. For example, your rule statement might state, "An agency relationship is created when there is an agreement that the agent will act for the benefit of the principal at the principal’s direction or control regardless of whether compensation is paid."
The analysis works to apply the facts of your case to the applicable rule. This will be the longest part of your argument when you actually write it.
The conclusion will answer your issue question., A legal brief should always start with an effective introduction. The introduction should persuasively state your claim and introduce your legal theory. You can use a few basic facts here, but be careful to keep toe introduction short and to the point. Be sure the parties are clearly identified here so your audience knows who they are reading about. Finally, include any procedural history if there is any.Procedural history is a short explanation of where your case is and where it has been. For example, if this is an appellate brief, you may want to state that a trial court ruled in a certain way and you are appealing that decision.
 Your statement of facts, which should usually follow your introduction, needs to include every single important fact that will be discussed in your application sections (i.e., where you apply your facts to the law). These are sometimes called legally significant facts. Try to arrange these facts in a logical manner that will be easy to follow for your audience. Maybe most importantly, make sure your facts are stated accurately. You could get in trouble if you stretch the truth or lie outright in your statement of facts.


Include any important background facts and facts that will emotionally resonate with your audience.
Put important facts in positions of emphasis and make sure you include significant unfavorable facts (although you can certainly try to bury them).
When you revise your statement of facts, try to edit out any legal conclusions and personal editorials., If you are writing an appellate brief, this section will usually be in the form of questions presented. This section should combine the legal claim, controlling legal standards, and important facts in order to create a summary of your argument for the court. If you are posing questions to the court, you should combine this information into a series of questions that persuade your audience into answering them a certain way., Your headings will provide your audience with an outline (i.e., road map) of your legal brief. If you take out all of your substantive information and just leave the headings, your audience should still be able to follow your argument and come to an acceptable conclusion. Each heading should be framed as a legal assertion backed up by facts. They should be written favorably to your party and should answer your questions presented.


Under each point heading will be your arguments, which will be in IRAC/CRRACC format.Each point heading may be seen as the Issue or Conclusion piece of the IRAC/CRRACC format. If you are drafting your legal brief in this way, you will go directly into the rule after creating each point heading.
 Each applicable legal standard needs to be laid out succinctly and completely. You can not leave out any important language or elements. However, you can try to frame the rule in a manner that is favorable to your client. In addition to stating the rule, you need to explain where this rule comes from and the authorities you used to come up with it. This is your time to incorporate statutory language, case holdings, and case reasoning.


Be sure you raise unfavorable legal standards and distinguish them away. You cannot simply ignore authority because it is not in your favor., One of the most important persuasive moments in your legal analysis comes when you apply the facts of your case to the legal rules you articulated. This is your chance to tell the judge that your case is similar or different from other cases. It is your opportunity to persuade the judge into ruling a certain way. If you think your case is similar to another case, explain why this is the case and request a similar outcome. If you think your case can be distinguished from another, make those distinctions clear and ask for a different outcome. If you think a law applies or doesn't apply, explain why.


Be sure you incorporate all of your legally significant facts here and relate them to some legal standard., Every good persuasive piece of writing confronts the other party's counterarguments. If you fail to confront these counterarguments, your audience might think you have a weak argument or that you are hiding something. When you present the other party's counterarguments, address and dispose of them quickly and succinctly. While they need to be discussed, they do not need to be emphasized.Point out flaws in the other party's logic and move on.
 At the end of your legal brief, create a short conclusion that restates the legal questions presented and answer them in an advantageous way to your client. Reiterate your key points and request that your audience agree with you.
 After your writing is complete, you need to revisit your work and revise where necessary. When you revise a piece of legal writing, do so with persuasiveness in mind. Specifically, use accepted techniques that will help you perfect your substance and tone in order to make the most persuasive piece of writing possible., Specific words help create a clear image in your audience's mind. By using specific words instead of abstract ones, your audience will more readily remember your arguments and the facts surrounding them. Pay close attention to this revision tool when you write and revise your statement of facts. In addition, you can use abstract words to replace concrete ones when you want to de-emphasize a fact and make it less memorable (e.g., if the fact favors the other party).


For example, if your client was run over by a vehicle, describe that vehicle as a "1965 black Stingray" in order to help your audience remember that fact. However, if your client ran over the other party in a car, you might only describe the car as a "vehicle", which will help make that particular fact less memorable., If your client is a sympathetic figure, describe them in as much detail as possible. If the facts are not in your favor, you might describe your client abstractly instead. For example, if you want to remind your audience of the identity of your client, you might call them by their name (e.g., Mrs. Jones or Sally Jones). On the other hand, if you want your audience to focus on the law of your case and not your client as a person, try calling your client "plaintiff" or "defendant.", Emphasize important facts and legal terms by repeating them throughout your analysis. Make sure the words you are repeating are indeed important. For example, do not repeat the word "clearly" because you think it adds to your persuasiveness. The word "clearly" does not add anything to your analysis in most cases and therefore it is not a good candidate for this rule. Remember that you can overdo it with this rule. While you want to emphasize important words, you do not want to annoy or distract your audience.


For example, if you are claiming the defendant abused his or her discretion, you might want to say something like, "The defendant abused the privileges offered him; he abused the procedures designed to protect him.", Use short sentences to emphasize important points. Use longer sentences to bury unhelpful information. By adjusting your sentence structure to abide by this rule, you will help your audience remember important information. The longer a sentence is, the harder it is to follow what is happening. However, be careful not to string to many short sentences together. This can create a choppy, impatient, and annoying tone.


For example, if a number of witnesses had nice things to say about the defendant, but your client had a different perspective, highlight your client's perspective by using a short sentence. Hide the other perspectives in a long sentence. This is what it might look like: "Julia was uniformly described by all the witnesses who had personally known her as a strong-willed, positive and independent woman. The plaintiff himself called her 'independent and abrupt.'", Words and phrases at the beginning of sentences get more attention than words at the end of sentences. Therefore, structure your sentences to ensure important information is front-loaded, and information you want de-emphasized is toward the end of sentences. When structuring your paragraphs, information at the beginning and end get the most attention. Therefore, try to bury unhelpful information in the middle of your paragraphs., Choose your words carefully in order to convey a certain emotion without overstating the facts. Overstatements can often come off as laughable and silly, which are not words you want used to describe your persuasive writing. Try to use words in the middle of the emotional continuum (i.e., do not be overly positive or overly negative). Using overly emotional language will draw your audience's attention away from your arguments and towards your writing style itself.


For example, write, "Julia Easley was on a large and complex daily regimen of drugs, including..." instead of, "Julia Easley was drugged into a vegetative state daily."