 Most escorts are professionals, and aren't going to judge you for having normal human emotions like anxiety. Remember, she's human, too.;
,, It's there for a reason, and reading it can save you from uncomfortable rejections if you and the escort are not on the same page.
 Calling her and asking, "Which one are you again?" will not impress her.
 A daytime escort will not be happy to speak to you at 4am.
 Do you want a romantic relationship? Do you expect to be allowed to hurt her or treat her like a blowup doll? Do you just want to talk dirty on the phone? Are you trying to get caught and make your wife jealous? She will not tolerate any of this behaviour.
 Remember that most escorts won't answer a blocked number.
 Is this (whoever)?" If it's an agency, you will end up speaking to a booking agent, so you may have to adapt this advice accordingly. If it's the escort, keep smiling.
 Do not ask her, "What's up?" Talk to her as you would other professional service providers.
 Don't make her repeat every bit of information on it. She has limited time and expects you to be able to read.
 Be smart enough to read between the lines of her ad, especially if you're trying this in the US. Unless you're in an area where this is completely legal or decriminalized, a smart escort will not answer questions about specific acts or anything explicit and will probably refuse to speak to you again if you try. Always remember, an escort is offering her time, not specific acts. Don't try to argue about her answer, or bribe her to change her mind.
 Don't make her choose when -- she has no idea what your schedule is like. If she can accommodate you, she will. If not, she will suggest the closest time that works for her.
 She will want to verify them to make sure it is not a prank call and that she can let someone know where she is. If you're meeting at her place, don't be pushy for her exact address. Remember that she doesn't know you yet and doesn't want to end up in the uncomfortable situation of you showing up early, or stopping by in the middle of the night. She wants to earn an income, so she isn't likely to leave you hanging. Just be patient.
 You will probably have to call one more time to let her know you are close and ready to come see her. Or, if you're meeting at your place, she will call you.
 If your appointment is still several hours away, and you change your mind, call and cancel. Explain your reason politely, and apologise. If you are at her door or just minutes away, tell her politely that you've changed your mind, and pay for the first half hour or her driver's fee, plus some money for her time. Don't hurt her feelings or stiff her, unless you'd like being treated that way at your job.
