 Anybody can develop social anxiety disorder, but certain factors can contribute to the likelihood of it occurring early in children. It can develop suddenly after a stressful or embarrassing experience, or slowly over time.Evaluate whether any of these risk factors pertain to your anxious child:


Your child is more likely to develop social anxiety disorder if their parent or any siblings have the condition.
Trauma such as abuse, family discord like divorce or death of a loved one, or experiences with teasing, bullying or rejection can increase risk.
Social anxiety disorder is more than simple shyness, but children who are shy, timid or withdrawn in general may be at greater risk.
Starting a new activity or being put in the spotlight for the first time can trigger symptoms of social anxiety that were previously not present.
Stuttering, obesity, disabilities, tics, or other disorders may increase self-consciousness and contribute to social anxiety., Three major criteria are required for a diagnosis of social anxiety disorder. Keep these in mind to help differentiate the disorder from a simple shy phase, and from other disorders. These are the specific criteria determined by doctors:


The fear or anxiety must be out of proportion to the actual situation. It’s normal for a child to be nervous about performing in a violin recital or meeting new classmates, but if they are so nervous that they vomit or have an extreme emotional response, it’s more than simple shyness. The severity may be in frequency or duration – more extreme, or lasting longer, than is typical.
These symptoms must persist for six months or longer.Otherwise it may be a shyness phase.
Symptoms must cause significant distress or interference with your child’s ordinary routine in daily activities or school, such as impairing your child’s school performance and attendance, and ability to socialize and develop relationships., Anxiety disorders often become chronic and cause interference with daily functioning. Unlike a temporary phase like what would occur if your child has nightmares for two months about a monster under the bed, being a comforting presence is not enough to help your child deal with an anxiety disorder., Your child’s anxiety about social interaction or performing can occur far in advance of the actual event.This can make it difficult to associate your child’s symptoms with the correlated event. Be aware that they may worry about what’s coming for up to weeks or months and may imagine worst care scenarios, and have symptoms during that time.
 Social anxiety can be a debilitating disorder that requires treatment, often with professional help and sometimes additionally with medication. The disorder often presents with other mental health issues, and can lead to the following:


Low self-esteem and negative self-talk.
Trouble being assertive.
Poor social skills, isolation and difficult social relationships.
Hypersensitivity to criticism.
Low academic achievement.
Drug and alcohol use in older children.
Suicide or suicide attempts., A mental health professional will ask lots of questions to try to determine if the problem is social anxiety disorder, or a different mental health disorder.There are many symptoms that are common in social anxiety disorder that also exist in other anxiety disorders, as well as other mental health disorders and even medical problems. Share as much information as you can with the mental health practitioner to help them make an accurate diagnosis. You can also learn more about what distinguishes social anxiety from other disorders to best know how to help your child.


General anxiety disorder has many of the same symptoms as social anxiety, but occurs unprovoked and regularly, not just in conjunction with social or performance situations. Remember, however, that social fear can come well before the anxiety-provoking event.
In panic disorder, the child experiences more than one unexplained panic or anxiety attack, and also experiences anxiety at the idea of having another panic attack.
Fear of being in a large group or environment that feels difficult to escape, indicates agoraphobia.

Separation anxiety shows up as extreme fear of being away from parental or caretaking figures. Extreme clinging of social anxiety can look a lot like separation anxiety.
Fear of perceived physical flaws being overly criticized in public can be a symptom of body dysmorphic disorder.
Social and/or speech delays and repetitive behavior could be signs of autism.
Refusal to speak or be social, tantrums, lashing out, and rule breaking may indicate oppositional-defiant disorder. This is caused by a desire to defy, rather than a fear of the event., Social anxiety is a treatable condition. A professional can assess the severity of the anxiety, prescribe treatment if needed, and give you tips on how to help your child cope with anxiety. A form of therapy called Cognitive Behavioral Therapy is shown to be helpful for many children with social anxiety disorder.

