


Car stereo systems with a standard-size, push-button display screen are equipped with buttons for programming radio stations, display features and switching between stereo functions.
Car audio systems with enlarged LCD displays are often equipped with touch-screen capabilities to allow you to program and operate the system's functions by touching the screen instead of pushing buttons. These systems are more expensive and may not fit in smaller or older cars.;
,


Some high-end car audio systems come equipped with docking stations that can be programmed to play songs off an iPod or MP3 player. Be sure your model and brand of device will be compatible with the stereo system you choose.



Car audio systems with Bluetooth functions can be programmed to operate a Bluetooth hands-free device, such as a cell phone. This type of system will be more expensive, but will make your commute safer.



Some car stereo systems are equipped to play "burned" CDs that have had songs copied from your home computer or MP3 player. Not all car sound systems include this capability as a standard feature, so verify the system you're considering can play these CDs.



Trunk-mounted systems are housed in the car's trunk and need to be specially wired. These provide better security, since they can't be seen, but are less convenient when driving.
Dashboard mounted systems replace the car's factory stereo and sound system. This is the most common mounting method.
Some systems are designed to be mounted in a car's glove compartment or under a seat. They provide more security, because they are more difficult for thieves to access, but can be more difficult to operate while driving.



Purchase a multi-year warranty on your car audio system in case it gets damaged or stolen. Choose a warranty that includes all parts of the system, is several years and costs a one-time fee rather than an annual charge.



High performance car stereo systems often come with optional anti-theft features like removable face plates or password encoding that prevents the system from being operated without a password when disconnected from the car's battery. These anti theft options will cost extra, but will help protect your investment.



Get your car audio system through a business that specializes in high-end automotive audio systems and installing them. These experts will be more knowledgeable about options that suit your car and price range than if you shopped at an electronics or department store.



Car audio systems start at around $150 for a simple interface, which is the faceplate that houses the radio and CD player components. Additional speakers and sub woofers cost $200 and up. Know how much you can spend when you shop and get a system that fits that range or that allows you to get a starter system that allow you to add woofers, tweeters and other components.
