 You could try paint-by-numbers or maybe learn a foreign language. Do anything to take your mind off the fact that your ex-roommate is no longer your current roommate.;
, It just isn't worth it. If you're sitting on your roommate's Facebook page and hitting refresh over and over then you are not accepting the fact that he is now your ex-roommate, which only exacerbates the pain of missing him.
 This will be something to remember her by, but not something over which you should obsess. Preferably the photo should be black and white because the absence of color will distance you from the memory of your ex-roommate, making it easier to let go.
 If your ex-roommate liked rap music, try a Milli Vanilli album. Maybe he/she liked alternative music: you can't go wrong with an Avril Lavigne CD!

, It might be nice to taste a spicy pad Thai and to know that it is one of your ex-roommate's favorite flavors in the world. It might even be nice to try to imagine what thoughts go through your ex-roommate's head when he/she eats this food.
 Maybe you have a cardigan that your ex-roommate took one time without asking and he/she stained it but you were okay with it. Why not put it on and remember the good old days?

, Smells can bring back so many intense memories, it's truly amazing. Buy your ex-roommate's fragrance and spray it around your room when you miss her. This will make you feel closer to him/her. If you don't know what scent he or she wore, just smell them all at a store that carries a variety of fragrances, such as Sephora.
 Try to repeat to yourself something like, "is gone now. We had a nice time, but it's over. Shape up." Tough love is the name of the game, but you don't want to be too hard on yourself. Your mantra can be whatever works best for you, so long as it gets the point across that your roommate is now your ex-roommate!

, Things are probably better this way. Chances are your ex-roommate has moved on, and it is time that you do so too. Living in the past impedes your future happiness.
 Just because they are no longer your roommate doesn't mean you can't hang out any more. Go to that new movie, or bowling, or have him/her come meet your new roommate.

