 If, as they say, the way to a man’s heart is his stomach, the same can be claimed as one way to demonstrate affection toward (and receive it from) your cat.


It is best to talk to your veterinarian regarding your cat’s particular nutritional needs, but generally speaking, most cats need three to four smallish meals per day, preferably of high-quality cat foods. Some human foods are all right for cats, but others are not, and it is best to check with your vet.Give treats responsibly. Take care not to give the cat too many calories so deduct part of their regular food to compensate when giving treats.
Forget about the saucer of milk. Cats have difficulty digesting cow’s milk, and should instead be provided with clean water at all times (that is, keep the dish full of fresh water 24/7).
 Cats are often more sociable than people give them credit for, but they still like having some spots all to themselves.Even if your cat likes to sleep on or near you regularly, provide it with a soft, comfortable, semi-isolated space of its own for sleeping and lounging. Old (but clean) blankets, bedding, and pillows can do the trick.
Likewise, your cat’s litter box should be in a quiet yet accessible space, and should be cleaned daily. If you have more than one cat, add one extra litter box (three boxes for two cats, for instance) to help prevent any “turf wars.”

, Your cat may not see it as such at the time, but what in the long run shows more affection than doing everything you can to ensure your cat lives a happy, healthy, long life?


Veterinary care recommendations for cats will vary according to factors such as age, health history, and vet preference, but one to two checkups per year is common.
Starting as a kitten, make sure you keep your cat up-to-date on its vaccinations.
Refer to How to Care for Your Cat for detailed information on veterinary care and warning signs of cat illness to look out for.
 True enough, cats are quite adept at keeping themselves clean and looking good. But a little help from you, properly applied, will be beneficial and (at least sometimes) appreciated.Most cats will permit themselves to be brushed, if done gently and with the proper tool. Try a pin brush for long-haired cats and a slicker brush for short-hairs. Brush as needed to keep matting of fur to a minimum. There are also specialized brushes and tools for more sensitive areas such as around the eyes.
Brushing also provides an excellent opportunity to check for fleas and ticks.
While less appreciated, brushing your cat’s teeth and/or bringing it to the vet’s office for dental cleanings is good practice as well. How to Care for Your Cat has information on feline dental care as well.

