 SP Flash Tool is a utility you can use to re-install your phone's stock firmware. While doing so will void your warranty, it has the greatest chance of working the first time (unlike a factory reset).
 You can download your SP Flash Tool file from here., This is directly below the SP Flash Tool screenshot in the middle of the page; clicking this option will prompt your SP Flash Tool file download.

If you're running Linux, you can click the "Linux 64 Bit" option instead.
 Depending on your internet speed, this may take up to 20 minutes., Once your file is done downloading, you'll need to find it on your computer in order to extract its contents.

Your file should be in your usual "Downloads" folder unless you manually selected a different location.
 Most computers have a built-in extraction program for zipped files; if yours doesn't, you can download any one of several free unzipping programs.


WinZip and 7-Zip are reputable free choices for Windows.
 Now that your SP Flash Tool is downloaded, it's time to download your Samsung's stock firmware., When your Samsung Galaxy S4 shipped, it had stock firmware--the factory-issue phone processes and settings--installed on it. The first step in removing your phone's privacy protection password is to download that same firmware from a third-party site so that you can re-install it on your device., You're looking for carrier-specific stock firmware, so you can add your carrier's name onto the end of this search query if you can't find anything relevant. Your search results will vary depending on your phone's version and your carrier information; generally speaking, however, you should stick to sites that look reputable.


This site is a decent source for most major carriers (e.g., Verizon, AT&T, etc.).
 Again, your process for doing so will vary, but most firmware will download in a .zip file (a compressed file format).

Your download may take up to an hour to complete.
 Once your file is done downloading, you'll need to locate it on your computer in order to extract its contents.

Your file should be in your usual "Downloads" folder unless otherwise specified.
 You should be familiar with this process from the Flash Tools extraction.

For simplicity's sake, extract your stock firmware to the same directory you used for the SP Flash tool (e.g., your desktop).
 Now you're ready to reset your phone's stock firmware!, You may have to open another folder inside of this one in order to access the Flash Tool application., This will open SP Flash Tool; since this app runs from within its extracted folder, you need not install anything to run it., This is on the far right side of your Flash Tool interface, directly beneath the "Download Agent" option.

Clicking this will open a search window from which you'll need to access your stock firmware file. This is why you should keep both the SP Flash Tool folder and the firmware folder in the same directory.
 This should be on the left side of the search window that pops up; for example, if your directory is the Desktop, you'll click the "Desktop" option., You may have to click through a couple of different folders to find your stock firmware file; it will be in .txt format (also known as "text" or "Notepad" format)., This will upload your stock firmware file to the Flash Tool program.

If you can't find your text file, you may need to download a different version of your phone's stock firmware.
 You'll find this above the "Name" and "Begin Address" entries in Flash Tool. Clicking it prompts a drop-down menu., This will ensure that your stock firmware is correctly assimilated when you connect your phone., This will begin your firmware download., Your Samsung Galaxy S4 battery is located under a sliding panel on the back of the phone.

You can power down your phone by holding down the power button, then tapping "Power Off" when prompted.
 The small end of your cable should plug into your phone, while the larger end goes in one of your computer's USB ports.

It's best to use the factory-issued charger cable for this step.
 This may take several minutes.

When the download is complete, you'll receive a notification on your computer.
 You'll also need to place your battery back in your phone., Do this by holding down the power button until your phone's Samsung label appears, then releasing the button and waiting for the phone to boot up., These will include your wifi preferences, your geographical location, the date & time settings, and other items you should have completed when you initially received the phone., You shouldn't see a privacy protection password here! When you go to reset your SIM PIN, make sure you write down your new combination.