 When it comes to the depiction of women in literature and film, there is a long history of using flat, undeveloped stereotypes that do little more than support the male characters’ story lines. An important way to reduce the stereotypical representations in your work is to focus on how you write women. Start by giving each of your female characters a history. What does her past look like, and what led her to this moment?A great example of this is Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games.
By understanding her background, family life, and upbringing, we better understand what makes her tick, and why she does the things she does.
 One of the big mistakes that writers make with their depictions of women is limiting their emotional reactions. Allow your female characters an emotional range—from negative emotions like rage, hopelessness, agitation, and apathy; to positive ones like excitement, curiosity, equanimity, and cheerfulness.Too often female characters are either “the angry one” or “the cheerful one.” Without a range of emotional reactions, female characters are wooden.
A good example of a woman with emotional range is the character Cheryl Strayed in Wild.
 If you look carefully at many modern stories, you will see many women depicted as either virgins or whores; mothers, daughters, or wives; or sometimes the old wise woman. Move beyond these simple depictions, and add depth and dimension to your female characters.Examples of archetypical depictions include the Oracle in the Matrix, Tatum Riley in Scream, and Cinderella in Disney’s Cinderella.
Examples of female characters who move beyond their archetypes include Elsa in Frozen, Vivian in Pretty Woman, and Amy Dunne in Gone Girl.
 To pass the test, a story need only include two female characters who have names, and who speak to each other about something other than a man. (You will be surprised to discover how many films and books do not pass). You can scan your work for three-dimensional female characters, by making sure you pass the Bechdel Test in multiple scenes.