 This forms the basis of the Hogwarts uniform and can be any tailored, neat white shirt you've got in the wardrobe.;
, Again, these are fairly basic and you might even get away with very neat, loose dark jeans if you can't find suitable trousers or slacks.
 If you already wear such shoes to school or work, use those. Otherwise, use your dressy shoes.
 If this proves difficult, find a tie in either a yellow or maroon plain color. Use fabric paint to add the stripes in the opposite color. When wearing, tie it on with a very loose knot. If you can't find or make a tie similar to that, you can also buy a Gryffindor tie online.
 Find a suitable school robe. An old degree ceremony or law robe is ideal; call costume stores or used clothing/thrift stores to see what's available or ask around friends and family if they're likely to have one stashed away. You could also try a search online if there's still time. Failing finding a suitable cloak, you can make a simple black cape version using black fabric cut in a cape shape; even a sheet from the thrift store dyed black can work in a pinch.


If you have a Gryffindor crest applique (look online, in costume or craft stores), sew it on the right-hand side of your robe, on your chest area. If you can't find one ready-made, you could make your own by printing the design onto iron-on transfer fabric.
, If you can't find a scarf representing Gryffindor, try making one of your own. The article How to make a Harry Potter scarf will explain what to do.
 If you can't make or find one, don't fret, you can simply skip this step.
 Have you or someone else use the Halloween makeup to draw a lightning bolt scar on the middle of your forehead. In addition, tousle up your hair to look Harry Potter-messy; keep your hair shaggy and in your face. And while it's best you have black/dark, short hair, but don't worry if your hair is a different color––you can always wear a wig.
 These are Harry's trademark glasses. Look in thrift stores or costume stores for suitable glasses or make your own using wire.
 Either purchase a wand from a costume or magic store, or make your own Harry Potter wand. Done!

,