 The sooner your child is exposed to a wide range of healthy food choices, the more likely they are to enjoy them as they grow older. Start as early as you can in your child's life to help them build a love for healthy food choices and avoid difficulties later on.Try "eating the rainbow" with your child, offering foods that are a variety of colors. Blueberries are blue, asparagus is green, plums are purple, tomatoes are red, etc. These different colors show that the foods offer different nutrients and vitamins, allowing your child to have a well-rounded diet.
 Offering snacks at the same time each day can help your child to learn what to expect. Regularly spaced snacks can also help regulate your child's appetite and allow them to fill up on healthy choices throughout the day. Try to avoid serving any food or snacks outside of the usual times for the best effect.Try to serve snacks at regular times during the day.
Even if your child asks for a snack, it can be a good idea to wait until your predetermined snack time.
 New foods are totally new experiences for your child and they may take some time to get used to them. Even if they don't like the new food at first, they may come to enjoy it over time. Don't stop offering the food, but also don't force your child to eat new foods when first introducing them, or you risk them losing interest permanently.Be patient when introducing new foods. Your child may later enjoy foods that they initially reject.
Keep putting a small portion of the new food on their plate, even if they didn't want to try it.
It can take 10 or more offerings before you child starts to enjoy a new food item.
Forcing your child to eat a food can actually cause your child to hate that food item.
 A big part of helping your child eat healthy and enjoy doing so is by eating healthy yourself. By setting a good example of what healthy eating means for your child, you can help them feel a sense of achievement when they follow that example. Eating the same things as your child does can also help them feel that they are being treated fairly and aren't being deprived of any “grown up” foods.Eat the same things that your child eats.
Don't eat unhealthy snacks that you removed from your child's diet.
Try snacking together on some healthy items and letting them know how good you think it tastes.
 However, this method of rewarding good behavior can cause future problems. Your child may come to view the rewards as “better” than the healthy options you are offering. The goal is to have eating well to become viewed as its own reward.For example, don't offer a cookie if your child eats a few orange slices.
If you do offer a reward, try offering a healthy snack such as yogurt or a sweet fruit.

