 If you put a lot of thought into where the photo will be taken, everyone will see how special your relationship really is.


Take photos at the place where you fell in love. If you went head-over-heels for your man during your summer jobs at an amusement park, have fun taking a silly photo on a carousel. If the beach is where you began your courtship, some photos by the waves can show what you love about each other.
Pick a location that shows how you've developed as a couple. If you recently bought your first home, your backyard may be a special, but simple background. If he proposed to you during a ski vacation, then some snow-covered mountains may make more a great background.
 You should look well-groomed, but still leave some room to let loose and have some fun with your clothes. Your clothing should be tasteful, but not completely bland.


Don't wear clothing that is too distracting. If you've wanted to show off your new pink heels, this may not be the time. You want people to see how much you love each other--not how much you love your new shoes.
Wear what you would normally wear--even if it's a nicer version. Remember that you still want to be recognized in the photo. You don't want everyone to think that you've changed completely for the sake of your relationship.
 Having the wrong prop can really ruin your photo. If you're bent on using a prop, practice taking pictures with it before the shoot so you'll know if you can pull it off.


Minimize the gag-factor. Holding a string of heart balloons or stuffed animals that say "soul mates" may make people laugh at you and will keep them from seeing how much you love each other.
 You want your friends and family to see your natural ease with each other and should avoid looking too sentimental or just not like your real selves. Before you take the photos, take some time to consider what makes your love so unique.


Remember to be yourselves as individuals. If you're known for your goofy smile while your boyfriend is more stoic, you don't have to both be grinning ear-to-ear in all of the pictures.
Show off your dynamic. Be natural and have a light conversation to have the photographer take some candid shots. That way, you won't be so focused on putting on a show for the cameras and your true relationship will shine through.
If you're taking an engagement photo, make sure that it passes the "laugh test": if your friends see a fridge magnet with your couple photo on it, will they smile because it reminds them of what makes your love so special, or will they laugh because you just look so cheesy, sentimental, or worse--nothing like yourselves?

, If your significant other really doesn't want to take the photo, don't force him. If your man hates being there, it will show in the photo, and it'll be a waste of time. Remember that taking couple shots--just like marriage--isn't for everyone.

