 The cow or heifer must have her head secured in a head-gate to prevent her from escaping before or during the surgery. You may confine the cow to a head gate of a handling facility you already have, or a calving or maternity pen specifically suited for this very practice.
 Most C-sections are performed on the left side of the cow, or according to whichever side the cow is laying on if she's a downer cow and cannot get up without risk of collapsing again. In this case with a standing cow, the left flank--located just behind the last rib and before the hook of the pelvis--is shaved. A quarter inch of hair--or less--should remain afterwards., Squirt some pre-podine scrub onto the area that has been shaved, and rub down the area with hands, a sponge or scrub brush. Repeat until the area is clean or free of any tag (dirt or feces on the hide)., This will further disinfect the area., Administer local anaesthetic to spinal area (which involves a long needle inserted into a specific area of the spinal cord) that incision will be done on. Anaesthetic should kick in a few seconds after being administered, "deadening" or numbing the area so that the cow will feel no pain when she is cut open., Make an incision through the skin and into the abdominal cavity. The incision itself is usually no longer than 12 to 16 inches (30.5 to 40.6 cm) in length., You should be able to feed the hard body of a calf through the uterine wall immediately where the incision was made., Make an incision in the uterine wall, careful not to cut the calf in the process. This incision should be a few inches shorter than the previous one., Pull that leg through the incision., Attach a calving chain to that leg, then have a helper hold that chain up., Attach the second calving chain to that leg. Have your helper hold that chain up, Get your helper to help you to pull the calf out of the uterus as quickly as possible. You may need an extra set of hands or two if the calf is particularly big and heavy, because the calf must be pulled up and out to avoid further damage to the incisions., Get the person helping you (and other folks watching you do the surgery) to get the calf breathing, as described in How to Help a Cow give Birth. You may want to get them to give the calf a bottle of colostrum right away as well., Reach in the uterine cavity again and begin to remove the placenta from the uterine wall. This step is optional, since some vets like to remove the placenta while the uterine wall is still open. Other vets prefer to leave the placenta in the cow and let her expel it herself., With a bucket of warm water with about 10 ml of Solution mixed in, wash out the abdominal cavity and the skin to clean it of amniotic fluid and blood from the incisions and pulling out the calf. Repeat until area is clean.,,,,