 Some breeds are easier to train than others. Before you visit the local shelter or a breeder, take some time to learn about different breeds and how easy they are to train. You can so some basic research online about training potential - a Google search or YouTube videos might come in handy.


Ask friends and family about their experiences training their dogs. They might have great suggestions on finding a breed that is easy to train.;
, This toy breed is easy to train, athletic, happy, and very friendly! Its butterfly-like ears distinguish it from other breeds, and it enjoys regular, lively exercise with its owners. Papillons do not have an undercoat and don’t need much grooming. This curious dog takes quickly to training exercise and is a great choice for families or individuals who are searching for a small, trainable dog.The average Papillon lives 12-16 years and weighs 4-9 pounds.
 Both Miniature Poodles and Standard Poodles are smart, active, and easy to train. Poodles have medium energy and are quite proud animals. Their hypoallergenic coats require regular professional grooming. Poodles require regular exercise, and love swimming, running, and taking long walks alongside their owners.Miniature Poodles live 12-15 years, and weigh 15-17 pounds.
Standard Poodles live around 12-15 years, and weigh 45-60 pounds.
 This herding breed makes a great family companion. Shetland Sheepdogs are great with kids, are friendly toward strangers, and get along well with other dogs. The breed has a thick coat that sheds a lot and requires moderate grooming. Shetland Sheepdogs are quite active and require regular daily exercise.Shetland Sheepdogs live 12 to 15 years, and weigh 20-35 pounds.
 If you are looking for an energetic, intelligent, and affectionate dog that is also easy to train, a Border Collie could be the perfect dog for you. This herding breed is filled with energy and requires at least 30 minutes of intense aerobic exercise each day such as running, hiking, or playing Frisbee. A Border Collie is a great pick for active individuals and families that love to spend time outdoors.A Border Collie lives 12-15 years, and weighs anywhere from 30 to 45 pounds.
This breed is generally healthy and requires access to open space for running.
 This breed is devoted, active, and easy to train. Australian Shepherds are highly intelligent animals that require a lot of exercise, and are a wonderful match for active individuals and families. This breed is great with kids, and enjoys running, hiking, or romping around the dog park on a daily basis. The Australian Shepherd’s thick coat requires regular grooming.Australian Shepherds live 12-16 years, and weigh 35-65 pounds.
 If you are searching for a dog that is easy to train, intelligent, devoted, and friendly, then a Golden Retriever could be a wonderful choice. This hard working hunting dog has a water-repellant coat that sheds seasonally and requires weekly grooming. Golden Retrievers are active and energetic, requiring daily exercise.Golden Retrievers weigh 55-75 pounds, and live 10-12 years.
 This is an active, large breed that is at once loyal and fearless. Doberman Pinschers make a great watchdogs, are obedient and easy to train, and love going on outdoor adventures. They have short coats that don’t need a lot of grooming, and they need daily aerobic exercise.Doberman Pinschers live 10-13 years, and weigh 60-80 pounds.

