 Most campus jobs are reserved to students who are financially independent and make under a certain amount of money annually. These jobs typically offer decent wages, favorable tax rates, and a convenient location and hours for students. If at all possible, a work study job would be ideal for a working student.


Typically, work study jobs are clerical and service oriented, including anything from answering phones in the student center to slinging burgers in the cafeteria. Other options, like taking notes for visually impaired students, tutoring, or doing a variety of other tasks are also available, however, at some universities. Explore all your options.
 Work study positions are part-time. If you don't qualify for work study, or you need to work more hours, it's typically a better idea to work off campus to give yourself more options. Ideally, it'd be nice to get something in your degree field to be gaining professional experience at the same time that you're studying, any of the following are common student jobs:


Waiting tables
Bartending
Cooking
Working at a coffee shop
Being a clerk or secretary
Telemarketing

, In your effort to make money and stay ahead of your tuition bills, make sure that your schoolwork doesn't take a backseat to your work responsibilities. Try to find a healthy balance between your work hours and your classroom hours. Save back enough time to get all your schoolwork finished, so you're making it worth your while.


Ideally, you want a job that you won't have to "take home" with you. Certain secretarial jobs can include some at-home components, which can seriously cut into your homework time. Service jobs can be easily left at work.
 If you've got a set work schedule, each semester change-over can get a little hectic when you've got to schedule new classes around it. Don't wait until the ideal class times are all filled. Sign up for your classes early so you don't put a strain on your work schedule and have to be in two places at once.


Be firm with your schedule. If your job requires you to be "on call" at any point to cover shifts, you need to make sure that your superiors know about your school hours and that you take your studies seriously. Don't be bullied by off-campus bosses who want you to work more.

