 There are two primary programs to assist those with disabilities that are expected to last more than a year or result in death. Your program eligibility will be determined by your age, income, and work history.


Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) is the main disability program. SSDI is the insurance plan that you qualify for by paying taxes through your paycheck. The contribution marked "FICA" is your social security insurance premium paid under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act.To qualify for SSDI as an independent adult, you must be at least 18 years of age. The work requirement is on a sliding scale. For example, up to age 28, you must have worked for 1.5 years of the 3 years immediately before your disability. If you are age 31 or older, you must have worked a minimum 5 of the 10 years immediately before the onset of your disability and a total of 5 to 10 years depending on your age.The Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program is to protect those with very low incomes, sporadic work history, and who didn't contribute enough through FICA taxes to qualify for SSDI.SSI is both income and resource dependent. When you apply, you will have to list all of the money that comes into your household, such as wages, pensions, child support, and veterans benefits. You will also have to list property and valuables. You can have a maximum of $2,000 in resources to qualify for SSI.;
, There are three types of documents you will need whether you apply online, by phone, or in person at a local office. The initial review and processing of your application will take three to five months. By submitting a complete and accurate application the first time, you can cut down on the chances of delays.You will need your personal information including your Social Security number and birth certificate. If you are a naturalized citizen, you will need your immigration and citizenship documents.
Gather your income and earnings information. At a minimum, you will need your most recent tax return with W-2 forms or Schedule C. If you are applying for SSI, you will also need bank statements, proof of other income, and property documents.
If you served in the military, you will need the DD214 form that was provided to you at the time of your discharge.Your initial medical information should include the names and addresses of your doctors, therapists, surgeons, hospitals, clinics, laboratories, and other facilities that have treated you.
Gather any medical records and lab tests you have in your possession so you can summarize your medical condition and how it affects your ability to work. For example, you might say, "Fracture of T-8 through T-10 vertebrae required spinal fusion surgery and on-going physical therapy to regain ability to walk." You will also need a list of your current medications and dosage. The review process will verify all of this information, but be as complete and detailed as possible.
 List your last five employers or your businesses if self-employed. Write a summary of the jobs you performed and the skills needed to do the job. Finally, think about the physical demands of these jobs and how your current medical condition prevents you from doing this job. Examples include heavy lifting, sitting or standing for prolonged periods, loss of eyesight, hearing loss, or manual dexterity.
 You have three options. You can apply online at the Social Security website.If you do not have reliable Internet access or computer skills, you can also call the Social Security Administration (SSA) toll-free at 1-800-772-1213 from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. during the week to apply by phone.Finally, you can call one of the field offices in New Mexico to make an appointment to apply in person.Use the online application if you can. There are many benefits and conveniences to applying online. You can have someone help you and you can save your progress if you need to take a break, look up an address, or find a document., Whether you apply in person or online, you will be completing the Disability Benefits Application and the Adult Disability Report. Complete each section to the best of your ability.


The first section is general contact information. Give a good address and phone number where you will be able to be reached as your application makes its way through the system. If you have any difficulties reading, writing, and understanding English or need assistance in another language, you can request help at this time.
After you complete the contact information, you will be given a re-entry number. This 8-digit number allows you to log back into your application. Write it down and keep it handy.
In the next section you will enter your employment information for the current and previous year. As you work through this series of questions, you will report earnings from wages, self-employment, pensions, and give banking information.
If you have filed any sort of insurance claim or could be eligible for Worker's Compensation, you will report it in the next section.
The final portion of the application asks about your marriage, your spouse, and your dependents.
At the end, you will be able to review all of your answers and edit them as needed.
 You can also designate an agent, someone that Social Security can contact to discuss your condition. This is not your doctor. This is a friend, family member, or caregiver who is familiar with your medical issues and can help SSA with information.


In the next five sections you will enter information about your doctors, hospitals, medical tests, medications, and the location of other medical records.
 You will need to list either your last five employers or 15 years of employment history. Like a typical resume, you will need the employer's name and the dates you worked. For each job you will be asked for an up to 1,000 character description of your duties and how many hours per shift you performed tasks such as standing, lifting, carrying, stooping, and typing.
 If you filed online, you will give permission for an electronic signature. If you apply online or by phone, you will tell the interviewer that you are ready to submit your application.
 Applications for benefits are routed to the local Social Security field offices for review. After it is deemed complete and your basic eligibility is determined (for example, you have enough work credits), your claim will be sent to the Disability Determination Services (DDS) office in Albuquerque.This part of the process can take three to five months. If you are contacted for clarification or additional information, comply immediately. Contact the field office if you have any questions about the information they are requesting.
The DDS is responsible for evaluating the medical aspects of your claim and making a determination as to your eligibility.If the DDS is unable to make a decision based on your medical records, the office may send your for a consultative examination with either your doctor or a doctor of the office's choosing.
After review, the DDS makes a finding as to your disability and returns your file the field office. If you are found to be disabled, you will receive a letter telling you the amount of your benefit and when payments will commence.
If your claim is rejected, you will be provided with a letter explaining the reason and your rights to appeal the decision.You can file your initial appeal online or contact an attorney with experience in Social Security and disability litigation.
 If you were low-income or over age 65 when you became disabled, you may be eligible for Supplemental Security Income. You cannot apply online. Call 1-800-772-1213 to make an appointment at the best Social Security field office for you.

