 If you plan to vote early in person, you do not need to make a special request for an absentee ballot. If you would prefer to vote early via mail, however, you will need to get an absentee ballot sent to your home.


There are several ways you can get an absentee ballot, as noted below.;
, As a registered Ohio voter, you should automatically receive an absentee ballot application in the mail for any general election.The policy of automatically sending applications through the mail began with the November 2012 General Election.
The first mailing happens in early September of the election year and includes anyone registered to vote before July 30 of the same year.
The second mailing happens during the first week of October of the same year and includes any newly registered voter.
 If you do not get an absentee ballot application by mail or want to receive one before a scheduled mailing, you can download the Absent Ballot Request form from the Ohio Secretary of State website.You can request an absentee ballot as early as January 1 on the year of the election, or 90 days before the election, depending on whichever comes first.
 If you do not have consistent access to a computer or printer, you can also write a letter making a formal request for an application.


Your letter must include:Your full legal name
The address you are registered at
Your birth date
The election you want a ballot for
A statement indicating that you are a registered voter
Your signature or other legal mark
The date you signed the form
The address you want the ballot mailed to
For primary elections, the voting party with which you are affiliated
One piece of identification, such as you Ohio driver's license number, the last four digits of your Social Security number, a current utility bill or bank statement, or a photocopy of some official form of photo ID


You can request an absentee ballot as early as January 1 on the year of the election, or 90 days before the election, depending on whichever comes first.
 Your application should be mailed directly to your county board of elections office. You can find a directory of county board of election offices through the Ohio Secretary of State website.When mailing your application, your county board of elections must receive the form by noon on the third day before the election.
It is advisable that you mail in your application as early as possible, however.
 You can make a visit to your county board of elections office and request a ballot in person. This ballot can be filled out on the premises or completed at home and mailed in at a later date.


If you plan on applying for a ballot in person, you should make your request by 6 PM the last Friday before the day of the election.

