 During class, write down the most important points emphasized by your teacher or professor. Write down your questions, points about the plot of the book, your opinions, your teacher or professor’s opinions, and your classmates’ comments. Write down the big, main points--don’t get weighed down in the details. Keep all of your notes for your literature class together in one notebook or section of a binder so that you can stay organized. Here are some ways to organize your notes:


Themes of the class as a whole
Your own thoughts and questions
Interesting points from class discussions
Themes and symbols in particular books
Your teacher or professor’s thoughts about a book (which will be more common in college lectures than in high school class discussions)
Important notes about the plot
Details about the historical context of the text;
, If your class is discussion-based, pay attention when other students are speaking. Look at the student who is speaking and practice active listening skills, including nodding at the person, absorbing what the person is saying (rather than preparing a response in your head!), and turning towards the person with open body language. Ask questions to make sure you understand what the person means. You should respond thoughtfully to your classmates’ ideas and opinions, whether you agree or disagree. Everyone will enjoy the class more if the students are respectful and interested.
 Express your thoughts and opinions in class, and ask questions. Demonstrate to your teacher or professor that you want to succeed by going to his or her office hours and talking further about the readings. Come to class prepared to discuss the readings and to listen to the thoughts of your teacher or professor. Stay after class to ask a quick question or comment on a point you think is interesting. If you are having trouble understanding the material, reach out to your professor. He or she will be happy to help you through complicated material. , When asking a question in front of the class, speak clearly and loudly. Look the person you're talking to in the eye.


Don't interrupt the answer to your question.
Use open-ended question, rather than questions with a "yes" or "no" answer. A good open-ended question might be, "How do race and politics interact in this novel?"
Ask shorter, more specific questions, rather than long, general questions. 