 Moving your arms correctly as you run can help control your stride frequency and increase the length of your stride, enabling you to accelerate more quickly.When you do arm swing drills, keep your arms bent at 90-degree angles at all times, just as you would while sprinting.
Kneel or stand with your arms in running position – one near hip level, the other at shoulder level.
Drive your arms straight forward and back as quickly as possible. Time this drill for between 10 and 30 seconds for each set. Do one to three sets of this exercise.
 To achieve maximum acceleration, you should learn to start low with your shins at about a 45-degree angle from the ground. Starting sprints from push-up position or pushing a sled can help with this.You can do sled pushes more slowly to improve this technique. Slower movement enables your body to feel the correct angle so you gain body memory of proper sprint mechanics for maximum acceleration.
 To increase your acceleration, you should think of pushing into the ground as hard as you can. Acceleration and speed are about force and power, not how fast you move your legs.Strength training is important to maximize your force, as well as plyometric training to help build short-twitch muscle fiber in particular.
Work on striking the ground as hard as you can with your feet and propelling your body forward explosively.
 For maximum acceleration, you need as little movement as possible behind your center of mass. Rather, you should propel your body forward and quickly recover your heels.Think in terms of minimizing backside mechanics and maximizing frontside mechanics. High knee drills have a lot of frontside mechanics, while butt kick drills have a lot of backside mechanics.
Pretending that you're running over hot coals is another drill that can teach you to minimize backside mechanics and improve your heel recovery so you accelerate faster.
 To increase your acceleration, you need full extension in the joints of your lower body. The more flexible your ankles, knees, and hips are, the more efficient your stride will be.You can work stretching into your workout in the form of a dynamic stretching routine for a warm-up, or use stretching to cool down after your core workout.
If you're doing a dynamic stretching routine as part of your warm-up, make sure you spend three to five minutes jogging or doing another activity first to warm up your muscles. You should never stretch cold muscles.
Basic yoga poses designed to open up hip flexors also can be helpful to expand the flexibility in your joints so you can increase your acceleration.
 You can improve your running technique and increase acceleration by varying the position from which you start a short sprint. Work from the ground up, gradually building to vertical starting positions.Keep each sprint between 10 and 30 meters. Start by laying on your back, then work your way up to push-up positions (both up and down).
When you transition to starting from one knee, make sure you push off from each knee, not just one. This will keep your development even in both legs.
 Any sprinting or acceleration training not only taxes your muscles, it also fatigues your central nervous system. Without full recovery, any speed workouts will diminish their effectiveness and may even cause you to lose acceleration.Typically it takes between 36 and 48 hours for full recovery after a speed workout. For this reason you may not want to do acceleration training more than once or twice a week.

