 Ideally, create a workout schedule that gets you moving for 30 minutes a day at least 5 days a week.That gets you to 150 minutes of activity weekly, a great goal if you’re doing moderate aerobic activities like quick walking, biking, or swimming.


If your workouts are more vigorous, like jogging, you can shoot for 75 minutes a week of activity.
 Aerobic workouts are those that increase your heart rate and breathing rate. They help you keep weight off by burning calories, and minimize your risk for heart disease and diabetes. Walking, slow jogging, biking, and swimming are good options.Opt for swimming if you have joint pain; it’s a great non-weight bearing aerobic exercise.
 Do strength training exercises at least twice a week to build muscle and help increase your metabolism.Lift weights or use exercise equipment at the gym – but always have a professional show you how to avoid injury. Try some other exercises to build muscle; tips for doing these can be found at https://nihseniorhealth.gov/exerciseandphysicalactivityexercisestotry/strengthexercises/01.html:


Wrist curls, arm curls, chair dips, elbow extensions, and seated rows.
Knee curls, back leg raises, toe stands, squats, and lunges.
The main way to minimize belly fat is to burn calories, but it won’t hurt to strengthen your core to tone your abs and have more strength for other workouts.Do crunches, plank, bridge pose, segmental rotation, quadruped, and superman.
 Studies suggest you’re less likely to gain weight if you walk at least 10,000 steps a day.This equates to about 5 miles (8 km).Try to increase your daily steps by about 500 steps per week until you reach your goal.


FitBit is a great tool to monitor your steps. It’s a small watch you wear that keeps track of your heart rate, steps you take, miles you walk, and more. Or get a simple pedometer or use an online tool to monitor your steps.
Easy ways to increase your steps are taking the dog for a walk, using the stairs instead of the elevator, parking farther away from your destination, window shopping, walking to visit neighbors or run local errands, and even getting up to change the channel on the TV., Cut down on your couch time by limiting TV viewing to under 2 hours a day. People who watch fewer than 2 hours of TV a day tend to gain less weight than those who watch more.Take a walk outside after dinner instead of sitting in front of the TV.


If you can’t miss your favorite program, do light to moderate exercises while you watch. Do squats, crunches, or even just jog or walk in place.

