 Many adoption agencies and services have online directories of children available for adoption. While many of the children listed may find permanent homes before you complete the process, these listings still give you a good idea of the types of children typically available through that agency.For example, if you want to adopt an infant, you can look at children available to see if the agency or service has any infants listed.
Many state agencies have listings that include a detailed profile of the children available, including not only their ages and genders but also their likes and dislikes. Especially if you want to adopt an older child, this can help you best find a child who would fit into your family.
For example, if your family is very active and spends a lot of time outdoors, you might want to look for a child who enjoys the outdoors.
 Adoption agencies can differ significantly in the services they provide, the types of children they have available for adoption, as well as the fees they charge for their services.Researching these issues on the internet before you contact the adoption agency allows you to evaluate them on your own time and find the agency that will work best for you without making a commitment to any one agency.
Private agencies must meet the state legal requirements regarding home studies and education of potential adoptive parents, so don't assume that you'll get out of a home study if you use a private agency.
One point of comparison is wait times. After you're approved for adoption, you'll have to wait to get matched with a child. Private agencies typically have shorter wait times than state services do, although it depends on the situation and the type of child you want to adopt.
For example, if you want to adopt an infant, you're going to have a longer wait time at either a private or public agency. However, private agencies may have a wait time of several months, while with the state services you could potentially wait years for an infant to become available for adoption.
 Despite the wealth of information that is available, there still are people or groups running adoption scams. Protect yourself and your family by investigating and agency or individual online before you give them any money or information.For example, if an agency asks you for a lot of money up front, they may be a scam. You'll pay an application fee and a home-study fee when you sign up with an agency, but you shouldn't pay anything else.
Scams are more frequent in international adoption than they are in domestic adoption, so be extra careful if you're looking into international adoption. Typically it's better to go with an agency that is based in the United States, rather than in the country from which you want to adopt.
 Not all methods of adoption are allowed in all states. If you adopt a child through illegal means, you run the risk of having the adoption nullified. You also may face possible criminal penalties.For example, in some states you can place an advertisement in the paper or online, find a birth mother, and organize an adoption yourself. However, in many states this isn't legal.
If you have any doubts or concerns about the adoption method you want to use, or a particular adoption agency, contact an attorney who specializes in adoption.
An adoption attorney also can advise you on the best adoption methods and connect you with people or agencies who can best help you, given your situation and the type of child you'd like to adopt.

