 Exposure to the pigment, binder and solvent in spray paint can cause eye and throat irritation, headaches, dizziness, drowsiness and nausea, so care must be taken when using this medium.


Set up outdoors to cut down on your exposure to the spray paint vapors. If there's a breeze, be sure it's at your back so that it doesn't blow the fumes into your face.
Open a window if you spray indoors and set up a fan to blow the vapors out.
Wear a full-face or half-face respirator to greatly minimize your exposure to solvent fumes; this is strongly recommended. At the very least, consider wearing a paper particle mask.;
, Can lids, old Frisbees, buckets and empty plastic containers work well. Compose your painting by laying the plates out where you want the planets to appear on the poster board.
 Use black spray paint and lightly mist around the edges of the plates to create the outlines of the planets.
 Remove the plates and spray the inside of your planets with whatever color you'd like. Red, yellow and orange are good choices, but it's entirely up to you. Don't worry about staying inside the lines; overspray a bit and go over your outline to ensure the color is completely filled in.
 Spray a light layer of black over some areas of your planets' color. Gently place a piece of magazine on top of the black layer while it's still wet. Take your hand and run it across the magazine, tug from one corner about an inch, then pull away from the poster board. You should have a pretty cool texture on your planet.


Get creative with materials. Besides magazine pages, you can use paper towels, plastic bags, sponges, pieces of terry cloth towels and lots of other items to create different textures.
Keep it nontraditional. Stay away from brushes or other tools associated with traditional oil painting; these are frowned upon by purists of the spray art genre.
 Put the plates back in place and spray around them to create the sky. Fill in all the space between the plates with black and spray around the plates again to make the planets complete circles. Spray some blue in places to add another layer of color.
 Grab a can of white paint, hold it at an angle and mist lightly. It can be challenging to know just how much pressure to apply in order to create a light mist, so practice on some scrap paper first. Another option would be to spray some paint directly on your finger and flick it onto your painting.
 This first planetary painting should give you a good idea of what you can do with spray art. Keep practicing to perfect your techniques.

