 Some people may decide at the start of their career that they want to work to age 50, or 55, or some other number. If you would like to make this a goal, you need to set your target and then work toward it. Claiming to have a goal means nothing unless you take steps to get there, but your first step is to decide what you want., Your target to leave your present job may be some event, such as reaching a particular level of expertise or the day your supervisor leaves. Some of these targeting events may be under your control, and some may not. The less certain the event, the more prepared you will need to be.For example, you may have decided that you want to leave your present company if they ever sell out or merge with some other company. Since you cannot control something like this and may not know when it is coming, you should try to have some alternative source of employment at least in mind for when the time comes.
In the event of a maternity leave, you may not know for years exactly when it is coming, but then in the final nine months (or so) you will know almost exactly. You can plan in general to have some savings set aside, and then when you get pregnant you can begin making some specific last-minute preparations.
Sometimes, the "event" that triggers a temporary leave might be a long-term illness, either yours or someone you need to care for. This can come with almost no advance warning. You need to plan for the general contingency and make some emergency preparations.
 This is probably the most controllable concept. You can sit down with a financial planner and decide how much money you would need to have in savings to allow yourself and your family to survive adequately without your income. Then work toward setting aside that amount of money. As time goes by and interest rates fluctuate, you may need to adjust your plans accordingly. However, setting the target and doing the work up front will help you be as prepared as you can be.If your target is to retire early, financial experts recommend that your savings target should be about 25 times your annual salary. You will then be able to withdraw money at the rate of about 4% per year.
If you target is to be able to leave work temporarily to look for a new job or another reason, then your target will be whatever amount you need to meet your expenses for that time. For example, the average job search is approximately four to six months, so you should plan to have savings to cover your living costs for that long.