


Compare different products, read any disclosures carefully and look for non-biased consumer reviews so that you can pick the best product.
Choose a product that has a free trial period so that you can try it out before you commit.;
, If you have multiple drives, select the drive that contains the DVD that you want to rip on your computer screen.



Open the Start menu, click on Computer, right-click the disk and select Explore.
Find the file folder that says VIDEO_TS. Drag the folder to whatever location you want to copy your DVD. This is the end of a basic rip to watch on your computer. You don't need transcoding unless you want to shrink the file or view the DVD on a mobile device.
 You can find many free options online when you do a Google search, but Handbrake is the best option. Check to see that the program has presets for a variety of platforms including iOS and gaming consoles.
 The software will scan for chapter titles and markers. If the program doesn't pick up the titles, then you can manually click on the transcoder's Chapters tab and type in chapter titles as you go. Some programs are even unable to choose the correct main title. And then you need to record title from DVD and check title manually.
 Many programs have a Destination tab. Click Browse on the tab and choose the location where you want to save your file.


To save the file as a shared file on a media server or network attached storage box, map the share as a network drive.
Navigate to the appropriate folder, right-click and choose Map Network Drive from the menu.
 For instance, you can preserve the movie's original Dolby Digital (AC3) soundtrack and create a backup soundtrack for devices that aren't AC3-equipped.


Click the Audio & Subtitles tab on your transcoding software.
Choose the soundtrack that you want. Under the Audio Codec menu, choose AAC.
In the "mixdown" column, choose Dolby Digital II. Leave any bitrate, sample rate and DRC settings at their default values.
Move down to the second audio track. Pick the same soundtrack from the source heading.
Select AC3 from the list of audio codecs.
Look for a box that says Forced Subtitles Only. If you choose a language that's different from the language that the actors are speaking, checking this box will help you to avoid forced subtitles.
,