 A display base can be used to protect the model helicopter by keeping it off of unprotected surfaces. It can also highlight the detail or your model helicopter.Model helicopters can be fragile. Since you spent a lot of time building it, it’s important to protect the model helicopter. A display base can keep your model helicopter from rubbing against any surfaces.
Find a display base in a hobby store. You can find a variety of display bases in the same place you purchased your model helicopter. They often come in wood, plaster, or plastic.
You can also make your own homemade base. If you decide to do this, it’s common to use wood though you can use more unconventional materials if you want to do something special with your model helicopter and its display base.
 It should comfortably fit your model. The display base should also be a color that complements your model helicopter and fit into the context where you’re displaying it.


Find a display base that’s the right size. Don’t make your display base look overly crowded by your model. It should also not dwarf your model helicopter.
Consider the color of your display base. It should complement your model helicopter and not contrast with the colors that it’s painted.
Think about the context the display base will be in. If you’re building a collection, you may want similar bases that match one another.
 Display bases can also be useful for providing a setting. If your model helicopter is a particular type or from a particular era, it may be useful to have a setting that fits in best with that helicopter.









Find a base that creates the biggest impact for your model helicopter. Display bases can have things like blowing leaves or gravel to highlight your model helicopter as it lands.
Natural environments for a display base can really highlight the original usage of the model. Think about what environments would be best to show off your model helicopter.
Build a diorama for your model helicopter. You can also have a complete diorama for your model helicopter to show it in relation to other models. This is a big project, but can be fun if you are planning to have a model collection.
 Building a model is hard work. Put your scale model in a prominent place to impress your friends and show off your modeling hobby.


Put your model in common areas in your house. Scale models can fit in any setting, so feature them in your home. Have them on the mantle place or in a special spot.
Place your model helicopter in special cabinet. If you have a lot of models, you may want to have a spot to keep them all together. Models are often more impressive as a collection than as a single model.
Show your friends your hard work. Talk to them about your model helicopter and the work that went into it. They may even be inspired to start working on models themselves.

