 A magic eraser contains cleaning agents that effectively remove most stains from white Vans, including grass and mud stains. You can also use it to remove scuff marks from the soles of the shoes. Use a magic eraser or another stain remover according to the manufacturer's instructions.
 This is an effective cleaning agent for scuffs, ink stains and other small stains. Dip a cotton ball into some rubbing alcohol and saturate the stained area. Gently wipe away the stain with the cotton ball. Repeat until the stain is gone.









You can also try using nail polish remover to remove scuff marks and ink stains.
If your Vans are stained with paint, try using a dab of paint thinner.
 Water, baking soda, and hydrogen peroxide make a great white-shoe cleaner. If you don't have hydrogen peroxide in the house, you can use a simple paste made with baking soda and water. Here's how to do it:









Make a paste with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) baking soda and 1/2 tablespoon each of hydrogen peroxide and warm water.
Take a scrub brush or a toothbrush, dip it in the baking soda solution, and scrub the stains.
Allow the baking soda solution to dry on the shoe for at least thirty minutes.
Once the baking soda has dried, rinse with clean water thoroughly. Repeat as many times as necessary.
 Lemon juice is another home remedy that works wonders on stains. Combine one part lemon juice and four parts water. Dip a sponge in the mixture and use it to scrub the stain. When the stain is gone, rinse the area with clean water.
 If you need to get rid of a nasty stain on your white Vans, bleach is probably the way to go. Bleach is a hazardous substance, so be very careful not to breathe it in or get it on your bare skin. Wear old clothes you don't mind being stained with bleach splatters since it will turn anything it hits white. Here's how to use bleach effectively:









Mix one part bleach and five parts water. Undiluted bleach can turn white fabrics a yellow color.
Take a scrub brush or a toothbrush, dip it in the bleach solution, and scrub the stain.
Rinse with clean water.
Repeat this process until the stain is gone.
 If you've got to be somewhere quick and can't go through the hassle of cleaning your white shoes, smudge a bit of white toothpaste carefully into the stain area. Work into fabric until stain is no longer visible. Finish removing the stain with another method described above.








