 Don't care what people see in you. Oftentimes, the reason we care what others think of us is because we see ourselves through their eyes...but it’s not good for us to base our opinion of ourselves solely on what others think of us. The best thing you can do to not care what others think of you is to build your opinion of yourself. Do things that make you proud of yourself so that no matter what they say, you know that you are a good, worthwhile person.


Volunteering is a wonderful way to make you feel good about yourself while also providing invaluable support to your community.
Learn a skill, like drawing, playing an instrument, or playing a sport. Tired of being that loner guy who no one talks to? Be that guy who plays killer bass.
Travel and see things that you want to see. Traveling will make you more confident and give you wonderful memories and stories to tell for the rest of your life.
Put effort into the things you do. If you try hard at school, work, sports, housework, etc, it's easy to not care what others think of your performance. When you know that you did your best, don't care about anything negative anyone says.;
, Don’t let the opinion of others stop you from doing the things that you like to do. Your happiness shouldn’t hinge on their approval. Ignore them and you will find that the more time you spend doing whatever you want, regardless of what they say, the less you care. You will enjoy yourself so much that you’ll find you simply don’t care any more.


Pursuing things that make you happy is also a great way to meet people who think like you do and like the same things. These new people will celebrate, rather than judge, the things that you love!

, A great step towards not caring when people judge you is to just let them judge you. Let them judge you and, in experiencing that judgement, you will see that it isn’t the end of the world. You still get up each day and you can still do all the things that you want to do. Their opinion doesn’t actually impact your life.


There is especially little point in fighting their judgement because it will be almost impossible to make them stop. The people that most harshly judge you are usually those that most harshly judge themselves, and they will continue to judge you because it makes them feel better. They have issues, but don’t let their issues drag you down.
 It is also important to remember that these people have problems and lives of their own. In five years, they probably won’t even remember you, much less all the things about you that they didn’t like. Their opinions won’t impact you at all just a few years from now. If you spend the mean time enjoying your life and taking advantage of your opportunities, you will be much happier in the long run than if you waste a bunch of time trying to gain the good opinion of people you probably won’t even see any more in a few years.