 Perform your ab exercises five days a week. Each exercise should be three or four sets long, with as many reps as you can possibly do in each set. If your repetition count for each set is over 30, add additional weight, such as a medicine ball, to make each exercise more challenging and your rep range is decreased. You should perform:Lying, straight leg raises on a bench. This exercise targets your lower abs.

Elevated feet ab crunches. This exercise targets your upper abs.

Lying twist, which targets the obliques.;
, HIIT includes all of your cardiovascular training. While most people think that you can get a six-pack by doing a whole lot of crunches, you actually have to lose a good deal of body fat to be able to achieve that dreamed-of six-pack. That’s where the HIIT comes in. Running, cycling, and swimming are all great ways to work up a sweat. An example HIIT session is:


Ten 100m sprints paired with 100 m walks. This means you would sprint 100 m and then walk quickly back to where you started. You would repeat this process 10 times and the session would last about 30 minutes.The goal is to keep your heart rate up for 30 minutes straight. You would do this five times a week and pair it with your ab training.
 You should try to do your cardiovascular workout in the morning and your ab workout in the afternoon or evening. Once you have figured out what works best for you, pair it with a great diet and stick to it for the duration of the month.
 A clean diet is one that avoids processed foods. Instead, it is comprised of whole, unprocessed foods that make up a well balanced macronutrient died. Processed foods can cover a whole range of things--the processed foods that you want to stay away from are the ones that are heavily processed. For example:


Potato chips, fast-food hamburgers, and frozen premade meals are all on the heavy side of the processed food spectrum.
 To really promote your six-pack abs, you will need to eat a balanced meal comprised of lean proteins, fruits, vegetables, non-fat dairy, and healthy carbs. Your meals should focus more on the proteins, with fruits, veggies, and a small amount of carbs to supplement your protein. However, breakfasts and post-cardio workouts can be higher in carbs.
 Rather than trying to skip out on meals to lose weight, you should actually be eating six small meals a day. Each meal should be less than 400 calories. As stated above, you should have a balanced diet, so try to get a good amount of protein, fruits, veggies, and whole-grain carbs each day. If you don’t want to cook during each small meal, you can drink protein shakes as a snack. A six-pack meal plan for one day would look like this:


Breakfast: one egg and spinach scrambled with non-fat cheese. Two slices of whole-wheat toast on the side.
Snack 1: Two scoops of low-fat frozen yogurt with no toppings.
Lunch: Shrimp pasta pomodoro--pasta, mushrooms, olives, shrimp, seasonings, veggies.
Snack 2: One cup of tomato soup.
Dinner: Braised chicken with vegetables.
Snack 3: Protein shake.
 It is important to stay hydrated during this month of high-intensity workouts. Drinking water also helps you to keep from bloating--when you become dehydrated, your body retains water which causes you to bloat. Drink cool, fresh water throughout the day to stay hydrated, happy, and bloat-free.

