 Consider the paper you'll be using for the raffle tickets. If you just need very basic, utilitarian raffle tickets, regular printing paper will do just fine. If you want something that leaves a more professional impression, consider buying a heavier weight paper, or a coloured material instead of the standard plain white.

If you think there's any risk for ticket fraud, something off-white or irregular will make it more difficult for people to make fake copies.;
, If you are keeping your raffle fairly small (>50 people), it is just as easy to write up the tickets all by hand. Take a ruler and cut them out in rows and columns so that you have a bunch of tickets of the same size. If you're making enough tickets in the raffle to be worth several pages of paper, you might try measuring them out and cutting them all at once. However, this time-saving technique shouldn't be tried unless you know you've gotten your measurements down perfectly.

Scissors aren't recommended for cutting if you're selling your tickets. You probably won't get a straight cut out of them. Instead, a ruler and a craft precision knife can get you an even cut that looks like it was done professionally.Raffle ticket size can vary if you're making them from home. However, for the sake of making lots, you should aim to make them around 2x4" inches (5x10cm). For the sake of saving paper, keep them as small as you can without sacrificing the essential information.
It's helpful to record who bought each ticket if possible. That way, you can make sure the purchaser lines up with the person who calls out the winning ticket.
 The sort of information you put onto each ticket varies from raffle to raffle. What matters most is that all tickets are consistent. Except for the ticket number, which should vary from each ticket, each ticket should be roughly the same. While the tickets should be customized to fit the event, here are some details you almost certainly want to have:

The name of the hosting organization.
The date and name of the event.
The price of the raffle ticket.
The number of the ticket.
For small raffles purchased on the day of the prize, you can leave it as simple as a number and signature., Although smaller-sized raffles don't usually run the risk of ticket fraud, it still helps to give your tickets a special touch for legitimacy's sake. Something like a drawing specific to the type of raffle you're putting on, or a quick signature can make the tickets feel more worth the money. It's a small detail, but buyers will appreciate the effort you put into each of them.

For example, if you're trying to raise money for Little League, you could draw a baseball bat on each ticket
If you're intent on doing your tickets by hand, it's recommended that only one person make them. That way, the handwriting will be consistent for each one, and it will be easier to spot a dupe if one occurs.

