 Actual, real wolves. Start with doing research on real life wolves, and not with researching others’ wolf fiction. You can never be sure what is real facts, and what the authors of fiction have made up. To write good, original wolf fiction, you should get to know real wolves and create your own impression of them. Create your own understanding of wolves based on reality.


Watch youtube videos on wolves. There are a lot of really good documentation videos on wolves on youtube, ready to be watched any time. Look for videos on wolves in their natural habitat. One of the best things with learning from watching is that you get a lot of visual information. You can see all the small things wolves do and develop visual impressions that you can later use in descriptions on your own wolf fiction.
Read non-fiction. Read books and articles on wolves. Learn their habits and their biology. You certainly do not have to get into super-scientific details, but you should know of their family structures, most prominent instincts, normal hunting techniques – stuff like that.
Take notes. The mind is forgetful. Take notes of small things which may easily slip your mind or which simply caught your interest. Some examples may be the way cubs lick adults’ mouths in order for them to throw up food for the young ones to eat, or the way a large submissive wolf will hunch over to seem smaller and less threatening. Or perhaps the way wolves whine when they gather for a hunt or some such.;
, Wolves have long lived alongside humans, and they reside in some really old tales. Wolves have come to represent a wide array of things in various cultures. Today, a lot of people hate wolves to the extent of wanting the species extinct, while others seriously love them. Find out why. Research the relationship between wolves and humans. This step might be of less value if you plan on excluding humans entirely from your fiction, but it can still be educating.


Read about mythologies containing wolves. For an example, there is the wolf Fenrir in Norse mythology. The legends say that when he breaks loose of his chains, he shall devour the great god Odin and Ragnarok – the end of the world – thus comes. The people of that culture struggled through cold and dark winters – winters which were hard for wolves, as well. And a hungry, desperate wolf may very well attack an unsuspecting human. It makes sense that the people would come to fear wolves and see them as evil predators of the dark.
Listen to opinions. Hear what the wolf-lovers have to say. Hear what the wolf-haters have to say. You certainly don’t have to agree with any of it, but try to see where each person is coming from and what motivates their opinion of wolves. This can give you inspiration by pointing out a wide range of traits wolves have, that you may not think of yourself.
 Now that you have taken a good look at reality, it might be a good idea to start looking at the wolf fiction already in existence. See what has been done before. This can be good to get inspiration, or find an unexplored area in which you want to set up camp.


Read pieces of wolf fiction that vary as much as possible. Read Jack London’s classical White Fang, and maybe even Call of the Wild (technically the latter is a dog-centered book, but it is a great example of canine fiction). Read an innocent children’s story, read a piece of urban fiction with sexy werewolves for young adults… Try it all!

