 You can find this on one of your Home screens, sometimes in a folder labeled "Utilities."
,, The PS3 and the iPad will need to be connected to the same network in order to stream from the iPad to the PS3. Make sure you select the correct network.,,,,,, This free app will allow you to stream your media from your iPad to your PS3.,, This will begin installing the app., You can find the new icon for it on one of your Home screens., This allows the iMediaShare app to open and send your media files to your PS3., You'll be able to stream photos and videos from your camera roll, as well as music on your iPad. You cannot stream videos rented or purchased from iTunes.,, This is on the left end of the PS3's XMB., This is at the bottom of the Settings menu.,, When it comes times to connect your iPad to your PS3, they'll both need to be on the same network.

Select Wired if your PS3 is connected to your router via Ethernet.
Select Wireless if you want to connect the PS3 to your wireless network. You'll need to select the network you want to connect to and then enter the password.
 After you've successfully connected your PS3 to the network, return to the Network Settings menu.,,, If it's not already open, make sure that the iMediaShare app is open and running on your iPad., All three of these categories have access to the Media Server option. Select the one for the content you want to stream for your iPad.

For example, if you want to show pictures from your iPad's camera roll, select the Photo menu on your PS3.
 If the PS3 is able to detect your iPad, you'll see it listed. If you don't see it, select "Search for Media Servers."

It may take a few moments for your iPad to appear, especially if you've just started either the PS3 or the iMediaShare app.
 Scroll up and down to find the media that you want to play on the TV. If content is in an album, you'll be able to open it like a folder., It may take a moment to load across the network from your iPad. Once it plays, you can control just as if it were playing directly from your PS3.