 Don't carry much cash in your wallet and, should you have any debit or credit cards, try to avoid bringing them everywhere. This way you will not be tempted to spend money on unnecessary items or make impulsive decisions when at a store.Instead of carrying everything you might need (all your available cash, debit card, several credit cards, etc.), carry only what you know you'll need. Stick a few bucks and (if you insist) one credit card in your pocket when you go to the mini-mart, for instance.
 Whenever you receive money, whether it be a gift or your allowance, take your savings out right away and set them aside. This will ensure that you don't spend the money you intend to save. The best part is that once you have set aside your savings, you can spend the rest! It is important to enjoy life and live a little bit after all.Think like Uncle Sam. The government takes out income taxes before people get their paychecks. If you take your savings cut out of your income right away and put it somewhere that is not easy to access, it will be easier to forget that it was available to spend in the first place ("out of sight, out of mind").
 For instance, spending money on your future is almost always wise. You should feel good about spending money when it's an investment in your future and future earning power.


For example, save for school if you plan to go to college. If you plan to be a singer, spend money on voice lessons. Spend money on appropriate clothing if you get an office job. It's perfectly acceptable to spend money in order to promote yourself and, in turn, eventually earn more money.That said, if you are sticking to your newfound saving habits well, a little spending here and there isn't such a bad thing. Think of it as investing in your current happiness.
 Yes, a dollar is a dollar, but what does that really mean? Remember that, for the most part (excepting gifts) money is what you earn for doing something. When you work, you are exchanging money for your time. You need to decide if what you want is worth the time it will take for you to earn the money to be able to buy it.


For example, if you get an allowance of $5 per week and you want to buy a video game for $50, then you will need 10 weeks of allowance money to buy the game. That will take a long time to save, so think about whether or not it is worth it to you.
Further, can you buy that game and balance your other needs for the money, such as putting money into your “Spend,” “Give,” and “Grow” jars? Each time you spend money, it represents a trade-off. You need to think carefully about what you value and make decisions accordingly.