 The best way to move on, is to understand and respect your parents’ decision not to tell you their secret. Even if you do not agree with their decision, try your best to empathize with them. Think about the situation from their point of view and try and rationalize why they left you out., The best way to move past a secret is to let it go and forgive your parents. Carrying around a grudge is mentally exhausting, so the quicker you can accept the situation and forgive your parents the better. Once you have forgiven them, you will be able to move on with your relationship.For example, one of your parents may have fallen down the stairs and kept this from you because they are worried you will begin to look at them as frail.
Let them know that you understand why they left you out, but that in the future they need to tell you, for their own safety.
You may need to find a formal way to do this, such as by writing them a letter expressing your forgiveness. Even if you never give them this letter, it can be therapeutic for you to write it.
 In some instances secrets can be difficult to process and a burden to carry. Once you are let in on a family secret, you may be asked to continue to keep that secret from other people in your life. This could lead to dishonesty.For example, your parents may confide in you that they are getting a divorce, but ask you not to tell your siblings because they are still young and it might be too hard for them.
Alternatively, one of your parents may inform you that they are having an affair and ask you to keep this from your other parent. This information would be hard for you to process and it would be a huge burden to keep that information a secret.
 In some instances, your parents will tell you a major, life changing secret that you need help processing. For example, your parents may tell you in early adulthood that you are adopted and they are not your biological parents. You may find this news extremely difficult to process on your own. As a result, you may want to seek out a therapist to work through this new information.Going to family counseling can also be a helpful way to strengthen your relationships with your parents and improve your communication with them.

