 The IKEA website lists all of the products available, provides product information, store information, and much more. You can check product availability, and in some countries, even buy online some products so you don't have to go to a massive IKEA store or spend a day driving across town (IKEA stores are generally located mostly outside of city centers).;
, If you are in a participating country, then register for IKEA family as you get cheaper prices on products, free unlimited coffee in the restaurant, 10 cents donated to charity with every swipe at the checkouts, discounts on meals in the IKEA restaurant and much more! Registration is free, and you get a card in the mail so you can take advantage of the offers.
 Or, if you already have one look through there for the products you need and make a list. IKEA publishes one every year with nearly all of the 12,000 and more products in it. If you don't have an IKEA catalog then you can order one at www.ikea.com.
 Write everything down. If you are buying a PAX wardrobe custom made, kitchen or any other bulky purchases, you may want to take more time to budget, plan, measure etc. You may need to borrow or rent a truck or trailer as home delivery can be expensive and may charge more for very bulky items.
 Go to www.IKEA.com to find your local store. Remember that not all products are available in all IKEA stores.
 It is commonly a standalone store that looks like a big blue box with "IKEA" in large letters written on it. Try to get a good night's sleep before going to IKEA, since you will likely be tired after shopping at IKEA since you will be walking and walking around in the massive store. Also, consider leaving the car at home and catch public transport or even cycle or walk to your nearest IKEA store. Many IKEA stores now offer bike parking. It also saves you from having to find a parking space and is better for the environment.
 SMÅLAND is a free, supervised play are for kids where you can leave them in a fun playground while you shop. On weekends it may be full though. You then pick them up at another entrance, which is on the store map.
 This will help you measure items in the showroom and write down where you need to pick up your furniture in the self serve furniture area. The map will help you find your way around.
 The showroom is divided into many parts (Work IKEA, Children's IKEA, Kitchens, etc). Feel free to jump on the beds, relax on couches and have fun! Also, if you're buying something look at the price tag, write down the product name, self-serve warehouse aisle and location on the shopping list. Some items will not have a self serve number aisle and location written on it and instead require you to contact staff if wishing to make a purchase of that particular item. The item will most likely need to be picked up at the merchandise pick up counter after the checkouts.
 This is where you can sit down and relax while enjoying IKEA's famous Swedish meatballs with their cream sauce and lingonberry jam, along with many other Swedish meals and desserts. The food is served cafeteria-style and if you present your IKEA family card, you get free unlimited coffee. Also, if you buy coffee or soft drinks, you can refill unlimited times.
 This is where you buy all your small things like cups, towels, fabrics, curtains, decorations and many other things for your home.
 Find the aisle and location numbers and pick up the flat pack boxes. Remember some products come in more than one box!

, These products are assembled and are sold for a significant discount. They may be discontinued products, returned goods or broken products. All products sold here have a returns policy.
 You may also use the new express self serve checkouts. Remember to present or swipe your IKEA family card. For a speedy checkout, place all items on the trolley or conveyor belt with the bar codes facing the cashier for quick scanning.
 You can get cheap hot dogs and soft serve ice cream and many other treats.
 Here you can buy many of the dishes in the IKEA restaurant for you to take home and cook. IKEA's Swedish meatballs, cream sauce and lingonberry jam are just a few of the products you can buy.
 Also, if some items require to be picked up, visit the merchandise pick up counter after the checkouts. The merchandise pick up may also be located at an off site location near the IKEA store.
 Instead you will have to drive into the customer loading bay at the entrance of the IKEA store to load your goods. If you parked in the car park and have bulky purchases, leave your trolley at the trolley minding counter in the customer loading bay and drive in to the customer loading bay. Pack all things into you car, truck or trailer if your are driving home. If you are walking, cycling or catching public transport home, you may want to organize home delivery at the home delivery counter after the checkouts.
 IKEA products are designed to be easy to assemble and come with instructions. If you need help, IKEA provides an assembly service which is very important if you are assembling a new kitchen as joinery, plumbing and connecting water, gas and electricity are very tricky parts of IKEA kitchen installation.
 and visit the Refund and exchanges counter to receive an exchange, refund or store credit. Please note that some items may not accepted such as cut fabrics, made to order kitchen counters, cabinets and unwrapped mattresses.
 Sit back and enjoy your new IKEA furniture!

