 You should begin the process of getting straight hair by reassessing the products that you use on a regular basis. If you don’t already, use a shampoo and conditioner that are meant to straighten and smooth hair. These products are formulated to heavily moisturize and weigh down curls for straighter locks., Since you want to avoid using heat on your hair, it’s important to get the most out of towel drying. Instead of using any old towel, invest in an extra absorbent towel such as a microfiber towel. These towels are designed to absorb moisture and without causing frizz., It’s important to be gentle when towel drying your hair, as rubbing your hair together too roughly can cause frizziness. Hold the extra absorbent towel around the tips of your hair to absorb moisture and slowly work your way up your hair, absorbing as you go. Then gently tousle your hair with the towel, making sure not to rub the ends of your hair together if you have long hair.
 Blow drying your hair with hot air is not only damaging to your hair, it also creates frizz and encourages curls. Instead of blow drying with hot air, towel dry and then blow dry with cold air going section by section while brushing with a flat paddle brush.Blow drying with cold air will take longer than drying with hot air, so be aware of that if you are in a hurry or are timing your morning.
 If you don’t want to use a blowdryer, gently towel dry your hair and continue to brush it until it’s dry. Brushing helps to separate your hair and remove moisture. Brushing also encourages straightening because it slightly pulls on your hair and helps it not curl up as it usually does.If you don’t want to continually brush, you can brush your hair in spurts, with five minute breaks between each spurt to let it air dry.
 Once your hair is almost dry, use a smoothing hair cream or mousse to discourage frizz and waves in your hair. Try to find a product that contains a natural smoothing agent like coconut oil or jojoba oil to relax your hair.