 A little bit of teasing is normal among friends, but if it is happening so often that it bothers you, it's probably gotten out of hand. Your friends may not even know how much it bothers you. Be sure to confront each friend alone, away from the group. If you try to shut it down while it's happening, it may just make the teasing worse.


Be clear about your expectations. Was there a particular incident that bothered you? What could he or she have done differently, that would have been okay with you?
Remember teasing is part of some people's personalities – your friend might not be able to avoid teasing you ever again. Don't try to force them to make a promise you know they won't be able to keep. You'll both end up resenting each other.
Try to be specific. If there is a specific subject you'd like to make off-limits, ask if she will avoid teasing you about it. Or, if there is a certain friend who always seems to egg your friend on, ask your friend if she has ever noticed this happening – ask her to look out for it, in the future.
Avoid blaming your friend, as this will just make them defensive. Avoid saying things like, “Why are you always so mean to me?” Instead, try something like, “It really bothers me when people tease me about my weight – would you please back me up when everyone starts doing that?”
Let them know that as long as they are trying to work on things, you'll let them off the hook. Say something like, “We've been friends for ages, right? This is the only thing that bugs me...if you can just try to pay attention in the future, we're good.”
If you know you sometimes overreact to teasing, or you're having difficulty laughing things off when you know you should – tell your friend you are working on it. Say, “I know I can be really sensitive sometimes, and I'm trying to work on it. Can you maybe go easy on me, until I develop a thicker skin?”But don't let them off the hook, if they are being a jerk. Sometimes people cover their bullying by telling their victim, “Hey, lighten up!” or “Get a sense of humor!” Don't blame yourself, if this is what's happening.
 Some people tease because they have a problem with you and they aren't brave enough to confront you about it. They will try to slip it into the conversation, pretending it's a joke. If you suspect this is the situation, take your friend aside one-on-one and just ask them if there is something they want to talk about. Tell them their teasing has come across as kind of mean spirited, lately, and you'd like to know the reason why.Use this approach with friends who suddenly start teasing you, or if their normal light teasing has become cruel.
It might be that there is a miscommunication between you two, and once you clear it up, the teasing will stop completely.
 Sometimes friends tease you because they feel threatened by you, if they think you are becoming more popular than they are. They are just trying to get attention from the group, even if it's negative attention. They think if they make you feel small, they will look better.If you are suddenly getting teased more than usual, and you can't figure out why, it might be because people are beginning to see you as more attractive or more confident than you used to be – in this is the case, cheer up, it could be a good thing!
Think about whether something has happened in your friend's life to make them feel insecure. They may be lashing out to deflect attention away from themselves. It might not be you at all.
 Avoid making too big a deal out of it, and don't demand an apology. A good friend will apologize without being asked, once they realize you are truly upset. But if you try to force them to feel bad when they don't think it's a big deal, they will only resent you for it. If you want to remain friends, tell them that as long as they tone down the teasing, things will be okay between you.


If they continue to tease you after agreeing to change, you may need to think about ending the relationship. Having toxic people in your life causes a lot of unnecessary stress.

