 Thoroughly wash the beans, rinse them, and transfer them to a large bowl. Cover them in distilled water (again, do not use tap water), ensuring that they are fully submerged and there is about an inch of water between the beans and the surface of the water. Leave them to soak for seven or eight hours, or overnight.


Rinse the beans after the soak in a sieve or fine colander, making sure that the water runs clear when you are finished.
Put the beans to one side while you prepare the next step.
 Instead of using a container to sprout the green gram in, this method requires you to wrap the beans in a dampened cloth. Begin by stretching the cloth on a flat surface and splashing it with a little water. You don't want the cloth to be sodden, so squeeze out any excess water.


If you do not have a muslin cloth, a cheesecloth or thin cotton cloth will also work.
 Place the cloth over a bowl so you can transfer the beans to the cloth without any rolling away from you. Scoop the beans onto cloth over the bowl and then tie the top of the cloth so that the beans are contained in a bundle. Allow the bundle to hang over the bowl or sink so that any excess water can drip off., Once any excess water has drained off, take the bundle and place it in a clean and dry container. The cloth should still be a little damp, but there should not be any standing water in the container. If you leave the green gram to sit in standing water they will most likely go bad.


Cover the container with a lid and leave the green gram somewhere at room temperature overnight to sprout.Check the cloth in the morning and sprinkle some more water on it if it has dried out.
 When the green gram has developed short shoots, it is ready to eat. Drain the beans completely and rinse them one more time before you eat them. You can eat green gram raw, steamed or microwaved, in a salad, stew or on its own.Once germinated, the sprouts can be preserved in a container in the refrigerator for three or four days.


If you want longer sprouts you can return them to a cloth or container and leave them for a few more hours.