 You don't want to use your personal account since the sender will be able to view your personal information (name, e-mail address, etc.). Instead, choose a completely new, free e-mail provider (Google, Yahoo, etc.) and set up an entirely new e-mail account without any of your personal information.;
, Make sure to find out and confirm the phone number of the person you'd like to text.


Even though you're sending an e-mail, you'll need the person's phone number as part of their e-mail address.
 The person you want to text has a phone carrier, like AT&T, T-Mobile, Verizon Wireless, Sprint, Metro PCS, or others. All of these carriers make it possible to send a text to the person's phone via e-mail. To find out a person's phone carrier, you can either ask your contact directly, or try one of these free look-up sites:


https://www.carrierlookup.com
http://retrosleuth.com/free-phone-carrier-search

, In other words, you'll compose an e-mail that will reach the person's phone, not e-mail account. Simply fill in the person's ten digit phone number (no hyphens or spaces), and then choose one of the following e-mail templates for their specific carrier:


AT&T: SMS: 10digitphonenumber@txt.att.net, MMS: 10digitphonenumber@mms.att.net
T-Mobile: SMS/MMS: 10digitphonenumber@tmomail.net
Verizon: SMS:10digitphonenumber@vtext.com, MMS: 10digitphonenumber@vzwpix.com
Sprint: SMS: 10digitphonenumber@messaging.sprintpcs.com, MMS: 10digitphonenumber@pm.sprint.com
Metro PCS: SMS/MMS: 10digitphonenumber@mymetropcs.com
Alltel: 10digitphonenumber@message.alltel.com
Virgin Mobile: 10digitphonenumber@vmobl.com

, Once you've gathered all of the necessary information about the person you'd like to text, log into your new e-mail account and compose a new e-mail. Enter the person's phone number and corresponding e-mail address template from the list above in the addressee line. Then, hit Send.


To make the e-mail appear more like an actual text message, leave the Subject line blank.
Your contact will receive an anonymous text.

