 If you have lost tooth enamel you need to visit your dentist to discuss treatment options with them. Enamel cannot restore itself naturally, so if you have experienced erosion you need advice from a professional on what action to take. The treatment will depend on your particular condition, but some of the options include covering the tooth with a crown or a ceramic veneer.Dental crowns can be applied to your teeth so that they regain their original shape and strength.
Dental fillings can be used to fill and repair cavities. They reduce the sensitivity of your teeth and smooth out any damaged surfaces.
If your condition is less severe, your dentist may suggest you use a remineralizing tooth cream, or using fluoride gel to strengthen your teeth.
 Although you cannot treat tooth enamel loss yourself, there are steps you can take to reduce the risk of it occurring. Some dentists believe that one the many causes for enamel loss is brushing your teeth too hard. This practice can also lead to gum recession. Pair that with a hard bristle toothbrush and you have recipe for tooth enamel loss. Instead, use a soft bristle brush to gently brush your teeth.Ensure you have a good brushing technique. Brush your teeth up and down, using a vertical rolling motion to get every part of your teeth.
Brush twice a day for around two minutes each time., You need to have strong healthy teeth to ensure that you do not suffer from enamel loss. Fluoride works to strengthen your teeth against the threat of decay, so when you buy toothpaste ensure that is a fluoride toothpaste. These are widely available in your local store and will often state that they contain fluoride prominently on the packaging.


If you have a history of cavities or other problems to do with tooth decay, your dentist may suggest daily fluoride treatments.
 Using a desensitizing mouthwash or toothpaste can reduce the pain you feel caused by your enamel loss. Use the toothpaste as you would any other toothpaste. Use the mouthwash to rinse your mouth for 30 seconds, twice a day, after brushing. You can find many brands of toothpaste and mouthwash for sensitive and damaged teeth in your local drug store, pharmacy or dentists.