 Amines are organic hydrocarbons that are attached to nitrogen in a single bond manner. Amines are very reactive group of compounds. This is so due to the existence of the electron lone pair on the nitrogen atom. The nitrogen atom in amines is relatively of low electro-negativity if we compare it with oxygen.


Therefore, the electron pull power of the nitrogen to share it is not so strong as in alcohols. This allows for the lone pair on nitrogen to be manifested in many chemical reactions. Primary amines are very reactive and they can be synthesized by the reaction of phthalimide with an alkyl halide followed by hydrolysis to form phthalic acid and the primary amine.;
, They usually react with an electrophile a two step manner. Namely, the formed amine from the first reaction with the electrophile continues to react further with another electrophile. This means that one does not expect a single reaction but a multiple reaction of the same amine.
 Due to the presence of the free electron lone pair on amines it can function as either a base or as a nucleophile. Both reactions are possible and compete with each other depending on the conditions of the reaction under question. Amines are not as reactive as C-Cl bond due to the polarization effect of the sigma bond in C-Cl bond which does not occur in C-N single bonds. The main reactivity of the C-N single bond stems from the existence of the electron lone pair on the nitrogen atom.
 Primary and secondary amines react with ketones to form shiff bases or C-N double bonds. This is potentially possible in diabetic patients with ketoacidosis where ketone bodies that are formed in these patients from the oxidation of fatty acids react with amines on DNA bases causing an alteration in the structure of the DNA by causing mutagenesis or cancer in affected individuals.
 Due to their extra reactivity, nitrogen containing compounds are used in chemical warfare. An example is the nitrogen mustard 2-chloro-ethylamine which reacts instantly intramolecularly to form a cyclic intermediate which can react with any potential nucleophile in the body. Nitrogen mustards have also been used in the treatment of cancer such as the compound cyclophosphamide.
 Amine groups are not a good leaving group in chemical reactions due to the high reactivity of the nitrogen species that can be expelled in these reactions. It can be made a good leaving group by reacting the amine with nitrous acid or HNO2. This reaction converts the amine to the diazonium salt which can easily be displaced by any potential nucleophile expelling a molecule of nitrogen.


This process can be used, for example, for the conversion of ethylamine to ethanol by the reaction of the formed diazonium salt with KOH. Amines can also be oxidized to nitro compounds with an appropriate oxidizing agent. Cyclic amines also exist and are prevalent. They have an extensive organic chemistry called nitrogen containing heterocyclic chemistry.
 Primary amines can be deprotonated at the nitrogen to form an extremely reactive species which can be used in the lab as a strong base. As an example, it is used in the deprotonation of ketones at the alpha position. An example of such a base is LDA or lithium diisopropylamide. This base can be commercially available from Aldrich for example. In the lab it can be prepared by the action of BuLi on diisopropylamine.


One might ask how we can generate this stronger base (BuLi)? It can be prepared from BuCl by the action of of lithium metal. BuCl itself can be prepared from the commercially available butane by the action of a halogen and UV light.
 Amines are also present in the body in DNA bases and as other neurotransmitters such as the catecholamines dopamine and epinephrine and norepinephrine. These three compounds are types of aromatic amines which have vital roles in maintaining homeostasis in the body .


Ammonia is also a nitrogenous compound which is also produced in the body from the deamination process of amino acids in the liver. Ammonia in then converted to the more benign compound urea which is also a nitrogenous compound which is excreted in the urine.

