 Most of us don't drink nearly enough water, and this can play havoc with our bodies, both inside and out. This first tip is not only a short term step, but do this in the long term, and you can make yourself significantly healthier as a result! However, for this tip, try to drink about 4 liters (1.1 US gal) of water per day: it will firstly rehydrate you, helping your skin to become radiant and gorgeous, but will also act as a detox. Just make sure you don't go too far from a bathroom! If plain water is too dull for your liking, try adding a squeeze of lemon juice.;
, Make sure that you eat plenty of fruit and vegetables (again, this is great for the long run!). Try eating avocado, orange or red peppers, papaya, oranges...as a rule, the brighter the colour, the more vitamins the food contains!, Have you ever tried 'E45' cream? If not, now is the time to start! Try slathering it on after a hot shower in the steamy bathroom for fantastic, soft, smooth skin. For those of you with dry or normal facial skin, try applying it liberally on your face, as it helps to sooth sore or irritated skin, and also helps to heal blemishes.
 Whether this means getting a new cut, or changing the colour, even the smallest change can make a huge difference. Looking for a sun-kissed, summer glow? Try dying your hair one or two shades lighter to enhance natural highlights, and asking your hairdresser for a relaxed, easy layered style. Wanting to look sultry and sexy? How about dying your hair a few shades darker (avoid black colours, as when these fade they can look dull, and instead opt for dark chocolate brown or coffee shades), and maybe ask your hairdresser for a sculpted, possibly fringed, look. Always make sure you ask their opinion before deciding on a drastic look, and be honest with the amount of time you spend on your hair: you don't want to have a style that you can't reproduce at home easily!

, When walking, try to walk tall-this instantly makes you look slimmer and more confident, and as a result, you will feel more confident. When standing, don't slouch, stand straight, with your shoulders down, and try not to cross your arms (this is a defensive position, and makes you look unapproachable).
 Find that 'wow' outfit! Whatever the occasion, every girl needs that one outfit that makes you feel sexy and special. If you're going out for drinks or to a club, opt for a short and shouldered dress with flats, skinny jeans with a cute top and heels, or a vest top layered with a black long sleeved lace top, with a mini and heels. Most importantly, make sure you can actually walk in your heels: agony is NOT sexy! If you're going on a casual date, how about trying bootcut jeans, sneakers or ballet pumps, with a polo shirt layered with a v-necked jumper, for a cool, preppy look. When shopping for this outfit, choose your favourite retailer, find one item that you love, be it a skirt, a necklace or a pair of shoes, and find items that go with it. Always try to buy 'outfits', or things that you are sure will go with items in your existing wardrobe, which avoids having wardrobe malfunctions.
 The morning (if you are not doing anything that could get you dirty/sweaty during the day) or the afternoon of the event, take a long shower. After coming out, slather on E45 cream, spritz on heat protection spray, and blow dry your hair. Try using a round brush to help blow dry your hair in the opposite direction to the way your hair naturally lies to help add volume. Make sure you use deodorant, brush your teeth (and once again immediately before you go out), and put of your favourite perfume (Daisy by Marc Jacobs or Davidoff Cool Water is great for a relaxed look, whereas Chanel No 5 or Paco Rabanne's Ultraviolet are better for sophisticated, sexy looks.
 On your way to the event, listen to uplifting music, such as 'I want everything' by Hope 7, 'So beautiful' by Superchick, 'High flying, adored' from 'Evita', 'Unwritten' by Natasha Beddingfield, 'I gotta feeling' by the Black Eyed Peas...etc, etc. Walk tall, and say to yourself, 'I am gorgeous, I am wonderful, I am interesting, and I rock!'

,