 If there is no sign of a coolant leak and your vehicle is failing to properly manage temperature, it may be a result of your coolant going bad. Most auto makers recommend flushing your coolant every thirty to sixty thousand miles, so if it’s been longer than that for your vehicle, it may be the culprit. Drain and flush your coolant by opening the petcock on the bottom of the radiator and draining it into a container, then filling the coolant system with water and running the engine for a few minutes again. Repeat this process a few times to clean all of the old coolant out, then refill it with a 50/50 mixture of water and coolant.Most coolant comes pre-mixed, but you can purchase only coolant and mix it with water yourself.
Coolant can be purchased at auto parts, gas stations and large retail stores everywhere.
 If you notice coolant leaking from the engine beneath the exhaust manifold and white smoke coming from your exhaust, your vehicle’s head gasket is probably blown. A blown head gasket will result in coolant leaks, engine overheating, a severe loss of power and the previously mentioned exhaust coloring.A blown head gasket requires taking the cylinder head off of the engine to repair, so it may be best left to professionals.
If you believe the head gasket in your vehicle has blown, stop driving it immediately.
 Your vehicle’s thermostat determines the functioning temperature of your engine. If the thermostat fails in the open position, the coolant will flow continuously through the radiator and the engine will run cold. If it breaks closed, the coolant will not be able to reach the radiator, resulting in overheating. Look for signs of leaking or oxidization around your thermostat to determine if it is causing the issue.If the thermostat is rusted, it will probably not be able to function properly.
A leak coming from the area around the thermostat would cause it to fail to function.
 If the check engine light has come on in your car, plugging an OBDII scanner can help you identify exactly what’s gone wrong. Plug the OBDII scanner wire in the port beneath the dashboard on the driver’s side, turn the key to “accessories” and turn on the scanner. Depending on the scanner, it will provide you with an error code to look up or the English description of the error that occurred.Many auto parts stores will use their OBDII scanners to check the codes in your car for free.
If your scanner only provides the error codes, check the auto maker’s website to find out the description of the error.
 If your coolant system is leaking, it will not be able to properly cool the engine may even result in overheating. When visually inspecting the coolant system, be sure to look for signs of spraying or leaking coolant coming from the radiator as well as the hoses and pump. Follow any coolant you see in your engine bay up to its highest point to identify the source of the leak.You may want to spray the engine with a hose to remove all the old coolant, then start the engine again to identify where new coolant leaks out.
If the leak is in your radiator, it will either need to be repaired or replaced by a professional.
 Another tool you may opt to purchase to identify issues with your coolant system is a pressure tester. Remove the radiator cap from your engine and attach the pressure tester in its place. Turn on the heater in your vehicle without starting the engine to allow the coolant system to develop pressure. Watch the gauge on the pressure tester for sudden drops in pressure. A drop in pressure indicates a leak. Then listen in your coolant system for the sound of air escaping to locate the leak.Pressure testers can be purchased at your local auto parts store.
Your coolant system will need to be drained to properly utilize a pressure tester.

