 Before you begin any exercise routine, it is important to get the right shoes. Your shoes provide cushioning and stability, which are key to maintaining your joint health. Depending on the shape of your foot and your gait, you will need to find a shoe that will give you enough cushioning and support for whatever exercises you choose.Although it may be more expensive, purchase your shoes from a specialty store. The staff will have specialized knowledge about what shoe to recommend you. They may even have you briefly run in order to gauge your gait and stride.
Visit a podiatrist or an orthopedist to determine if you have high, normal or low arches. This will determine what kind of shoe you should buy. This doctor may also recommend inserts or supports that will give you more support and cushioning.;
, Although there is little evidence that braces can prevent joint injuries, they can help mitigate the pain and inflammation caused by existing damage. There are athletic braces for nearly every joint on the body, with the most popular being for knees, ankles, wrists, elbows and shoulders. Compressive sleeves and braces can help keep the joint warm, reduce swelling and provide a minimal amount of support.Be sure to talk with a physical therapist about the best brace for your injured joint.
 Maintaining the health of your muscles is essential to preventing injury to your joints. Injuring your muscles can lead to increased pressure on your joints and injury. Because of this, it is important to properly stretch out your muscles before you begin any exercise. At the beginning of your exercise routine, spend at least 15 minutes stretching your arm, leg and core muscle groups.Depending on the activity, you may want to emphasize certain stretches more than others.If you are unsure about what stretches to perform before exercising, talk to a trainer at your gym or consult a physical therapist.
 As you are designing your workout regimen, try to alternate between high-impact activities – running or step aerobics – and low-impact exercises – biking, walking or swimming. This will help you design a regimen that limits the amount of weight placed on your joints and strengthens key muscle groups.Ideally, you want to get at least 150 minutes of low-impact aerobic exercise every week.Do not overdo high-impact exercises. Although important for your overall health, too many high-impact exercises are more likely to cause an injury and can diminish your joint strength over time.
 Properly strengthening your muscles is essential to maintaining joint health. Incorporating weight training into your exercise routine will ensure proper joint stability and limit the damage done by high-impact exercises. However, when engaging in weight training, be sure to use the proper form and avoid initially lifting heavy loads. Poor form and overburdening yourself can lead to injury.Basic squats and lunges are a good weight resistance exercise for strengthening your joints.
Consult a physical therapist or exercise physiologist before beginning a weight training regimen.
You should practice weight resistance at least twice a week., If you notice any soreness or pain in your joints, stop and rest. Too much exercise can cause serious damage to your joints and muscles. Be sure to take some time off and let the injury heal. If it persists, contact your doctor or a physical therapist., At the end of a workout, you should spend some time performing some cool down exercises. Take a few minutes and stretch your body. This will help your muscles gradually relax and improve your flexibility, which can limit the strain on your joints.If you are unsure about how to properly cool down after a workout, talk to a physical therapist or a personal trainer.

