 You will only find this injectable hormone in the United States, so if you are an American dairy farmer looking for Posilac®, you will find it being sold at your local veterinary clinic or at the local farm supply store. Posilac® is the only hormone drug on the US market that is intended and used for increased milk production in dairy cows. There is no similar drug on the market nor for legal use in dairy cows outside of the U.S.
 Like with all other drug labels, the Posilac® label will tell you the optimum dosage, where to inject and how often, and for which animals it is intended for. Use this information to perform the proceeding steps below.
 Dosage depends on the weight of the cow, and this is recorded for each individual cow in all dairy operations. Majority of dosages are calculated based on approximate weight, thus there is no need to know the exact weight (that down to the pound) in order to be able to give the correct dosage. As long as it is within the correct hundred weight, the dosage will be precise enough to administer.
 Unless you have a dairy operation where cows are confined to stalls for the duration of their lactating period, you will need to move the cow into a squeeze chute in order to give the hormone. Restrain the head in a head-catch or head-gate so there's less chance that she will try to move up and down the chute on you while you are giving the needle.
 As directed in the wikiHow article How to Give Cattle Injections, the syringe will need to be filled up with the required dosage by putting air into the bottle via syringe then slowly pulling back the plunger to allow the liquid to flow into the syringe until you get the required dosage. Once done, tap the syringe and depress the plunger slightly to let any air bubbles out.
 Unlike with beef cattle, you can inject Posilac into the rump of the cow, as well as the neck. The rump injection would not be in the muscle, but rather in the skin that stretches between the tail head (at the very base of the tail) and the hip bones that are known as the "pins" of the pelvis. This is found right at the top of the rump of the cow and make up the tail-head depression. Avoid the folds that extend from under the tail, known as the caudal fold. This is the area where USDA (United States Department of Agriculture) tuberculosis testing is done. Since Posilac® must be administered subcutaneously (under the skin), the tenting technique on the neck is also recommended. The area behind the shoulder is also a recommended area to inject, though tenting in this area is a little more difficult. After inserting the needle, lowly depress the plunger of the syringe until all the fluid is gone out of the syringe.
 Once the injection process is complete and no other medications or supplements need to be administered, the cow can be released back into the herd.
 The Posilac® label recommends that cows be injected every 14 days, starting 57 to 70 days post-calving and continued until the end of lactation. It's best to keep records to keep track when which cow was injected, especially when you have a large dairy herd that is not in the same stage of reproduction or lactation as a means to achieve year-round milking.

