 Unless you have already completed one, your doctor will very likely recommend a sleep study before you undergo somnoplasty. This can help your medical professional better understand your specific case of snoring or obstructive sleep apnea and apply that knowledge to your procedure.Let your doctor know about your sleeping habits before the study. This may help your doctor better analyze the results of your sleep study.;
, As a part of your doctor’s pre-op instructions, you may need to stop or decrease your smoking habit. This can reduce any coughing and bleeding you have following surgery.Talk to your doctor about ways to reduce your smoking habit pre-op if you are having a hard time with this instruction.
 Excess weight can contribute to snoring and obstructive sleep apnea. Depending on your particular case, your doctor may recommend going on a weight loss regimen before your surgery. This may make your somnoplasty more effective while helping you notice smaller, more immediate changes in your snoring or apnea issues.Speak to your doctor about the best way to lose weight. The doctor may suggest a combination of diet and exercise.
Meet with a registered dietician can help you make sensible food choices to aid weight loss. If you are healthy enough for exercise, try your own program that includes walks, jogs, or another activity you enjoy. You could also meet with a certified professional trainer to further boost your weight loss potential.
 Snoring and obstructive sleep apnea can have a significant impact on your ability to sleep. Your doctor may suggest practicing better sleep hygiene practices. This can help you relax before surgery and heal more quick post-op.Get between 7-9 hours of sleep every night leading up to the surgery.Stay away from stimulants such as caffeine, nicotine, and alcohol before bed. Having a lighter meal at dinner can also help you sleep better.
Create a relaxing bedtime ritual. This may include a bath or reading in bed before you turn off the lights for the night.
 Most doctors will advise you to avoid aspirin for 10 days before your somnoplasty. In some cases, your doctor may also suggest not taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen.You may be able to safely take acetaminophen (Tylenol) before your somnoplasty.Ask your doctor if ibuprofen and other NSAIDs such as naproxen sodium are safe for you to use., During somnoplasty, your doctor will place a conductive pad on your lower back. Wearing loose and comfortable clothing can make it easier for your doctor to put the pad on your back. This may also may you more comfortable during and after the procedure.Put on items of clothing that are not too tight and in which you can relax. This might be a pair of sweatpants or other cotton pants and an oversized t-shirt or sweater. You might try a pair of cotton leggings and a tank top layered under a sweatshirt.
Avoid anything that is constricting or makes it difficult to relax. Items such as jeans, dresses or skirts, or blazers can obstruct your doctor placing the conductive pad on your back.
 Your doctor will likely perform the somnoplasty in-office. Before the procedure begins, the doctor will administer an anesthetic to ease any pain and discomfort during the procedure.Spray the oral anesthetic that your doctor provides in your mouth. This numbs the area and prepares it for additional anesthetic injections that your doctor administers.
Wait for the oral spray to take effect. Once your throat is partially anesthetized with the oral spray, your doctor will make three small injections in the roof of your mouth. This may cause a bit of initial discomfort, but can relieve pain during the procedure.
 Somnoplasty usually takes 30-45 minutes to complete.Your doctor may have you sit upright during the procedure. You’ll be fully awake during your somnoplasty and your doctor may explain the procedure while it is happening. This and the anesthesia can help you relax and get through the procedure with minimal discomfort.Let your doctor know if you are experiencing severe pain or discomfort. You can also ask any questions you may have during the procedure.
 Following your somnoplasty, your doctor may have you rest in the office for an hour or two. This allows your doctor to monitor your progress after somnoplasty and deal with any discomfort or complications that may arise. In most cases, you can return to your usual activities the next day.Recognize that in rare cases, the doctor may opt for an overnight stay if you have the procedure in a surgery center. You may want to take a bag with a change of clothing if your somnoplasty is not an in-office procedure.
It might also be helpful to have somebody drive you back home rather than to try to drive back on your own. Arrange this prior to undergoing the surgery.
 Just as in pre-op, your doctor will give you instructions for care after your surgery. Following these can help you heal faster with as little discomfort as possible. Within a couple of weeks of the procedure and post-op care, you should start to see results. These will continue in following months., Your throat may be sore for a few days after your procedure. Sucking on throat lozenges such as Cepacol can further soothe your throat.Follow any dosing instructions your doctor gives you for throat lozenges. You can also read the instructions on the package for dosing guidelines.Allow the lozenge to dissolve in your mouth without chewing it.
 You may have some discomfort or pain after your somnoplasty. Ask your doctor if an over-the-counter NSAID or acetaminophen are suitable to relieve this. In some cases, your doctor may prescribe a stronger painkiller.Follow any dosing instructions your doctor provides for either over-the-counter or prescription pain relievers.
 Many people have discomfort for a few days after somnoplasty. You may also experience other symptoms, in which case you should notify your doctor or, depending on the severity, seek emergency care. These include:Difficulty swallowing
Bleeding
Crusting
Dryness
SwellingInfection
Blood clots

, Any medical procedure, including somnoplasty, has potential risks. In addition to any side effects you have, you may also have complications from the procedure. Contact your doctor if you notice any of the following complications following your somnoplasty:Prolonged pain
Failure to resolve or eliminate snoringFailure to cure apnea or other sleep disorders
Change in voice
Nasal regurgitation
Infection

, In rare cases, you may have especially severe side effects from your somnoplasty. Contact your doctor immediately if you experience:Extreme difficulty swallowing
Difficulty breathing
Sudden bleeding from the surgical site

