 Recognizing when you are about to have an anxiety attack is key to effectively overcoming the attack before it escalates. Most anxiety attacks last somewhere around 10 minutes. They rarely go on for longer than a half hour. Be aware that in cases of “mild” anxiety, your symptoms may be less extreme than in more severe attacks. Signs may include:Having a sense of panic or doom
Having difficulty breathing
Feeling like your heart is beating too fast
Feeling too hot or too cold
Getting stomach cramps or nausea
Feeling like you have lost control or are going out of your mind
Feeling detached from your body or environment;
, Struggling against the way that your body is feeling or trying to block out the feelings may make them worse. Instead, allow yourself to accept that what you are feeling anxiety and to sit with these feelings for a few minutes.Try saying something like, “What I am feeling is anxiety and it is uncomfortable.”
You might also benefit from noticing how you feel physically from the anxiety. For example, do you feel shaky or warm? Do you feel like you need to walk around? Note your physical sensations and what they are causing you to feel like doing.
 If your anxiety was brought on due to something in your environment, such as a having to speak in front of a crowd, it may help to get some space. Leave your environment for a short while in order to calm down. Go to a room where you can have some privacy.


If you are at work, it may help to go into a bathroom to gather your bearings. In school, see if you can excuse yourself from class and go into the hallway or restroom.
 Once you have reached a location where you are presumably safe and alone, it can help to relax your breathing. Anxiety generally brings with it a shortness of breath. Practicing deep breathing can counteract this issue and activate your body’s natural relaxation response. A great attribute about deep breathing is you can practice it almost anywhere without anyone knowing you’re anxious.


Inhale through your nose for 4 to 5 counts. Hold the breath briefly. Then, release the air by exhaling from your mouth for 4 to 5 counts. Repeat this exercise several times to counter the stress response and promote relaxation., Anxiety can sometimes be heightened due to your thought patterns. Since it is rooted in worry, you can overcome an anxiety attack by reciting positive statements. These statements revolve around how you would like to feel. Repeating them over and over helps to bring you to a state of greater calm so that you can put anxiety in check. Try out these affirmations:”I feel calm and at peace.”
”I know that I will be able to control my anxiety attacks.”
”I am perfectly safe and protected.”
”My anxiety does not control me.”

, There are a collection of strategies you can incorporate into your daily routine to control anxiety. Many of these strategies may not be effective at relieving anxiety right away, but, if practiced over time, they can help you prevent anxiety attacks from happening in the first place. Aim to perform at least one activity several times a day. Try several to determine which one works best for you.Mindfulness meditation is a way to engage more effectively in the present moment. Find a quiet place where you can sit without distractions. Sit in either a chair or on a cushion on the floor. Choose a point of focus, such as something in the room, a calming phrase, or simply your breath. Breathe deeply. When distracting thoughts enter your mind, just let them come and go without judgment. Return to your focus and breath.
Other relaxing activities may include various other forms of meditation and visualization, which is the process of using your senses to envision a more calming and serene place.
 Since tension often shows up somewhere in your body, you can use your body to ease tension and feel more relaxed. Rhythmic exercise can be helpful to relieve stress and promote greater physical fitness. There are an infinite number of physical activities you can use to relax. Try swimming, running, cycling, or dancing.


Another goal-directed way to relieve physical tension is with progressive muscle relaxation. This technique involves systematically tensing and then relaxing every muscle group in the body. Find a quiet place to sit comfortably. Start at your toes and tense each muscle group for about 5 seconds before releasing and moving on to the next group.In addition to exercise and progressive muscle relaxation, you can also release tension in your body through massage, tai chi, and various forms of yoga.
 Have a notepad and pen close by, type on your laptop or even key them into your phone. Combat anxiety by keeping a thought diary. When you write down your thoughts and feelings, you gain awareness of them. Only then can you take action.Grab a notebook and write out three headings. #1 should describe the situation. #2 should detail the thoughts you’re having. #3 should describe the level of anxiety you feel on a scale of 1 to 10.
A thought diary can bring more awareness to patterns of negative thinking and also help you understand the stimulus behind certain thoughts.
 Set aside a time for letting yourself give in to anxiety. This may sound contradictory, but it has been shown to work. Telling yourself not to worry will generally have no effect. However, postponing your worries until a short period each day can help you control anxiety you experience in your daily life.Choose 10-30 minutes a day to think through those negative thoughts and worries. For those 10-20 minutes focus on nothing but the negative thoughts that are making you anxious. During the rest of the day, if a worry pops up jot it down and tell yourself you will deal with it later.
Maximize your worry period by identifying the worries you can do something about and coming up with a few ways you can resolve or improve them. For example, if you found yourself worrying about an upcoming test, it can relieve your anxiety to map out a study schedule so that you feel more prepared.
 However, you must come to accept that some issues you simply will not be able to control. No matter how hard you try, worrying will not give you power over issues like the weather, the future, or other people. Recognize that some things are out of your control and have faith in the knowledge that you will be okay without controlling everything.
 Getting enough exercise is crucial for people who have anxiety. It can help to reduce anxiety, control stress, improve your sleep, and keep your mind functioning at its best. Try to get at least 30 minutes of physical activity every day.


Do something that you enjoy to make exercising something that you will look forward to doing. This may help make it easier for you to stick with it.
Do something that is moderate or vigorous to get the most benefit from exercising. For example, you could try running, brisk walking, biking, swimming, or dancing., Another way to reduce anxiety, fear and worry is to reduce alcohol, smoking and caffeine. Alcohol is known as a depressant which can enhance anxiety in some people. Minimize your consumption of these substances and try consuming chamomile soothe yourself and improve sleep, Eating a healthy, balanced diet can positively benefit both your physical and mental health. Anxiety can tempt you to reach for comfort foods like meals ordered from a fast food restaurant and processed foods that are sugary, fatty, or salty. Choose whole food meals and snacks that consist of fruits, veggies, low-fat dairy, lean protein and whole grains. Such foods support overall health and can improve your anxiety symptoms significantly.Foods with omega-3 fatty acids, or healthy fats, can help quell anxiety. Try incorporating salmon into your diet to reap those benefits. Snack suggestions for reducing anxiety can include foods rich in magnesium like nuts and seeds as well as fermented foods such as pickles and sauerkraut., Having constant worries can make it difficult to get the appropriate amount of shut-eye each night. But, getting enough rest can be beneficial for relieving your anxiety symptoms. Practice good sleep hygiene to support your mental health and reduce worries.


Go to sleep each night and rise each morning at the same times. Stop taking naps in the late afternoon. Reduce access to technological devises at least an hour before bed.
Make your sleep environment optimal for rest by dimming the lights, lowering the temperature, and removing distractions from the bedroom. Furthermore, avoid snacking too close to bedtime since some foods can keep you awake., Although many people tend to neglect self-care, it is one of the most important staples for long-lasting mental health. Self-care involves any intentional acts carried out for the benefit of your physical, mental, and emotional health. It allows you to have balance in life.Think about a few activities that you can schedule into your daily or weekly routine that enhance your well-being. These can be activities that relax you, make you smile, or leave you feeling fulfilled. Examples may include visiting the spa, taking a bubble bath, reading an intriguing novel, treating yourself to a new outfit, or listening to your favorite album.
 Maintaining positive connections with others also boosts your mental health and reduces anxiety. When you spend time with people who make you feel good about yourself, you are less likely to succumb to incessant worries and fears. Gather your support network and make an effort to spend quality time with friends and family weekly., With mild anxiety attacks, you may be able to use relaxation techniques and lifestyle improvements to keep symptoms at bay. However, if you have trouble reducing anxiety on your own, you should consult with a mental health provider who has experience treating anxiety.


Visit your primary care doctor for a referral or research psychologists or therapists in your area. Professional treatment for anxiety may include psychotherapy, medications, and complementary treatments such as acupuncture.