 It is possible to become a VFX artist without a college degree, but the path is often easier with one. VFX artists usually major in fine arts, computer graphics, or animation. Choose a college with a reputation for strength in these areas and a reputation for good job placement for graduates. The availability of internships is another factor to consider.Out of the jobs advertised for VFX artists, a majority at any given time specify a bachelor’s degree as a minimum requirement for applicants.;
, Some studios offer short-term programs for people who want to learn more about VFX artistry without pursuing a college degree. Enrolling in these programs can be expensive as financial aid isn’t always offered, but they usually have the most cutting edge technology for you to learn from., Although you may create some hand sketches, the majority of your work will be completed on the computer using the most up-to-date programs. Stay informed about the newest software advances by following VFX blogs and taking online computer tutorials.For example, VFX artists are expected to be well-versed in graphics and animation programs, such as Adobe Creative Suite and JavaScript.Clearly list every program that you can work with on your resume.
 Hop onto YouTube or another video service and search for VFX clip reels or demonstrations. Some of these videos will focus on a particular skill set, such as shading, which you then can practice on your own. Challenge yourself to mimic some of the more difficult tasks, or even try to improve upon the models used., Take as many art and design classes as you can. Or, simply carry a sketch pad around with you to work on your basic animation skills. As you draw, consider factors such as lighting and framing. Even geometry skills can come in handy when creating a particular type of background or even a person’s face.Make a choice to become an observer of the world around you. Ask yourself: how could I capture the movement of the leaves? Or, in what situations do shadows appear?

, Watch all of these creations with an eye for detail. Look for the techniques used and any original approaches that you see. Try to recreate any scenes that you find particularly interesting. Research the artists and see what their backgrounds are and contact them if you like., As you gain more experience, you’ll likely find yourself gravitating toward a certain aspect of design. This will become your “calling card” and directors and other professionals will seek you out for this type of work. To build your specialization, start choosing jobs with that emphasis and attend additional training seminars.For example, some VFX specialists focus on human character’s faces, animal figures, or city backgrounds.

