 As you create your budget, call around to identify the price of parts and labor. Purchasing pavers and labor together will make the process faster, but is not a necessary step in the process. To keep costs down, you can purchase pavers on your own, and pay for labor separately.Don’t be afraid to haggle! Prices are rarely set in stone.
Concrete pavers are usually cheapest, while brick and stone cost more.
To get the most for your buck, try to find discontinued pavers. These are usually marked down to a significant degree and are wonderful for a small budget.;
, Brick is a porous substance, and may break down more quickly than concrete in areas with a lot of rain, heat, or wind. If you live in a moderate climate, however, brick is likely to weather well. Concrete and stone hold up better in harsh climates.If you live in a harsh climate but love the look of brick or limestone, go for it! You may simply need to work paver replacements into your yearly house budget.
 If your paving space is exposed to sun or weather, you will need to use a strong material, such as stone or concrete. The sun is powerful and can cause premature wearing on all types of pavers, but will quickly degrade delicate material such as limestone., If the area you are hoping to pave is covered, your paving material will not need to be as hardy.

If you are worried about sun exposure (when living in a desert climate, for instance), you may want to roll the price of a canopy or other sun shade into your budget

, Before committing to a paver choice, take the other materials in the area into account. Wood, for instance, is extremely versatile and works well with virtually everything. On the other end of the spectrum, metal is better suited for concrete or stone. Your existing outdoor furniture will also come into play when deciding how you want your space to look.Metal and concrete lend themselves to an industrial look, while wood and brick are more cozy.
 Concrete offers an abundance of options in terms of both shape and color, and is going to be the best choice if you’d like the freedom to choose a wide host of colors or shapes. Conversely, brick is a classic look, but is limited in both color and shape, and is typically only found in red, black, and gray blocks., The width of your space will help you determine what types of paver shapes will work well in your yard. A narrow yard, for instance, is not going to do well with wide pavers, as it will create the illusion of an even smaller space. A large yard may not do well with small shapes and patterns, as putting them in will be both labor and time intensive.If you have a large space, you can ease some of the financial burden by spacing your pavers and placing gravel or wood chips between them. The result is polished, but not quite as expensive.
 Look at your yard and home. If you favor rounded shapes, you may want to use circles, spirals, or scalloped edges in your yard. If you tend to gravitate toward angular shapes, simple brick pavers will work well with your space, as will octagons and pentagons.Your space does not have to match. If you like a more chaotic, free-spirited look, you can mix and match rounded and sharp edges.
 The more elaborate the shape is, the more expensive the pavers are likely to be. Before deciding on brightly-hued spiral pavers, check in with your budget. Make sure you can afford the cost of parts and labor for the initial install and replacements in the future.If your budget does not allow for your ideal pavers, try to find used or leftover pavers on sites such as Craigslist or at yard sales. This can be especially useful if you are paving a smaller area.
 The sun exposure in your yard must be factored in before making a decision about color. High sun exposure will not only break down materials, but will cause color fading over time, making once-vibrant hues dull. If your home has a lot of sun exposure, opt for neutral or natural tones, instead.The staining process can also be taken into account. If your pavers are dyed concrete, fading will be difficult to coer. If your pavers are painted or coated, replacing color may be easy.
 Your home’s color should also play a role in your decision regarding your pavers’ color. If your home is a neutral color such as white or beige, most paver colors will work well. If your home is a more distinct color, such as forest green or a deep gray, you will need to be more selective with your pavers.You can also use multiple paver colors to tie in your home color and your vision for your paved space.
 If you cannot find a color scheme you like that works with both your pavers and your existing home and yard colors, use your pavers as the template for a rehaul of your home. This will allow you to experiment with colors and shapes without worrying about your existing decorations.