 If you decide to foster the dog, where you care for it temporarily until a permanent home is found, you should still register the dog with a shelter or rescue group. You will need to provide basic information about the dog, such as its breed, its age, its gender, and its name. You may also need to get the dog’s owner’s approval to foster the dog until a home is found for it.The shelter or agency may also require you to fill out an application for fostering so they can ensure you are a good foster candidate. You will need to note that you have a permanent place of residence where the dog can stay as well as the time and energy to care for the dog.;
, A big element of fostering is dog is that you are only meant to have the dog in your care for a set amount of time. Most fostering agencies ask you to agree to at least two weeks of care for the dog. You may opt to foster the dog for a longer period of time, especially if you start to bond with the dog and there is no available permanent home for it yet.You should find out exactly how long the rescue group or shelter needs you to foster the dog. Then, you can decide on your own if you want to extend this time so you are caring for the dog for longer than the agreed upon time.
 You should also determine what you will need to provide for the dog as its temporary caretaker. Find out if the dog is house trained or if you will need to teach it this skill. Determine if the dog has any medical issues that need to be addressed by speaking to the dog’s current owner or by bringing the dog to the vet.If you foster the dog by going through a shelter or rescue group, they may offer to cover any medical care the dog needs so it stays healthy enough to be adopted later. Talk to them about this option.
 As the temporary caretaker for the dog, you should set up a sleeping space and a play space for the dog in your home. You should also create a walking schedule for the dog so it gets enough exercise every day. You may take any toys the current owner has and bring them into your home for the dog to play with.You should also ensure the dog gets along with any pets you may already have in your home, such as other dogs, cats, or birds. You may need to keep the dog in a separate area or room so your other pets can get used to it over time.
 As a foster parent, you will need to be willing to set aside some time on the weekends to bring the dog to adoption events. These events will help introduce the dog to potential owners and increase its chances of getting adopted.Many adoption events are held on the weekends at local pet stores or pet friendly venues. The shelter or rescue group should provide you with information about these events.
 Though you may enjoy fostering the dog, you should be prepared to give the dog to a permanent owner if one is found. You should prepare yourself emotionally for this moment, as you will be required to do it as a foster parent to the dog.If you bond with the dog, you may decide to adopt the dog yourself. You may also consider adoption if it has been months and the dog still has not been placed in a forever home.

