 Keep a planner, calendar, and to-do list and update them consistently. Keep them in easily seen and reached places, or have multiple that can be synced together.


If you work well with pen and paper, keep a small planner or calendar that can fit in your pocket or purse so you always have it with you. Keep a pen attached if possible so you never have to fish around for one. Have a designated note pad for to-do lists at your desk, and cross things off as you go.
If you work better with digital organization, use your phone’s calendar and reminder system to make appointments and receive notifications about them. Try apps like Wunderlist or Todoist to manage your tasks., Make sure you always have notes and other materials with you by syncing calendars, lists, and files across all your devices, which nearly every modern app has the capability to do.


Share tasks, documents, and notes with other secretaries, your boss, or other employees with project management software like Basecamp or Trello.Share documents and spreadsheets with Google Docs and use programs like Dropbox or Hightail to send files., Set up a color-coding system to help categorize all of your materials at a glance. Assign a color to each project, day, employee, or any way you want to delineate your work. Use highlighters and colored tabs or labels to mark up files, trays, and notebooks to easily locate the right information.


Many web and mobile apps for email, calendars, and lists also allow you to assign a color to each item.
 Keep your email inbox clean and important information easy to access by filing an email into a folder right away, flagging or marking it as unread if you need to come back to it, or archiving or deleting it if you’re sure you no longer need it.


Try making folders for each year, quarter, or month, or label them by project, employee, or type. Try to respond to, delete, or log the email's information elsewhere right away. Set schedules for yourself, like having all emails filed in appropriate folders by the end of the day, and cleaning out and dealing with everything left in your inbox by the end of the week., Keep materials of the same type in a particular place, and designate notebooks and folders to specific projects. Have a specific notepad for phone memos, for example, that always stays by the phone so you never end up taking down someone’s name and number on a napkin. Keep meeting notes in a separate place from other notes so information doesn’t get mixed up and hard to find later.
 Avoid printing to save paper and opt for online forms or other documents so you can save time and resources. Fill out forms electronically if possible. Scan and save copies of paper files so they’re always available and don’t get damaged or lost. Circulate digital files, reminders, memos, and agendas instead of paper versions whenever possible.
 Never run out of important materials you use to be organized, like notepads, pens, envelopes, and stamps by buying or letting an office manager/purchaser know when you are on your last box or container of something rather than once they are all gone. Order supplies in bulk from a company like Quill to save money and avoid running out so quickly.


Keep supplies organized at your desk or workspace. Use containers, trays, file folders, and other containers that are all labeled or colored for easy sorting.

