 Break down your counter into workable sections, dividing up the room by large obstacles like the sink or oven. Clean everything off the countertops and empty the kitchen so that you can move and work freely.Know your planned tile size, how many tiles you need total, and how the tiles will fit into rows ahead of time. If you can get a tile size that requires minimal cutting and fitting your life will be much easier.
Remember to account for the grout when planning your tile size.;
, If you plan on tiling a countertop in a wet area, then you will need to take out the sink in order to lay the new tiled countertop. You should also remove the stove, though this is much easier to simply slide out than a sink. To remove your sink:


Turn off the water supply to the sink.
Disconnect the plumbing hoses from the sink.
Unscrew the sink from underneath the countertop, if there are screws holding it in place.
Pry the sink loose from the countertop, then remove it completely and set it aside., If you're crafting a new counter from scratch, the following bullets detail how to build a new countertop using plywood and concrete boards. In most cases, your counter top will already have a solid base -- click here to skip ahead if it does.


Measure the existing countertop.
Use a carpenter's pencil to outline the dimensions of the existing countertop on a piece of 3/4 inch (2 cm) plywood. Be sure to trace the sink opening, too.
Cut the plywood using a circular saw. Clamp a straight edge along the marked lines to guide the saw so that your lines are perfectly straight.
Place the plywood base on top of the existing countertop. From underneath the existing countertop, trace the sink opening onto the plywood base. Cut out the sink opening using a jigsaw., Put the plywood base on top of a piece of concrete board. Use the plywood base as a template to make an identical countertop piece out of the concrete board. Cut the concrete board to the shape of the countertop using a spiral cutting saw with a masonry bit. Don't forget to cut out the sink opening as well.


These boards sometimes come pre-cut, or you can have them cut at a local hardware store if you cannot cut the concrete.
Sometimes sold as "fibercrete," a "backing board," or sometimes a "tile backer.", Screw the plywood base onto the existing countertop using wood screws. Then, apply thinset mortar to the plywood base using a 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) trowel. Place the concrete board on top of the plywood base and screw it into place with galvanized screws.When done, reinforce any corners and edges with fiberglass mesh tape. This prevents chipping, cracking, or crumbling along the cut edges of the concrete.
 If you have a laminate (popular, smooth, plastic-like surface) countertop, you only have a little preparatory work to do. You must simply get the surface ready to absorb the mortar and adhere the tiles. Most laminate is non-porous and a bad adhesive surface. To get your counter ready for tiles:


Use an orbital sander and 50 grit paper to rough up the surface. Do not gouge any big holes.
Use a circular saw and a straight-edge to saw off any rounded, overhanging edges. You want square, 90-degree corners to fit your tiles into., Make sure you prep the area as well with a light sanding. Mark the height of your backsplash -- usually just one tile high. Be sure to account for the width of the tile below it, however, on the countertop. Because of this, the backsplash usually comes last.