 When you are selling off-line, you will want to take advantage of social interaction. You might want to organize an in-home product demonstration and take advantage of friends’ networks.


Find spots where many target consumers gather, such as farmers' markets or the local fair.
Build trust in your brand by sponsoring local events.
Try giving some of the product away. People respond to giveaways because, if they like your product, they will want to buy it. , People who sell things often have a network of sources built up. They go to lunch with a lot of people, and they are quick to hand out and collect a business card. Word of mouth springs from relationships, in part. Listening to a customer and perceiving their needs is a key part of the selling process. Cold calling without any understanding that your product might be a fit for the consumer rarely works out very well. In contrast, developing long-term relationships with people will make you a good seller because they will come back for more product and will tell their friends to buy from you too.
Selling can take time. They say that selling things can be a marathon, not a sprint. It's a process.
Try to be candid when you talk to potential customers instead of sounding rehearsed. If you sound too rehearsed, they won't trust you as much.
 You will want to figure out a budget for advertising and marketing and consider ways you can reach your audience more cheaply, such as through social media.


Determine whether you want to advertise on radio, television, and in the newspaper, as well as new media environments. What will best reach your target consumer?
For a company, figure out your minimum and maximum advertising budget by taking 10 and 12 percent of your projected annual gross sales. Multiple it by the markup from your average transaction. Then deduct your rent from each. The remainder is your minimum and maximum advertising budget. , If you are just trying to get rid of a lot of household items, consider holding a rummage sale.


Advertise your rummage sale, in the newspaper and online through local social media sites or sites like Craigslist. Give a good listing of the types of items you are selling and any unique items you have.
Portable items sell best at rummage sales. So think about what clothing items or household pieces you have to sell that people can easily take with them. Figure out the best day to hold your rummage sale. People are less likely to go to your rummage sale on weekdays during the day, for example.
Call your city, village or town hall to determine whether you need a permit for your rummage sale. This will vary by community.

