 If you are scared of the pain, then you can numb the area before hand, or if it is the needle you are scared of, don't look at the needle. By determining what it is you are scared of, you can find a solution.;
, Don't drink alcohol or take painkillers, as this thins your blood and makes it bleed more. If you are prone to fainting, take a sugary snack or drink with you.
 Being tired can make everything worse, as you don't want to fall asleep in the tattoo studio.
 If you are getting a tattoo on your arm, then wear something with short sleeves or sleeves that you can easily roll up. If you are getting a stomach tattoo, then don't wear a dress or jumpsuit. Use common sense to decide whether or not your planned outfit is appropriate.
 If you are unsure what something means, ask your artist to explain. If you are asked a question about health or past experience and you are unsure, tell your artist you don't know (for example, if the question was "are you prone to fainting" and you are unsure as you have never had a tattoo before, let them know).
 The artist will give you instructions on were to sit and what position. He/she may also ask you to remove certain items of clothing, if necessary.
 Some people find it easier to look away, but some prefer to look. If you look away, you won't see the needle of the blood, but if you watch, you won't be surprised by the needle and if you are unhappy about the way the design is happening, you can consult your artist before it's too late.
 Tattoo artists are usually used to people like this. It is better to try and avoid this, but if you do scream or cry, there is no need to be embarrassed.
 It is normal to have 2-3 minute break here and there.
 Reward yourself for getting the tattoo, and you will have something to look forward to while getting the tattoo. You could do anything from buying an ice cream, to throwing a party.
 You don't want to get an infection.
 You got a tattoo even though you were scared, so you have ever right to show it off!

