 Be realistic with yourself while planning to utilize your notebook. If you commit to writing in the notebook everyday, you can fill it up in no time. Think about a time of the day that would be best for writing. If you have a busy morning and afternoon, write each night before going to sleep.


Once you block a time during your day for writing, it is important to stick with it. You can better utilize your notebook if you stay committed to your goals.It will feel good to complete something you set out to accomplish.;
, An easy thing to write about is your day and what you accomplished or failed to accomplish. Writing about your day will also challenge your memory and improve it over time.


Give yourself a time buffer before reflecting about an event. Say you go to sleep at night, wake up in the morning, and then write about your day.
Date each entry as you go for future reference. You might get into a dispute about when you first kissed your girlfriend. By dating an entry, you can easily pick out the exact date something occurred.
 Your imagination is a great way to utilize your notebook. If you find yourself bored and daydreaming, jot down the scene as best to your abilities. Writing down your fantasies is also a good way to explore your creative side.


You don’t need to write about dragons, unless you like imagining a world with dragons.
If you have a dream about living in South America, explore those thoughts by writing about the details.
You don’t need to write a structured short story. Focus on the specific details in your head. If you want to develop your entry into a story, you have a series of details to use.
 Writing oftentimes can relieve a problem you’re facing in life. Look at the history of poets and writers, who have explored great pain and pleasure in a beautiful arrangement of words. They’re using writing as a form of self therapy by being introspective and in touch with their emotions.You can write about a family member’s passing, a break-up, or even unrequited love.
Expose your feelings and don’t concern yourself with other people reading your thoughts.
 Writing letters can benefit you in several ways. You can actually write a letter to a friend or family member using your blank notebook paper. Alternatively, you could write a letter to someone you are frustrated with and not send it to them. It may seem old fashioned, but you can still utilize the gratification of writing a letter to someone.People enjoy receiving physical mail that isn’t junk mail.
 You and a good friend or group of friends can take turns writing in the notebook. Hold onto the notebook for a week at a time and then pass it on. You can use the friendship journal to tell your friends thoughts and ideas you experience. This can also be a great way to become closer with your friends.


You could even use the friendship notebook to create a story where each of you contributes a chapter at a time.
The same idea could even be used to create a comic book.
 When you wake up each morning, write down the dreams you had right away so you don't forget them! Dreams typically last in your memory during the first ten minutes you wake up. Utilize this time and write out the dream. You will find that over time you will become better and better at remembering your dreams.


Some researchers have even concluded that dream journals will increase the amount you dream and remember it.