 Many rabbits loved to be brushed, and it's a great way to help them keep their fur clean. Buy a brush made specifically for rabbit fur (often finer-toothed than brushes intended for dogs). Every few days, gently hold your rabbit while brushing its fur. Focus on areas that have bits of bedding or dirt. When you're finished, wash the brush and dry it.


Be sure to handle the rabbit very gently. Not all rabbits enjoy the experience of being brushed. If yours seems startled or upset by brushing, stop the process and try again later.
Long-haired rabbits require a little extra fur care. Keep your rabbit's fur trimmed to an inch or so so that it won't become tangled. This will help cut back on shedding and keep the fur clean.;
, If your rabbit hops into a mud puddle, you might want to help it get clean by doing a little spot cleaning. Luckily you can spot clean your rabbit without using water. This is highly advisable, since many rabbits go into shock when they get wet. Sprinkle some cornstarch over the dirty spot and use a fur comb to work out the dirt. Keep going until the fur is clean.


Even if your rabbit is completely covered in mud, it's better to use this dry cleaning method than to dip your rabbit in water. Working section by section, carefully break up the mud clumps, comb out the fur, and use cornstarch to work out the smaller bits of dirt.
If absolutely necessary, use water to clean small areas of fur. Dampen a washcloth with warm water and use it to moisten the fur; try not to let the water reach the rabbit's skin. When the patch of fur is clean, use a hair dryer on the coolest setting to gently blow the fur dry. Normal rabbit body temperature ranges from 101F – 103F. Because rabbit skin is very delicate, and rabbits are sensitive to heat, never use a blow dryer on a setting higher than “warm,” and constantly monitor the temperature of the air on the bunny’s skin by placing your hand in its path.
 If your rabbit has mats in its fur, the best tool for the job is a mat splitter. This breaks up the mat gently without harming the rabbit. Avoid using a scissors; rabbits are jumpy, and it would be easily to accidentally cut your rabbit while you work., This grooming task is necessary for rabbits that spend most of their time indoors. When rabbits don't have the chance to wear down their nails by digging around outside, the nails can grow long and sharp. Use a rabbit nail trimmer to take care of your rabbit's nails, or ask your veterinarian to do it for you at your next appointment.


Do not have your rabbit declawed. Rabbits are highly prone to infection, and declawing leaves their paws open to bacteria.Make sure the rabbit's living space is always kept clean and dry to promote good foot health.
 It bears repeating that dousing a rabbit with water can cause it to get hypothermia or go into shock, both of which can be fatal. Some unique rabbits don't mind getting wet; a few rabbit owners have even been surprised that their beloved bunnies like to swim. However, if your rabbit has not exhibited an affinity for water, it's best not to risk getting it wet. Rabbits are very sensitive and even one water bath can cause permanent damage.