 The more informed you are, the more likely you'll be able to stay calm when it happens. Your first period will probably be very light, and may not even look like blood. It may appear as bright red drops in your underwear, or it could be brownish and sticky.Don't worry that you will be gushing blood, either--during an average period, a woman will only lose about 1 oz. (30 ml) of blood.That's about the same amount of liquid as 2 bottles of nail polish.


Talk to your mom or older sister. She may be able to give you an idea of when you will get your period. It's not always the same, but often girls begin their periods around the age as their mother or sisters did.If you can't talk to a mom or older sister, talk to a school nurse or trusted friend who has already gotten her period.
When your period comes, you may notice a feeling of wetness in your underwear. You may even feel liquid flowing out of your vagina, or you may not notice anything at all.If you have a blood phobia and you're worried about how you'll react, try thinking of it this way: this isn't blood like from a wound or injury. The blood from your period is actually a sign that you're healthy., The drugstore or grocery store usually has an entire aisle dedicated to feminine hygiene products (pads, tampons, pantyliners). Don't be overwhelmed by all the choices--as you get to know your flow, you'll have a better idea of which product works best for you. To start out, look for pads that aren't too bulky or noticeable and has light or medium absorbency..


Pads are probably the easiest thing to start out with--you'll have enough to think about without worrying about how to properly insert a tampon.
Practice putting a pad in your underwear before you have your period. If you notice discharge in your underwear, use that to figure out where the middle of the pad should be.Some websites offer coupons or even free samples or period "starter kits" for you to keep on-hand.
If you'd rather use a tampon or a menstrual cup during your first period, that's completely fine. It's important that you are comfortable with whichever protection you choose.If you're embarrassed about buying pads, just go up to the register with a few other items, and busy yourself looking at candy while the cashier rings you up. Remember that the cashier really doesn't care what you are buying and it's nothing new or shocking to him or her.
 With all the time you spend at school, playing sports, going to friend's houses, and doing other activities, it's possible, even likely, you will get your period while you are away from home. It may give you peace of mind to know you always have a pad with you wherever you are, just in case.If you're worried about someone going through your book bag and finding your stash or things falling out, get a makeup bag or pencil case to store your period supplies.
You may want to hide a pair of underwear and a resealable plastic bag in your locker in case you get your period at school and need to change your panties. You can rinse the soiled pair in cold water and put them in the bag to take home.
You may also want to keep a little bottle of ibuprofen or other over the counter pain medication in your locker, just in case you get cramps. Just make sure your school policy allows this so you don't get in trouble.
 While there's no single indication that your period is arriving--you won't really know until it comes--your body may give you signs that it is preparing to menstruate. A stomach or backache, cramps in your abdomen, or sore breasts can all be signs that you are getting your period.Women can get their first periods as early as eight and as old as 16. Most usually get theirs around the age of 11 or 12.Women usually get their periods about two years after they begin developing breasts.You may notice a thick, white discharge in your underpants up to 6 months before getting your first period.Your period usually comes after you have reached 100 pounds (7 stone).If you are underweight, this may delay your period. If you are overweight, you may begin your period sooner.