 If you want to decrease your risk for breast cancer you may choose a nut that has been shown to do just that. You could also buy a mix of nuts or create your own based on dietary objectives.


There were very impressive results of a review of the evidence linking nuts and lower risk of coronary heart disease, published in the "British Journal of Nutrition", by Kelly JH, and Sabate J. In this study, researchers looked at four large studies—the Adventist Health Study, Iowa Women's Study, Nurses' Health Study and the Physician's Health Study. When evidence from all four studies was combined, subjects consuming nuts at least 4 times a week showed a 37% reduced risk of coronary heart disease compared to those who never or seldom ate nuts. Plus an additional serving of nuts per week was associated with an average of another 8.3% reduced risk of coronary heart disease, for your health!, Walnuts are extremely healthy nuts having multiple benefits for consumption. They have almost as much omega 3 fatty acids as salmon and more than is recommended for a daily serving of linoleic acid and alpha linoleic acid (omega 3 fatty acids). These fatty acids have been shown to increase brain function, protect against Type II Diabetes and decrease risk of cardiovascular disease. In addition to omega 3 fatty acids, walnuts contain high amounts ellagic acid, which promotes immune health, and vitamin B6. In clinical research, walnuts slowed the development of breast cancer in mice.
 Peanuts, although technically not a nut, but a legume, have the highest amount of protein at 7 g per oz. They have also been shown to keep cholesterol levels low and protect against cardiovascular disease. A unique nutrient in peanuts is resveratrol, the antioxidant found in red wine with anti-aging properties.


Roast peanuts to increase their health benefits! Research conducted by a team of University of Florida scientists, published in the journal Food Chemistry, shows that peanuts contain high concentrations of antioxidant called polyphenols, and that roasting can increase peanuts' p-coumaric acid levels, boosting their overall antioxidant content by as much as 22%:, Pistachios are high in protein at 6 g per oz and the highest fiber-containing nut. The amount of fiber in pistachios is equivalent to the fiber found in oatmeal. These have also been shown to protect against cardiovascular disease. They contain high amounts of plant sterols that lower LDL cholesterol levels.
 Almonds are the most nutrient dense nuts and contain very high levels of vitamin E and vitamin E boosting compounds. Vitamin E has been shown to protect against stroke and cancer, including breast and colon cancer.
 Brazil nuts are high in selenium. Selenium has been shown to lower the risk of breast cancer.
 All are high in monounsaturated fatty acids. Pecans have the highest amount of unsaturated fatty acids and the lowest amount of saturated fatty acids compared to other nuts. Cashews also offer high iron.
 Hazelnuts are high in folate, which protects against birth defects. They also are high in vitamin E and B vitamins and evidence suggests they may help delay dementia. They also reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease by lowering blood pressure.
 In the supermarket you will be able to find nut mixes made for heart health, energy or just flavor.

