 Instead of three large meals, try eating four or five small meals. These smaller meals should be 300 – 400 calories each. Smaller, more frequent meals can cut down on cravings, and they will reduce your need to snack., Knowing what you will eat at every meal will reduce the risk of cheating on your diet. You should focus on eating whole foods at home during the week with small portions of low-calorie snacks in between meals. Measure out each portion carefully.


Always read the food nutrition labels for calories per serving, protein per serving, etc. This goes for all packaged foods. Make sure you are always doing the math for each meal.
 Aim for 300 calories in this meal. Protein is a great source of energy to begin your day with as it keeps you full and gives you energy for other activities.Try one of the following:


A boiled egg with a piece of whole grain toast and half an apple.
A slice of whole grain toast with 1 tablespoon peanut butter, served with an orange.
A 16 oz. smoothie (437 mL) with 4 oz. (118 mL) low-fat Greek yogurt, 4-oz (118 mL) water, 8 oz. (237 mL) of almond milk and blueberries., You want to keep up your energy in the middle of the day, when you're likely to start feeling tired. Make lunch the night before, and choose meals that are easy to take to work. Some options include:


Roasted vegetable salad with 1 cup sweet potato, 1 cup eggplant, 1 cup peppers, 3 cups mixed greens, and 3 tablespoons lite honey mustard dressing6 oz. (177 mL) of low-fat yogurt with berries and a handful of almonds (about 23)Low-sodium lentil soup with labels indicating 300 – 400 calories and 20 – 30 grams protein per serving, Dinner should keep you feeling full all night long. You want a meal that has a good source of protein as well as plenty of fiber to prevent snacking. Try including a lean cut of meat and steamed vegetables. Avoid high-calorie fillers like pasta. Instead, you can try:


One 6 oz. (170 g) slice of grilled chicken and 1 cup of green beans
1 cup grilled eggplant slices and 10 spears of asparagus6 oz. (170 g) broiled white fish, like tilapia or salmon, plus 1 cup mashed potatoes and 1/2 cup green peas, Fruits and vegetables can help keep you full even when you have eaten less. Avoid starchy vegetables like corn. Instead, good foods include the following:Cauliflower
Spinach
Kale
Broccoli
Berries
Apples
Pears

