 You want to ensure your horse is focused and calm so use this method in an enclosed area, like a rounded pen. This way, you can control your horse’s movements when you are in the saddle and ensure he does not get distracted.You should also make sure your horse is saddled and standing still in a relaxed position. Because you will be directing his movements from the saddle, you may want to try this method with a horse who is comfortable with saddle riding and direction using his reins.
 Hold one rein in your hand and apply light pressure on the bit. Your horse should raise his head as a natural response. Continue to maintain light contact on the bit when he does this. Do not pull or tug hard on the rein. Simply hold it with slight pressure.To release the pressure on the rein, your horse will drop his head. Once he does this, reward him by releasing the rein pressure and stroking him on his neck and withers. You can also verbally reward him with a “Good job”.
Once you release the rein pressure, your horse will likely raise his head again. This is fine, as you will teach him to keep his head down with repetition and practice.
 Apply pressure to the rein again until he responds right away to your lifted rein by lowering his head half an inch. This indicates that he is starting to understand that applying pressure and releasing pressure on his rein means “put your head down”.Once he lowers his head, release the pressure and let him bring his head up. As soon as he raises his head, apply pressure on the rein again, releasing it only when he lowers his head again.
Repeat these steps several times until he leaves his head in the dropped position, even after you release the pressure on his rein. You may need to use verbal praise, small treats, or strokes between each attempt to reinforce the command.
 To get your horse to drop his head to lower levels, you can apply and release pressure on his reins. Start by getting him to drop his head by applying and then releasing pressure. Then, ask him to drop his head another half-inch by applying and releasing pressure again.Continue to do this until he drops his head further down. Work in one-half inch increments until his head is as low as you require. Every time he drops his head another notch, make sure you reward him with praise, a stroke, or a small treat.
If you are trying to get your horse to drop his nose close to the ground, you may have to work on this technique over a period of time. The last six inches from the ground are usually the most challenging. But with patience and practice, your horse should understand the command.
 Once you feel your horse has mastered the command, you should test his abilities. Do this by lifting the rein lightly. Your horse should actively pull his head down when you put pressure on the rein. This indicates he understands you want his head to go downward, not upward, when you put pressure on the bit.You can also practice this command using the opposite rein. Follow the same steps using the opposite rein until your horse feels comfortable doing the command no matter which rein you use.

