 Paint and wallpaper can really help you achieve your perfect room, however, it isn't necessary. If you're allowed to paint your room, choose a colour that you like and that reflects you. If you aren't allowed to paint/wallpaper your room, hang some fabric on the walls, or just put up some posters and pictures that you like. You could also buy removable wall stickers to help give your walls some interest. These stickers are easily removable, and you can switch them around as much as you'd like.


Don't think you want to stick with a color for long? Instead of painting the walls a bold color, paint them white. What you can do is buy some blinds and put transparent curtains (of your favorite color) over them so when the sun seeps through, the color reflects on the walls.
Alternatively, use posters not paint. Right now you might want to get a soccer ball painted up on your wall. But what if you don't want it there later? What can you do? To avoid permanent change, put posters up instead. That way you can change it up all the time.;
, Your room is where you can be alone and have personal time. You want to be comfortable in your room, so buy some blankets, rugs, curtains, and pillows that are your favorite colors. You could also experiment and have a colorful room. It's all your decision! If you want to save some money, you could make your own throw pillows and curtains. Make sure you get your parents' permission, fluffy cushions work well for a cozy feel.
 When your friends come over, you don't want to have them sit on the floor! Buy a chair or two for you and your friends to sit in. Consider buying a beanbag chair. They're comfy and they look good in bedrooms. If you can't buy one, ask someone to sew you one. You could also buy a moon chair. They're also very comfy and give your room a modern look. Another good option is an ottoman, especially if it doubles as a storage space!

, You're a teen, so the homework load is starting to increase, and you have exams to study for. Rather than studying in your kitchen, have a study space in your bedroom. Get a desk and a chair for you to sit in and do your homework.
 Have some good lighting in your room. Have a desk lamp so that you have good light when you're studying, but have some other cool lights too. You can buy lanterns, fairy lights, or lamps in different shapes, sizes, and colors to really make a statement in your room.
 You totally need storage in your room! Have some big funky containers in your room or display your stuff on shelves. Either way is awesome. Also, you'll need a closet to keep your clothes. Don't have a messy closet. Keep it organized and clean. Make sure you have special places for your shoes, hats, purses, and clothes. Don't mix them up. Put your sweaters in drawers so they don't get wrecked , corner cupboards work well in small rooms.


Don't overdo it. Make sure you don't junk up your room with a ton of stuff. Put one or two ten-cubbie shelves against the wall and put stuff in bins. That also works with clothes if you can't find a cheap new dresser.
 By now, your room looks great, but it probably looks more like a bedroom in a furniture showroom than your very own room. The simple answer to this problem is to personalize it! Buy a bulletin board to keep concert tickets, awards, special papers, pictures, and certificates on. Buy some picture frames and have pictures of you, your friends, your family, your boyfriend, etc. on your desk and walls. Put stuff in your bedroom that defines you and your personality! This will make your room more personal.


Make sure you can always see a picture of your family. It's just nice to have.
Don't be too exotic. Make sure you pick out bedding that doesn't have the whole rainbow and unicorns on it. Stick to three colors. Blues and greens are good. So are light pinks, yellows, and dull reds. You don't want to get something you'll be bored with in a couple months.
 This is very important. Do you want your friends to come over and think you're a slob? Not to mention you'll lose half your stuff! Use a hamper for clothes, cups and bins for school supplies, and shelves with cube bins for miscellaneous things.

