 Warm, moist air not only helps to relieve coughs but also to loosen mucus in your lungs. This makes getting rid of the mucus through coughing, the use of certain medications and other methods more productive. Humidifiers work well because they add this needed water vapor to the air. They’re also helpful for those suffering from allergies to mold, mildew or dust mites.The ideal level of humidity in a house is between 35-40%. To see if your home is at that level, buy a humidity gauge from a hardware store or pharmacy.Make sure you regularly clean the humidifier. They can fast become havens for mold, fungus and bacteria.Those with asthma should consult with a doctor before using a humidifier., Another option is to use steam to help break up mucus in the chest. You can do this by taking a hot, steamy bath with the bathroom doors closed and the vent turned off. You can also sit on a chair or on the toilet to breathe in the steam. Finally, you can boil a pot of water or run hot water in your sink before carefully leaning over the steam and inhaling it. Draping a towel over your head helps with this technique.With all methods, breathe in the steam slowly for about 5 minutes and then try coughing or blowing your nose to purge the mucus.
Amplify the effects of steaming by adding eucalyptus oil to your boiling water or sink of hot water. Eucalyptus is a natural decongestant., Scented products and bathroom sprays can create sinus irritation, which can then lead to chest congestion. Paint and household cleaners can also create problems for many people. Either don’t use these products or avoid overuse to reduce this irritation. Smoke is another powerful irritant that causes congestion for both the smoker and those around him or her. The best solution is to stop smoking, or to smoke outside.If you need to use paint or another potent substance, wear a face mask and open your windows to let the fumes escape.If allergies are causing your chest congestion, try to rid your home of those allergens that affect you., Try using a mattress cover if you’re allergic to dust mites, and keep pets off your bed if you’re allergic to pet dander. If pollen is a problem for you, keep your home and car windows shut and use an air conditioner to filter the air. You might also use a HEPA (high efficiency particulate air) filter.