 Braces are made up of lots of little rubber bands. You can get the bands in different colors, ranging from green to purple!Sometimes these are called elastics.


There are small rubber bands that wrap around the individual braces. They are called ligatures. There are rubber bands that are called interarch rubber bands. These are designed to make sure your bite and jaw are properly aligned. They are connected to the brackets.
You could even choose colors that match your outfit because they need to be replaced daily and are also removed when you eat.Gray or silver bands are known for staining less when you eat or drink. Some people stay away from bright colors and opt for clear brands to try to make their braces less obvious.Orthodontists often offer elastics in sports team colors, school colors or seasonal colors, such as red and green around Christmas time. Black is also a popular color. Clear or glow-in-the-dark elastics are also available.;
, It’s also possible to get the actual teeth brackets – the part of the braces that literally fasten to your teeth – in different colors. Instead of trying to hide your braces, make them a fashion statement!


Alternate two colors on each tooth for the braces themselves or one color on the top teeth and another color on the bottom teeth. Play with contrasts.
Ask about glow-in-the-dark braces! Braces come in all different colors these days, and you can even request tiny designs on the brackets themselves from some orthodontists.Keep in mind that you can’t change the brackets once you pick them though. So if your brackets are bright green, that’s what you’re stuck with.
 It’s not just the braces themselves that can get colorful. Some people also have to wear a retainer, especially at night.


Retainers are available in all kinds of colors and designs too. Retainers can be decorated with everything from flowers to designs kids create themselves.
Some retainers can be designed so they contain a picture of the child or a favorite pet. Make your retainer your own so it expresses your individuality and is associated with things you like.
As with braces, retainers can come in many different colors, including glow-in-the-dark. Designer retainers may be more expensive, though. Check around.

