 There are several things you can do to combat fatigue.


Get enough sleep. Most people need six to eight hours of sleep each night. You may even consider a sleep-monitoring application to help you determine if your treatments are working.Take short naps of no more than 30 minutes. If you feel too tired during the day, take a quick nap. However, naps longer than 30 minutes can actually sap your energy and leave you feeling more fatigued.
Engage in physical activity. Moving around is a great way to boost your energy levels. Don’t do anything that could negatively impact your back. Stick to biking, walking, and running. Steer clear of contact sports like hockey and football. You may also consider strength exercises using weighted wristbands or resistance bands.Avoid sugary foods. Sweet snacks, candy, and soda cause your blood sugar levels to spike. While this will give you a short-term energy boost, it will leave you feeling exhausted after an hour or so.
 Anxiety – persistent and overwhelming feelings of stress or fear – is often a byproduct of chronic arthritic pain.Anxiety might manifest as social anxiety disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, or separation anxiety disorder.


Don’t use recreational drugs and alcohol. These can both increase anxious feelings.
Avoid caffeinated beverages. Caffeine can make you feel more anxious. Stay away from coffee and soda.Eat a healthy diet. A diet based primarily on whole grains, vegetables, and fruits, with a small amount of lean protein might help you reduce your risk for anxiety.
Consider adding daily meditation to your routine, as it has shown some promise in both pain control and anxiety control., Even though it’s hard to feel hopeful about your situation, being positive will help relieve some of the burden. Staying positive will increase your resilience to chronic back pain and help you forge ahead when things get tough.Start a gratitude journal. Each day before you go to bed, write down five things you’re thankful for, and continue writing things down that have made you happy throughout the day. They could be things that don’t have a direct connection to you, but made you happy anyway.
Use positive self-talk.Positive self-talk involves recognizing negative thoughts and pushing them aside. For instance, when you notice yourself thinking, “My situation is hopeless,” or “I will never live without pain,” use a more hopeful thought to push the negative one away. For instance, you might counter a negative thought about your chronic pain with a thought like, “Someday, I will live without this pain.”Surround yourself with supportive people. Getting support from your family and friends can help you feel happier and more positive. Avoid negative people who minimize your pain and hurt your feelings.
Encourage yourself. Think about how your pain has gotten better over time, and look forward to a better tomorrow.

