 Your first step to learning how to say "good luck" in multiple languages is deciding which dialects you want to learn. Think about your purpose. Why do you want to learn this skill?Maybe you are going to be taking a European vacation. You might be motivated to learn this phrase in the native tongue of each country you will visit.
Perhaps you have recently started working in a company with global operations. "Good luck" might be useful to know in business settings. If you'll regularly be working with the Tokyo office, learn some phrases in Japanese.
You might also want to learn to better communicate with friends or family who don't speak your native language. Consider learning phrases in a language that your loved ones speak. For example, if your grandmother speaks Italian, spend some time studying Italian phrases.
 When learning new phrases, spend some time reflecting on how you will use them. Like English, most other languages will have formal and informal expressions for wishing someone well. Consider learning a few phrases in each language, so that you will be prepared for multiple occasions.


For example, if you plan to use "good luck" in a professional setting, you will want to learn to say the equivalent of something like "Best of luck with your client meeting today."In English, you might say something like "Break a leg" as a casual way to wish a friend luck. Check to see if there are equivalent phrases in the language you choose. For instance, you might look up "informal well-wishes in Arabic".
 Maybe you are not preparing for a specific situation, such as a trip. If you are just being proactive about learning new phrases, good for you! There are several other factors you can consider when deciding which languages you want to choose.Consider the world population. For example, Mandarin Chinese is spoken by more than a billion people. It might set you apart professionally and personally if you can learn some helpful phrases in Mandarin.
Maybe you are looking for ways to show cultural sensitivity. Consider learning Arabic or Spanish, if you know people who speak those languages.

