 When you encounter an obstruction, you should react quickly, applying both brakes. Naturally, the front brake is the most powerful brake, so you should always lead with that one. Use the rear brake to even out the distribution of your weight. Rather than slamming on your front brake, apply pressure progressively. This will prevent you from locking your front brake., Many times, you will have no choice in the matter. However, if you know that you are about to crash, it is worth considering the best place for impact, and aiming toward it. This is best done without your brake applied. For example, you never want to head into on-coming traffic.
You also want to avoid hitting anything head on.
So if you are going to make impact, try to steer so that you collide sideways instead.
 The truth is, you should almost never bail. You should likewise avoid laying the bike down. You will do best at surviving an accident if you stay connected to your machine. If you exit the vehicle, you may slide for a long distance, possibly in the direction of oncoming cars. You could even end up hurting an innocent bystander., In the event of a slide, you need to stay relaxed. Although it will be difficult, you’ve got to loosen your muscles and let it happen. If you can stay loose and calm, you will sustain fewer injuries. Simply concentrate on keeping your face off the pavement., If an impact is not avoidable, then you will need to do what you can to protect your body from serious injury. One way of minimizing injury is to use the tuck and roll method.Or, you can also use a controlled roll.A tuck and roll might be helpful if you see crash coming while you are still on your bike. To get into a tucked position, pull your knees into your chest, cross your arms over your chest, and tuck your head down towards your chest. Then, try to relax and roll as you crash.
A controlled roll is best after a slide or if you come off of your bike close to the ground. For a controlled roll, place your arms above your head and keep your legs straight. Then, allow your body to roll until it stops on its own.Keep in mind that you should not use the tuck and roll or controlled roll unless you have no other options. If you have no other choice but to crash, then getting into this position should not be to difficult.
 Once the dust settles, hopefully you will be able to stand up and brush yourself off. Now you must call the police and exchange information with the other driver. Use your phone to take a photograph of the other driver’s insurance card (both sides), and allow them to do the same with yours. Call the local police and wait for them to arrive. They will have questions for you and may issue one or both of you a ticket.


If you are seriously injured, ask someone to call 9-1-1 and get into an ambulance.
If you do not have the ability to take a photograph, simply write down the info from their insurance card.
Stay calm, even if it was the other driver’s fault. Yelling and getting upset will not help anything.

