 The cleaning method you use will depend upon the type of band you have. Common band types are metal, leather, cloth, or stainless steel. If your watch is made out of plastic you can follow the same procedure to clean it as you would if it was made out of metal.;
, Be very cautious about using liquids to clean your watch if you cannot remove the band. You can permanently damage the band. If you can remove the band there will be two tiny screws on either side of the band where the band connects to the watch face.


You may need watch tools depending on the size of the screws, but take these out and you'll be able to remove your band. Put them in a safe place and don't lose them.
 Depending on what kind of watch you are cleaning, you’ll need polishing or lint-free cloths, mild detergent, a small bowl or container, and leather cleaner if you’re cleaning the band of a leather watch.
 Easy enough! You don’t have to worry about them as long as you keep them in a separate mesh bag. The rubber in your nylon band will absorb sweat and oil and if you don’t wash it now and then it will crack and break.
 If you have a watch band that is made of leather or cloth, use a small amount of vinegar instead of soap. You can use dish soap and room temperature water.


Use only a small dollop of dish detergent. There’s no formula, but you don’t need that much.
 This will help clean your band if it is leather or cloth without drying it out and cracking it.
 You don’t have to wait hours if the watch isn’t noticeably dirty, letting it soak for a couple of minutes in a shallow bowl or container should do the trick. If your watch has been sitting in the mud outside your door step for ten years and you just found it, you might need to leave it for a few hours.
 Take the band from the mixture and dry it using a polishing cloth from a jeweler or a lint-free cloth bought at a grocery store. Be careful not to scratch the surface. Check if there is any dirt remaining on the band.
 If you have a linked band you should be certain to check back and forth. These areas often house dead skin, dirt and skin oils.


There are less nooks in leather bands than there are in metal bands, but you'll still find areas where sweat and debris has gathered to form a layer of muck.
 If you find dirt or any other material in your watch band you can use a toothpick to remove it.
 You may choose to remove excess water with the cloth and allow the watchband to air dry, if time allows. Air drying is probably your best option. , Be certain that no excess cleaner exists on the band before reassembling the watch.
 Use a mild dish soap and make sure you don’t put too much in there. It’s not going to hurt your watch necessarily but you will make the water all soapy. Do not apply bleach. This will destroy your watch. Don’t use any sort of chemical substance other than mild soap or you risk causing serious damage to your watch. Always be careful and see how the watch responds to the treatment. , You have a few options here – you can clean with a polishing or lint-free cloth, a soft bristled toothbrush, or a chamois cloth. Just don’t brush too hard or you might scratch the face of your watch. Rub to remove fingerprints and smudges from the crystal or glass. , You can use a tooth pick to get into these areas. A Q-tip is also a good option.


If you're going to complete a thorough cleaning of your watch then you have to take care to clean every part of the watch. Don't neglect the watch band just because it doesn't tell the time. The more time you spend caring for your watch band the longer it will last.
 Once you have reassembled the watch and the watch band you should wipe the whole thing down once more to clean off any excess water or soap. 