 It can be difficult to tell for sure whether or not a cat is feral or simply adventuring away from home. Both lost pet cats and feral cats may behave aggressively toward you or run off out of fear when you approach, so determining that a cat is feral may require subtle cues.Feral cats may appear to be better groomed than a lost pet cat that hasn’t gotten accustomed to living outdoors yet.
If you start feeding the cat, pet cats will grow to trust you and behave like a pet whereas feral cats will remain skittish.
 Feral cats have existed around humans for thousands of years, and often don’t require any assistance from people to survive. These cats are not really homeless, they’re wild animals.Feral cats are not socialized to people, so they cannot be adopted as pets easily.
Feral cats often live in social groups called colonies. If you see one, there are likely a number of other feral cats in the area.
Feral cats probably do not need your help unless it appears sickly or weak.
 Trap-Neuter-Return (TNR) is a phrase used to describe a common population control method utilized with feral cats. TNR can improve a cat’s health, the health of its colony, and prevent an overpopulation of feral cats that could lead to some cats starving. After a feral cat has been vaccinated and neutered it can be adopted or returned to the area it was trapped.First, contact your local vet or animal shelter. They may offer TNR services for the community free of charge or for a reduced cost. They also may be able to offer assistance and traps.Next, you’ll need to safely Trap a Feral Cat.
Negative behaviors associated with mating such as fighting and yowling stop after the cat has been neutered.
After treatment the vet will help you determine if the cat should be re-released or put up for adoption.
 If a feral cat appears to be injured or sick, you may choose to help the cat regain its health. Remember that feral cats are wild animals, so the injury could make it aggressive. Also remember to keep your own health in mind when dealing with feral cats, especially ones that seem ill. Make sure to wash your hands after coming into contact with a feral cat.


If the cat appears to simply be malnourished, do not attempt to bring it inside, but consider leaving food and water out for the cat to eat and drink when you aren’t around and it feels more comfortable.
If the cat seems seriously ill or injured, do not approach it. Either entice the cat into a carrier or cage with food or place it there gently if it is not moving, then bring the cat to a local animal hospital for treatment. There are many shelters and animal hospitals that will care for stray cats at reduced or no cost.You can also call animal control in your town if you would rather not approach the animal yourself.

