;
,, Don't rely on one point of view. Look for a clinic that has experience with working with International clients. Do they have clients who will share their story? Is there a wrap around clinic ( from initial enquiry to going home?).Is there evidence of babies going home with this clinic? Can clients communicate easily with each other? Is your fertility specialist trained in this field? Are there people in India to assist you or are you left to fend for yourself? Use Indian surrogacy forums to get different opinions and viewpoints.
 Get a full itemized lists of all costs for both a successful and an unsuccessful attempt. Is there a staggered payment process? What is included in their package? Also ask about additional costs (for instance, neonatal intensive care costs if the baby is born pre-mature) that are not covered by the quotation you receive. Always look at the evidence, is you are being told consistent with what you have read? If you are offered inclusive packages, ask what is not included? How many babies have gone home on these packages?

, Often medication and treatment is much cheaper in India. If it is cheaper in India, you may choose to do the entire IVF cycle in India, thereby spending more time in India, but spending less money.
 Are you looking at using donor eggs - does the clinic you are reviewing have Indian and Non - Indian donors? Are you sending embryos to India? Can the clinic you are looking at assist you with this? If you are using your own eggs, check out the facilities and make sure that the doctor you have speaking to is the doctor who will be with you and doing your treatment.
 If you are sending embryos, you must be able to show that a STD screen has occurred at the time of conception, if you are using your own eggs, more detailed information will be required from your treating specialist. You'll have to prepay some fees, likely via bank transfer as it is likely that surrogate preparation and or egg donor preparation will happen prior to your arrival.
 If you are using your own eggs, it is likely that some of your treatment can occur at home, with egg collection in India. If you are using donor eggs, then your treatment time frame will be guided by when egg collection happens for your egg donor.
 If you are using donor eggs, or sending embryos from your home country you will only need to spend 3- 5 day in India. If you are using your own eggs, you will spend 5- 15 days in India.
 Most reputable clinics will only allow up to four embryos, but this will depend on the quality of the embryos. While this can increases the odds of a successful pregnancy, it also increases the odds of a multiple pregnancy. This is a very personal decision, but be aware that under the current laws gestational surrogates can only carry twins and a higher order pregnancy will result in a foetal reduction.
 Don't plan on doing much else that day - it is a relatively short procedure that does not require an overnight hospital stay. If you are using donor eggs, you may be required to supply a fresh sperm sample. Your fertility specialist should be able to provide you with a summary of how many eggs were collected; how many eggs fertilized; what embryos developed, the grading of your embryos and what was transferred to your gestational surrogate. You should also be provided with a date for your pregnancy test.
 You should be aware that as with any IVF process, this is a journey, on average it takes most clients up to three attempts to get and stay pregnant. Now you are pregnant, what is your clinics communication strategy? How do they keep in touch with you? What tests are undertaken? When to scans happen? What happens if things go wrong? These are questions that you should know the answers to before proceeding with treatment .
 By the time this has happened, you should be aware of what the requirements are for your particular country and embassy to get citizenship and a passport for your baby. For most countries this requires a DNA test to confirm the genetic link to one parent by a DNA service approved by your Embassy. Irrespective of whether you use your own genetic material or donor eggs, both parents names will be on the birth certificate . Your clinic should have someone who is able to walk you though this process. For most countries this process takes between 2- 4 weeks.

