 This may be difficult to do but the first step to rebuilding your identity and self-esteem is to celebrate that you made it, that you survived. Celebrate the fact that although you went through something extremely painful, you have come out the other side with endless possibilities, both within yourself and the life you choose to create. The dismantling and rebuilding of identity is extraordinarily challenging and takes courage, perseverance, and strength, so celebrate your bravery in confronting your past experience and making changes for the better.Celebrating yourself is a wonderful way to boost your self-esteem and feel empowered. Be proud of yourself for making it through. Feel your power, and if it is still difficult to feel your power, celebrate the fact that it is there, regardless. Celebrate getting back to who you really are, celebrate that person that never deserved what happened to them, and celebrate that the fact that you are own protector and that you have the power to treat yourself with love and keep yourself safe.
You can celebrate in any number of ways, from treating yourself to your favorite dessert to making a card that you dedicate to yourself and your strength. You could also make a collage that reminds you of all of your positive, brave, and strong qualities.
 Try to figure out your core identity, which is a set of beliefs that you have about yourself based on your life experiences. The trauma that results from abusive situations can break down positive feelings of self-esteem by causing you to feel unworthy, helpless, ashamed, and constantly at risk and in danger.Your abuser(s) may have whittled away at your self-esteem through hurt, pain, anger, and violence, but you have the power to challenge these negative messages and reconstruct a positive and healthy self-identity.


To reconnect with yourself, try writing in a journal. Research has found journaling to be a great way to become more self-aware and reflective. In particular, writing helps you turn your cognitive focus inwards, on yourself and your day-to-day life. It's also a helpful strategy that can help you cope with negative emotions and mental conditions like depression. Try journaling every single day, even for 10-20 minutes. Note that the most important part of the writing is not the form it takes but the act of doing it., Think of someone you love, whether it is a child, a family member, a dear friend, or anyone that you respect and love. Think of all the reasons that person deserves safety, love, and care. Ask yourself, does this person I love deserve to be hurt? No. Well, then why do I feel that I deserve to be hurt and that I deserve what happened to me and that I am responsible for it to some degree? Begin to put the human back in yourself. Begin to see yourself as just as valid and worthy as those you love.Showing yourself some empathy and humanity can be very helpful in identifying some of the harmful beliefs we hold about ourselves that we may not even be aware of. You may be surprised to find how much negativity you are holding on to from your experiences of being abused. Once you are aware, you can begin the process of rebuilding your self-worth and changing your perspective on your past experiences of abuse.
Be patient with yourself as well. After all, you wouldn't tell a best friend who'd been through a similar situation to just "get over it." Show yourself understanding., Perfection is an artificial notion created and proliferated by society and the media and it does a great disservice to most of us by suggesting that perfection IS attainable and the problem is simply that we're not up to snuff. Understanding that you are not perfect and are not expected to be perfect. Honoring that your imperfections are just as much a part of you as everything else is also essential to rebuilding your self-esteem. Accepting yourself just as you are is an important step in healing and learning feel self worth.You will have to accept that you cannot change the past or go back in time. You have to accept yourself as you are today, right now.
Acceptance involves acknowledging difficulty and showing awareness that you are able to withstand painful feelings in the present moment. For example, say, "I know I feel bad now, but I can accept it because I know emotions come and go, and I won't feel this way forever. I can take positive action to resolve my feelings."

