 Remove any stems or seeds and allow the buds to dry thoroughly. You will need them as dry as possible to form powder. Even a small amount of moisture can be the difference between powder and paste.
 The goal is to make a fine powder almost like flour itself. Keep blending and grinding until you see almost everything is pulverized. It may take some time.
 You may find that you still have some unground parts. Use a wire strainer or flower sifter over a bowl to separate the ground and unground parts. You should have only a little bit, if much at all, unground. Set aside the bowl of marijuana flour for now.
 The unground parts left in your strainer need to be reprocessed. If you have a coffee grinder, send them through a second time. If you are not getting the result you hoped for or if you started with a food processor, move the unground parts to a mortar and pestle. Apply pressure with the mortar and "stir" the unground parts to produce the necessary grinding action.


You may find that this produces the most fine texture for your flour. If you are not satisfied with the output of your food processor or coffee grinder, try the mortar and pestle. Keep in mind that this will require a lot of elbow grease. However, if you pre-grind using a coffee grinder or food processor then this should be easier.
 Use an airtight container. Vacuum sealing will work great as well. Try to use it the same day or within 24 hours. Store in a freezer for long term storage., Generally you are looking at about a 10% substitution but as much as 20% may be ok.This is especially true for baked good that must rise such as breads. Unlike using infused butter or oil, marijuana flour is a true substitution. Marijuana flour doesn't act quite the same as regular flour.


An alternate method of storage involves pre-mixing your flour with regular baking flour. Store your mixture in an airtight container though. Just because it is mixed with regular flour does not mean it is protected from oxidation. Consider storing only pre-measured portions in vacuum sealed bags in a freezer for optimal usage.

