 Their breed is particularly social and attached to their humans, so they’ll be happiest when they’re near you. They should be kept as house dogs or not kept at all.As long as they can live amongst you, Mastiffs will be clean and undemanding pets.
 Much of a dog’s behaviors and attitudes towards humans and other animals are formed when they’re still a puppy. The sooner you can start socializing them by introducing them to new people and places, the better, especially since their large size will make them seem especially threatening should they exhibit any aggression.Make an effort to thoughtfully and gradually expand their knowledge of the world. Take them to a few new places each week, and introduce them to a few new people and dogs in each place.
Young Mastiffs are prone to phobias, so try to make sure that their experiences of new people, places, and things are as positive as possible. Don’t take them to a crowded rock concert that’s bound to be frightening. If you do encounter something that scares them, respond with calm affection and reassurance until they are at ease.
 In spite of their size, English Mastiffs can be great family pets who are excellent companions for children. However, to ensure that they’ll take to youngsters, it’s best to make sure they become accustomed to kids while they’re still puppies themselves.Be sure to prepare children for their introduction and supervise it closely. Teach children to be “dog-friendly” before they interact with your Mastiff; that is, calm, gentle, and respectful. Mastiffs can be easily traumatized by rough-housing or abuse, but they’re generally very child-friendly.
 The last thing that you want is a 150-pound dog who won’t listen to you. To make your enormous pet manageable, you should teach it at least five basic commands: sit, stay, lie down, heel, and come. The easiest and most effective way to instill these commands is to enroll your pup in formal obedience classes put on by a local kennel club, humane society, or experienced professional trainer.Repetition and positive rewards (like treats and affectionate praise) are the best ways of reinforcing commands and desirable behaviors with your Mastiff. They’re a sensitive breed and will respond to negativity with stubbornness, so be sure to keep your training attitude friendly and excited.English Mastiffs are not the most trainable breed, but if you’re consistent, patient, and firm, they will eventually catch on. Since they’re especially sensitive and don’t have the longest attention span, it’s best to reinforce commands with short training sessions several times a day., Your English Mastiff should be exercised daily with a walk to keep them physically and mentally sound. However, because they have a tendency to overheat, you should build up the amount of exercise they do gradually, and be sure to let them rest when they begin to pant a lot or show other signs of tiredness. Keep in mind that their weight means that athletic activities like running are much higher-impact for them than they would be for smaller dogs.Because their large frames are susceptible to joint issues, you should avoid excessive exercise or over-exerting your Mastiff, especially when they’re under two years old since their skeletons are still developing.
One of the best exercises for young Mastiffs is swimming in a pool, pond, lake, bay, or other calm body of water. If the weather permits, it’s a great way to develop your dog’s muscles without putting undue strain on their joints. Be sure to always supervise their swimming sessions, and keep them to 10-30 minutes a day.