 The first step to effectively treating eczema is seeing a dermatologist. A dermatologist can help diagnose your eczema (and other skin conditions), assess the severity of your condition by running diagnostic tests, and prescribe you special medications to treat your condition.You can find a dermatologist near you by searching online or asking your physician for a referral.
If you're seeing a new dermatologist, you may want to call in advance to ensure that they have experience treating eczema.
 Corticosteroid injections have been shown to improve the visible appearance of scars. Your primary care physician or dermatologist will inject the corticosteroids into the scar tissue, causing it to flatten and contract. Depending on the severity of your scarring, you may need to return for follow-up injections.Injections are typically administered over the course of three treatments at four- to six-week intervals.
 Pressure dressings are stretchable cloths that are used to wrap an existing scar to reduce its appearance. This treatment option is usually reserved for severe scarring; however, your dermatologist may recommend this treatment option if your scarring is extensive and severe. You will need to work with a specialist to receive pressure dressings. Talk to your primary care physician or dermatologist about finding a qualified individual near you.Pressure dressings should be worn continuously for approximately six to 12 months. During that time it's imperative that the dressings remain in place at all times.
Pressure dressings can be used with silicone gels/sheets to further improve the appearance of scars.
 Laser therapy attacks the red blood vessels in your scar tissue to visibly improve the appearance of that scar. Sometimes laser therapy involves surgically re-surfacing the affected area to flatten scars that are raised off the skin.Make sure the laser therapist you work with is a qualified medical professional. Ask your primary care physician or dermatologist about finding a laser therapy expert in your area.
 Extensive or severe scarring may be treated with surgery; however, this option is typically only used as a last resort when other treatment options have failed. Be aware that surgically removing a scar often leaves a temporary scar that can last up to two years before it visibly improves.Surgery should always be accompanied by additional treatments at the time of the procedure to prevent the scar from returning.
Common companion treatments include corticosteroid injections, x-ray therapy, and oral antibiotics.

