 You need about 300 more calories per day when you are pregnant, which may slow you down if you consume large meals.A way to get the nutrients you need to stay energized is to eat 5-6 small meals throughout the day. This helps even out your energy and helps you avoid crashes.


In addition to breakfast, lunch, and dinner, have at least 2 substantial healthy and nutritious snacks throughout the day to keep your energy up., Protein is a great way to get energy that lasts throughout the day. Plus, the amino acids found in foods containing protein help aid in the development of your baby's cells. When you are pregnant, you need 75 grams (2.6 oz) per day. Good sources of protein include:


milk, cheese, yogurt, and other dairy products
eggs
lean meats, such as chicken and fish
tofu or soy, like edamame
beans or lentils
quinoa
hummus
nuts and seeds, Healthy complex carbohydrates are important during pregnancy. They help fuel you while nourishing your baby. Stay away from refined, processed carbs, like snack cakes and chips, and skip the white bread. Choose instead:


oatmeal
fresh or dried fruit (with no added sugar)
fresh vegetables
whole grain bread, crackers, and cereal
baked potatoes with skin
beans and peas, Iron-rich foods help prevent anemia, which can cause fatigue and be a problem during pregnancy. Eating an iron-rich diet can help keep your energy levels high. Eat the following foods:


hummus
iron-rich cereals
dried fruit (with no added sugar)
spinach, kale, and other dark leafy greens
soy products
lean red meat
beans, Eating foods rich in energy-boosting vitamins can help you fight fatigue throughout the day. Try the following foods:


Pumpkin is a great source of vitamin A.
Yogurt provides calcium and vitamin D. Make sure to get yogurt without artificial ingredients, preservatives, and added sugars.Broccoli and carrots are great sources of beta carotene, and broccoli, citrus, and berries are a tasty way to get vitamin C.
Blueberries, blackberries, and strawberries provide important antioxidants, along with other essential vitamins.
B6 is an important nutrient found in chicken, sweet potatoes, and bananas., Potassium-rich foods in your diet can help your muscles by helping reduce leg cramps. Potassium can be found in the following foods:


bananas
pumpkin
peaches
kiwis
potatoes
leafy greens, Magnesium breaks down sugars into usable energy. If magnesium levels are too low, you can feel fatigue. Low magnesium levels may also cause leg cramps, but getting enough magnesium can help prevent them.Women should have around 300 mg a day.


A handful of nuts, like almonds, hazelnuts, or cashews, can help you get your daily dosage.
Bran cereal, or any whole grains, can provide magnesium.
Fish is a good source of magnesium. Try halibut., Balanced blood sugar levels help keep you energized. Eating sugary foods spike your blood sugar, giving you a short burst of energy followed by a fatigue causing crash.If you need a sweet fix, try fruit, dark chocolate, or granola.
 When pregnant, you should eat a healthy, nutritious diet, along with making sure you don't gain too much weight. However, because your body is hard at work developing your baby, you need extra calories. Add in 300 extra calories to your normal daily food intake to compensate for the extra work your body is doing. Eating under that will cause fatigue and depleted energy levels., Drinking enough water during pregnancy is vital. During this time, drink 8, 8-oz. (23.7 ml) glasses of water. Milk, juice, and other beverages count towards this number.Dehydration can lead to fatigue and other health problems. Conversely, getting enough water will help you retain stamina and energy., Recent research has shown that it's safe to have a moderate amount of caffeine a day while pregnant. If you need a morning boost or a midday pick-me-up, drink a cup of coffee or tea - while carefully monitoring your intake of caffeine.Do not exceed 200 milligrams of caffeine per day, the amount of caffeine in about 12 ounces of coffee.However, if you are finding yourself having trouble sleeping, try to stay away from coffee, soda, and tea. Caffeine is a stimulant that can interfere with your sleep. Don't drink caffeine too late in the day.Caffeine can stay in the system for many hours and interfere with sleep.

