 Opening a package with your teeth might be convenient, but tiny rips in the condom can happen that you might not notice before you put it on.Instead, tear open the wrapper by pulling apart the premade notch on one of the corners.
 Never use scissors, knives, or other sharp objects to open the package or you may accidentally puncture the condom.
 If it feels dry, stiff, or extra sticky when it comes out of the package, it might not have been stored properly. Discard a dry, sticky, and/or stiff condom and get a new one., Rings and genital piercings can tear a condom, so you may want to remove them before putting on a condom. Also, be careful when putting on a condom if you have sharp nails., Make sure you have squeezed the air out of the tip. Air in the tip of the condom can cause it to burst open and break during use.


Squeeze the tip between your forefinger and thumb while you roll the rest of the condom down the penis.
 There are a couple of reasons why you need to make sure you have the right sized condom. Your condom should be neither too small nor too big and shouldn’t roll back up from the base once you have it on an erect penis. Measure your erect penis to ensure you buy the right size - it might take a few tries to make sure you have the best fit.You need to have room at the tip to catch the semen. That tip that you pinched to squeeze out the air so the condom wouldn’t burst has to have room for ejaculate. If you don’t have space at the tip, the condom could burst, leaving you and your partner at risk for STIs and pregnancy.
The condom can’t be too loose so as to move around. A loose-fitting condom allows for movement of fluids or could fall off all together, again putting you and your partner at risk.
Measure for fit at home before you buy.Be realistic; don’t go for image. “Small” and “large” sizes have more to do with width than length but you can also get shorter or longer condoms, so practice safer sex and choose wisely.
 Oil-based lubricants can weaken the condom and make it break.Choose a water-based lubricant instead.


Don’t use oil-based lubricants, baby oil, massage lotion, petroleum jelly, or hand cream as a lubricant.

