 This can be a bedroom, a living room away from the family room, or somewhere where the child can cool off and gather their thoughts.


Decide with your partner if you'd like to use the room as a "discussion room" for the child, too. This is up to you, but be consistent; the same room can serve as a place for your child to calm down and for you all to talk about the issue afterwards.
In the example of the Cooke family from a 2005 episode, the area they set up was a rarely-used dining area where the child could sit on the chairs. However, the Duan-Ahn family used a living area with a chair that wasn't looking towards the entertainment.
Choose an area where there is little to no breakable furniture or where the furniture or things in it can be repaired without a loss.
 Older children will still need a warning about the potential consequences of their behavior. You may need to bend over to get down to their level and look them in the eye; make sure they know you mean business. It's easy to loose sight of the child when they've acquired more privileges, but they need to know that bad behavior is unacceptable.
 The reflection room is used as a space for the child to chill out and calm down so they can think about what happened.


On one episode, Supernanny had the child write their own reasons for being in the room. If this might help your child, give them paper and a notebook to share their thoughts, feelings, frustrations, and possible solutions. On others, the child was asked to sit on a chair away from the rest of the action in the house.
If you want the child to write, consider asking them why they were placed in the room, as well as which rules they broke and how they can avoid having to be placed back in that room again in future.
 This sets the general amount of time you'd want them to stay and "cool down" when they show problematic behavior. However, if you're having them write about their frustrations and rule-breaking, too, you may need to provide or require more time.
 Go over to the child, and ask them why they feel they've been put in the reflection room. Try (as a team) to develop a strategy/plan for avoiding the use of it the next time the act up happens.


When you're done making a plan, let them be proactive about behaving better; give them a hug and kiss and send them on their merry way.
 In the Duan-Ahn family episode, the father discussed it with the child on a nearby sofa (Supernanny called it the "Talking Couch", but you can call it whatever you want as long as you stay consistent on the name).

