 Pulling weeds is much easier when the ground is wet, so working soon after a rain will make the job easier.Typically, a good day to weed is one day after a nice rain., Try to find gardening gloves with some kind of wrist closure such a Velcro band that can be tightened around the wrist. In general, you want to find a pair of gardening gloves that are comfortable and reasonably durable.Use whatever pair of gardening gloves you have in your shed. Any pair will do for weeding, but it is preferable to have a pair with wrist closure.
Purchase a new pair of gardening gloves from a home and garden center. Look for a pair that fits your hands and has some design features such as reinforced fingertips, double stitching, and wrist closure., Weeding tools are great if you want to keep your hands clean or if you are weeding in an area that is particularly tough, such as an area with hard soil or a high concentration of weeds. Weeding tools are also great if you want to save some energy, since using your hands to weed can be quite exhausting. You should go to the shed and pick up the weeding tools you need for your job. If you are weeding in a tightly planted area and will be working on your knees, you will need a short handled weeding tool. If you are weeding a large area of the garden and plan to complete the weeding standing up, you will need a long handled weeding tool.If you do not have the right weeding tools for your job, you may need to visit your local home and garden center to purchase an appropriate weeding tool.


If you are buying a new weeding tool, you may want to examine the sharpness of the tool, whether it is made with good materials (for example, a stainless steel blade), and whether or not it will work for the most common weeding tasks in your garden. You should also consider whether you can comfortably grip the tool in your hands.The Japanese farmer’s knife is a type of short handled weeding tool that can be used to stab and saw through roots and pull up tough weeds.The Cape Cod weeder is a type of short handled weeding tool that is especially good for weeding in tight spaces of your garden.The radius pro weeder is a long handled weeder that has a circular handle, which is great for people with arthritis or wrist troubles.The weed dragon garden torch cooks your weeds to eliminate them for good. It emits a flame that cooks the weeds and eventually kills them, since they are then unable to take in nutrients., You should put on a hat and some sunscreen lotion. Weeding is exhausting work that usually involves exposure to the sun, so you will need to protect your face, neck and any other exposed parts of your body.


Use a sunscreen with SPF 15 or higher. If you have fair skin, you should be using at least SPF 30. The SPF number tells you how well the sunscreen protects you from burning.Choose a sunscreen that has good water or sweat resistance. Weeding is tough work that involves some sweating, so you should make sure your sunscreen can stand up to the job.If you are weeding in a greenhouse or indoors, you can skip this step.
 You will need to stay hydrated while weeding, so fill up a water bottle or two. You will need to drink water before, during, and after weeding in order to keep hydrated. Keeping hydrated will prevent heat stroke due to prolonged exposure to the sun while you are gardening., If there are hoses left lying about, put them aside so you don’t trip on them while weeding. If there are pitchforks lying on the ground, remove them so you don’t trip on them. Remove any such hazards so that you can weed in peace.If there is stinging nettle in the area, take a note of where it is located so you can avoid being stung.If there are poisonous snakes in your area, take a look to make sure there aren’t any in your garden. On hot days, watch out for snakes in cool and shady areas. In general, snakes will be attracted to any area of your garden that is cool, moist and cavernous.Check to make sure you know where the first aid kit is located in your garden or house, so that you can get it if you get a scrape or cut while weeding. Although weeding is not generally a dangerous activity, it is good to be prepared just in case., Walk around the garden bed you plan to weed and identify the areas that need to be weeded. While you are surveying the bed, take a close look to identify edible weeds that you may want to keep such as dandelion, amaranth, plantain or lamb’s quarters.Once you have an idea of what you want to pull up and what you want to leave, start weeding the bed.


Consider whether you want to harvest edible weeds to eat later. Many edible plants are commonly seen as weeds but are great additions to salads and stir fries. For instance, dandelions are commonly seen as a weed but are actually a very tasty vegetable that can be added to salads, stir fries, and soups.You may not have planted these edible plants yourself, but they can be desirable nonetheless. Pull them up and store them in a mason jar in your fridge.
 If you are using a short handled weeding tool or your hands, kneel down in the bed and get ready to pull up the weed. If you are using a long handled weeding tool, you can position yourself standing directly above the weed you want to remove.
 If you are working in wet soil, it will be quite easy to loosen up this soil. If you are working in dry conditions, you may need to work a little harder to loosen it up.Stab at the soil with your weeding tool and break up any large clumps of soil. Gradually break up the soil around the weed so that you can access the taproot with your hands or weeding tool.
 It is important to grab as much of the root as possible, otherwise the weed will simply grow back., Using your weeding tool or your hand, pull the weed out of the garden bed. Whether you use your hands or a garden tool is partly a matter of personal preference. For example, some people prefer to wear garden gloves and use a weeding tool in order to keep their hands clean. However, many gardeners enjoy the feeling of getting their hands dirty and are happy to use their hands. Grip the bottom of the weed tightly and pull it sharply out of the ground. Try to pull the whole weed out of the garden in one piece by pulling straight up rather than at an angle, so you don’t have to repeat this step. Repeat the process until you have a weed-free garden


If you are unsuccessful in pulling up the roots of the weed, you can use your weeding tool to dig a little deeper and pull up any remaining roots.
If you have trouble pulling up the taproot, you can use your weeding tool to cut deeper into the root system.
 If you have a compost pile, you can put the weeds in your compost bin. You can use the composted soil next year. If you have a curbside lawn waste program, you can put your weeds in a bag and dispose of them on the appropriate day for lawn waste pickup.If you compost your weeds, you should be aware that some weeds will survive the composting process.Avoid disposing of your weeds on public lands. Many weeds are invasive species and will have a damaging impact on public parks and conservation areas., Fifteen minutes prior to weeding, you should do a stretching routine to loosen up your muscles and prepare your body for the task. Start by doing a lateral stretch to loosen up your back and shoulders, then stand forward and bend to loosen up chest, legs, back and shoulders. You can finish your routine with a goddess pose to loosen up the hips.The lateral stretch is great for your back and shoulders. Standing with your feet together and slightly bent, place your left hand on your hip and extend your right harm overhead. Lean to the left while keeping your body aligned.Then, repeat the stretch on your other side.
To complete the forward bend: lean forward over your knees with your arms behind your back and your fingers interlaced. Relax your neck and shoulders.To complete the goddess pose: lie on the floor with your knees bent and your feet touching. Allow your knees to lower to the floor. You can put your arms above your head at the same time, with your fingers touching., Sit with your back straight. Your legs should be straight in front of you, parallel to one another and slightly bent. Try to anchor your sitting bones into the ground and keep your back perfectly straight. This will help you relax, conserve energy and avoid back pain.If you have bad knees or a bad back, you may prefer to sit on a gardening chair or a gardening stool.
 If you are weeding with a long handled weeding tool while standing, it is best to bend from the hips instead of the back. This will help you avoid back pain and conserve energy while weeding., If you find you experience a lot of back pain during weeding and other daily gardening tasks, you may consider installing raised beds. A raised garden bed elevates the height of your garden so you don’t need to lower your body as much when weeding.Make your own raised garden bed. You can use logs, bricks, branches, cedar, sandbags and other common materials to make your own raised beds. If you are less inclined to do it yourself, you can also purchase a raised garden bed from many home and garden centers., You might consider buying some kneepads or a garden seat to ease the daily task of weeding.


There are a wide range of supports such as kneepads, benches, seats and combination kneepads and benches. Look for a support that fits your body and price range. These products range from $35 to $90.