 Drowning or swimming accidents are a serious matter. Without supervision, it can take just a matter of seconds for a child's safety to be in jeopardy, particularly if they are young children.Even when they become more advanced in their swimming, it's still unsafe to leave them unattended.
If your child is at a pool party, at a public pool, or swimming on a lake, make sure that there is always an adult designated to watch over the children who are playing near the water.
Make sure that access to pools is restricted when no adults are present. Consider investing in a gate if you have a home pool so that children can't get near the pool. Pool covers alone aren't safe if children start walking on them.
 Young children and new swimmers in particular need a sense of safety when at a pool or near water. This means that you need to be both present with the child, as well as within arm's reach of them.Provide a sense of security by being in the pool or water with them at all times.
Protect them by being within an arm's reach. That way, if they get into trouble, you can react quickly to assist them.
Don't rely on older siblings or other children to protect the child. Make sure it is an adult who is familiar with water safety.
 Life-jackets and floatation devices are key to safety. This is particularly true for young children, such as toddlers or new swimmers. Yet even with these measures, don't leave a young child unattended.Make sure that the flotation device fits properly. Use safe flotation devices like approved life vests and boating vests.
The following personal flotation devices should never be used to ensure a child's safety: water wings, inflatable vests, blow-up rafts, noodles, swim rings, inflatable tubes, or inflatable floats. These devices are not durable enough to be life-saving devices.If you're going on a boat or canoe trip, always make sure that the child is wearing a life-jacket -- and wear one yourself.
Get goggles for your child if they are having trouble with seeing when in the water.
 Remember that water safety rules should apply in all settings where people are in or near water. While it may seem like your pool or your neighbor's pool are safer than a public swimming pool, it's important to set clear boundaries no matter the location.Remind your children about safety around pools, particularly in home and on private property where there may not be any fencing. If you see a child who is playing dangerously near a pool, make sure to provide education about safety, and possibly take away privileges if they continue to disobey safety rules.
Consider locks or gates to prevent access to pools.
Make sure that open areas such as lakes, rivers, beaches, or natural ponds are supervised by adults when children are nearby. Stay close with your child at all times in these settings.
Make sure that your child feels safe in crowds. This is particularly true in public spaces such as water parks, beaches, and public pools. Older children may be rough-housing, causing anxiety for your child. Make sure to reassure your child by being physically present, and enforcing safety rules for all the children there.
 Be able to respond if there is a drowning emergency. Learn CPR and be aware of the warning signs that a child may be at risk of drowning.


The Red Cross and other programs offer CPR classes. Look at available classes near you for pediatric CPR: http://www.redcross.org/take-a-class/cpr

Be vigilant when you notice these warning signs of a potential drowning: head low in water/mouth at water level, eyes glassy and empty, eyes closed, hyperventilating or gasping, trying to swim in a particular direction but not making headway, trying to roll over on back, or appear to be climbing an invisible ladder.Consider having a person who is CPR-certified available, or a lifeguard, at all times when there are children near water.

