 Maybe you are ending your relationship because you are moving. Or maybe you have just realized that this is not the person you want to spend the rest of your life with. Whatever your reason, it can be very emotional to leave the person you love.It's important to realize that you can leave someone but still love them. Acknowledge the powerful bond that you have.
You can honor the love that you have. But you should also understand that love is not always enough to make a relationship last.
Maybe you need to leave because you have a job opportunity far away. Or perhaps you are just incompatible. It is ok to still love someone, but feel the need to move on.;
, If you are the one ending the relationship, it can be very difficult. Remember that it is also hard on your partner. Try to treat the other person with respect and kindness.Avoid blaming. It's ok to explain why you are leaving, but try to avoid statements such as "It's all your fault I am leaving."
Listen to the other person's feelings. If you love this person, you should respect him enough to hear his point of view.
Allow both of you time to heal. You will likely both need time to grieve the end of the relationship.
 Just because your romantic relationship won't continue, that doesn't mean you have to completely cut the other person out of your life. It is possible that in time you can become friends. If this is something you would like to pursue, talk to your partner.Ask for his honest opinion. Try saying, "I know our relationship won't be continuing as we're used to, but I would like to stay in your life as a friend."
Don't expect to make the transition immediately. Give yourselves time to adjust.
Avoid contact for 1-2 months. Then gradually begin communicating with each other.
 If you are used to being in a relationship, being on your own can be a big adjustment. Take some time to think about how you will cope alone. Consider your emotional needs and logistics.

Maybe you are worried that you will experience anxiety after leaving your partner. Ask a close friend to be "on call" if you need someone to talk to.
If you are worried that you will miss practical things, such as having someone to make your morning coffee, think about how you will adjust. For example, maybe you can start treating yourself to a to-go coffee on the way to work.
Make a list of all of the ways that you will need to adjust. Then make a list of all of the possible solutions you can find.
 Leaving someone you love can be an incredibly emotional process. If you are having trouble dealing with depression, anxiety, or grief, you might need some help. Consider finding a support group.

Talking to people who are in a similar situation can be very soothing. Look for a group near you.
Maybe your spouse is leaving for a long military deployment. There are groups that specialize in supporting you through that difficult transition.
Ask your doctor for a recommendation. Hospitals often have a wide variety of support groups that they host.
 It might be hard to find at first, but there is likely a positive side to this tough situation. Spend some time reflecting on how your life is changing. Write down all the ways it is changing for the better.Although ending a relationship is hard, there are some positive aspects. For example, being on your own can lead to personal growth.
You will likely feel an increased sense of independence and freedom. Take advantage of being able to focus on your own needs and wants.
For example, if you feel like having popcorn for dinner and watching several hours of reality tv, you can now do that without worrying about anyone else.

