 The government has incentivized private antitrust enforcement by allowing citizens to bring private lawsuits against companies who have allegedly violated antitrust laws. If you choose to bring a private lawsuit against an entity you think is liable for price fixing, you may be able to get an injunction and collect monetary damages, attorneys fees, and treble damages.However, price fixing lawsuits can be incredibly difficult to win and most of the time, the entities you are suing will have millions of dollars to spend on legal defenses. Therefore, before you bring a private antitrust lawsuit, you need to have your ducks in a row.


Once you identify the price fixing, gather witness statements, employee notes, internal memoranda, written agreements, and notes from internal conversations.
Private lawsuits are most often brought by competitors of companies involved in price fixing and companies and individuals that use the services of companies that are accused of price fixing. For example, a gas station (i.e., a competitor) might sue for price fixing if they notice two or more gas stations in their area might be price fixing. In another example, a railroad company (i.e., consumer) might sue two or more fuel providers alleging price fixing, due to the increased cost of fuel the railroad company has to pay.
 As soon as you think you have enough evidence to move forward, contact a qualified business lawyer specializing in litigating price fixing antitrust lawsuits. If you plan on suing in federal court, you will need a lawyer who specializes in federal litigation. On the other hand, if you plan on filing in state court, you need a lawyer who specializes in state antitrust litigation. Start your lawyer search by asking friends and family for recommendations.


If you cannot get any solid recommendations, contact your state bar's lawyer referral service. After answering a few questions, you will be put in contact with various qualified lawyers in your area.
 Under federal law (the Clayton Act of 1914), you can recover damages if you are a person injured in your business or property due to someone else's violation of antitrust law. If successful, you will be able to collect triple damages as well as attorneys fees. In addition, if you are threatened with a loss or damage due to an antitrust law violation, you can ask the court for an injunction, which will force the entity you are suing to stop what they are doing.


Most state laws mirror federal antitrust laws. However, some states limit the amount of money you can recover and limit lawsuits to only those cases that are particularly egregious.Because of the way the law is written, most, if not all, private suits are brought by competitors or consumers. It would be very difficult for a generally concerned citizen to prove the type of injury that is necessary to succeed in court.
 To get into federal court, you must have standing to sue. In federal antitrust cases, you must be able to show an actual injury to your property or business that the antitrust laws were intended to prevent. Additionally, you must be able to show that your injury is not too remote from the violation (e.g., indirect purchasers are usually considered too remote to claim damages). However, if you are only asking for an injunction, the injury you claim can include threatened loss or damage, and the remoteness requirement is relaxed as well.As you can see, the standing requirement will keep a lot of plaintiffs out of court. In order to get through this initial checkpoint, you, as the plaintiff, will have to show that you were directly injured by the price fixing. This usually means you will either be a competitor who is being pushed out of the market or a consumer who is having to pay outrageous prices.
Your lawyer will go into more detail about standing and will ask you questions that will help them determine if you will meet the test.
 Under federal law, if you want to file a private action against an entity for price fixing, you must bring your suit within four years of the date you suffered your injury. If your injuries are too speculative to prove, your four year lime limit will not start until your injuries become provable. In addition, if the entity you plan on suing is continuing to break antitrust laws, each instance of price fixing will start a new clock., If your lawyer believes you have a strong case against an entity you think is price fixing, your lawyer will file a complaint in court. A complaint is a formal legal document that starts a lawsuit. Your complaint will set out why the court can hear your case, what you are accusing the defendant of doing, and what relief you are seeking.Successful private actions require a lot of resources and evidence. If you are at the point where you believe you and your lawyer can file a complaint, it means you have gathered evidence of the price fixing and you believe you can prove your injury.
 Once you have filed a complaint, the clerk of courts will sign and stamp a summons form. You will have the responsibility of notifying the defendant of your case against them by handing them a copy of your complaint and summons. This process is called service. In most cases, you will not be able to serve the defendant on you own. Instead, you will have to hire someone over the age of 18 who is unrelated to the case. You can also hire the sheriff's office (if you are in state court) or the Marshal's Service (if you are in federal court)., After the defendant reads your complaint, they will respond to it by filing an answer with the court. The defendant's answer will also be served on you. The answer will respond to all of your allegations and will contain certain defenses as well. This document is a great source of information and will inform you about how the defendant plans to try and defeat your case.

Read the answer carefully so you can determine the best way to proceed with litigation.

