 Divide the total number of watts by 120 (or 240 for a 240-Volt circuit). The result is the maximum current, in amperes (amps), for the circuit.;
,


Select a 14 AWG conductor for a maximum current up to 15 amps.
Select a 12 AWG conductor for a maximum current up to 20 amps.
Select a 10 AWG conductor for a maximum current up to 30 amps.
Select an 8 AWG conductor for a maximum current up to 50 amps.



You must use a circuit breaker that is approved for use in your service panel. In most cases, you must use a circuit breaker made by the same manufacturer as that of the service panel.
Select a circuit breaker with a current rating that does not exceed the rating of the circuit. For example, if a circuit is wired with a 12 AWG conductor, only use a circuit breaker rated for 20 amps or less.
 Allow for sufficient cable at the service panel to route the cable to the entry point in the box and then from that point to the farthest destination in box. As a rule of thumb, allow for a length of cable that is 2 to 3 times the height of the box.
,, You must install the new circuit breaker to line up with a pre-punched knockout in the cover.
, Place one probe of a voltmeter on the neutral bus bar and place the other probe on the supply bus bar (the bus bar to which the existing circuit breakers are attached). If the voltmeter does not read 0, the power in the service panel is not off and you should not proceed.
 Remove the knockout.


Use a hammer and screwdriver to bend the knockout. Grasp the edge of the knockout with pliers and bend it back and forth until it breaks loose.
 For safety reasons, select a knockout that is not in close proximity to the live service wires that connect to the main circuit breaker. Remove the knockout.
 Use a screwdriver to open the clamp as far as possible.
, Strip off the outer jacket of the cable from this point to the end of the cable.


Use a utility knife to carefully cut down the middle of the cable jacket.
Peel the jacket apart and pull it off the conductors back to the point where you began your cut.
Cut the jacket off with a utility knife.
Remove the paper that surrounds the bare copper ground wire.
 Route the conductors through the cable clamp until 1 inch (2.5 cm) of the jacketed cable extends through the cable clamp. Tighten the cable clamp. Remove the electrical tape holding the conductor ends together.



Your service panel has separate neutral and ground bus bars if all of the white wires are routed to one bus bar and all of the bare (or green) ground wires are routed to another bus bar.
Your service panel does not have separate neutral and ground bus bars if the white and ground conductors are connected to only 1 bus bar.
 Cut off any excess conductor with the wire cutter. Loosen a screw in the bus bar, insert the conductor through the hole and firmly tighten the screw.
 Cut off any excess conductor. Use a wire stripper to remove approximately 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) of insulation from the end of the conductor. Loosen a screw in the bus bar, insert the wire in the hole under the screw and firmly tighten the screw.
 Cut off any excess conductor. Strip approximately 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) of insulation from the end of the conductor. Loosen the screw on the circuit breaker and insert the end of the black wire under it and then firmly tighten the screw.


If you are installing a double-pole breaker for a 240-Volt circuit, connect the black wire to either screw connector on the circuit breaker and connect the red wire to the other screw connector.



Set the new breaker switch to the off position.
Route the black wire that is connected to the breaker switch from the cable clamp to the location where you will install the breaker.
Hold the circuit breaker at an angle and align its connection point with the rail, clip or slot in the service panel.
Press the other end of the circuit breaker into place. Some brands will click into place; others will not. To assure that the breaker is properly installed, verify that it is level with the adjacent circuit breakers.
 Use a circuit tester or plug in an electrical appliance to test the new circuit.
