 It is extremely important that whatever training program you choose relies primarily on positive reinforcement to teach your dog desirable behavior. Whether training your dog on your own, with family members, or through a professional, training techniques must always be humane.Examples of positive reinforcement include rewarding appropriate behavior with treats, attention, play, and/or verbal praise.
Positive reinforcement is only one component of a category of training methods called operant conditioning. Operant conditioning focuses on manipulating your dog’s environment, so that good behaviors are reinforced with favorable consequences, and bad behaviors are punished with negative consequences.The methods outlined in the following steps make up the most common, effective, and ethical training programs.;
, Before your dog is trained, they will likely engage in inappropriate behavior. The best way to respond to lapses in good behavior is often to ignore it, which trains your dog to stop what they are doing via positive punishment. Meanwhile, be sure that positive reinforcement is withheld into the dog engages in the behavior you want to see.For example, if your dog is begging for food, neither yell at them nor give them anything. Simply ignore them. Instead, train them to lay down away from the table during meals, and reward them with a treat when they do so.
Another example of positive punishment is turning away whenever your dog jumps up. By ignoring this undesirable behavior, you're teaching your dog not to do it anymore.
 Consistency is extremely important to any training regimen. For instance, you and others that spend time around your dog encourage and disallow the same behaviors. If you are training your dog not to sit on the couch, but other family members do allow them to, they will be confused.Whether training your dog at home or having them trained professionally, talk to everyone in your household about the commands the dog is learning, and the importance of consistently following the training guidelines you share with them.
The importance of consistency holds no matter what training program you choose. Variation from whatever training program you're working on with your dog may even confuse your dog about what behaviors are encouraged.
 The more that you and your dog enjoy training sessions, the more productive they will be. Games, praising, and hugging are some of the most effective training techniques to use in your program.One easy way to associate training with fun is by always giving a command before your dog gets to do something they enjoy. For instance, have your dog sit before they are fed, go out for a walk, or before a stranger is allowed to pet them.
 Yelling should never be used a part of a training program. While it may temporarily stop an inappropriate behavior, it will not teach them that the behavior is inappropriate. Of course, You will want to use different tones with your dog for praising, directing, and disciplining your dog.In disciplinary situations, use short, loud commands to indicate that your dog should do something immediately. For instance, say something like “Down Boy!” or “Spot, No!”.
In emergency situations only, you can use a forceful voice to get your dog’s attention and interrupt a potentially dangerous scenario.
 The training process can be frustrating, especially when your dog makes progress but reverts to negative behavior momentarily. However, you must never abuse your dog. Not only is abuse unethical, it can also confuse your dog and make training harder for both you and your pet.


Never hit or shake your dog. Further, do not tug or jerk on their leash violently. Finally, forcing the dog onto their back, sometimes called alpha-rolling, is not recommended.
Avoid using painful training aids, like prong, choke, and pinch collars. These may result in long lasting behavioral issues, including fear and aggression.A a general rule of thumb, you should never do anything to intentionally frighten or cause pain to your dog.
 Negative punishments are another category of operant conditioning training techniques that can be effective. A negative punishment de-incentivizes a behavior by taking away something that your dog likes, such as a toy.For instance, while training your dog to play catch, they may try to jump up and grab the item you are throwing. You can hold the item out of the reach, in a location that they will clearly not be able to get it. This may indicate to them that you want them to stop.
While techniques that rely on negative punishment may work for some training situations, they are generally not as effective of other training methods, such as those based on positive reinforcement.
Remember, punishments of any type should only be used in contexts where you can safely and ethically convey to your dog that they are doing something they should not be doing. Physical punishments, like hitting, swatting, or rubbing your dog’s nose in messes, are abusive and should be avoided.
 Clicker training has become increasingly popular as a way to help you tell your dog that they did something you wanted them to do. It is based on behavioral psychology, and can add to the effectiveness of positive reinforcement training methods.Get a clicker designed for clicker training online or from a pet supplies store. As soon as your dog accomplishes an commanded task, such as fetching some thing you had made them wait to retrieve, use the clicker to send an auditory message and then reward them with a treat. Over time, they will learn that the clicker is a positive sign, and the click itself becomes a way to positively reinforce desired behavior.

