 If you want to take your personal integrity to the next level, you'll need to decide what is most important to you in life. Only by knowing what you want to stand for can you begin to make that cause your own.Think about what you are most passionate about.
This can be derived from your moral, ethical, spiritual, or artistic values, or it may simply be based on an injustice that you believe needs to be corrected.
The things that are most important to you may be rooted in your life, your community, or the world as a whole. However, it's easiest to implement changes if you focus your efforts on what you can do locally.
It may be helpful to remember the popular phrase, "Think globally and act locally." Let your cause be of interest to others, but work on affecting change at home before you expand outward.
 A pillar of personal integrity is acting without self-interest. If an issue is primarily important to you because it affects you personally, you may want to consider choosing a different cause to stand for. However, you may still be able to maintain integrity while championing a personal cause if you do so in a way that focuses on the experiences of others without benefiting yourself.


If your cause is important to you because a given change would make life better for you, you may not be thinking outwardly enough. However, that isn't necessarily an absolute.
For example, you may be motivated to raise awareness of cancer and organize donations for cancer research because a family member was afflicted by the disease. This is still community-oriented and does not serve to gain you personally, so it is a cause with great integrity.
 Once you've found a cause that you can get behind, you'll want to find ways to help further that cause. There are many ways to help support a cause, though every organization may have different needs. Talk to someone at an organization you're interested in to find out how you can help lend your support.


Monetary donations are always helpful to existing (and legitimate) nonprofit organizations. Just make sure your money is going to actually help further the cause by asking how donations are spent.Search online for an organization to volunteer with. You can spend your time helping social, civic, environmental, cultural, and educational causes while also improving your community.If an organization does not yet exist for your cause, start one!
You can find some helpful information on starting a nonprofit organization by browsing through the National Council of Nonprofits' website, or by reaching out to your state association of nonprofits., Through all of your efforts, make sure that you never lose sight of your values and your personal mission statement. Every effort you make to support your cause should further your own personal values and should help you get one step closer to living the life you dream for yourself.


If you're sacrificing your values in favor of an easy gain, you're not adhering to those values.
Your values should guide your efforts to help the cause you've chosen. Make sure you live with purpose and dedication.

