 Industry trends over the last decade or so have significantly expanded the range of possibilities in terms choosing a concept for your cocktail menu. The single-style bar concept, such as a martini bar, focuses a particular type of cocktail, while single-spirit bars focus on a particular variety of premium or regionally fashionable spirits, such as single-malt whiskey, schnapps or micro-brews. While progressive concepts like these have proven to be successful in certain markets, the variety concept, designed to please a broad range of tastes and preferences, remains the most popularly employed.


Consider the regular clientele when creating a cocktail menu. Ultimately, success or failure will largely be tied to how well the needs of the customer are met. For that reason, knowing your customer base is vital. Begin by performing a demographics study to better understand the clientele that frequents your establishment. For example, the cocktail menu for a college bar will differ from that of an upscale lounge or a neighborhood bar. Conversely, a restaurant bar's clientele will typically vary from that of a pub or tavern. Develop an intimate knowledge of who you are serving and cater to their preferences as much as possible in order to help ensure the success of your new cocktail menu.
Consider the style and motif of the venue when creating a cocktail menu. Tailoring the menu to suit the theme of the venue adds an element of authenticity and consistency to an establishment. For example, a long list of specialty martinis might seem out of place in a sports bar, as would boilermakers, jello shots and Long Island iced teas at a martini bar.;
, Certain types of venues will benefit significantly from following this current industry trend. The role of the modern bartender has evolved in recent years such that the position more closely resembles an artisan or a sommelier, as opposed to your average, neighborhood beer jockey. Choose a head bartender with the passion and talent to drive up sales, and allow him to lend his expertise to the design of your cocktail menu.


Seek out talent with a proven track-record of success. Recruiting high quality bar staff locally has long been considered a good practice, given the customer base often will follow local talent from one venue to another. Gambling on inexperienced, unproven talent is generally considered a risk.
 Certain cocktails may seem misplaced when served during the wrong time of year or in poorly suited locations. For example, a venue in Florida will sell more mint juleps during the middle of July than Irish coffees or hot-buttered rums. Likewise, daiquiris or margaritas are a hard sell in February, especially in locations that experience harsh winters.


Consider the seasonal availability of your ingredients. Cocktails that include tropical fruits and other seasonably available ingredients will impact the cost of doing business. These seasonal fluctuations should be taken into account when costing your menu.
 While you may be inclined to limit the size of the menu out of logistical concerns, keep in mind the high degree of interchangeability of ingredients inherent in the typical cocktail menu. That said, limiting the amount of cocktails served will have a positive influence in terms of reducing labor intensity and inventory. Limit the amount of items that require a specific ingredient not used on other cocktails, or create additional cocktails that make use of rarely used ingredients in order to maintain the interchangeability of your menu.
 Typically, the first 2 or 3 items on any menu will be among the sales leaders, regardless of customer preference. Listing your most profitable items first is a well-established, widely used technique that is effective in countering the average customers' tendency towards price shopping.
 The industry standard for determining the mark-up of cocktails is 4 to 1. In other words, the cost of sales of a given menu item should be close to 25% of the set price. Although some specialty cocktails may be difficult to price within these parameters due to the cost of ingredients, pricing other menu items higher than the standard mark-up can help to offset this issue.

