 Being a branch of chemistry, inorganic chemistry requires that you understand the basic structure of an atom and the properties that arise from this structure. Knowing atomic structure and the way in which atoms can interact with each other is essential to excelling in inorganic chemistry.Have a firm knowledge and understanding of atomic mass, electron configuration, atomic number, protons, neutrons, electrons, etc.;
, This may seem a little crazy, but memorizing the periodic table will help you have a fundamental understanding of the elements, how they’re arranged, and how they interact with each other. Knowing the group and period of an element gives you information about its structure, electron shells, valence electrons, and reactivity with other elements.The columns of the periodic table are called “groups” while the rows are called “periods.”
The table is split up into metals and non-metals.Knowing the chemical symbol of an element will also help you when working with inorganic equations.
 The types of bonds that form between elements affect how a compound will react with other compounds. There are two main types of chemical bonding: ionic and covalent. Ionic bonds form when an electron is transferred from one atom to another while covalent bonds result from two atoms sharing an electron.There are also attractive forces that allow for weak bonding between molecules called hydrogen bonds and van der Waals interactions.
Bonding specifically between metal ions is referred to as metallic bonding.
 Redox reactions, combustion, acid-base reactions, and decomposition are all types of reactions that you will see when working with inorganic chemistry. A good way to learn them is to understand the context in which these reactions are written.


In books, many reactions are written for the same element to illustrate its chemical properties. Once you understand the basic concept, the rest should fall into place.
Don't forget to balance your reactions., A coordination compound forms when a molecule has a metal center and is bound to a ligand such as another atom, ion, or molecule that donates an electron to the metal. These compounds have properties different from that of the properties of each individual atom that comprises it.The ligand and the complex geometries that result in these complexes are an important aspect of inorganic chemistry that must be mastered.
 Stop thinking that you have to study only because you have to pass an exam or give a presentation. Learning this subject will undoubtedly help you in Organic and Physical Chemistry too as many concepts taught here are used in these fields as well.


Find the fun in inorganic chemistry. Try to apply some of the concepts to the real world and solve real problems with what you’re learning., At the beginning of the course, read through the syllabus and figure out how much time you think you will need to study inorganic chemistry each week. Read the corresponding chapters of the textbook before class.Write up a study plan that designates certain topics to specific days of the week for study. Spreading out the studying over time will help you avoid cramming for the exam later., The key to learning any subject is to study it regularly. Set aside an hour each day or maybe two hours every other day to focus specifically on inorganic chemistry. Read your textbook, answer practice problems, and use online resources to increase your understanding of the subject.


Choose a time of day where you are most alert. If inorganic chemistry is the subject you struggle with the most, study it first so you are not too tired by other subjects., Much of chemistry involves chemical reactions and determining how certain compounds will react with each other. The best way to master this subject is to do lots of practice problems of all types of reactions until you have a firm understanding of each one.Redo your homework assignments, answer questions in the back of the book, and seek out more problems online.
 Your professor will have office hours at least once a week. Go to them and ask any questions you may have about the subject or the homework assignments. Office hours are specifically for you to have one-on-one time with your professor to discuss concepts that you didn’t fully understand during the lecture. Take advantage of them!


If your professor’s office hours conflict with another one of your courses, ask your professor about scheduling another time to meet up and ask questions.

