 You will need a teaspoon and a container of ground cinnamon. You should also keep close at hand, just in case you have a poor reaction to the cinnamon and to ease any discomfort you might have after finishing:


Napkins/paper towel
Stopwatch
Trash can/bucket
Water;
, You'll want to perform this challenge in a place where you can easily clean a mess up. Spilled cinnamon, cinnamon vomit, and cinnamon that has mixed with your saliva to form a paste can stain carpet or discolor fabric.


You may also want to change into clothing that you don't mind getting dirty and potentially staining.
 The key to succeeding in the cinnamon challenge is having enough saliva, or fast enough working saliva glands, to get the cinnamon down. Without enough saliva to moisten the powder, it's likely you may choke, cough, or gag.Making sure you're well hydrated and drinking some water before hand might help your results.
 A cell phone with video recording capacity is more than suitable, though a video camera with a stand might work best if you're filming yourself. Take a moment to check not only that your camera works, but also that it can record in segments longer than 60 seconds. You wouldn't want to miss full coverage of your cinnamon challenge victory!


Your hands will be full with your spoon and your stopwatch, so if you're planning on using a cell phone to record your attempt at the cinnamon challenge, you might want to consider enlisting a friend to catch it all on video.
 Pour or scoop the cinnamon from the container onto your spoon. You don't need a heaping helping; a tablespoon is enough to fulfill the requirements of the challenge.


Prepare your stopwatch as well. You should be able to hold your spoon in your dominant hand and your stopwatch in your non-dominant hand.
 As soon as you put the cinnamon into your mouth, it will begin absorbing your saliva, drying out your mouth. This will be very uncomfortable, and your natural reflex will be to breathe in through your mouth. Do not breathe in.


You will feel small clumps of cinnamon that have absorbed your saliva and congealed into a paste. Try to maneuver these clumps with your tongue, swallowing a little at a time.
The moment you dump the cinnamon into your mouth, you should start your stopwatch.
 Keep in mind that inhaling through your mouth at this time will probably cause you to choke and inhale trace amounts of cinnamon. At this point, you will need to be patient, allowing your saliva glands time to produce more saliva to turn the powder into swallowable clumps.


Breathing through your nose is recommended until you have finished the challenge.
 Now that the cinnamon has sucked most of the moisture out of your mouth and you've battled it down your esophagus like a champion, you could probably use a glass of water. Take the water you prepared beforehand and drink from it deeply.
 Depending on the social media you're subscribed to, you may have many different venues to upload your cinnamon challenge video. Popular media outlets include: Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.
 Coughing may be enough, a few sharp blows to the back between the shoulder blades can help, but with the thickness of the cinnamon paste, you may have to resort to sticking your fingers in your mouth to clear cinnamon goop from clogging your throat and mouth.Your main concern is getting the cinnamon out of your mouth and throat to help relieve the reaction it is causing.
 If you accidentally breathed some cinnamon in, your lungs will likely be irritated, resulting in lung inflammation, lung spasms, and coughing.Be sure that your coughing fit has ceased before drinking water so you don't accidentally inhale some water.
 Cinnamon has been referred to as a caustic powder, so chances are good you will feel some slight discomfort whether you've succeeded spectacularly or failed horribly.Even so, prolonged and severe burning, discoloration of the skin, difficulty breathing, intense wheezing, or any other irregular negative side effect should be addressed by a medical expert as soon as possible.
 In the event that there has been an allergic reaction, a severe asthma attack, or a collapsed lung, you should go to the nearest emergency room. Any immediate and severely negative physical response may be an indication something serious is wrong.


A collapsed lung can be identified by: shortness of breath and sudden, extreme chest pain.