 It is not uncommon for people to seek what is known as a CAM Practitioner. CAM means “Complementary and Alternative Medicine.” CAM Practitioners offer treatments that often complement your current traditional course of treatment or may offer an alternative to it. Ask your doctor if they can refer you to a qualified CAM practitioner in the area.Qualifications to become a CAM Practitioner vary widely from state to state, so your doctor may be able to help you find one that is highly credible.
You may also want to discuss any treatment prescribed by a CAM practitioner with your primary care physician.
 Some treatments offered by CAM practitioners may be covered by your health insurance. If this is the case, they can often provide you with suggestions for practitioners in your area that have the appropriate certifications to be eligible for your insurance to cover the treatment. Some common CAM treatments that may be covered by your health insurance include:Acupuncture
Biofeedback
Chiropractic Care
Electronic Stimulation, There are a few different national associations for CAM Practitioners that you can contact in order to ensure the person you seek treatment from has attained all of the necessary credentials. While these associations will not usually refer you to specific practitioners, you can contact them to ensure the practitioner you have chosen is in their database.The National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine can be contacted at (904) 598-1005.
The American Massage Therapy Association can be contacted by calling 877-905-0577 (toll-free).
 At your first appointment, ask your CAM practitioner about their training and credentials. They should be happy to discuss their qualifications with you, so if they seem unwilling or hesitant, you may want to seek treatment elsewhere. If the CAM practitioner specializes in treating a certain illness or ailment, ask them how often they see people in your situation.
Discuss the cost of treatment up front to ensure you aren’t surprised by the cost of treatment.
 When you find a CAM practitioner you trust, make sure you discuss your medical history and any current medical issues you are facing before you begin a course of treatment. It’s important that the practitioner is aware of medications that you are taking and other illness that may affect their prescribed course of treatment.You may also want to discuss any treatment you are prescribed by your practitioner with your primary care doctor.

