 In order to prepare your body for many of the health conditions that your body goes through during menopause, you need to eat healthy. This will help you lower your chance of heart disease, stop weight gain, and lower the risk of stroke. This includes eating more fruits and vegetables, incorporating whole grains, and eating fish and lean, grass fed meats.


Also try to include more fiber in your diet with legumes, beans, and whole wheat products as well as leaving the edible peelings on fruits and vegetables.
You should limit saturated fats, prepared foods, fried foods, and refined sugars, such as those found in candy and prepackaged baked goods.;
, Another way to help maintain and increase your health before menopause health problems hit is to exercise. Exercising can help combat some of the major symptoms of menopause, such as heart disease, stroke, weight gain, insomnia, and mood swings.You don’t have to become a huge gym person, but you should add some form of physical activity to your daily life to help combat these symptoms.
Find what works for you. This may be more intense forms of exercise, such as running, jogging, crossfit, or HIIT cardio. You can also try less intense forms, such as brisk walking, gardening and other yard work, yoga, tai chi, using machines at the gym, or community dance classes.
You can even make small changes, such as walking upstairs more often, parking further away from stores, walking the dog, or taking out the garbage.Include strength training two to three times a week. Women will begin to lose muscle mass more rapidly when they go through menopause, which can lead to more injuries. Try lifting weights, doing bodyweight exercises, or resistance training.
 Emotional distress is a common result of the hormonal changes that happen during menopause. In order to prepare for these eventual symptoms, you can learn to help calm your moods before you develop menopause.


You can do this by learning different relaxation techniques, such as deep breathing exercises, mental visualization exercises, mindfulness, and progressive muscle relaxation.You can also try yoga, tai chi, or meditation as well.
The added bonus of relaxation techniques is that it will also help with insomnia and anxiety.

