 You may need a computer, word processing programs, spreadsheet programs, a printer and a postal service scale. However, you do not need expensive models, so the investment should be fairly low.;
, Make sure to include telecommuting jobs you have had in the past.
 Explain your flexibility, efficiency and low rates (usually minimum wage).
, Reiterate that you are flexible, efficient and have plenty of references.
 These organizations often use volunteers to stuff envelopes, but they may be willing to hire someone at a low rate to work with their donor list.
 Let them know that you are looking for work-from-home contracts. People are more likely to refer their friends and contacts than post in the paper, especially for occasional work.
 More organizations are likely to hire seasonal work during their year-end sales and donation drives.
 Although envelope stuffing is seen as a good work from home option, you are more likely to find entry-level work at home jobs working on a computer, writing blogs, mining information or writing reviews. Apply for any legitimate job for which you have qualifications to ensure your success.
 Focus on the admin, etc. and part-time postings. Always vet each job according to the guidelines listed in the next section.
 The following are good places to start:


Work at Home Moms, wahm.com/jobs.html, posts jobs daily that include data mining, blogging, website reviewing and mailing.
Review listings at oDesk.com. This popular job search website lists more telecommuting jobs than Monster.com or CareerBuilder. You will need to sign up for an account to access most of the jobs and apply.
Use FreelanceJobOpenings.com to search listings. Many of the extremely low paying jobs are filtered out.
Sign up for guru.com or elance.com when you feel you are prepared to bid on work from home jobs. This marketplace allows businesses to post their job and freelancers to bid what they would like to get paid for doing it. Wait until you have a good amount of experience working with clients and meeting deadlines before you start to bid for work.
 You should be able to see what their business rating is and start to evaluate whether or not they are a scam.
 Refrain from giving personal details other than your name, email address and phone number until you are sure that they are legitimate.
 If they have scammed other people, a quick search query should allow you to see what they have done to others.
 You should be able to clarify what you will be doing, how you will be doing it and the deadline to turn in your assignment and get paid.
 After that, the company may ask you to send Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) information so that they can do a direct deposit; however, you should not do this immediately.
 They are not legitimate. People who stuff envelopes or do data entry should expect a low paying position with some flexibility.
 These businesses handle mailing lists, remove duplicates, check addresses according to the postal service change of address list and more.
,, Set your rates according to competitors or by evaluating a reasonable profit margin after the cost of goods sold.
 Become an expert on all things mailing.
 The next time they are printing something and the client wants it to be mailed, they can come to you to stuff and send it.

