 As your students read a chapter in an assigned book, have each student write down the words they don’t know and bring the list to class at the end of the week.With this technique, your students won’t know what words to look out for ahead of time. However, it’s a more efficient technique since you’re relying on your own students’ vocabulary to decide which words to focus on.;
, If you’re having the entire class read a specific book, go through each chapter before you assign it and pick out words that you think students won’t know.If in doubt about what words students don’t know, check a list of Common Core State Standards. It will include vocabulary words that students should be learning at each grade level.This approach works best if you want to frontload your students’ knowledge of important vocabulary words. However, it’s probably not the most efficient technique since you may find that your students know many of the words you selected already, or that they don’t know words that you thought they knew.
 Go through the lists of words each student submits (or that you pick yourself) and combine them into a master list.Include three columns on the list: “Yes,” for words your students know, “No,” for words your students don’t know, and “Maybe,” for words your students aren’t sure if they know or not.
Print out worksheet copies of the list for each student in your class.
 Ask your students to write an X next to “Yes,” “No,” or “Maybe” for each word. This will give you an idea of what words your class, as a whole, has the most trouble with.For example, if all of your students put an X next to “No” for the word “suspicious,” (and that word is at or near their grade-level) you’ll know to focus on teaching them that word.
 Create three columns on a piece of paper and write “Basic,” “High Frequency,” and “Specialized” at the top of each column, respectively. Find the most frequently checked “No” and “Maybe” words from your students’ worksheets and classify them into one of the three columns.”Basic” words are common, known words like “door,” “shoe,” and “television.”
”High Frequency” words are words that occur across a variety of domains and are important for students to know if they’re going to engage in intelligent discussion. For example, “analysis,” “significant,” and “articulate” are high frequency words.
”Specialized” words are low-frequency words that are largely restricted to specific domains. For example, “isomer,” “cumulus,” and “entomology” are examples of specialized words.
 You should have whittled down your list quite a bit by now. “High Frequency” words are the ones you should focus on in your vocabulary lessons since they represent the most important words your students need to learn.If you have more than ten words left at this point, use your judgment to select ten words from the list. You can’t go wrong at this point since all of the words in your list will be important for your students to learn.
 Write each vocabulary word in a sentence that gives contextual clues to the word’s meaning. Contextual clues are words and phrases around an unknown word that point to the word’s meaning.For example, if the vocabulary word is “succinct,” you might write, “Julia gave a succinct presentation and the meeting was over in no time.”
Remember that contextual clues can be misleading. For example, the sentence “As he rushed out the door, Chris felt reluctant to meet his friend,” could imply that “reluctant” means Chris was rushing to see his friend because he was excited or rushing because he was nervous and apprehensive.
 Using the contextual clues you’ve provided, let your students brainstorm each word’s meaning. Letting your students brainstorm will get their mental juices flowing and they’ll be more primed to remember the meaning of the words later on.
 Once they’ve had a chance to think about the word on their own, you should tell them what it really means. You can read them the dictionary definition, but it’s more important to present the word in a way that your students will connect with.Use your students’ experience of the world to explain the word. For example, if the word is “hodgepodge,” pull out a plastic crate of different colored markers and “this is a hodgepodge of markers. A hodgepodge is a confusing mix of different things all thrown together.”

, Students learn words more quickly if they can connect them to images. Come up with different ways to represent a word using imagery.For example, if the word is “interstellar,” talk to them about the vast space between the stars and explain, “’interstellar’ is the word for that space.”
If the word is something more abstract, like “repercussions,” show them pictures of children who were sent to their rooms without supper or pictures of people in jail.
 Your students will learn a word more quickly and more deeply if they’re able to understand it on their own terms. Ask your students to raise their hands and give their own definitions of the words.For example, if the word is “concept” and you’ve given the definition as “an abstract idea,” your students will likely be able to come up with their own definitions of “concept” that still get the overall meaning right. If they’re way off in their definitions—for example, if a student says that “concept” means “something that I built”—correct them. For example, you might say, “actually, a concept is more like the idea of the thing you want to build in your mind before you actually build it.”

, Images help students associate words with their meanings. Have your students think of a way to draw the word you’re teaching them.For example, if the word is “enthusiastic,” you might ask your students to draw a person with an enthusiastic expression.
If the word is more abstract, like “intention,” explain what the word means and have your students draw whatever comes to their minds. Even if it’s just an arrow pointing forward, that will reinforce the true meaning of the word.
 Ask your students to come up with synonyms and antonyms for the word. This will help the place the word in a broader context.You can also have them come up with rhyming words or put the word in a song.
 This will really push your students to think about the deeper meaning of the word and how it relates to things in the real world.For example, if the word is “migraine,” you might ask them what a migraine feels like. If a student says “a migraine is like a chisel in your brain,” they’re on the right track!
Be careful using this method since sometimes it’s hard to tell the difference between a creative metaphor and a misunderstanding of the word. For example, if the word is “antidote” and a student says, “an antidote is like a sip of cool water,” make sure the student knows the difference between an antidote and a sip of cool water.
 Break your students into groups and have them give examples of the word in a sentence to one another. This will get their creative centers working.You’ll likely have to walk around and supervise the groups since some of them will get off track and others will start using the word incorrectly. If you notice someone in a group misusing the word, give them a good sentence with the word in it and ask them to restate it back to you. For example, if the word is “erratically,” you might say, “the driver was distracted and drove erratically down the road,” and your student might then say, “there were lots of potholes so the bus drove erratically this morning.”

, Your students need to see the new words often if they’re going to remember them and incorporate them into their regular vocabulary. Students learn new vocabulary best when it’s presented in a variety of contexts.Assign readings that contain the new words. These readings can be books, newspaper articles, websites, or any other print source. The key is to get them used to seeing the new words in everyday contexts.
 If you use the new words on a regular basis, your students will get used to hearing them and soon they’ll become second nature.For example, if one of your vocabulary words is “substantial,” try to use it to describe things throughout the school day. You might say, “we had a substantial amount of snow today,” or “learning how to divide is a substantial achievement.”

, Put up posters containing vocabulary words. Make a “word wall” that contains each week’s new words, along with their definitions. Most importantly, keep a well-stocked classroom library with books containing the words you want your students to learn.