 While this is important for everyone, it’s especially critical for those with hooded eyes. Primer creates a base for your makeup that helps it stay put and last all day.Because hooded eyes are prone to smudging and smearing, primer can make all the difference.Use your fingertip to apply the primer, and allow it to absorb into your skin for a minute or so before proceeding.;
, There are a variety of different eye shadow brushes that work well for different things. To apply your eye shadow most precisely, you will need a standard eye shadow brush, a tapered blending brush, and a firmer, straight brush. These three brushes will help you to get the most flawless application.You can find these brushes at a drugstore or beauty supply store.
 For hooded eyes, you will use a light shade, a medium shade, and a dark shade, all with a matte finish. You will also need one light shimmer color for highlighting.When it comes to choosing the exact colors, it’s a matter of personal preference. You can create a more natural look using cream and brown colors, with a gold or bronze shimmer. You can create a dramatic smoky eye with grays, blacks, and silver shimmer.

You can learn more about finding your best eye shadow here.
 This will highlight the hood, drawing attention to the extra skin that you want to minimize. Instead, use a shadow brush to apply a medium, matte color to your crease. This will give you dimension without emphasizing the hood., This is another simple trick to make your eye appear larger and more open. After you’ve applied the matte shadow to your crease and blended it, use your shadow brush to softly drag this color upwards to your brow bone only in the inner corners.You don’t want this to be dark or as pigmented as your crease – just a light application of color to open your eyes.
 If you have a beloved, light shimmer shadow, this is your chance to use it. By applying a bright shimmer into the inner corners of your eye, you will make your eyes appear vivid and youthful.Hooded eyes can make you look perpetually drowsy, so this inner corner highlight is a great way to counteract that.

A light gold, a pastel pink, or a pearl color are perfect choices for this step.
Apply it lightly with a shadow brush or even with a fingertip.
 The keyword here is light. You don’t want to use a super pigmented, frosty color, because that will make your highlight look extremely bold and unnatural. Instead, pick a soft, matte color in a color like champagne, baby pink, soft silver, or light brown. Apply it with a light hand, directly under your brow. This will give your brow bone more dimension., Using a tapered blending brush, apply the dark shadow to the outer corner of your eye, focusing on the crease. This will accentuate the crease even more, carving it out to add depth. Blend it thoroughly, so that there are no harsh lines in your shadow., When it comes to hooded eyes, the focus should be on the inner and outer corners, which are most visible. In fact for many people with hooded eyes, the middle of the lid is completely hidden when your eyes are open. Don’t leave it naked though. Apply a light color to the lid, softly blending it into the dark color on the outer corner and the shimmer in the inner corner., Just like eye shadow, a properly filled-in eyebrow can help to enhance the shape of your hooded eye, making it look open and elongated. Use an angled brow brush to fill in the thin, sparse areas of your eyebrow with a powder or gel.

Use small, hair-like strokes as you fill in your brows. Use a spoolie to brush your brow hairs upwards in order to see every spot that needs to be filled in.
For hooded eyes, it’s very important to avoid dragging the tail of the eyebrow downwards. Pay special attention to make sure the tail ends parallel with the outer corner of your eye. Make sure it doesn’t extend past that or swoop downwards dramatically, because this will make your hooded eye seem droopy.
 Rather than lining your entire eye with eyeliner, only apply the product to the outer corner on both the top and bottom lash lines. Use an eyeliner that you can blend, such as a pencil. Start applying the liner in the outer corner, moving inwards so that you’ve lined about 1/3 of your bottom lash line. Then, do the same thing on the top lash line.Use a straight brush to blend the liner. The goal with this step is to soften out the line, helping it blend into your shadow.
Make sure to use a smudge-proof eyeliner.
 Once again, adding a highlight to the inner corners of your eyes will make them look bigger, brighter, and more alert. This liner works with the shimmery shadow in your inner corners to really combat the droopiness of hooded eyes.A shimmery brown, bronze, gold or silver will work well for this step.
 Use your eyelash curler at the roots of your eyelashes, holding for a few seconds on each. Curling your eyelashes upwards will also help to open your eyes up. Then, apply your favorite mascara. For those with hooded eyes, your mascara is prone to rubbing off onto your brow bone. Make sure you choose a smudge-proof mascara to keep your lashes dark and luscious, but your brow bone mascara-free.