 Stop talking or spending time with the abuser, even if you’re not the person who is being abused. Doing this stops you from being subjected to the abuse. It also shows the victim that you are on their side. The abuser may get the hint if everyone in the family ices them out.

Prepare yourself for the negative side effects this action may create. For instance, other members of your family may end contact with you if they believe you are in the wrong. You may receive the cold shoulder from your kin or they may accuse you of lying. However, if not staying in contact with the abuser is what you believe is best, then that is what you should do., Suffering from abuse can have a profound negative effect on a person, especially if the abuse is long-term, so be sure to seek help as soon as possible. You may not overcome the issues without professional help. Seek the help of a counselor if you are the victim, or encourage your relative to do so if they’ve been abused. It may be a long road, but you’ll likely get through it together.

Support groups are also often helpful in these situations. Attend one for yourself or suggest it to your relative. Join an online support group if you can’t find one in your area or would prefer to be anonymous., The rest of your family may side with the abuser. They may act coldly towards you, as a result. Walking away from the family may be the healthiest thing for you to do.

You don’t have to make a big production out of walking away. You can simply stop contact with everyone. Don’t return calls, don’t answer the door if they knock, and don’t attend family functions. Move away if you have to. You may find that removing yourself from the situation is what is best for you, physically and emotionally., Call Child Protective Services if you believe that child abuse is occurring. You may also want to call the police if you believe physical abuse is occurring between two of your relatives. Having the authorities step in could stop the abuse, or at least show the abuser that you mean business.

You may even want to consider adopting a younger relative if they are being abused by their parents. This could prevent them from going into foster care if their parents are found unfit.