 This is the most important part of the advertisement as it tells the potential buyer what he or she will be getting by way of your pet's habits, temperament and behavior. It is also a place to reassure the buyer that you are selling your pet for a genuine reason. Some things to consider when writing the advertisement up include:


Provide a short description of the animal’s type, breed, size, behavior around kids/dogs/cats/etc, temperament, health, and appearance.
Explain why you're selling the pet. No need for copious details but just a little something to reassure the potential buyer that you're not mean-spirited or running a puppy mill, etc. Be careful with sob stories––too much of this can turn a potential buyer off as he or she will have to meet "the sad you" when transacting for the pet, and if you sound like you're really down, the potential buyer may pass for fear of the emotional fallout.
Add in special quirks or habits of your pet that will endear a potential buyer to the pet; such as "Fido can jump hoops" or "Flossie will groom any other cat in your house without a fuss."
Focus most on the positive, the good, the great and the fantastic about your pet. A potential buyer wants to know that he or she is going to be getting one amazing pet in his or her life, so help that buyer to see the best in your pet, something you've always striven to do anyway!

, Using the advertisement to have a go at the cause of offloading your pet is unhelpful and only serves to make you look like a mean-spirited and difficult seller.



Here is what to avoid: SUPER friendly pit bull, name is Maxwell, MUST GO ASAP my landlord is a --- and won't let me keep him EVEN THOUGH HE IS PERFECTLY BEHAVED. He is GREAT with kids doesn’t like dogs though. I’m really angry @ my landlord and HE MUST GO TO A GOOD HOME, NOT for fighting!!!!!! there is a fee to make sure he goes to the right home. My phone number is 111-111-1111.

In this example, most of the ad is dedicated to describing the landlord. In turn, you receive very little information about the dog other than that he’s male, friendly with kids, not good with dogs (a downside that could be written with greater care), and he's called Maxwell. The advertiser makes the common mistake of vaguely saying there’s an adoption fee; potential buyers are much more likely to contact you if you have an already stated price or price range.



On the other hand, here is a much better description: Hi, I’m Lily. My Budgie Baby is so sweet and I’ll be sad to see him go, but I’m moving and can’t take him with me. He’s a gorgeous light blue color, not the usual green/yellow markings. He’s great at talking and can say “Hi,” “I love you,” “Baby,” and “Lily.” He’s wonderfully behaved with men, women, and children, and mostly ignores our cat. Never had a health problem; you can verify with our vet. There is a $50 adoption fee; his cage (which is large and in good condition) and seed comes with him. Please contact me at 222-222-2222, serious offers only. Thanks for your time!

By introducing herself and thanking the reader, a more personal edge is added to Lily's advertisement. She keeps the reasons for selling the budgie short, using it to her advantage by promoting how well-behaved Baby is. She also emphasizes on his coloring and speaking ability, and includes the adoption fee. After reading it, you’re left with the feeling that Baby is well-behaved and charming and Lily is trustworthy enough to pay Baby a visit.
 A pet ad with a picture included is much more likely to receive offers than an ad without one; it helps potential buyers work out whether or not they're interested in researching further.


When taking a picture, make sure that you can clearly see the animal, and include the entire body in the picture - not just a head. See How to photograph pets for more details.

