 Smoking increases your risk of developing ovarian cysts as well as increasing your risk for other negative conditions such as cancer and emphysema.If you smoke, ask your doctor for help with quitting. There are medications and smoking cessation programs available that may help you quit.;
, Being overweight can contribute to your risk of developing conditions such as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), which increases your risk of ovarian cysts.If you are overweight, then do what you can to get down to a healthy weight.


For women who have PCOS, losing just 10% of their weight can resolve the problem and is usually a more realistic goal.
Start a food diary to keep track of how much you eat each day.
Limit your caloric intake so that you burn more than you eat.
Eat more fruits and vegetables.
Exercise for at least 30 minutes five days per week.
 Birth control pills are often recommended as a way to prevent ovarian cysts.Birth control pills may also reduce your ovarian cancer risk.Talk to your doctor if you are interested in trying birth control to help control your ovarian cysts. Just keep in mind that birth control pills have other side effects as well.


Birth control works by suppressing ovarian function and preventing ovulation. For this reason, pills, patches, rings, injections, and implants all work.
 Some conditions increase the likelihood that you will develop ovarian cysts, so it is important to get treated for these conditions. You are at an increased risk of developing ovarian cysts if you have:Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) —This is a condition that causes your ovaries to produce cysts and you may not ovulate if you have PCOS. It is also more common to have a high level of male hormones when you have PCOS.Endometriosis — This causes uterine tissues to grow outside of your uterus. This condition can cause pain, heavy periods, and infertility., Some medications that promote ovulation may also increase your risk of developing ovarian cysts, but make sure that you talk to your doctor before stopping any medication. If you are taking clomiphene (a fertility drug) then you are at an increased risk of developing an ovarian cyst. Clomiphene is also known as:Clomid
Serophene

