 Most airlines allow only one bag for free, and charge for any additional bags. To avoid these charges, take only a single checked bag, and do not make any large, unnecessary purchases while you are traveling, as you will have to find a way to take them home.If you want to purchase gifts to bring home to loved ones, stick to small gifts such as scarves, or other small, easy-to-pack items that will not add a lot of bulk.
 Providing dinner for guests is one of the most significant expenses involved in a wedding. Instead of having a lunch or dinner, get married and have your reception during cocktail hour, and provide guests with only light finger foods.For an additional festive touch, visit a local market for your wedding food. This will also keep costs low, and will lend a more authentic atmosphere to your nuptials.
 Even when traveling in the off season, wedding expenses can skyrocket if you get married on a weekend, as this is the most popular time for planning events. Opt for a mid-week wedding to avoid weekend prices.Getting married mid-week can be difficult for your guests, so make sure you let your guests know as far in advance as possible, and specify the day of your wedding as well as the date.
 While it might be nice to be familiar with your officiator, using local officiators will keep costs low. If you invite a clergyman or friend of your own choosing from home, you will likely be expected to cover the cost of traveling and a hotel for this person. Instead, contact the authorities where you are planning to wed and ask about local customs and expectations regarding marriage and officiators.Some countries require a significant waiting period, so make sure you clear all of your plans with local authorities before solidifying your travel plans.
 Instead of enlisting the services of a wedding planner, complete as much of the planning as possible yourself. Wedding planning can get extremely expensive, while taking care of plans yourself can offer you the opportunity to negotiate prices.This approach to wedding planning can also extend to decorations and invitations. Design and print your invitations yourself, take your own engagement photos, or even create your own decorations.
If you do not feel comfortable creating wedding items yourself, enlist the services of a friend at a discounted price.
 Destination weddings are typically chosen for their scenery, so take advantage of the natural beauty of your chosen locale, and let that beauty serve as your source of decoration. A beach wedding, for instance, needs little to create stunning photos and memories.This can extend to the bridal bouquet, as well. Instead of purchasing expensive flower arrangements, pick local flowers or fauna and make a small bouquet, yourself.

