 The transparent layer that is the cornea is made up of three layers. The top layer, which is exposed to the air, is the epithelial layer. Beneath this is the middle and thickest layer, which is called the stromal layer, and at the bottom is a tough lining membrane called Descemet's membrane.Corneal ulcers can be of any depth.


A superficial scratch or abrasion only affects the epithelial layer and often heals quickly. An ulcer is deeper and typically erodes down through the epithelia and into the stroma, which is the main structural layer. If the ulcer eats deeper still through the complete thickness of the stroma, then only the thin Descemet's membrane is left to stop the eye from perforating, which is potentially very serious.It is not possible to tell with the naked eye which layers of the eye are affected. It requires special stains and magnification, and therefore if you suspect damage on the surface of your dog's eye, a vet trip is essential.
 The most common cause of a corneal ulcer is trauma, such as a scratch to the surface of the eye or grit that got in and rubbed around. Anything that impacts the health of the eye can weaken its ability to respond to injury and predispose to ulcers. This includes conditions such as Cushing's disease, underactive thyroid glands, and diabetes.


Some dogs suffer from a condition called dry eye where they are unable to produce adequate tear fluid to moisturize the cornea, which leads to it drying out and ulcer formation.Some breeds, such as the Boxer, suffer from a lack of cohesiveness between the cells of the cornea, which leads to them flaking away and ulcer formation.
 Some breeds are more prone to corneal ulcers than other dogs. Breeds with large bulbous eyes, such as Pekingese, pugs, and other squash-faced breeds, are inclined to develop ulcers since their eyes provide a large surface area of cornea exposed to the air.


These dogs also get in-turned eyelashes due to the shape of their eyes. This can scour the surface each time the animal blinks, leading to ulcer formation.

