 There are as many parenting styles as there are parents, and if you try to follow every piece of advice you come across, you’ll quickly become confused and discouraged. Listening to too much advice can drown out the voice of your own intuition. Find just a few good parenting resources that resonate with you, and leave the rest.For example, many parenting books are meant to be inclusive of all sorts of issues and concerns. Many times they suggest taking conservative routes, such as buying all organic fruits and veggies. If you can't afford this, or your other children developed just fine on regular produce, continue to do what you think is best for your family.
Try to identify the source on which these resources are based to determine their credibility to you. It is fine to read the opinions of others, but know if these are based on personal experience or research and science.;
, If you’re nervous or unsure about your parenting abilities, it’s natural to seek out advice from other people. Trying to follow everyone else’s advice about how to raise your child is a certain way to suppress your own parenting instincts, though. Pick one or two people you trust, such as your mother or a close friend, and go to them for advice when you’re feeling lost.If you have a close friend who seems to have it together in the parenting department, call on her for tough-to-answer questions. You might say, "Jennifer, you are my role model when it comes to parenting... What's you opinion on letting the baby self-soothe?"
Know how to firmly decline unsolicited input or pressure from people you didn't choose. Have a brief sentence prepared so that you don't get pulled into a discussion you don't wish to be a part of. You could say, "We're following the instructions of our doctor," or simply "I'll keep that in mind" and discuss it no further

, With all the commercials and advertisements for the latest gear, you might feel like you have to purchase all the right things to take care of your baby correctly. While it’s true that you’ll need a few essentials, know that it’s OK to keep things simple. Your love and attention are more important for your baby’s health and development than any bassinets, clothes, or wipe warmers could ever be.Some parents pride themselves on purchasing the latest gadgets for their children; however, there are usually lower-budget alternatives that work just as well. Visit a store and ask an employee explain the features of different products, or compare different options using online reviews or consumer reports.
 To get in touch with your instincts, practice being in the moment. Turn off the TV, put down your phone, take a deep breath, and focus on what’s happening around you.If you’re an overwhelmed, sleep-deprived new parent, taking time to focus on the present moment might feel like a tough task sometimes. Remember that just a few minutes of mindfulness a day can help you develop your instincts.
For instance, if you breastfeed your newborn, don’t use that time to check your phone or work on your to-do list. Instead, pause for a moment and focus on the experience of bonding with your baby.
Mindfulness is also a great coping skill for postpartum anxiety and can help your baby attach firmly to you — benefitting them for life., You are the primary expert on your child, so don’t feel like you have to make all your parenting decisions based on other people’s advice. Your first instinct is usually correct. If you feel like your baby is sick or your older child is hiding something from you, you are probably right.In some cases, your family members or doctor may tell you that what your child is experiencing is common; however, if you feel deep down in your gut that something is wrong, it's better to trust your instincts. Get a second (or third) opinion to be sure., If your mind is getting in the way of your instincts, listen to your body instead. Notice how you feel when you make various parenting decisions. Do you feel calm and sure? Do you have an uneasy sensation in your stomach? Your body’s signals will rarely steer you wrong.If you have made the decision to breastfeed, for example, but you suffer from unbearable pain and engorgement, you may choose to revise your decision. It may be difficult to decide to bottle-feed your baby, but it's also a good thing to listen to and trust your body.
The state of your body is important to the baby feeling safe and secure. Consider re-evaluating any decision that is creating a lot of physical or emotional pain for you or your baby.
 Issues like what to feed your child, how to dress them, and when to put them down for a nap might seem important now, but they won’t make or break your child’s future. There are many valid approaches to parenting, and as long as you follow safe practices and have your child’s best interests at heart, your child will probably turn out fine., There are some circumstances where it’s essential to listen to the experts (such as the American Academy of Pediatrics or comparable entities in other countries), regardless of what your intuition is saying. Put your child’s safety first and follow the safety guidelines that doctors and other child experts have recommended.For instance, to reduce the risk of SIDS, it’s extremely important to only put your baby to sleep on their back.
Car seat safety is another area where it’s better to be safe than sorry. Avoid buying secondhand car seats, which may have been damaged in a crash.
Guidelines for childcare are revised and change often, so revisit these periodically.
 Following your parenting instincts doesn’t mean you have to know what to do in every situation. If you’re not sure how to handle something, there’s nothing wrong with consulting a baby book, a more experienced person, or your child’s doctor.


For instance, if you think your baby is sick but you’re not sure if it’s serious, don’t hesitate to call the doctor.
You may find that your instincts develop more once you’ve had some practice handling a particular situation. For instance, after several months of feeding your baby solid foods, you’ll probably have a better idea of what is best for them and what they will like.
 If your child’s doctor, teachers, or other authority figures are advising you to do something, consider whether they might be right, even if their advice goes against your instincts. Think about why they are giving you this advice, and try to identify the reasons you feel hesitant to take it.This is especially true if multiple people are giving you the same advice.
However, just because doctors and other experts are often right doesn’t mean they always are. Keep in mind that you know your child best. If you have a foreboding sense that there is more to their condition than what meets the eye, dig deeper. Sometimes, this may entail being at odds with your partner or family members in order to do what you think is right. Even if you are wrong, you'll feel better after getting a second opinion.
 Discipline is a tricky subject for many parents. Some parents find it difficult to scold their disobedient child, while others’ first instinct is to react too harshly in exasperation or disappointment when their child misbehaves. If you think your instinctive discipline style might not be optimal for you or your child, consider learning different, more effective ways to discipline.If you're unsure in this area, consider consulting a child/family therapist. This doesn't have to be an option just when a child is struggling — it can be utilized to help you get comfortable with effective parenting techniques.

