 Often times, people who rely on friends or family members to give them money may not be great at handling their personal finances. These people may selfishly think that having money for themselves is more important than repaying the loan. In these cases, it may be beneficial to let the person know why it’s important that they pay you back soon.


Try saying something like, “I have to pay my property taxes next month, and I’m really depending on you repaying me to make that payment.”
You can even say something like, “My budget has been stretched pretty thin because of the loan I gave you, and repaying it would help me get back on track financially.”
Remember, you don’t need an actual reason to want the money back. The loan should be repaid, but this is another way to improve your odds of getting your friend to pay you back without losing the friendship., If your friend is unable to pay the full amount owed to you, ask if they can pay some of the money to show they are serious about making a repayment effort. The more upfront and honest your friend is about their financial situation, the better able you will be to determine whether they can truly afford to pay you back, or if they need more time. Regardless of their financial situation, recouping some of your losses is always preferable to none.You could say something like, "It would be helpful to me, if you could make a payment towards the loan today."
If you're worried your friend may truly be having trouble repaying the money, say something like, "I know you're still struggling, but is there a small amount you could pay me now?"

, Sometimes, people simply work better with a timeline. Let your friend know you’d really like to be fully repaid by a certain date. Be willing to extend this if you can. You probably don’t want to lose your friend over a personal loan, but if you really need the money paid back, setting a specific deadline may help.Before your meeting, think through some possible payment plans you think may be feasible for your friend. Presenting these to your friend will take the pressure off them to come up with these ideas.
Say something like, "What amount would you be able to get by without each month?"
Try to help your friend figure out when they will e able to make payments by saying something like, "Do your bills come out at the first of the month or towards the end? You can pay me at the opposite time, to make repayment easier for you."

, Schedule due dates and payment amounts, and ask your friend to honor the agreement. You can even request that they sign a formal document at this point, if you’ve already tried the other methods of getting repayment without effect. This can make it easier for friends to return your money, since they don’t have to repay it all at one time.Don't shy away from asking your friend to commit to a repayment plan or from asking them to sign a formal agreement, especially if you have loaned them an amount of money that is significant to you.
Start by saying something like, "This may be overkill, but I want to make sure we're both on the same page to repay this loan. I wrote up something to help us both stay on top of it."
Make sure your friend understand your initial document is just a suggestion, and walk through possible changes to make repayment easier. You may say something like, "I know you have a vacation planned for May, would it be helpful for you if we skipped this month?"

, This may seem strange, but your friends are likely there for you when you need them. If the friend drove you to the airport, helped you with a home improvement project, or took care of your kids free of charge, consider deducting what you would have paid for the service from the amount they owe you. This is an especially good idea, if your friend really cannot afford to repay the loan.


In some cases, it may even be appropriate to ask the friend to perform services in lieu of payments. For instance, if you need to go out of town, you can say, “I’m leaving for a business trip, and will be gone for ten days. Could you water my plants and watch my dogs? I’ll deduct $300 from what you owe me.”
If your friend is trying to pay you back, but struggling to financially, offer them the opportunity to help you instead. Say something like, “I really appreciate you trying to pay me back in the time we agreed upon, but would it be easier for you to watch my kids for me this weekend while I’m at a conference instead of paying me this month? I’d really appreciate the help.”, In extreme cases, you may have to choose between getting your money back or keeping your friend. This will likely be a difficult decision, but if you’ve put in effort to get repayment and your friend simply can’t afford to pay you back, it might be time to think of the loan as a gift.