 If you have short hair, you can wait 15-20 minutes. If you blow dry your hair when it is wet or damp it will be more apt to poof up. Because you have thick hair, you should be patient with the time it takes to do your hair. Find ways to make the process work while you work. For example, make breakfast, or do chores while you are waiting for your hair to dry., When you blow dry your hair, make sure your hair is completely dried before you go out, especially if it is humid out. A high powered blow dryer will help you dry your hair more quickly. Good examples of blow dryers for thick, coarse, and wavy hair include the BaByliss Pro TT Tourmaline costing approximately 100 dollars or the Conair 1875 Ceramic Quiet Styler for around 30 dollars.
 The best kinds of brushes for thick hair have reinforced bristles or boar bristles.These brushes have thicker bristles that are spaced wider than a regular brush and are able to get into your hair, and all the way to your scalp.


You can also buy cushion brushes with thick bristles for brushing that isn't styling., This will help you thoroughly dry all of your hair. Split up your hair into four sections or quadrants. Clip up the first quadrant of your hair on top of your head, and blow dry the bottom section. Using your round brush, curl your hair in toward your face. Then unclip the top section and blow dry your hair in the same way. Repeat the process on the other side of your head.









Depending on how soft and curved you want the ends of your hair to appear, spin your brush and curl your hair more or less.
Avoid using a paddle brush, they have shallower bristles and create more frizz.
 Set the blow dryer to cool, and blow dry your hair for a minute or two until all of your hair has cooled. The cool air can also make your hair less poofy after a couple of minutes.Most blow dryers have a cool setting. Other blow dryers have a button that you push while you blow dry that makes the air cool.
 You will want to give your hair time to cool and settle even more before you spray your hair. Use a hairspray that does not make your hair stiff or crunchy. Make sure the hairspray has a low/flexible hold. You can find hair sprays that add strength and shine to your hair, and keep it tamed. Depending on your hair or desired look you can do different things:









If you have short hair, hold your spray a six to eight inches above your head and spray once or twice on both sides.
If you have medium length hair, flip your hair over and spray lightly throughout your hair to give it a tousled look. Flip your hair up, and spray once on each side.
For long hair, spray lightly around the ends of your hair to help hold the style in place.

