 If you reported the unauthorized debit card charge by phone, the bank might request that you follow up with a letter within 10 business days.Even if the bank does not require that you write a letter, it is a good idea to do so anyway so that you have a paper trail. Gather the following information:


your name
account number
the dollar amount of the error
the date of the debit charge
why the charge is erroneous
documentation in support, such as a copy of your ATM statement with the unauthorized charge highlighted

, You can use the Federal Trade Commission’s sample letter available at http://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0537-sample-letter-disputing-debit-card-charge. You can revise it to suit your individual circumstances.
 Once you have finished your letter, send it certified mail, return receipt requested to the bank. Hold onto your receipt as it serves as proof that the letter was received.


Always keep a copy of all of your correspondence., Your bank might require that you complete a form. It might be called an “Affidavit of Fraudulent Use.” Each bank’s form may differ somewhat, but you will generally be asked for the following:your name and card number
a phone number and the best time to contact you
the date and the amount of the unauthorized transactions

, The bank might follow up with a request for additional information or documents. You should provide the requested information promptly. Delay will only cause you to have to wait longer for the dispute to be resolved.
 The bank must perform an investigation within 10 days of receiving notice of the disputed charge. If the bank cannot resolve the dispute within 10 days, your account must be credited in the amount of the disputed debit.However, if after 10 days the bank determines that the transaction is legitimate, then it will deduct the full amount from your account.
The bank generally has up to 45 days to complete its investigation.You should receive a decision in writing.
 If you are unhappy with how your dispute is resolved, you should contact the CFPB, which is a federal agency. You can visit their website at www.consumerfinance.gov/complaint in order to lodge a complaint.


Once at the website, click on “Bank Account or Service” in order to complain about a debit card.Provide all requested information. The CFPB will contact your bank and investigate.

