


Choose lunch-sized brown paper bags that are much like the bags used traditionally in Mexico. Brown paper bags block much of the light, except for what shines through the cut-out areas of the bag.
Pick colored gift sacks that are made of thick paper or paper that is not transparent. Colored bags fit into a specific décor or can be used for color-themed events, such as proms or weddings.;
,


Choose a design for the front of your bag. A design that is too large for the size of your bag may be reduced on a copy machine in order to fit properly.
Ensure that your pattern does not allow too much open space on the front of your bag. Too much open space can decrease the stability of your bag and allow it to crumple.
Create a design that is easy to cut out of the bag. You will be cutting out patterns on several bags. A simple design is much easier and quicker to cut out than an intricate or complicated design.
Transfer your design to cardboard or cardstock so you can use it as a pattern on your bags.
 Tissue paper filters the light and can make it appear a different color.
 There are several light sources that provide adequate light for a luminary.


Put approximately 1 lb. (453 g) of sand in the bottom of your luminary bag to weigh it down. If sand is not available, substitute with rocks or other heavy objects.
Set a tea light candle into the sand. Push it gently into the sand so it sits securely in the bag.
Place a battery-powered tea light into the bag's sand.
Use a flashlight as a light source in your luminaries. Attempt to set it upright so it provides even light throughout the bag
Set a lit glow stick in the bag for light.
, Light the luminaries 10 to 15 minutes before visitors arrive if you're planning to use them as a welcome to a party.
 Place a piece of cardboard, a slab of wood or a quilter's mat underneath one layer of your bag when you cut out the design. Cutting through both sides of your luminary bag will result in a bag that puts off less light through your pattern.

