 It will be on your device’s home screen or app drawer. Just tap on its white and red icon to launch the app.


If you don’t have the app yet, you can download the app from the Google Play Store by typing “Pinterest” into the search bar, and clicking on “Install.”;
, Do so by first choosing between signing in via your email ID or via Facebook. Click on the Facebook tab, and on the login screen that pops up, enter your Facebook username or your email ID, and your password into the appropriate fields. Click on the “Sign In” button once you’re done.
 Once signed in, click on the icon found at the top right corner of your home screen. This will open up your profile.
 It’s the three-dot icon found just below the profile icon. Clicking on the menu button will display an options menu.
 Among the menu options, you will find the “Invite Friends” tab. Click on it to invite friends, both old and new. You will then be presented with two options for inviting friends: by email and by text. Pick an option, and click on the “Invite” button right beside the names of the people you want to invite.


If you want to invite just a specific friend, type his or her name on the search bar at the top of the screen, and then click on “Invite” once his or her name is displayed.
 Click on the “Find Friends” tab from the menu options. You can search for friends by typing their names or email IDs into the search tab at the top of your screen. When a friend’s name appears, click on the “Follow” button right beside his or her name.


If you signed in using your email ID and you want to search for Facebook friends, click on “Find friends,” and then type in your friend’s name on the search bar at the top of your screen. When the option “Search your Facebook friends” appears on the screen, click on it. When the Facebook login screen is displayed, enter your Facebook email ID and password. Click on “Sign in,” and the search results will then include your Facebook friends. Tap on “Invite” if they are not on Pinterest yet, or click on “Follow” if they already have a Pinterest account.
 To do this, tap on any picture on your Pinterest home screen. The photo will expand, and at the bottom of the screen will be four icons. Click on the paper-plane icon right next to the “Pin it” button.
 On the new screen, tap and key in a friend’s name in the “To” field.
 If you want to include a message with the picture, tap on the “Add a message” button found in the top right corner and write a message.
 Hit “Send this pin” at the top left corner of your device screen when you’re done.
 Go to your Pinterest home screen, and click on the profile icon at the top right corner of the screen. Once you’re on your profile page, click on the pushpin icon right above the About tab.
 On the next screen, tap on “Messages,” and on yet another screen, tap on either the plus (+) sign or right on “New message.”

, Do this in the “To” field.


If your friend can’t be found on Pinterest, you will be asked to either search for him or her on your Facebook friend list or to email your friend.
 Click on “Send a message” that will appear in the middle of the screen. Now type your Pinterest name, and then click on “Next.” Write your message towards the bottom section of the screen, and tap on “Next” to it to send the message.
 Do this by clicking on the profile icon found at the top right corner of the screen.
 On your profile page, click on the pushpin icon. On the next page, click on “News” and on “You” to see your news feed and notifications.

