 If you have calluses, try soaking your feet on a regular basis to soften the dry and dead skin. Softening the skin with a warm water and mild soap foot bath will make removing that skin much easier.Use warm water instead of hot water. Hot water can dry out your skin and irritate your feet.
If you have diabetes, the you should wash your feet every day. Use lukewarm water with a mild soap and dry your feet well. Then, moisturize you feet with some lotion, petroleum jelly, or baby oil.;
, After you’ve soaked your feet, or had a shower or bath, use a pumice stone, foot file or emery board to remove excess dead skin from your calluses.Pumice stones and foot files work better if you wet them in warm water before using them.
If you do not have a pumice stone, foot file or emery board, you can also use a wash cloth to scrub away the dead skin.
After you’ve scrubbed your feet, apply moisturizer to your feet to lock in the moisture and keep the skin on your feet soft and pliable.
If you have diabetes, make sure that you ask your doctor before using a pumice stone to remove calluses., Calluses (and corns) develop on areas of your feet that rub against your shoes and socks when you’re walking. You might find you have some shoes that are worse than others in this regard. Your first choice should be to wear shoes that fit properly so they do not cause calluses or corns, but as an alternative you can use over-the-counter unmedicated pads to protect your feet.These pads come in various sizes and shapes for different parts of your feet, but they also come in larger-sized squares that can be cut to size for whatever area you want.
Some of these pads come in a medicated version, however you should avoid the medicated versions unless directed to use them by a doctor.
 If you have calluses or corns that have become extremely painful or swollen, you should consider making an appointment to see your doctor to discuss the best course of action.A doctor has the proper facilities and equipment to potentially cut off the excess skin from a callus or corn. This should never be done at home.A doctor may also suggest or prescribe an antibiotic ointment (like Polysporin) to use on a corn or callus if it has become infected, or there is the possibility it will become infected.
 There are several medicinal options to help with calluses that your doctor may suggest.Small patches that contain a 40% salicylic acid solution can be used directly on a callus or corn to help soften the skin for easier removal. These patches can be purchased over-the-counter at a drug store under several brand names. If you doctor does not provide instructions on when and how often to use these patches, follow the instructions on the package.
Prescription-strength salicylic acid gel is also available for areas larger than a patch can cover.
You should only use salicylic acid with a doctor’s guidance. Because it is an acid, it does have the ability to burn and irritate your skin, which in turn can lead to an infection. Your doctor will instruct you on which products to use, how often to use them, and how much to use each time., One reason you may have calluses is due to a foot deformity.The deformity could be quite minor, but it could be enough to cause excess rubbing of certain parts of your feet against the insides of your shoes. Obtaining custom-made shoe inserts or orthotics could help fix the deformity and reduce your chances of getting a callus.