 There are a number of essential oils that are touted as spider repellents. If you mix these oils with dish soap and warm water, you can create a repellent that may ward away most common house spiders.Peppermint essential oil is the most popular option, but you can also try tea tree oil, citrus oil, lavender oil, or neem oil.
The idea is that the above mentioned essential oils have potent smells that are unappealing to spiders.
You need to add dish soap to make the solution more effective. The soap breaks apart the oil molecules, allowing the oil to mix more consistently throughout the water.
Use 5 to 10 drops of essential oil. Put the essential oil in a 16-oz (500-ml) spray bottle and fill the bottle to the brim with warm water. Place the cap back on the bottle and shake to combine.
Use this spray along openings spiders may squeeze in through, including window frames and door cracks. Reapply every few days, or as the odor fades.
 You can accomplish this by rubbing lemon peel around the area or by spraying diluted lemon juice.Cut a lemon and remove the flesh. Rub the peel around door and window frames so that these areas are thoroughly covered by the scent.
Alternatively, you could mix equal parts water and lemon juice in a spray bottle and spray any exposed cracks, door frames, or window frames with the solution.
Like essential oils, lemons are thought to repel spiders due to their potent scent.
 The seeds of the horse chestnut tree, also called "conkers," have been used as spider repellents for ages.


Gather a few handfuls of horse chestnuts and line them up around the perimeter of your house on the interior and exterior walls. Doing so should discourage spiders from breaking the barrier and coming into your home.
Change out the horse chestnuts every other week to prevent them from rotting and causing more problems.
 Burn cinnamon scented candles or cinnamon oil in an oil burner.


As with many other home remedies, this fix relies on the notion that spiders find the strong odor of cinnamon repulsive.
As a result, anything that puts the smell of cinnamon in the air qualifies as a potential spider repellent. This includes cinnamon baked goods, cinnamon oil, cinnamon candles, and cinnamon bath and body sprays.
 Fill a spray bottle with this solution and spray it around suspected entry points and hide-outs.


Combine one part coconut oil with two parts white distilled vinegar in a spray bottle. Cap the bottle and shake well to mix.
Spray this solution around door and window cracks and dark places where spiders may hide out.
 Most insecticides and chemical repellents do not work against spiders.


You could try a chemical repellent labeled for use against spiders, but if you opt for a chemical treatment, you might have better luck if you use a chemical to kill off the spiders' food, instead.
Determine what the most prevalent food source around your yard and home is and purchase an insecticide or repellent labeled for use against that source.
Read the package instructions carefully so that you apply the chemical properly. Wear protective gear when applying poison and do not let animals or small children come in contact with it.

