 If the person will be in a hospital, find out the dates they will be there. Request a room number, if they are already at the hospital.;
, Men, women and children all respond differently to gifts.
 Flowers are the classic get well gift that can be delivered personally or by a courier. Flower arrangements can be found at the hospital, supermarket, flower store, flower markets, or online flower stores, like FTD and even Amazon.com or Overstock.com.

Local flower shops allow you the opportunity to go in and choose the arrangement personally and they often don't charge very much for a local delivery.
Choose a bouquet with bright colors, like yellow daisies or sunflowers. Avoid white or dark flowers, since your aim is to cheer up the person. Floral arrangements for children can include balloons or a small toy, a helpful distraction during sickness.
 Unlike cut flowers that die in a week or 2, orchids, succulents, ferns or herbs can live through the recovery. Choose a low-maintenance plant, which will brighten a bedside for the duration of the illness.
 Many online stores, including Amazon, Overstock, FTD and smaller companies, design gift baskets that include food, candy, games, tea, books and more. Go to a site that will let you design it yourself, if nothing looks fitting to the person.
 Cover a cardboard box with bright wrapping paper. Go to a store and buy cards, crossword puzzles, a robe, books, magazines, slippers, games, movies, music or candy.


Create a craft or spa basket for a woman that will help her pass the time. Provide the craft materials she needs to sew, knit, paint or draw from her bedside.
Create a basket for a man that includes action movies, handheld video games or computer games. If he is video game oriented, buy a gift certificate so he can choose games that he really wants. If he is into sports, buy him some pay-per-view games.
Create a basket for a child that includes coloring books, comic books, stuffed animals, crayons, markers or toys. Ask the parents if you can include their favorite candy or cookie.
 Budsies.com creates stuffed animals from artwork, or even from photos! This gift is incredibly personal and can even be used to help a young child draw his or her superhero to help them through an illness.
 If possible, arrange with friends or family to provide food for a week or two, so the person does not have to worry about cooking until they feel better. If you do not have the time to cook, then order a week's worth of food, such as soup, from a site like Home Bistro.
 Many sick people cannot clean their house during recovery. Find a cleaning service in an online phone book and buy a gift certificate; the person can call when the house really needs upkeep.
 Attach it to your gift before delivery. If you have purchased the gift online, make sure to fill out the personal message box that is usually available during checkout.
 A good example is a Zidisha gift card, which lets the recipient make a small business loan to an individual in an impoverished country and dialogue directly with that individual as he or she grows the business and family income as a result of the loan., A visit from a friend or family member is often the most distracting and cheerful thing you can give someone.

