 It’s important that teens develop a positive self-image. Healthy self-esteem will help them successfully transition to adulthood, and daily encouragement can be a key part of this process. Try giving your child words of encouragement on a regular basis.If your teen is taking on extra responsibilities around the house, such as folding laundry or unloading the dishwasher without being asked, make sure you give them positive feedback.
If your child is struggling with school and making an extra effort on their homework, make sure you encourage them to keep doing so.
 Making mistakes is an important part of being human. Don’t shelter your teen or make decisions for them. Instead let them make their own decisions and mistakes. This will help them see you have confidence in their abilities to decide things on their own and bear the weight of any consequences.For example, don’t interfere with your child’s romantic endeavors unless their partner is posing a risk to their mental or physical health. Let them make their own choices and learn from mistakes. If you do perceive a threat, however, you should intervene immediately.
If your child wants to spend the night before a big game playing video games until midnight, don’t interfere. If they are exhausted and perform poorly, they will learn an important lesson about prioritizing their time and energy.
 Encouraging and reinforcing your teen’s strengths and abilities should instead take priority. Reminding your teen of their talents, abilities, and strengths will help them build self-esteem. Try making a habit of telling them they are good at school, sports, art, or being a good friend or family member. Building them up will help pave the way for their entry into the world as a confident adult., Your teen will be more likely to respond to constructive criticism if you have a strong relationship as your foundation. Some things you can do to improve your relationship with your teen includes:



Empathetic listening. When your teen shares something with you, don’t just acknowledge it. Try to consider their perspective and how they might be feeling. For example, if your teen shares with you about a fight she had with a friend, then she might be feeling worried, sad, frustrated, confused, or a combination of these emotions. Use this understanding to help you respond appropriately.

Trust building and respect. Offering your teen your trust and respect will help them to feel more comfortable with you. Avoid nagging your teen or constantly looking over their shoulder. Allow them to do things on their own, while also letting them know that you are there for them if they need you.

Acceptance and non-judgement. When your teen shares something personal with you, do not reject them or judge them for it. Let them know that you love and accept them no matter what.
 While it’s normal for teens to doubt themselves, teens struggling with serious self-esteem issues are at a higher risk for mental illness, suicide, and violence. Talk to your insurance provider about what mental health services are covered by your plan, and seek out a mental health provider who specializes in teen issues.

