 The more people you can round up, the better. Ghosts in the Graveyard is a game that works best with at least three players. 








You can add or subtract players as you continue to play as well. If someone wants to join in, just wait until the next round. Likewise, if someone wants to leave, that’s ok too.
Try to play with at least three people. More people will make the rounds last longer and can be more fun.
 Pick a few houses, yards, or another area in the neighborhood for the boundaries. You will also need a home base at which everyone can run to when the ghost is found.









Make sure that all players understand the boundaries of the game. You can even make the rule that if a player goes outside the boundaries that player is eliminated for a round.
Your designated safe spot, or, home base is where players run to when the ghost is found. It can be a large tree, front stoop, back patio, etc. Try to designate a spot that everyone can physically touch or stand on.
 You can do this any way you like: picking a number, asking for a volunteer, or rock, paper, scissors, etc.









If you want to pick a ghost the old fashioned way, you can have everyone form a circle with both of each player’s feet. Then one person says a rhyme while tapping one foot for each word. Each time the rhyme ends that player removes a foot. The rhyme is repeated until there is one foot left. That person is the ghost.
The rhyme could be: “Bubble Gum, bubble gum in a dish. How many pieces do you wish?” Then whoever’s foot is touched says a number. The leader counts out that number and then says “…and you are out.”

, This version of the game involves one player being the storyteller and guiding the group through the graveyard.









The storyteller is in charge of making up a spooky story. The story usually involves a group of people wandering through a graveyard at night.
You can pick the storyteller the same way you pick the ghost, or however you think is fair. If someone volunteers to be the storyteller that works too.
 The ghost and storyteller find a place for the ghost to hide.









All of the other players stand at the home base with eyes closed while the ghost and storyteller go choose a hiding place for the ghost. The storyteller needs to know where the ghost is hiding so that this player can lead the others to the ghost.
Although everyone's eyes should be closed, it's more fun if the storyteller takes a roundabout route back to home base after leaving the ghost's hiding spot. Not taking a direct path back to base will make it harder for the players to know where the ghost is.
 Once the ghost has hidden, the storyteller walks back to everyone else and starts the story. Everyone follows the storyteller.









The job of the storyteller is to lead the group through the playing area. The storyteller should not go right to the ghost.
 The storyteller tells a scary story, walking around the play area.









The storyteller can choose to tell a story without any help, slowly leading the other players to the ghost. But it can be more fun and interactive for everyone if the storyteller asks the players where to go. And then forms a story around the players' decisions.
The storyteller may start the story saying something like "A group of brave adventurers set out to search the graveyard for a ghost who was guarding a great treasure. Which way did the adventurers head first?"
Then the other players can decide together where to go and look. Once everyone agrees, the storyteller will lead the players to that area. If the ghost is not there, the storyteller can add to the story with something like "The adventurers came upon an old tombstone. The wind began to howl but upon searching it, they found nothing." This will add suspense. The storyteller can even add a clue that will help the players get closer to the ghost.
 The storyteller will eventually lead the players to the ghost. The ghost then jumps out and tries to tag two players before anyone reaches home base.









The two people who are tagged will be "it" the next round. Both players will agree who will be ghost and storyteller, respectively.
Alternatively, players can decide that the first two players who reach the home base get to be the ghost and storyteller.
If no one is tagged, then everyone will agree on a way to choose the next ghost and storyteller.

