


For a right-handed batsman, the left hand should be on the top of the handle and the right hand should be at the bottom, and vice versa.
Make a 'V' with the index finger and the thumb for both the hands.
The 'V' of the bottom hand should point straight down the center of the back of the bat.
The 'V' of the top hand should point straight down the middle of the center of the bat and the edge of the bat.
Your top hand should control the movements of your bat. This will allow you to hit every ball down the ground, limiting your chances of getting out caught.;
, This application of batting in cricket is the most varied in the international level. In spite of this variation, there is an orthodox approach to the batting stance.


Starting with your feet, they should be almost your shoulder-width apart.
Each of your feet should be on the either side of the batting crease.
Your feet should be in-line (in reference to each other) and parallel to the batting crease.
Your knees should be slightly bent. Your now have a solid base to execute your strokes.
Your head should always be in the center of your feet from side-on and over your toes from front-on.
Your bat should preferably be just less than half up for the back lift.
Your eyes should always be leveled as recent studies have found that a tilt head may result in late reaction time. So keeping your eyes level is a matter of prime importance.
 Now that you have got the basics perfect, you should now work on your defensive batting technique.


Learn the forward and the backward defense. This can prove to be very helpful in tough batting conditions or when a bowler is in his prime.

This can also help you spend time in the middle and assess the pitch.



This always is very productive because the majority of dismissals are caught out.
This can be achieved through playing as late as possible for straight-batted shots.
For cross-batted shots, you should always roll your wrists in the point of contact with the ball.
 Picking singles can help you to improve your scoring rate and it will help to keep the scoreboard ticking.


Always have the right judgement of a run. The best players in the world have a wonderful judge of a run.
 Always remember that you cannot be as good as Sachin Tendulkar over-night. This requires a lot of determination and hard-work, as far as perfection is concerned.
 Staying fit will improve your endurance and will improve your over-all performance.
 You can only enjoy the game when you are loyal to it.

