 The number of passers and outlets does not have to be even. Players more likely to outlet should mostly outlet, and the same goes for the passers. However, all players should try both positions at least a few times.Players that have experience both as a passer and outlet will have a better understanding of the difficulties facing teammates in these positions, which can improve team cohesion.
 Passers should arrange themselves in a single line starting behind the free throw line. A single outlet should stand one or two steps from the sideline on both sides of the net. Extra outlets can wait at center court.

As players execute/receive outlet passes, they should rotate turns performing the exercise. After performing, players should not do it again until everyone else has a turn.
 To set themselves up, passers should bounce a ball off the backboard. Passers should then attack the ball, jumping to retrieve it at the highest point possible. When the ball is secured, passers should look down court for an outlet while drawing the ball beneath their chin.If there is a coach or a teammate directing this drill, have this person set up passers by bouncing the ball off the backboard for the passers.
As the ball is secured, coaches and teammates should pay attention to the passer’s form and execution. Help your teammates improve with pointers and suggestions., Passers should flex their knees a little bit when they land. Their elbows should be pointed off to each side and the ball should remain under their chin. A wide stance will provide the best stability. Passers should pivot away from the basket towards the direction of the outlet., After the pivot, the passer will pass the ball to the outlet.Players should rejoin fellow passers and outlets and repeat the drill after everyone else has practiced it. Continue in this fashion to drill outlet passing.

It may speed things up if there are two or three active balls. This way, while a ball is being passed, other players can be getting ready with spare balls to quickly execute their part in the drill.