 Typically you must file your petition in the local chancery court or court of equity.If you decide to file a petition, keep in mind that both you and the other agent will be bound by the judge's decision – even if he or she doesn't rule in your favor.
When you file an equity petition, you're saying that you and the other agent cannot resolve your conflict, and you are asking a judge to listen to both sides and make a decision as to who is right and who is wrong.
Equity courts decide cases in which you are asking for an order resolving a conflict, but not asking for any monetary damages.
In some jurisdictions, this court is part of the probate court, which has jurisdiction over wills and other end-of-life matters.
Once you've found a court, make sure it's the correct one by calling the clerk or clerk and master's office. Briefly explain your situation and ask if you can file a petition in that court to resolve the conflict.
Typically you should use the court located in the same county as the principal. That court has jurisdiction over the power of attorney agreement that you and the other agent signed.
 Most courts have pre-approved forms you can use to format your petition.Equity petitions typically have a less formal structure than petitions in civil court. Apart from the caption at the top of the first page, there may not be any additional requirements.
In courts of equity, the person who files the petition is called the petitioner, while the other person is called the respondent. You aren't necessarily suing the other agent – you're simply asking the court to settle your disagreement.
If you can't find a form to fill out, ask the clerk for a copy of another petition that was filed with that court that you can use as a guide to format your petition correctly.
 Essentially, your petition explains the conflict with the court and tells the judge how you want the conflict resolved.You can write in regular paragraph form. Typically petitions are single-spaced with a double space between paragraphs.
Begin your petition by stating who you and the other agent are and why you are filing the petition. Reference the power of attorney document you both signed.
For example, you might write: "Petitioner, Sally Sunshine, is an agent for Patty Principal under the Power of Attorney agreement dated March 1, 2012. Respondent, Steven Sunshine, also is an agent for Patty Principal under the same agreement."
Next you want to explain the facts surrounding your conflict. Stick to the facts, and include as many details as you can accurately convey, including dates and locations.
For example, if you and the other agent disagree about whether the principal should be moved to a nursing home, you would want to include the date this conflict first arose, where the principal currently resides, and where the nursing home is located.
Include other facts as necessary, but don't worry about proving your case at this juncture. The judge will hear arguments from both sides at the hearing.
When you've finished your petition, add a sentence that explains what you want the judge to do. This sentence often begins "and thereupon the Petitioner prays," explains what you want from the judge, then ends "and for such other relief as may be just."
Create a line and space for your signature at the bottom of your petition.
 Often you must sign your petition in the presence of a notary public.The notary will verify your identity and that it was you who signed the petition.
Notaries typically are available at the courthouse. You also may be able to find a notary at your bank. Many banks offer notary services free of charge to their customers.
After your petition has been signed and notarized, make two copies of it. You will need to file the original with the court, so you'll need a copy for your own records and a copy to deliver to the other agent.
 Take your original and copies to the clerk and master of the court.Expect to pay a filing fee to file your petition, typically between $200 and $300. You may want to call the clerk ahead of time to find out how much the filing fee is and what forms of payment are accepted.If you're worried about your ability to pay the fees, find out if the clerk has applications for fee waivers. You will have to include information about your income and assets on this application. If you fall below the court's financial threshold, you won't have to pay filing fees.
The clerk will stamp the original and copies "filed" with the date, then give the copies back to you.
You will be responsible for having a copy served on the other agent. Typically you can get a sheriff's deputy to do this for a small fee.
 You will need documents or witnesses to support your argument.Depending on the court, you may have the opportunity to conduct discovery – this is when you ask the other side for information he or she may have about the case.
In a conflict between dual powers of attorney, any discovery probably will be quite limited as you are likely to have mostly the same information the other agent does.
You want to take with you any documents that back up your side of the dispute, and might bring witnesses such as the principal's doctor or other family members.
Make sure you bring a copy of the original power of attorney agreement.
Write up a brief statement or opening argument to present your case to the judge.
 The judge will hear both sides of the conflict and make a decision resolving the conflict.Make sure you arrive at the courthouse at least 30 minutes before the time your hearing is scheduled. This will give you enough time to pass through courthouse security and find the correct courtroom.
The judge may be hearing other cases on the same day, so take a seat in the gallery until your names are called.
Since you filed the petition, the judge will most likely want to hear from you first. Present your prepared opening statement when asked. Speak loudly and clearly so the judge can understand you.
After you finish, the judge will want to hear from the other agent. Don't interrupt or cause disruption while he or she is speaking.
Once both sides have been heard, the judge may make a decision then and there, or may want to look over things again before he or she enters an order.

