 You should not start medicating you have been assessed and properly diagnosed by a physician. Once your doctor has confirmed your diagnosis, she may suggest some different medications that you can take to help with the symptoms of a hiatal hernia. Be aware that these medications will not treat the hernia itself; rather, they will treat the GERD symptoms caused by your hernia. Antacids such as Rolaids, tums, Mylanta, and Maalox can be used before, during, or after meals to neutralize stomach acid. They come in many forms such as tablets, chewables, and liquids.You can also take H-2 blockers such as Zantac and Pepcid, which block receptors in your stomach to reduce acid production. It takes 30 to 90 minutes for the medications to take effect and it is advised to be taken before the first meal of the day. These can last up to 24 hours.Proton pump inhibitors like Nexium and Prilosec work similarly to H2 blockers by blocking glands that produce acid in the stomach. Take 30 min before your first meal of the day.All of these medications can be bought over the counter without a prescription. No matter the medication, always follow directions as labeled.
There are some fairly significant illnesses on the differential diagnosis list that have very similar symptoms to a hiatal hernia, such as esophagitis, an esophageal motility disorder, and coronary artery disease. You need to see your doctor to rule these out before attempting treatment, even with over-the-counter products.
 95% of hiatial hernias are Type 1 or sliding and these do not require surgery. 5% are other types of hiatial hernias called "paraesophageal." Patients with paraesophageal hernias who are symptomatic are recommended to have surgical repair.A paraesophageal hernia may lead to severe symptoms requiring emergent attention, such as a blockage of the passage of food, strangulation (blood supply becoming cut off to herniated tissue), perforation, and respiratory compromise., When all else fails, surgery is presented as an option. The surgeon will attempt to reduce the contents of the hernia, mobilize the esophagus, close the hiatal defect, reduce esophageal reflux and fixate the stomach. To treat a hiatal hernia, there are three types of surgeries that you may need. One type is a Nissen fundoplication, a procedure that involves a 360 degree wrap around of the stomach esophagus junction. The hiatus where the esophagus passes through is also repaired. You may also have a Belsey fundoplication, which is an operation that involves a 270 degree wrap in an attempt to reduce the incidence of gas bloating and trouble swallowing.


You may also have a Hill repair, which is a procedure where the top part of the stomach, before it becomes the esophagus, is anchored to the back of the abdomen, strengthening the anti-reflux mechanism. Some surgeons then tack the stomach down in the abdomen to prevent it from migrating upwards again.The choice depends on the surgeon's familiarity and comfort with each procedure.
 The most common type of surgical approach is laparoscopic. The surgeon uses an inserted camera probe to visualize the area and another probe to perform the surgery. This approach, as opposed to the open stomach surgery, leads to less scarring, better outcomes, and quicker recovery. Your surgeon will make three to five small cuts in your belly. A thin tube with a tiny camera, called a laparoscope, on the end is inserted through one of these cuts, while other surgical tools are inserted in the others.


The laparoscope is connected to a video monitor in the operating room. Your surgeon does the repair while viewing the inside of your belly on the monitor.
The surgery is done while you are under general anesthesia, so you are asleep and pain-free. Surgery usually takes two to three hours.