 Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are prescription painkillers that reduce inflammation. They work by inhibiting the "bad" COX-2 enzymes that mediate joint inflammation, whilst they have smaller effects on the "good" COX-1 enzymes that maintain blood flow to the kidney and stomach lining. In short, they can reduce your dog's pain and inflammation.


These drugs have a high safety margin when used correctly and are less likely to cause unpleasant side effects such as gastric ulceration and bleeding disorders when compared to other painkillers. NSAIDs that are often prescribed by veterinarians are meloxicam (Metacam), carprofen (Rimadyl), and robenacoxib (Onsior).The maintenance dose of metacam is 0.05mg/kg by mouth, with or after food, once daily. The oral suspension contains 1.5mg/ml; a typical 30kg Labrador requires 1ml daily on his food.
 Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) can provide mild to moderate pain relief. If no other pain relief is available, a healthy dog may take aspirin at the dose of 10mg/kg twice a day, with or after food. Aspirin commonly comes in 300mg tablets, so a typical dose for a 66lb Labrador would be one tablet twice a day with food.However, long term use is associated with gastric ulceration, especially when given on an empty stomach. This happens because aspirin reduces blood flow to the gut lining, stomach, and kidney. Buffered aspirin may help with this problem, but aspirin should still be used sparingly in a dog.
If your dog requires frequent doses to control its pain, ask your veterinarian to examine your dog and prescribe one of the safer NSAID’s.
Aspirin should never be given in addition to an NSAID medication. When combined, both drugs are even more likely to cause gastric ulceration with serious consequences, including sudden death.
 Acetaminophen, or Tylenol can be given to dogs. However, take care when dosing because exceeding the recommended dose overloads the liver with a toxic metabolite called N-acetyl-p-aminobenzoquinonimine, which can cause liver damage, and ultimately liver failure.The dose is 10mg/kg by mouth, twice a day, with or after food. Most tablets are 500mg and so a 66 pound Labrador can take a maximum of three-fifths of a tablet twice daily. If in doubt, always give a lower dose.
For small dogs, only use the children’s suspension to avoid overdosing the dog.

