 While performing your surveillance, you'll want any and every notable feature of your normal appearance disguised in some way. Looking in the mirror, write down any features of yours that you believe might draw attention, and also any feature that you've been complimented on or that others might think prominent.


For example, bright red or platinum blonde hair might make you more memorable and easier to spot, which is the last thing you want while performing surveillance.
Features of yours that are complimented by others are generally unique, and these might be used to identify you if you don't make efforts at concealment.
 One of the first things people notice when looking at someone else is skin tone. By changing the color of your skin with the right self-tanning product or a little powder, you can make yourself look more nondescript. Aim for a color that you might describe as "plain" or "unremarkable."


Whatever changes you make to your face must be applied to other visible parts of your body. If you only apply self-tanner to your face, you might stick out more than you did before altering your skin tone.
 Before you go out on your mission, research what others will be wearing. If you're attending a formal event or a dinner at a nice restaurant, fancier dress is in order. But if your operation takes place at a cartoon character convention, you might blend in better with a graphic t-shirt and a pair of jeans.
 Although seven inch heels might match your elegant gown during your infiltration at a political event, these may be a liability if your cover is blown and you have to make a break for it. The same goes for men in wing-tipped shoes or other dress footwear; smooth soled shoes might make traversing a roof, a time-honored spy tradition, treacherous.


Take your time finding footwear that matches your disguise and is also highly functional in various environments.
 A purse with a hidden pouch is an excellent way to smuggle around important spy tools, like a set of lock-picks or infrared sensor revealing spray. Men dressed in suits and ties might look less natural wearing a backpack loaded with mission equipment, but stashing this backpack in an accessible hiding spot at your mission location can put valuable tools at your disposal.
 Have a simple story ready that explains who you are and why you are at the mission location. This will come in handy if someone engages you in conversation while you are on mission. Try not to make up any tall tales or include any personal details. Your goal is to be as ordinary and unmemorable as possible.

