 This step is important.;
, This includes your: breath, body, clothes, shoes, bag, backpack, your purse and if you want to go even farther, spray a little perfume in your notebooks (if you go to school) that way, if someone wants to borrow a page or copy some notes, then it will smell like perfume, not like old books.
 Use mirrors! Make sure you don't have anything in your teeth, anything around your mouth, sleep in your eyes, sloppy makeup, or dirt under your finger nails. Clean out your ears! People really do see the inside of your ears, even if you have long hair. Also clean the back of your neck and behind your ears.
 Because no matter how clean you look if your clothes are dingy and you haven't washed your hair then you'll be a walking contradiction. You know? You won't look clean if you have greasy hair, if you have dry flakes in your hair, if you have rips or stains on your clothes, or if you have an excessive amount of dirt on your shoes.
 Whiten your teeth, get those braces and brush 2 to 3 times a day. (use mouthwash and floss too.)Do whatever you have to do to feel confident in your smile. It's your most important asset as far as nonverbal communication goes. It shows when you're happy, angry, sad, scared, or even when you're in pain. Also.
 Girl your eyes are truly the window to your soul. (but we'll get to the soul later on.) Wear makeup to play up your eye color and lengthen your eyelashes. Put Vaseline or Olive Oil on them at night to help them grow. The moisture will help them flourish. Another thing to play up your eyes is learning how to smile.
 It's actually not always about the clothes! On my bum days (sweats and slippers baby) I'm most comfortable, and therefore the people around me are more comfortable with me too. But when I'm in my jeans, gym shoes, and t-shirt I am uncomfortable, ergo people are less comfortable around me. The moral of this story is, wear what you're comfortable with. If you love high heels but you're tripping over yourself then learn to love flats. So I don't really recommend doing a wardrobe overhaul.
 Why? Because high pitched things irritate the ears. Squeaky voices aren't attractive and happen to be annoying so if you have a high pitched voice or have a tendency to have an overexcited voice then aim to lower the pitch. You don't have to sound like a surfer, just like a person with some gorgeous things to say.
 Be comfortable in your own skin. Love yourself. There are many ways to say this but it all boils down to how you feel about yourself. You can only attract things/people that are like you. So if you have a low-self esteem you're going to attract people who are going to want to take advantage of you, or OTHER people who have a low self esteem, like you. So if you love yourself then what? Get it?

, Don't take too many things too seriously. And even if something does catch your attention and you want to acknowledge it then do that in private, but in front of other people just let it roll of your shoulder.
 Have some type of flaw about you that you and others find attractive. For instance, if you snort when you laugh, only snort around your closest friends. Then when you find other people that you want to reveal that cute quirk to, then that will be something that you two can share.
 Don't share too much too fast, with anyone! Not even your best friend. Practice in private so that you can shine in public, and be abnormally well prepared. Don't ever show off though. But if you're well prepared, then when the time is right, you'll be ready. Hone your skills and talents and evolve them as much as you can and be humble when you're praised for them. This will help you to become gorgeous on the inside too!

,, Get into nature and savor that, but also recognize the good things in other people. To be gorgeous you have to know what gorgeous is. So if you see something that another girl or boy does that you think is cool, sexy etc. then don't hate on them. Make a mental note of that thing and add it to your own sexy arsenal.

