 On holiday, you won’t be pressed for time in the morning, so you can take extra steps to make your morning fulfilling and set a good tone for the day.


Wake up at your normal time.It can be tempting to sleep in during holidays, but waking up at your normal time provides your body with the much-needed consistency to establish healthy sleep. Instead, allow yourself extra time to get out of bed. Spend a few more minutes scrolling through your phone.
Make a hearty breakfast.Cook something you love but normally don’t have time to make, like pancakes or French toast, or try making something new like eggs benedict or a soufflé.
If you drink coffee or tea, take the time to sit down and savor it.Instead of breakfast at home, you could also make a special trip to a local restaurant or bakery for something special. Eat it there, or bring it home.;
, Napping is a luxury you probably don’t have during a normal work week, and it won’t cost you a dime.Plan out when you want to nap and how long you want to nap. Write it in your planner. This makes napping an activity and something you can look forward to, instead of something that can feel like a waste of precious holiday time.
Make it luxurious.Dab some lavender essential oil on your wrists.Put on your favorite pajamas. Pull the curtains, sip some tea, and wear your favorite pajamas and a sleep mask.
 Don’t feel like you have to constantly be participating in activities on your day off. Schedule some time for zen.


Simply spend some time meditating, or use a calming activity like coloring as meditation.You can find adult coloring templates online free or in the magazine section at the store.Do simple yoga. Even fifteen minutes can help you feel relaxed and centered. You can look up classes in your area, or try a class online.If you’re not a fan of yoga, going for a walk is another way to relax.Walk around your neighborhood, or go walk on a nearby hiking trail or green way.



Create a specific time in the day and amount of time to use technology during your holiday. This will help you keep your connection in check.
Focus on creating time for other things, like reading or drawing.

