
It makes notes on each end of your range more accessible.
It helps you sing in tune.
It empowers you to sing longer without fatigue.
It is based on low breathing, and thinking a constant line of air.
It uses word images to help you naturally access good placement without the tension which comes from trying to manipulate various parts of the anatomy directly.
It tires the brain, but not the voice.
It will train you to recognize your good singing apart from mere sound (since acoustics are variable and deceptive) by bodily sensation plus visual cues in the mirror.
It will not push the chest voice (where most people speak) into an uncomfortable or range (where the physics work against you, producing tension), but uses the head voice for higher notes.
It connects from the head voice downward to make a seamless and large vocal range that matches from top to bottom, possibly using the downward siren to teach this element.
It produces volume (loudness) from breath equilibrium, facial vitality, and vowel shape, never from forcing.
It helps young voices develop healthy singing habits but doesn't push them to sound like adults in volume or timbre.
It provides clear, attainable, stepwise objectives, so you know what is expected and how to get there.
It uses positive instruction and affirmation, not discouragement.
Following it gives you a good chance of singing better at age 50 than you did at age 21.;
, There are many limits to learning vocal technique from online advice:

A good voice teacher teaches each student a bit differently based on their needs and the way they respond to his directives. Though you can learn some basics from "reading up" or videos online, the approach will not be tailored to your needs. If you really must use only online material, then you should read many sources, using only those that work for you.
Many who give vocal advice online are not accredited teachers, and may be entirely untrained in healthy singing technique and teaching strategies. Professional vocal teachers will differ in how they approach the voice, and the style of singer they hope to produce. Find a teacher that is a good match for your desires and learning style.
If possible, seek one in the music department at a good university. Many music theater singers are taught to push the chest voice fairly high. If you take from a music theater professor, check with them about how they teach regarding the chest voice. In either department, ask around to see who is producing the best students, and ask if you may audition for them. Another option is to seek out excellent singers with music degrees, such as school teachers, who take a few students. If possible, attend a recital or master class to get a glimpse of their results.
If you are under age 18, enroll in choral music at your school, especially if the music teacher has a degree in vocal music. Start learning piano now, because the best voice teachers only take students who play well enough to learn their own songs without help. Piano instruction is more important than vocal instruction for anyone under age 18 who wants to be a singer.

