 Sciatic pain can be caused by many conditions of the lower back and spine. Your doctor will know how to test you for these conditions. The types of tests and examinations your doctor chooses will depend on your symptoms and state of health, but may include both simple physical examinations, as well as imaging techniques such as an X-ray or MRI. Be as detailed as you can when describing your symptoms to your doctor, as this will help them determine which tests to perform.Common causes include: herniated or slipped disc, piriformis syndrome, spinal stenosis, or spondylolisthesis., Normally, sciatic pain dissipates after a few weeks. If your doctor determines that surgery is not needed, they may still recommend medications to provide relief from the pain while you recover from your sciatica. Typical choices include:Oral steroids, which provide powerful anti-inflammatory effects, reducing inflammation and irritation in the region surrounding the sciatic nerve.
Muscle relaxants or narcotic pain medication to reduce pain.
 Steroid injections work much like oral steroid medications, temporarily reducing inflammation and irritation surrounding your sciatic nerve. Injections are more invasive than regular medication, but are also more effective. Your doctor may recommend steroid injections if your pain is sufficiently severe., Sciatic pain can be caused by a variety of factors and conditions, most of which do not require surgery to fix. When sciatic pain is due to discs or bones in the spine physically contacting and "pinching" the sciatic nerve, however, your doctor may recommend surgery to correct the problem. Two types of surgery are most common:For herniated discs (this is when the discs that cushion the important movements of the spine develop a weak area and the inner core pushes out), microdiscectomy may be performed. In this procedure, the piece of the herniated disc which is in contact with, and irritating, the nerve is removed.
For lumbar spinal stenosis (narrowing of the discs of the spine causing them to "pinch" the nerve), lumbar laminectomy may be recommended. This is a more serious surgery in which the disc is reshaped to allow the nerve to rest comfortably once again.
 After your doctor has recommended medication, and potential surgical solutions for your sciatic pain, they may recommend that you begin working with a physical therapist. Your therapist will help you learn exercises and stretching routines to strengthen your core, and support your spine. Creating strength and stability in the lower spine is the first step to permanent relief from sciatic pain., Many sufferers of sciatica find that treatment by a chiropractor helps to relieve their pain. Although more research is required to confirm the effectiveness of chiropractic care, recent studies have shown promising results for many patients with sciatica., If traditional treatment methods have failed to alleviate your sciatic pain, talk to your doctor about less typical options. Here are some suggestions of alternative therapies to talk to your doctor about:Therapeutic massage to relieve tension and inflammation
Yoga classes, to promote core strength and flexibility
Cognitive behavioral therapy to teach strategies for pain management
Acupuncture, or other traditional therapeutic methods

