 You can download 4 Pics 1 Word through the Apple App store or the Android Market on Google Play. Alternatively, you can play a desktop version as long as you have a Facebook account.


No matter how you play the game, you will need to have a Facebook account to play. Once you install the app, you will be asked to log into your Facebook account before you play. While 4 Pics 1 Word is technically a single-player game, you can interact with your Facebook friends through the game.
Download the game for your iPhone or iPad here: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/4-pics-1-word/id595558452?mt=8&ign-mpt=uo%3D2

Download the game for your Android here: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.lotum.whatsinthefoto.us

Get started with the game by going to this website: http://www.4pics1word.com
;
, Once you start the game, you will be shown a screen with four photographs. These four photographs each have something in common. Sometimes it will be obvious, while other times, it can actually be fairly hard to guess. This is especially true of later levels.


The puzzles are somewhat randomized, but you can expect to find most of the easier ones early on and more of the harder ones in progressive levels.
One example puzzle has two photographs of women with their arms in the air and two others of the sea. The common thread in this puzzle is "wave," which is the answer you will need to type in to pass the level.
 Below the pictures, you will see blank spaces indicating how many letters are in the answer. Below that, there will be a scrambled keyboard of possible letters you can select from when typing in your guess for the answer. Tap on these letters to spell out the word you believe to be the answer.The answer to the puzzle is the common theme between the four photographs.
Note that you will be provided with more letters than necessary. This is not simply a scrambler-type game.
When you answer the question correctly, you will be rewarded with three coins and can progress to the next level.
 After you pass through the first five levels, you will be asked to rate 4 Pics 1 Word. A pop-up will appear stating that if you like the app, you can give them a 5-star rating and earn an extra 150 coins.


If you want to get the coins, you will need to click on the "Rate now!" button and give the app five stars.
You can also choose "Remind me later" if you want to wait until you have played the game a little longer or "No, thank you" if you do not want to give the rating. Not providing a five-star rating will mean that you will not get the 150 coins, of course.
The coins come in handy for later levels, and you will need them for the cheat/help buttons when you get stumped on some of the harder puzzles.
 The "cheat" or "help" button looks like a small bomb and is located in the bottom right corner of the screen. Pressing it will give you two options that can help you complete the puzzle.


The first option you have is to remove some of the available letters, thereby making it easier to guess the puzzle. Doing so will cost you 90 coins, though.
The second option you have is to reveal one of the letters in the answer, which can also help clue you in about the correct word. This will cost you 60 coins.
 Once you successfully solve the puzzle for each level, you will win the game. The app will offer you a congratulatory message and be done.


At this point in time, there will be no further puzzles for you to access. Wait until the app gets an upgrade to see if more puzzles have been added at that time.
 If you are stumped on a puzzle, you can take advantage of the fact that the game uses your Facebook log-in by tapping on the Facebook icon in the lower right corner of the screen.


This will automatically generate a post featuring a screenshot of the post you are currently stuck on. Click on the "Share" button to post it to your timeline.
You can also include your own comments about the puzzle, explaining why you need help, which guesses have not worked, and so on. Provide your friends with as much information as possible to help them help you.
You will need to be logged into the Facebook app on your phone or tablet for this to work. If you are playing the game on your desktop, you should already be logged into Facebook since you are using it to play the game.
This is the extent of social interaction you can find in the game. You cannot compete with others or play the game directly with others.



Coins cost $0.99 for 350, $1.99 for 750, $4.99 for 2000, $9.99 for 4500, and $19.99 for 10000.
Note that this is the only feature that costs money to use. All other features are free, and the game is also a free download. Moreover, the app remains ad-free.
It is a wise idea to do this selectively. Since there are other options you can use to help complete 4 Pics 1 Word levels, spending money on coins is usually unnecessary.
On the other hand, if you find yourself stuck and with nowhere else to turn, you can use this option, but it is recommended that you buy the lowest amount. If you need to buy more after this, then you can consider one of the higher amounts, since those come at a better bargain.
 As the game has grown in popularity, so has the number of resources for those looking for a little extra help. In particular, there are a wide variety of websites that will provide you with hints and answers to the puzzles you get stumped on.


4 Pics 1 Word Answers allows you to look at hints for the puzzle before reading the answer, if you desire to do so. The hints are text descriptions of the actions and subjects of the photos.
Several websites ask you to enter all the letters in the puzzle and to select the amount of letters in the answer. The website will then generate all possible answers using those letters without ever looking at the photos in the puzzle. Websites like this include 4 Pics 1 Word Cheats (http://4pics1wordcheats.com/).
Other websites provide answer to each puzzle according to the number of words in the answer. These websites include 4 Pics 1 Word Cheats (http://www.4pics1wordcheats.net/).
Similarly, VGChartz (http://www.vgchartz.com/article/251147/4-pics-1-word-answers-cheats-and-hints/) will provide you with puzzle answers split into level categories.

