 Before you commit to owning a Golden Retriever, you should learn a little about the breed to make sure their personality fits with your lifestyle and expectations for a pet.


Golden Retrievers are very popular dogs. They are the 3rd most popular dog breed in the US and much of this is due to their friendly nature. They are a highly adaptable breed and can be comfortable in a rural or urban setting. They do need daily exercise, however, usually in the form of a walk or a run.Golden Retrievers are good family dogs and do well with children. They also tend to be highly trainable and behave amicably with other pets. The one downside is they do not always do well when left along for long periods, so crate training may take extra time.Golden Retrievers are generally well behaved, but they do sometimes act out if they're not getting enough attention. As they are highly social, they need a lot of interaction to stay happy. If you work a lot and have a busy schedule, you may want to consider a different, more independent breed.;
, If you have your heart set on a puppy, you need to stop and consider the time commitment behind owning a young dog.


When you get a puppy, you will need to train him for basic behaviors like house breaking, leash manners, and crate training. This takes a great deal of time and patience, so make sure you have free time throughout the day to dedicate to training sessions.
Puppies also need more vet appointments during the first year for vaccinations. Even if your puppy has already certain shots, many vaccinations come in multiple rounds. Make sure you have the time and money for extra vet trips.
As puppies do not have as full an understanding of boundaries as adult dogs, you'll need to puppy-proof your house before bringing a puppy to your home. That means keeping food, breakable materials, and other items you do not want chewed on or soiled out of the puppy's reach until he's fully trained.
 While owning a puppy can be a fun experience, if you do not feel up to the commitment consider taking in an adult dog. Many people are hesitant to adopt if they want a specific breed, but there are Golden Retriever rescues across the country.


Rescues take in Golden Retrievers that have been abandoned by previous owners or rescued from bad pet stores and puppy mills and seek to find permanent homes. Qualifications for adoption vary between rescues, but the application process can be somewhat lengthy. However, the good news is adoption fees for rescued goldens are generally lower than for puppies from breeders.Many people want to go through a rescue for ethical reasons, but still want a puppy. While it is not impossible to secure a puppy through a rescue, it is not highly likely and there may be a very long wait. If you want a puppy, your best bet is to go through a reputable breeder. If you're dedicated to adopting through a rescue, open yourself up to adopting an older dog.