 Focusing your mind on your breathing and controlling your breath can help you calm down. Deep breathing helps you get more oxygen to your body, which helps reduce the stress response. Take a moment to breathe after a stressful event.You should breathe from your belly instead of chest. Place your hand on your belly. Inhale. Your abdomen should be expanding instead of your chest rising. When you exhale, your belly will flatten as it deflates.
Breathe in through your nose and exhale through your mouth. Breathe slowly in a controlled manner.
You may want to try counting as you breathe. As you inhale, count to five, then as you exhale, count to five.
 Meditation is a common way to calm down and relieve stress. Meditation is the relaxation technique of easing your mind and body by focusing your thoughts. You can meditate anywhere and it doesn’t take a lot of time.One way to meditate is to get comfortable, steady your breathing, and focus on the present. Pay attention to the way your body feels and the thoughts in your head. Don’t judge anything you observe in your body and mind. Be neutral as you acknowledge the feelings. Be present in the moment and accept this is where you are right now.
You can repeat a word or phrase over and over to yourself.
Choose an object to be the focus of your attention. As you breathe deeply and focus on the present, you think about the object. What is the object, where did it come from, what does it mean? Appreciate the object for what it is.
 Progressive muscle relaxation is a relaxation technique where you tense and relax muscles in your body. This helps you release tension in your body, focus your mind, and ultimately calm down.Get into a relaxed position. This works really well while lying down and wearing loose clothing. Start by taking a few slow breaths to center yourself.
Start with your right foot. Slowly and deliberately, tense the muscles in your foot and hold as you count to 10. Then relax your foot and feel the tension leaving your body as those muscles relax and loosen. Take a few breaths.
Now, do the same thing with your left foot. Continue doing the same thing as you travel up your body. Go from right calf to left calf, then right thigh and left thigh, the hips and glutes, abdomen, chest, back, right arm, left arm, right hand, left hand, neck, shoulders, and face.
 Body scan meditation is a technique where you focus your attention to each part of your body. You don’t do anything, like relaxing and tension in progressive muscle relaxation. You just bring awareness to your body and how you feel.Lie down in a comfortable position and focus on your breathing. Just breathe for about two minutes.
Focus on each part of your body separately, starting with your right foot. Notice any feelings in your body as you breathe deeply and evenly. Do this with each side and each separate body part, spending a few minutes really focusing on that body part.
When you have scanned your entire body, spend a few minutes focusing on how your body feels and breathing before opening up your eyes.
 Visualization, also called guided imagery, is a meditative technique where you imagine yourself in a calmer, happier place. You should use all five senses when visualizing. Guided imagery helps you focus your mind, find peace, and let go of stress. This can help you calm down if you have experienced a stressful situation.Choose an image or place that makes you happy. It could be a beach, a forest trail, or your favorite spot as a child.
Use as many senses as you can. Imagine in detail what the scene looks like. If you are imagining a beach, think about the sound of the waves rolling in, the smell of the salt on the air, the feel of the sun and breeze on your skin.
You should do this in a quiet place if possible.

