 Part of the experience of being in a network is the reality that sometimes people will decline to help you, they might even snub you, or they just don't have the time for you. Rather than giving up, be politely persistent. Where a network contact cannot help you, ask them if they know of somebody else who can.;
, If you're trying to be all things to all people at once, you'll eventually wear down and make mistakes. It is better to cultivate networks with a view to including those that you know you can help and those who are likely to be of greatest help to you. This doesn't mean ignoring everyone else; it is simply a choice of how to best allocate your time and resources. If you do get overwhelmed by professional or personal life issues, it is polite to just let your contacts know that you are very busy or out of action temporarily but that you'll be back soon enough and ready to pitch in as usual when things have smoothed over If you don't keep people informed, they may feel let down and will let go of you.
 If you agree to every request, answering people's requests will become your new business! Trying to be there for everyone is a recipe for failure and burn-out. Learn to be assertive and politely decline the things you know that you don't have time for, or lack the ability/resources to do. Saying no isn't the end of the world; it's a way of creating boundaries that people soon learn to respect. In fact, people often admire a person who knows when to say know and they'll respect you for knowing when you can help out. Your dependability will be better for it.
 The flip side of not being able to say no is never knowing when to stop asking for too much help. People will become exhausted of a demanding and needy networker and will start to see your approaches as a nuisance and even rude. Always give back when you have received help and advice, so that the relationships remain equal and reciprocated. Value ongoing relationships and trust your own judgment and you will be able to resist making demands all the time.
 Help mentor others once you feel able to share your business experiences. Give speeches, hold events, and create networking opportunities for others as a way of giving back to the business community that helped you on your way.

