 This is very important. Always watch to see how the other person looks at you. If he or she is staring at you, he or she obviously finds you attractive and interesting, which is good. But if the person just glances at you, they could be showing they just want to be friends and that they aren't looking for anything else but friendship.Be aware that this is very individual to the person's personality type. For example, it's possible that a shy person likes you but doesn't make eye contact because they are nervous or even flirting. However, sustained eye contact is usually a good sign.
A person who is a friend won't look at you the same way as someone who is interested in you. A person who is interested in you basically can't take his/her eyes off you, and maybe even has a little smile on his/her face while he/she does that.
Look at them and have a small conversation. If the person really likes you, he or she will be looking at your lips. But if they finish the conversation and look away, they might think of you as just being a friend. If they stare at you for 2-3 seconds, you are an option; if they stare at you longer, they like you. Try looking into their eyes when they speak or moving yourself slightly closer to them. If they copy your movements, there's a chance they are interested in you.
 Lovers are more intimate than friends are, and the key way this is accomplished is through physical touch, even incidentally.How does the person hug you? A friend hugs you quickly and maybe talks to you while doing it. A lover hugs you for a little while, but maybe not too long because they may not want to be too obvious.
Also some might even put their hands in your hair (or play with their own). This is a way that women especially show a man they are interested.
A lover would always be a romantic, either touching/tapping you on the arm or flirting and giving out signs constantly in hope that you would listen. Lovers are closer, touching wise, sharing wise, and generally in spending time together. Lovers don't require as much personal space.
A friend may either try to cheer you up or maybe he or she will just sit with you and let you talk it out then watch a movie or two with you while eating your favorite food. A lover will do the same thing as a friend, most likely, but he or she might put an arm around you. You might think they're doing it just comfortingly, but they might mean it in a different way.
 There are many cues that will help you assess whether someone is interested in you or not.


Signs of open body language include their feet pointing toward you and not away, their body facing you or leaning toward you, not much space between you, strong eye contact, and the arms not folded across the chest. Open palms is another sign of positive or open body language.Signs of closed body language (indicating disinterest) include feet pointing away from you, body tilted away, lots of space between you, shifting eye contact, hands down, and folded arms.