


Cut small sprigs of blue pine, removing the bottom 2cm / 1 inch of needles.
You can either trim the needles with scissors or remove them with your fingers.
Cut 30 sprigs of berried ivy.;
, Begin with positioning the berried ivy on top of the oasis ring.


Always dress the oasis ring in the same direction.
This demonstration shows the design going in an anti-clockwise direction. This design gives a sense of movement and makes coverage of the oasis ring easier.
Place sprigs of blue pine both inside and outside the ring. Place the berried ivy on top, and weave blue pine in amongst the ivy.
, Twist the wires together, leaving two prongs facing outwards that you can stab into the oasis ring.
 Pull both ends of the wire together and twist together 2 or 3 times.


Again leave two prongs to feed into the oasis ring. When pushing in the wire, ensure that half of the apples will show the bottom and the rest will show the top.
Repeat this until all 12 apples are wired.



Bundle together three of the short lengths of cinnamon and tie this together with raffia.
Feed the raffia in between the sticks. Wind it around a couple of times to secure the bundle.
Tie the raffia with a double knot. Cut the raffia to 4 cm / 2" lengths.
 Simply feed one piece of stub wire under the raffia. Ensure that it is positioned at the opposite side to the knot. Twist the wire three times, leaving two prongs sticking out. Cut the wire to 8 cm / 3" lengths.
 The arrangement will be in four groups consisting of: one cone, three apples and two cinnamon bundles.


First place the pine cones. Be sure to feel that the prongs reach into the polystyrofoam base, otherwise the pine cones may pop out when hung on the door.
Add three apples around the cone and two bundles of cinnamon. The groups should be added to both the top and sides of the oasis ring. Space the groups into 4 sections, evenly placed.
Continue placing these items until all four groups are complete.
 The hairpins will hold the ribbon in place.
 It's recommended to use wired ribbon.


Starting 10cm /4" from the end of the ribbon, gather the ribbon between the thumb and forefinger and feed a hairpin either side of the ribbon.
Begin weaving the ribbon from inside the ring of the oasis. Loop the ribbon over the oasis and pin it onto the outside of the ring.
Arrange the ribbon where you like it. Allow it to loop and weave through the wreath. Pin it behind an apple here, a cinnamon bundle there, scrunching as you go. The more variety, the more the eye moves over the wreath, giving a rich abundant feeling for Christmas. When you get to the end, cut the ribbon next to the last hairpin.
 Using 2 meters / 2 yards of ribbon, tie a knot around the oasis ring.
