 Start your dog search at your local humane or animal rescue society to see what dogs are available. These groups are very good at making sure all animals in their care are in the best possible health.


Most shelters give their dogs a complete examination by a veterinarian and vaccinations.
Humane societies will not knowingly adopt out a sick dog and frequently will take one back within a few days if he becomes ill. Many will also give you free medication for illnesses discovered right after adoption.There are breed-specific rescues, too, from Chihuahuas to pit bulls to greyhounds.;
, If you have your heart set on a particular breed, you will need to turn to a breeder to find a dog. Contact local dog clubs in your area or talk to your veterinarian for suggestions of reputable breeders in your area.You can also contact the major dog breeding organizations or dog showing organizations in your area for suggestions. They usually have lists of approved breeders online for you to look over.
 An important thing to ask the breeder is about inherited diseases in the dog’s parents. Some common inherited diseases in dogs that can cause big health problems and expensive veterinary bills include hip dysplasia, abnormal tooth position, retained testicles, and some autoimmune diseases. Breeders should be able to offer veterinary proof that the parents are free of these diseases.


The Humane Society of the United States has a checklist of questions to ask a breeder. (You can find it here.)Print this off and take it with you to make sure all bases are covered. Responsible breeders will welcome your questions. They should want to make sure their animals are going to live with responsible owners, so don’t be shy about bringing the checklist.
Before you meet with a breeder do a little research. You should become familiar with the inheritable diseases that can be problems for the breed in which you're interested., You should get at least a week’s “money back guarantee” from the breeder. Some rescues will give you this guarantee as well, while some will take a dog back but will not give you a full refund.


A good breeder should be interested in placing her dogs in the right home. This means that you should be able to return a dog to a breeder, health problems or not, if it just turns out to be the wrong dog for your family., You will want to look at the dog’s health records and veterinarian examination findings. If a breeder can't give you these, it's a good sign that you should walk away from the situation.
 Regardless of where you find that “perfect” dog, you will need to spend a minimum of two hours with her before you commit to adopting her. Play with her to gauge her personality or try taking her for a walk to see how she deals with the world.One big issue with adult dogs is bad behaviors. You will want to make sure the dog is friendly to you, that she doesn’t have any bad habits (like biting or growling at you), and make sure you are generally comfortable with the dog.
If you are unsure after a few hours with the dog then sleep on the decision. Don't adopt the dog if you have misgivings. Instead, come back the next day and assess the dog again., Look at the dog closely as you play and interact with him. Check the following:Ears: Dirty ears may indicate an infection or ear mites. There should be no redness or foul odor to the ears.
Teeth: The teeth should be clear from any tartar or calculus (brown residue sticking to the teeth starting at the gum line). In dogs over five years of age, there may be a small amount of tartar on the big canine teeth and the teeth may be stained yellow. However, the gums, particularly where they meet the teeth, should not be reddened or swollen.
Nose: The nose should not have any discharge, however it can be wet from the dog licking. The dog should not sneeze or cough.
Eyes: The eyes should be bright and have no discharge from them or around them.
Coat: The coat should be clean and shiny. It can be a bit dusty or have some mud if dog has been playing outside but that should wipe off easily. Part the hair and look at the skin. It should be clear and smooth. Any redness or itchiness or evidence of fleas should alert you to poor care.
Body: The body should be strong even on tiny breeds. They should not be thin with protruding bellies. This can indicate an untreated worm infestation or more serious problems, like heart issues.
Desexing: The dog should be spayed (female) or neutered (male). If not, make sure the dog will be spayed or neutered within a month after bringing her or him into your home.
 There are other things to look for when assessing a potential pet's health. These include:Firm stool: Loose stool or stool around the rear end may indicate diarrhea. Ask to see the dog’s toileting area to make sure the stool is firm and to make sure the owner cleans up after his dog.
Excessive licking: A dog that licks his or her genital area often, especially a female dog, may have a urinary tract infection.
 If you do decide the dog is healthy and friendly enough to take with you, you will want to take her (and her health records) to your veterinarian within three days for an exam. During this exam the dog should get her vaccinations updated, a heartworm test, and have her stool checked for worms and parasites.It's also a good idea to start the relationship with a veterinarian before a real emergency arises.
 Many of the really bad health problems in dogs come from too much inbreeding. In an attempt to keep breeds "pure," dog breeders have increased the likelihood of certain debilitating problems. To avoid many of these inbred congenital problems, adopt a dog that is a mix of several breeds.There can be some downsides to adopting a mixed-breed dog. The biggest of these is that you don't always know what breeds your dog is. This means that you may not know how big he is going to get or what his general temperament might be.
 Many health problems appear when a dog is very young or very old. If you want a better chance of getting a healthy dog, try getting a dog that is a couple years old. This means that the dog has passed adolescence but still has a number of years until she is considered a senior dog.Adopting an adult dog has the added benefit that you will know what kind of personality the dog has when you adopt her. The dog has matured already and should be more emotionally mature than a puppy.
 If you are concerned about health problems in a dog but you still want a purebred dog, pick a breed that is known to have few problems. Some argue that dog breeds that are bred for a job instead of looks, such as fox hounds being bred for hunting, are generally healthier.Breeders don't have to keep such specific physical traits in mind when picking breeding pairs, allowing for a wider breeding stock.


Working dogs, such as Australian cattle dogs, foxhounds, German shorthaired pointers, and border collies are all generally healthy breeds. This does not, however, mean that if you adopt one it will never get sick. Be aware that even these purebreds are associated with problems, such as hip dysplasia in border collies. Always research the breed first, so that you are aware of the potential problems.

