 If you want to be able to make your man happy sexually, then you have to know how to touch him to turn him on. Each man is different, but there are a lot of places where almost any man would like to be touched to get him in the mood. Here are a few love locations to try:


Touch him behind his ear or whisper into his ear, letting your lips graze his inner ear.
Kiss the front and back of his neck, nibbling on it just the tiniest bit.
Give him a sensual shoulder massage and see if it leads to something more.
Gently caress the back of his head when you're kissing.
Place a hand on the small of his back when you're talking.
Plant a hand firmly on his chest.
 If you want to make your man happy sexually, then you can't do the same old thing every time. You should be willing to experiment and to try new positions -- as long as you feel comfortable doing it. If you're always kissing in the same position, with him on top of you, try switching it around so you're the one on the bottom -- and the same goes for sex.


Not every new thing you try will feel great -- but be open to the process. You can go back to your old favorite positions and try new things in the middle.
Let him lead the way. He may have an idea of what he wants. If not, you can try something new first.
 If you want to keep your man happy, then you shouldn't just hook up in the same part of your bed every time. Instead, try moving around your home or apartment and exploring every nook and cranny with your bodies. Don't be afraid to try hooking up outside the home, whether you check into a hotel in your town or take a romantic vacation.


Don't underestimate the good old movie theatre make out. Kissing in the car is another old favorite.
Get frisky in public. Find a deserted and romantic location and have fun with your man.
 To please your man sexually, you have to be adventurous. This means being unafraid to go new places and to try new things whenever the mood strikes you. To be adventurous, you should be willing to try new things, from skinny dipping to kissing on the beach, or even to settling in for a long night of love making on a weekend hike.


Don't think of reasons not to try something new -- instead, think of all the reasons why it would be fun.
Take an unexpected weekend vacation. Point your finger on the map and drive to the place you've chosen. Have fun exploring the new spot -- and each other's bodies.
 Being bold is another way to make your man happy sexually. To be bold, you have to let your man know what you want when you want it. Take charge for a night and drag your man into the bedroom, telling him exactly what to do. Or turn to him in the middle of a party or crowded bar and whisper "I want you," in his ear, telling him that it's time to go home and hook up pronto.


Your man will appreciate your audacity and frankness and it'll turn him on even more.
If you're in the mood, just go for it. If you get that loving feeling when your man is in the shower, just sneak in there and join him for a soap session.
 Your man will love it if you're raunchy from time to time. To be raunchy, you can't be afraid to push the limits of your sexuality. Here are a few ways that you can be raunchy:


Go to a sex store and pick up some whips, sex toys, and sexy clothing, no matter how ridiculous it may be.
Invest in some incredibly sexy see-through lingerie.
Have fun talking dirty over the phone or text to make your man think of you when you're not there. He'll love it.

