 If he’s a shy guy, then he’s probably uncomfortable in large groups of people, especially those he doesn’t know.


That’s especially true of the girlfriends of the girl he might secretly like (you). You’ll have to get him to open up to you by flirting with him one-on-one.
Shy guys are going to withdraw more if you always come around hanging with a pack of girlfriends. Separate from the herd!Approach him in a setting where your flirting won’t be on display: by his locker room, as he’s walking to his car, and so forth, not in the lunchroom where he’s also sitting with others. If he’s an older shy guy out of high school, the same applies.
 To , don’t make it too obvious. There’s no magic equation you need to know or master. Just be yourself.


That means being friendly with him in a casual way, by approaching him and saying hi or striking up a conversation about an area of mutual interest.
You could mention a particularly tough homework assignment or, if he’s older, a sports team’s loss or victory (if he’s interested in that).
The goal here is to not act too obvious with your flirting. Flirting is really about showing interest in another person, and with a shy guy, you should start low key and friendly.
 All of this is well and good, but one of the most difficult parts of flirting with a shy guy is trying to figure out whether he’s interested in you.


If he gets nervous around you, by stammering or blushing or the like, he’s probably interested in you.If he asks your friends about you, that’s a sign of interest.Pay attention to his body language back. Does he use open body language to indicate he’s receptive to the flirting? A shy guy might feel intimidated around you.
If he teases you, jokes, or acts silly around you, he probably likes you. This is a way that shy guys cover their unease and embarrassment. He might be shy but that doesn’t necessarily mean he’s an introvert. Introverts are personality types who gain energy through being alone.
If he goes silent around you, it’s not necessarily a sign of disinterest from a shy guy. The more he actually likes you, the more uneasy he will feel around you.
 Don’t give up on a shy guy too soon. It’s going to take a bit longer for him to pick up on and then acknowledge your cues.It may very well be worth it in the end though because the shy guy doesn’t flirt with everyone. Thus, when you get him to flirt with you back, you’ll know it means something.
Don’t hesitate to be the person who initiates at first. You might even be the one who has to initiate the first date. Ask him somewhere casual at first, for coffee or to a movie. You might wait forever with a shy guy if you wait for him to make the first move.
Guys are shy for different reasons. Maybe he’s been rejected before or it stems from a childhood experience. More likely it’s just genetics. He’s a quiet type. That’s who he is.
 Dating a shy guy is not a bad thing. Many shy people are thoughtful, introspective people who are often deep thinkers.


It’s a mistake to try to change anyone. Don’t expect that, by flirting with him or dating him, you can turn him into something he is not.
Accept that this is his personality type and work from there. That doesn’t mean, though, that he won’t come out of his shell a bit as you get to know him better.
It’s human nature to want things you have to chase a bit. The shy guy is appealing sometimes because he’s a bit mysterious and doesn’t give away everything to everyone. Thus, if you become his eventual confidante, you’ll feel very special.

