 Many engineering programs require students to take pre-engineering courses before they are allowed to officially declare their major. You’ll take a variety of courses, but will focus mostly on math, physics, and chemistry.


Find pre-engineering courses at a community college. You can often go to a community college for two years to finish these prerequisites. Additionally, you’ll be able to graduate with an associate’s degree if you take your core classes here as well.
Look for the required physics, math, and chemistry classes for the engineering major. You’ll be able to find the required classes for the engineering major on their website. Talk to the department as well to see what paperwork you need to fill out to declare a pre-engineering focus.
Transfer to a school with a full engineering program if necessary. Once you finish these classes, you may want to transfer to a school with a full engineering program if yours does not have one.
 There are many paths to becoming a biomechanical engineer. You can major in bioengineering, if available, or chemical or mechanical engineering. Talk to an advisor to see which are available at right for you at your college of choice.Major in bioengineering at your college. This major combines biology and engineering the way a biomechanical engineer may in the field. If you know for certain you want to become a biomechanical engineer, this is the major for you.Focus on chemical engineering. Chemical engineers work to solve problems dealing with the production of chemicals. This can be a useful major to prepare you to work in biomechanical engineering or to pursue higher education in the field.Choose a major in mechanical engineering. Mechanical engineers work in a wide variety of fields, but focus mostly on tools, engines, and machines. This major can also prepare you to work in biomechanical engineering, especially if you prefer to focus on using your skills with machines or tools., If you want to be a biomechanical engineer, it’s more common to start off with an engineering focus for your undergraduate degree. However, you still need to take plenty of biology courses so you have plenty of biological knowledge that you can apply your engineering background to.Enroll in biology and human biology in college. You want to have a good foundation in biology, so these courses are essential to building up your knowledge base.
Take a biology lab course. Biology lab classes are good preparation for a career in biomechanical engineering. If you want to work in a laboratory, biology labs can give you experience with some of the necessary methods and materials for biology labs.
Declare a biology minor. Some colleges allow you to declare a biology minor, which can be a good way to take enough biology classes to prepare you for the work force.
A biology major alongside an engineering major may be too difficult or too many courses to complete. However, think about being a double major if you think you can handle it.
 For many biomechanical engineers, graduate school is beneficial to getting a higher paid position in the field, though you may be able to find entry positions with a bachelor’s. Going onto a doctorate can also be useful depending on your career goals.Entry-level positions in engineering require a minimum of a bachelor's degree. If you plan to advance beyond those positions, you’ll need to go to graduate school
Advance to a graduate degree program. Students may pursue a Master of Science degree in biomechanical engineering and advance to a doctorate degree program. An advanced degree provides more opportunities for professionals specializing in biomechanical engineering.
While a bachelor's degree is adequate for an engineering degree, the medical training required for a career as a biomechanical engineer requires an advanced degree. A master's degree is preferred for most positions and those seeking a career in research should pursue a doctorate.

