 Try to get the person to open up to you by asking non-intrusive questions about how they’ve been doing lately. Keep in mind that if they’ve been concealing their depression on purpose, they don’t want you to know they have it. Avoid putting them on the spot or asking questions that will make them uncomfortable.For instance, don’t just ask them, “Do you think you have depression?” This will probably make them feel defensive.
Instead, start by saying something like, “I haven’t seen much of you lately. Is everything going okay?”
Don't feel like you need to cover everything in a single conversation. The person may not be ready to talk, and it may take several attempts before they open up.
 Even if they’re not ready to tell you everything, your friend or family member may decide to open up a little about what’s going on. You might need to read between the lines of what they say. Ask good follow-up questions to help the person feel comfortable telling you more.For instance, if the person tells you they’re feeling overwhelmed at work, you might say, “That sounds pretty stressful. How is it affecting the rest of your life?”
Be aware that they may not be ready to open up yet. Don’t push them to talk more than they’re comfortable with.
Make sure you are responsive to any small show of progress or trust — thank them for sharing with you, and let them know you are available to talk whenever they feel comfortable.
 Let the person know you hear what they are saying and you aren’t judging them. They may feel embarrassed or guilty about their depression. If you put them at ease with kindness and empathy, they will be more likely to be honest with you.If the person reveals that they’re having a hard time, avoid telling them that you know how they feel. Instead, say something like, “That sounds really tough,” or “I’m sorry you’re dealing with that.”

, Tell your friend or family member that you want to support them, and ask them what they need from you. Avoid giving advice, even if you think it would help.Someone with depression might perceive advice as pushy or insulting, even if you don’t mean it that way. Instead, let them decide how much and what kind of help they want to accept.
If they say they don’t need any help, let them know that you’ll still be there if they change their mind.
 If your friend or family member admits that they are depressed or struggling, encourage them to see a counselor or therapist. Emphasize that visiting a mental health professional is an ordinary thing that many people do, and that they will feel better after they go.You could say something like, “Would you be willing to talk to a counselor to put my mind at ease? I can help you make an appointment.”

