 Modern metal cans have a series of ridges and grooves forming a ring around the center of the can. These are weak points, and can be used to rip apart the can at that location.Tear off the label if necessary to get a better look.


This method will not work for small cans without grooves.
 If you have strong hands, you can grip the can on each end, then push your fingers down into the grooves. Otherwise, place the can on the ground and push down against the grooves using the heel of your hand. Keep pressing on the corners of the dent, until the dent is as wide as you can make it. Once the dent crosses, or nearly crosses, the entire width of the can when viewed from above, continue on to the next step.
 Rotate the can 180 degrees, so the dent is now facing downward. Repeat the same denting process on the opposite side, again pushing as hard as you can. You should now have two dents, on opposite sides of the can cylinder.
 Hold the can horizontally, then place the heel of each hand on each of the flat, circular lids. Position them so the heel is at the top of the flat area, near the rim, not in the center. Interlock your fingers together over the dented surface, then squeeze the two ends of the can together by pushing with your hands.Repeat for the other dent.


If this does not work, try placing the can's flat surface on the ground, and pressing down on it with your hand or knee.
 You should now have a can with a major dent on each side, similar to an hourglass shape. Hold the can on both sides of the dents, then bend the two halves apart by wiggling them back and forth. You should hear a hiss as the seal breaks, and the can should come apart soon afterward.
 Since you have literally ripped the center of the can to shreds, small metal pieces may have ended up in your food. Watch carefully for these so you can remove them before you eat, or throw away the food around the outer edge of the can. Spooning the food into another container without a jagged metal edge is recommended.