 Plaque is practically invisible, so it can be very difficult to know how much is on your teeth. To overcome this, you can purchase "disclosing tablets" in the grocery or drugstore. Once chewed, these tablets will stain the plaque on your teeth bright red, making it easy for you to examine your teeth for plaque and identify the areas you need to target with a toothbrush.


Green food coloring applied to your teeth with a q-tip will have the same effect, staining your teeth green for easy plaque identification.;
, To effectively brush your teeth and ensure that you are getting rid of as much plaque as possible, it is important that you have the right tools. Although there are many fancy toothbrushes on the market, the American Dental Association states that any "soft nylon brush with rounded-end, polished bristles" will do the trick.Hard bristled toothbrushes can be too abrasive and wear away tooth enamel and hurt your gums. Even if you are not using the correct brushing technique, soft bristles will still be better.


You will also need a good fluoride toothpaste. Fluoride strengthens teeth and protects them from decay and from the formation of cavities.
Electric toothbrushes are not any more effective at cleaning teeth than regular manually-operated ones. However, some people find that they are inclined to brush their teeth more regularly and for longer when they own an electric toothbrush, so investing in one may not be a bad idea.
Dentists recommend that you should replace your toothbrush every 3 to 4 months, as they become less effective at cleaning over time.
 When brushing your teeth, hold the toothbrush at a 45 degree angle against the gum line and sweep the brush away from the gums, in a short vertical, back-and-forth, or circular motions. Try not too scrub too hard, as this can actually damage the enamel on your teeth and cause high sensitivity to any type of stimulus., Pay attention to each tooth as you brush, making sure that you don't miss any. Remember to brush the outer surfaces, the inner surfaces and the chewing surfaces, and pay some special attention to those hard to reach teeth at the back. Brushing your teeth properly should take about two minutes -- try using a stopwatch to get a feel it, and hum a song to yourself to pass the time.
 Plaque can easily build up on the surface of the tongue due to food residues, so make sure to give it a little gentle scrub too. This will also help to freshen your breath.


When you brush your tongue, go from the back to the front of your mouth and repeating the gentle brushing motion 4 or 5 times.

