 The method emphasis the fact that open book exams are not the same as ordinary closed book exams and thus would require a different study approach. Here are the steps that will guide you to prepare when you have sufficient time before the exam.;
,, If your teacher uses slides to teach than get your subject slides too to read. (A Computer will be required to read the slides or any other thing that can read slides/presentations)

, Now start with first chapter, Break up the chapter into co-headings. Now go through your slides for the first chapter in a quick succession and note down important formulas or points in pictorial manner and in compact fashion so that you can easily revise and remember things positioning. You can also underline the important concepts and theories in the textbook for easy retrieval during revising. Maintain a notes book to note these down and number each page number which will help you when you create the easy retrieval guide index.
 Try remembering important formulas and concepts as it’s always good to remember then just noting them down as it gives you a time advantage during the exams as you no longer have to search for the formulas and concepts. Practice by questioning yourself of what possible questions could be asked and how you would interpret it. Note down your mistakes to avoid them during the exam. Note down your mistakes, possible questions and interpretations in your notes book to get an advantage during the exam.
 Maintain an easy retrieval guide index for easy accessing of concepts and formulas during the exam. Here is how to make an easy retrieval guide index:


Firstly write the chapter name and number. Under the heading write down the important concepts and formulas and index the page numbers where they are available. This will allow a quick retrieval during exams.
You can distinguish between concepts, headings, subheadings and formulas by designating some symbols to them which in turn will allow a quick specific retrieval. For example formulas can be given a star symbol and concepts can be given a flag symbol.
Also index the Page numbers of notebook pages under the respective subject headings and write the page numbers in a different colored pen to help you realize that the point is present in your notes that you created. You can put a cross symbol besides the mistakes or possible danger points in your notes to help you stay alert on not making mistakes.
