 They're typically found in a slot that's either on the bottom or in the back of the remote.;
, It's usually at the top of the remote's surface.
 This will drain any residual power from the remote.
 Doing so will help loosen any stuck buttons., If the batteries in your remote are brand-new, just put them back in your remote.
 If the remote wasn't working because of a firmware update or too much continuous use, it should be working now.


If this process doesn't work, you may want to power cycle your TV as well. To do so, you'll unplug the TV, press and hold its power button for five seconds, then plug the TV back in and turn it on.
 You'll typically find this in the top-left corner of the remote's surface.


This method won't work on non-universal remotes.
After wiping your remote's memory, you'll need to reprogram it to correspond to your different devices (e.g., the DVD player) since these connections will be reset as well.
 The LED light on your Vizio universal remote is at the top of the remote's surface.
 This is the reset code for most Vizio universal remotes.If typing in 9 8 1 doesn't work, try 9 7 7.
You can find the reset code for your remote in the remote's manual.
 Once it does, your Vizio universal remote has successfully had its memory wiped. Any firmware issues should be resolved after doing this.
 Even transparent objects can impede the infrared signal from your remote.


This includes the protective plastic wrap that accompanies new TVs.
The infrared sensor is typically in the bottom-right or bottom-left corner of the TV's face.
 It's easy to forget to change the batteries from time to time, so making sure that your remote's batteries are fresh may improve your remote's performance.


You should also be sure to use high-quality batteries (e.g., Duracell or Energizer).
 If you can get your TV to respond to a different Vizio remote, then you may need to replace or update your current Vizio remote.


Similarly, if your malfunctioning Vizio remote actually works with a different TV, the remote isn't the problem.
 You can do this by calling 1 (855) 833-3221. If your remote simply isn't working, you may be able to get a new one for free.


In a pinch, you can also purchase a new remote for your Vizio TV from a local store with a tech department (e.g., Walmart or Best Buy).

