
Look through old family papers and photos for copies of obituaries, funeral records, or other records that might give you a clue about where to start
Read back issues of newspapers searching obituaries or funeral notices. They often list the cemetery name and location. Funeral home records may also provide information on burial sites. Sometimes the records of funeral homes no longer in existence have been preserved at a local museum or library.
Check with the temple, church, or mosque for interment information if you know your ancestors' religion. Find out if they belonged to any Lodge or Military Groups that included in membership, a burial cemetery. They typically keep this information forever.
Look at a map of the cemeteries nearby your ancestors' place of residence. People tended to be buried within a few miles of their home, especially in times before cars and trucks were so abundant.
;
, See if there is a grounds keeper's office on the grounds of the specific cemetery that you know your ancestors are buried in. While they will not do research for you, they often have plot records sorted alphabetically or by year, which can assist you locate the graves you are searching for.
 These are helpful to both identify the correct places to look and to guide you to the proper grave site. The library in the locality where you are searching may have information on how to contact the appropriate local organizations or may be able to tell you if they have a copy of any published works.
 Graves are typically mixed rather than being arranged by year of burial, so you will have to look at every one to identify names. Be prepared to consider misspellings of family names — standardized spelling is a fairly recent phenomenon.
 If not, you may want to consider wearing boots or other protective clothing.
 Little details can sometimes prove useful later.
 Note the branch of service or event it commemorates as this information can be used to learn more about your ancestor later.
 Also consider purchasing an inexpensive GPS device so that you can record your exact location for each photograph taken. This will make it easier for you or others to find the grave again in the future (this may be harder than you think!).
 Since gravestones come in a variety of interesting shapes and sizes, such photos will help to orient future searchers.
 photograph and record the information on the graves immediately surrounding your family's stones. They may be relatives you have not yet found in your research. This will save you research time and a return visit to the graveyard once you do find the names.
 Take a photo of the stone with the shaving cream on it as well. If the stone contains writing in a language you do not understand, copy down as much as you can, and take several close up photos. Arrange to have them translated later, as they may give you additional information. However, keep in mind that many people believe that shaving cream may harm the gravestone. Consider using water and a soft brush to clear up the inscription. Using a spotlight or changing camera angle may help the inscription "pop." If you decide to use water, remember to dry the gravestone. Never put any wax on a gravestone; it will keep water inside the gravestone.
 In many cultures, this would be flowers. In a Jewish cemetery, a single stone is placed on the top of each visited grave. Before leaving, walk around and see if other family names are in the same cemetery. People who lived near each other are often buried in the same graveyard.
 Copy them over when you get home if needed, making sure that dates and spellings are transcribed accurately.

