 Keeping one’s room or schoolwork organized can be a challenge for a child with ADHD. Cleaning the room can be a huge task, which can lead to frustration for both kid and parent. When organizational difficulties arise, remind yourself that this is often part of having ADHD.Instead of frustration, aim to help the child and collaborate on building organizational skills.


When tackling a large task (like cleaning the bedroom or the bathroom), break the task into smaller, more manageable tasks (organize shoes; put away laundry; place all toys in a bin). That way, the child will have clear expectations that can be easily followed.
Give one clear instruction at a time (verbally or written down), then have him or her come back to you. That way, he or she won’t be overwhelmed. Even tasks like “get ready for school” may need to be broken down into smaller parts (“Brush your teeth. Now, change your clothes. When you’re finished, come down for breakfast.”).To increase organization, use a color-coded chart for chores at home or daily morning or night routines. That way the child can have a visual reminder of what to do.;
, Children diagnosed with ADHD tend to have problems with planning ahead and anticipating future events.This may appear as not doing homework when projects or assignments are due, not bringing a jacket to school if it’s cold, or completing projects without thinking through all necessary steps. What people misinterpret as laziness, carelessness, or recklessness is actually part of the problems that arise with the deficits the child experiences with ADHD.


Help your child develop this skill by using a planner or agenda. If he or she has a project due in two weeks, help organize daily tasks to help him or her complete the project over time.
Prepare for a busy school morning the night before; pack the backpack, make the lunch, and have all papers and homework in the folders, secured in the backpack.
Make sure that you involve your child in organization according to your child’s age. For example, if your child is young, then you might create a colorful chart with stickers to keep track of important tasks. If your child is older, then you can guide your child through the process of marking down important dates and to-do items in a planner.
Keep in mind that the more you repeat these activities with your child, it will become more likely for them to turn into habits.
 Children with ADHD tend to be easily distracted.You may send your child to clean her room, then find her playing with the toys she’s supposed to be picking up. Instead of allowing these distractions to become a point of frustration for you and your child, learn to minimize distractions.


Simplify the bedroom by keeping things organized and put away, not out and available for play at all times.When completing homework, allow the child to work in a quiet space. Make sure the tv is off and any younger siblings can’t interrupt. Some people work well with some background music to help increase concentration. Play some instrumental music during homework time., Kids with ADHD tend to struggle with school. Between inattention, difficulties concentrating, disorganization and impulsivity, school can be a challenging environment. Children with ADHD can have a difficult time sustaining attention for hours each day, which may lead to behavior problems. Help your child succeed by communicating frequently with his or her teacher. Communicate your child’s needs, such as taking structured breaks between activities, sitting the child away from distractions, writing assignments down and/or breaking them into smaller parts.If the child fidgets, allow him or her to use a stress ball or other small toy to discreetly hold while seated.If you're a teacher, never take away recess time as a consequence. If you're a parent of a child with ADHD, it's best if you don't take away playtime outside or other physical activities, as this can help a child with ADHD stay calm and focus better. Exercise is essential for optimal mental functioning in a child with ADHD and it is often used as part of a child’s treatment for ADHD., Some children with ADHD struggle to read social cues or can’t help but interrupt other children or talk excessively. Children with ADHD can also sometimes be emotionally less mature than their peers, which can influence the social life.If your child has difficulty making or keeping friends, gently speak to him or her about what may be the problem. For example, you might ask your child something like, “Why do you think the other kids did not want to play tag with you at recess today?” This will give you an opportunity to find out more about how your child is interacting with other kids and to offer advice that may benefit your child’s social life.
If your child struggles with specific situations (like sharing toys or taking turns), role play different scenarios that practice these skills.Praise the child when he or she behaves in positive ways.
Plan playdates that will go well for your child. Host at your home so your child is familiar with the environment, keep the numbers low (a large party can be overwhelming), and find activities that the children share enjoyment of, such as building blocks or art projects., Structure can help a child with ADHD succeed with daily tasks more effectively.Children with ADHD often lack the ability to create structure for themselves, so creating structure can be beneficial. Especially if you notice that your child is scattered and struggles to accomplish multiple tasks, engaging in some structure can help.


As much as possible, keep activities and tasks predictable. For instance, set time aside the same time each afternoon for homework, and allow privileges after homework is completed. If your child takes a dance class every Tuesday and Thursday, remind him or her, “today is Tuesday, which means you have dance.”
Don’t put pressure on your child in enforcing routines. Communicate that this is standard behavior and expectations. Don’t use threats, punishments, or unreasonable deadlines to enforce, which will likely lead to a meltdown., Children with ADHD tend to feel overwhelmed by things. Instead of telling your child what to do, offer choices.For instance, say, “Would you like to do your English homework first or your Math?”


If the child struggles with cleaning his or her room, say, “Would you like to pick up your clothes first or put your toys in the bin?”
You can also use this technique in behavior modification. If your child is throwing toys, say, “It’s dangerous throw things. You can calmly sit with me or play with your toys. Which will it be?”

, It can be hard for a child with ADHD to sustain attention for activities like homework or chores. To avoid meltdowns or decreases in concentration, take quick breaks of 5-10 minutes every 30-50 minutes, depending on your child’s age. Practice taking deep breaths together, read a short book, or let the child run around outside.


Before the break, let your child know that she will work 20 minutes, then receive a 5 minute break. Be clear in communicating the work and break time. Use a timer to indicate when the break is over.
 There is some evidence that diet plays a role in childhood ADHD, but this is only one piece of the puzzle. If you suspect that your child’s diet may be intensifying his or her ADHD symptoms, then you may want to start keeping track of your child’s food and beverage intake to find patterns.


Start keeping track of everything that your child eats and drinks and also record any ADHD symptoms that follow. For example, if your child drinks a juice pouch, does he or she seem more hyperactive after?
Watch for specific additives. Some studies have linked certain food additives with increased ADHD symptoms. For example, sodium benzoate and certain food colorings have been linked with increased ADHD symptoms. Read the labels on the foods and beverages that you give your child to see if certain additives may be part of the problem., After a few weeks of tracking your child’s diet, you may have identified some potential problem foods. You may want to eliminate these foods to see if there is any improvement in your child’s ADHD symptoms as a result. Some other foods you may want to eliminate from your child’s diet may include those that contain:artificial food coloring, such as sunset yellow, carmoisine, tartrazine, ponceau 4R, quinoline yellow, and allura red AC
artificial preservatives, such as sodium benzoate
foods that are high in sugar or that are highly processed, such as candy bars, soda, and baked goods

, A high intake of sugar may increase ADHD symptoms in some children. If you have noticed that your child’s ADHD symptoms increase after consuming a large amount of sugar, then you may want to limit your child’s intake of sugar.


Keep in mind that you do not need to eliminate your child’s intake of sugar. Doing so may cause your child to feel left out, especially at parties and on holidays. For example, forbidding your child from consuming sugar on her birthday or on Halloween is unrealistic.
Instead, try to limit your child’s intake of sugar to a reasonable amount. For example, you might limit your child to one sweet treat per day and allow a little extra on holidays and special occasions.
Try not to plan any big projects or important tasks after your child has indulged in some sugar because your child is likely to be less attentive during this time.
 The omega-3 essential fatty acids in fish oil may provide some benefit to children with ADHD.If your child likes fish, then you might consider feeding her a couple of servings of a low mercury fish each week, such as shrimp, salmon, or light tuna.If your child is not a fish fan, then consider a fish oil supplement instead.


If you decide to give your child a fish oil supplement, then make sure that you follow the dosing instructions for your child’s age.
 Exercise is crucial for managing ADHD symptoms, so it is important to make sure that your child gets some physical activity every day. Let your child play outside, play with friends, and do sports. Allowing your child a healthy outlet for his or her energy can help increase concentration, improve sleep, and lower other symptoms of ADHD.Let your child jump on the trampoline, play in the pool, or take the dog for a walk. You can also enroll your child in sports such as basketball, ice skating, dance, or rock climbing.
 Those who have ADHD are at a higher risk of developing anxiety and depression.Watch for signs that your child may be anxious or depressed and talk to your child’s doctor or psychiatrist about your concerns. Watch for signs of anxiety and depression, such as:fidgeting, nail biting, or other nervous habits
looking tense
seeking constant reassurance about the things they say and do
seeming sad, such as by not smiling, crying a lot, and moping
spending more time alone
losing interest in things
making comments about wanting to commit suicide

, You may be frustrated with your child’s behavior, but try to remember that having ADHD is frustrating for your child, too. Your child may see that other kids struggle less with school and chores and wonder why these things are so frustrating. While it’s easy to explode at a difficult child, remember that your child thinks it’s difficult, too.


Try to reassure your child when he or she is feeling down about having ADHD. Explain to your child that everyone struggles with something (even if it does not seem that way) and that other kids might struggle with things that your child is good at.
 People with ADHD tend to have difficulty in moderating emotions. This is especially true of experiencing bursts of anger and frustration.If your child tends to be moody, angry, or easily frustrated, it may be related to ADHD. Because children with ADHD experience various deficits, it can be frustrating when expectations are imposed that are not possible to comply with at home or school. This frustration can turn into anger or moodiness.


To encourage emotional regulation, don’t punish outbursts. Instead, work on helping your child verbalize what’s going on. Say, “I can see you are frustrated. What makes you feel frustrated?” If words are difficult, ask him or her to draw the emotions.
 It’s common for parents to feel like their child is intentionally acting up and causing problems. Generally, children want to please parents, work toward goals, and avoid punishments.Often, frustration in a child indicates a need that needs to be met, yet the child may not be able to fully verbalize that need.


Instead of reacting with anger, start asking questions. For example, you might ask, “How are you feeling right now?” “Are you hungry? Angry? Sad? Bored? Tired?” Let your child answer and help if you can. For example, if your child says that she is angry about something, ask her to explain how she feels. Giving your child a chance to express herself may help her feel better and help you to understand her behavior.
Frustration can also result from misunderstanding. If your child is having a hard time with something, stop and tell him or her what’s going on, and why it’s important. For example, you can say, “I know you want to stay home and play, but Grandma has a health appointment, and it’s important we get her there on time. We have to leave now and not in five minutes so we get there on time.” If it's possible, allow your child to continue playing in the car or at the doctor's office. The best way to teach your kids how to cooperate is to show them you are willing to cooperate with them and what they want to do.
 You may notice that children need to find that “sweet spot” in arousal. If under aroused, the child may become distracted (which may happen in the school classroom), yet when over-aroused, he or she may erupt in a meltdown. For instance, if your child is procrastinating on his chores, and you say, “Finish them now or else you’re grounded”, your child may erupt. This indicates he is over-aroused. He may be concerned that he might do the chores wrong or be compared to his sibling, and then you giving him a prospective punishment may have set him off.


Notice when your child does complete homework and chores, and see what an optimal environment looks like.Then, create a similar environment to help with performance in the future.
If you notice your child’s arousal level increasing, intervene. Ask, “What’s going on?” and let your child express his or her feelings.
If the child needs a break, give a break. Shift activities for a bit so that the child can calm down or reach a different headspace.
 Often, deficits are stressed when talking about ADHD. While it is true that many children with ADHD struggle with school and traditional learning, there are many positive traits that children with ADHD tend to share. Kids with ADHD often are very expressive, creative, exuberant, and interested in nature.Instead of seeing impulsivity, observe the child engaging in spontaneity; instead of seeing hyperactivity, observe the child engaging in vitality.While your child may struggle at school, ensure the child that his or her worth is not dependent of school performance. Praise the child for extracurricular involvement at school or in activities.
Involve your child in outside activities such as gymnastics, karate, gardening, painting, or theater.Celebrate your child’s successes and show that you care and want him or her to succeed. Let your child know that you see the talent and support him or her.

