 While it might be a little more difficult to create large designs that cover the entire shirt using the Sharpie method, you can use this technique to create smaller designs, such as flowers and spirals. This section will teach you how to create smaller tie-dye designs using Sharpies and rubbing alcohol.You will need:


Sharpie permanent markers in various colors (or one color if you so choose).
Rubbing alcohol.
An applicator bottle or an eye dropper.
Rubber bands.
Plastic cups.
 Because Sharpies are translucent, the color of your shirt will show throw. This means that if you draw with a yellow sharpie over a light blue shirt, you will get green. A white base, however, will give you the brightest, most vibrant results. Make sure that the shirt (or any other item you are using) is clean, as any dirt or oils may prevent the Sharpie inks from adhering properly.
 Decide where you want your first design to be, then place a plastic up inside the shirt. Pull the fabric taut over the rim of the cup. Secure it with a rubber band by stretching the band around the fabric and the cup.You are creating a sort of mini fabric-and-cup drum.


You can also use an embroidery hoop instead of a plastic cup and a rubber band. Simply tuck the inner circle inside the shirt, and secure it by placing the outer circle over it and the shirt.
 Press the tip of your Sharpie down onto the fabric, creating a small dot. Make the next dot no more than a centimeter away from the first one. Keep making dots until you have a complete circle or ring—you are essentially making a dotted line. You can make the dots as big or as small as you want, but they should not be touching. Be sure to work inside your cup. Here are some design ideas:


You can create fireworks by making two circles, one inside the other. Use a different color for each circle.Create flowers by making one big dot, and then making a ring of smaller dots around it. These smaller dots will become petals.
 Once you are satisfied with your design, you can start adding the rubbing alcohol. You can soak up some rubbing alcohol with an eyedropper and squeeze it onto your design. This will give you more control, and works best on smaller designs. You can also fill an applicator bottle with rubbing alcohol and drizzle the alcohol over the design. This will give you less control, but it is much faster and you won't have to refill as often. As you continue adding alcohol, the Sharpie inks will begin to dissolve and spread, resulting in a tie-dye effect.
 Because you used rubbing alcohol, this should not take very long. Once the shirt is dry, take it off the cup.
 You can either toss the shirt into the drier (set to high) for 15 minutes, or you can simply iron the design for 5 minutes instead. If you are using an iron, find and adult to help you, and make sure that it is set to the highest temperature.