 This will enable you to do more than just recovering passwords and order histories, etc. It helps you save personal information (such as credit/debit card information), as well as the ability to print out receipts and tickets as soon as they are purchased.
 This will allow you to filter specific categories and events related to what is planned in the future., Search and browse around from sports games to rock concerts or family friendly events. If you know of a future event but Ticketmaster does not show it in the search, please know that tickets are not going to be available until a later date. If the option "Find Tickets" is enabled, it means that tickets are on sale.
 This informs the public of the on-sale dates and times (including any exclusive pre-sale dates/times), price ranges for all tickets, and extra details concerning the specific event (such as ticket limits per household, etc).
 This can not be expressed enough. Even if it's in the same arena/venue, the seating charts will not be the same as another show/event (for example, concert vs. basketball game). You need to know how close or how far you will be away from the main entertainment or stage, as well as different levels (if applicable), as there is a clear difference between a floor seat and balcony seat (bleeder or near the ceiling).


Lots of venue websites, especially the ones located in metropolitan cities, have their own seating chart for different events.
 If you're a beginner to Ticketmaster or want the site to choose for you for flexibility, then choosing "Best Price" is preferable. Also, for events that are in demand or very popular, you might want to go through that route instead of trying to get the best seats. Click on the red "Find Tickets".
 This is a tool to discourage bots from using the website in order to gain tickets in a non-human method.
 It might look like a lot, thus why it's very important to look at the seating chart. This will give you a preview of what specific seat you are paying for, the specific price for it, etc. You need to know that every ticket reviewed as a "timer" in the bottom right hand corner. This is the amount of time you have to make a decision if you want the seat(s) or change your mind. You can either "Continue" on to purchase it if you're satisfied or "Search Again". Searching again will then bring you back to the main ticket page for the event and place your old review back into the queue for anyone else to grab.


Know that when the general public is allowed to purchase tickets and depending on the demand/popularity of the event, you may/may not receive a better ticket than the last, so be careful how much time you spend on each ticket review.
 You'll need to enter your credit card information or how you will be paying for the tickets. Having an account has it's perks, as you wouldn't need to worry about inputting information every time. This page also has it's own unique timer, so please be sure that you have everything in front of you beforehand., Shipping methods look exactly like as if you're purchasing any other item online. Depending on where you live, you might find ground shipping to be the most efficient. If the event date is closer than a month or you wish to have the tickets immediately, choose the option of printing your tickets out or picking them up at the local box office. When printing tickets out, they will be an actual ticket, just on a 8"x11" paper instead of regular ticket stubs - remember to bring the entire paper with you to the event!