 Caulk guns cost between five and ten dollars at any home improvement store. Make sure you get one that is made of heavy duty metal. Solid-shaft caulk guns produce very smooth lines and generally get better results.Solid-shafts are a better choice than notched-shaft caulk guns., Trimming the nozzle allows the caulk to flow freely out of the tube. You can control the size of the caulk line, also called the “bead,” when you make the snip. The further down on the nozzle you make the cut, the wider the bead will be. For quick, basic jobs, trim the end of the nozzle straight across.Cut the nozzle at a 45-degree angle if you need more precision and control.
Check inside the nozzle for a foil seal. If it does have a foil seal, use something sharp and narrow (like a long nail) to puncture it.
 There will be a long, hooked rod on the end of the gun. Pull it all the way back. This will open up the gun so you can insert the caulk tube. Situate the tube base into the gun first. Then tilt the nozzle end of the tube into the top part of the gun.Turn the hooked rod so that the hooked part is facing up and the side with the teeth is facing down.


Gently squeeze the trigger to get the caulk flowing and then it’s ready to use., Apply gentle and steady pressure to the trigger. Caulk will begin to flow. Pull the caulking gun along the line or area to be caulked. Keep squeezing the trigger gently as you go to ensure a continuous release of caulk. Move the gun at a steady speed. The caulk will form "beads" as it emerges. Try to get one continuous, even bead along each length.


Keep a damp rag (dipped in water or mineral spirits) handy, for fast wiping of mistakes.
It is always better to use less caulk than too much. You can always add more on a second pass.
 Don't run the length of the bead any longer than around 5 feet (1.5 meters) before stopping and assessing your work for neatness. If the caulk bead already looks neat and uniform, leave it alone. If it needs to be smoothed out, use a caulking tool, a putty knife, your finger (dampen it first) or a damp rag to pull along the joint and press the caulk smooth.It is far easier to neaten caulk as you go, while it is still damp. Get to it within two to five minutes of application for best results.If you don't stop frequently to neaten the caulk, the earlier portions might dry before you can neaten or mend errors. You’ll have to scrape off dried caulk if you want to neaten it.
 Lift the edge of the tape up slowly. Pull it away from you and at a 45-degree angle.Do this carefully and try to avoid touching the fresh caulk. You can pull the tape up immediately after you create the bead if you like, but definitely get it up within a few hours. If you go any longer, the caulk could skin over.


Allow the caulk at least 24 hours to cure before disturbing it or getting it wet.