 Decide on which region you want it to take place in.


If you want to create an entirely new region, you may. However, this poses a whole new set of challenges, including creating gym leaders, a new professor, new towns, cities, routes, and notable places, fakemon, etc.;
,


Will they be trainers, coordinators, breeders, gym leaders, something else? Will they be just starting out on a journey or already accomplished trainers? Keep in mind that the trainers do not have to be human. You can write fanfiction about wild Pokémon, too, including Mystery Dungeon Teams.
Be sure to flesh out their traits realistically, human, or Pokémon.
 (Keep in mind that not all Pokémon fanfiction has to be a journey fic. In the Pokémon world, adventure can happen without even leaving the main character's hometown).


Does your plot involve an evil team? (Team Rocket, Team Magma, Team Aqua, Team Galactic?) If you are creating an entire region from scratch, will you be using one of these teams, or creating a new one? Be sure to add a twist to it, as fanfictions involving Teams are common.
If your main character catches any Pokémon, which ones does he/she catch, and where? Be sure to map out any Pokémon that your trainer will catch. Planning ahead is important! You should probably have each Pokémon be caught in different ways- some joining the team voluntarily, some being traded for, some being caught in the normal way, some being caught by accident. Though it might seem fun to have your main character capture a bunch of uber-powerful Pokémon that just happen to be your favorites, this rarely makes a good story. Your trainer should always have a balanced team--but as the fic goes along, your team should get stronger accordingly.
, Ask for advice from friends.
 Due to copyright issues, you will never be able to officially publish your work. However, you can feel free to put it on any website, preferably one dedicated solely to fanfiction or Pokémon, so that others can read it. Fanfiction.net is a website dedicated to fanfiction. Also, most Pokémon fansites with forums have a forum dedicated to fanfiction.

