 The easiest way to fight bad thoughts is to do something else. Distract yourself from needless anxiety by finding the hobbies, games, and activities that you enjoy above everything else and go do them. Not only will this alleviate anxiety in the short-term, it can help manage stress throughout your life.Make time to do something you love every single day.
Draft a list of your favorite activities and relaxation techniques, from the big (go on vacation) to the small (listen to your favorite song). Reference this list when you feel upset to ground yourself in things you love and can do right now.;
, Being outdoors has been proven to reduce anxiety and stress, so go for a walk, hike, or bike ride. Even sitting out on your porch gets you vital fresh air and natural light that can calm you down slowly.Find a view you like and visit it in times of stress.
Go for a quiet drive with the windows down.
Open your windows to bring fresh air into the house.
 Your environment profoundly influences your levels of anxiety, which is why loud noises, crowded places, and uncomfortable situations breed nervousness and jitters. Make your environment a place of peace and comfort by:


Lighting candles or incense. Lavender, lemon, and peppermint are proven to reduce anxiety.Making a mix of music that is soothing or calming to you.
Lower the lights and avoid looking directly at computer or TV screens.
 Breathing exercises flood your body with oxygen and help you slow down your thought process. This is extremely useful during periods of anxiety, as your brain often feels like it just won't shut off. Simply let air in slowly, and then hold for a few seconds in your lungs. Let it out at a slow but comfortable pace, relax for a second, and then begin again.


Keep your thoughts on your breathing as you try and take deep, smooth breaths with every inhalation and exhalation.
Where is your breathing coming from? How deeply can you inhale and exhale? Try connecting to your body as you breathe instead of the thoughts that make you anxious.
 This technique, often done in conjunction with breathing exercises, helps relax your body and gives you something to focus on other than anxiety. As you inhale, tense the muscles in your neck, then slowly release them as you exhale. Work your way down into the arms, shoulders, chest, stomach, hips, legs, etc. until you reach the feet and toes.


Massaging your hands, neck, and shoulders can achieve similar results.The more you practice, the faster the results will kick, helping you feel calm and relaxed before you get below your waist., Meditation is the practice of letting go of your thoughts and finding peace in your internal monologue. There is no "goal," or "correct" way to meditate. Instead, it is a way to come to terms with your thoughts and find some measure of inner peace. Daily meditation, even for a few minutes, has been shown to lower anxiety and nervousness.Take 10 minutes to turn all your devices off and sit in silence.
Focus on your breathing, posture, and body, not your thoughts.
Acknowledge your anxieties without giving into them. In other words, see the thought but don't keep thinking about it. Just let it go.
 Having a sense of humor may be the easiest natural way to fight anxiety. Remember that most problems in life are not truly serious or traumatic, and that anxiety is often an overreaction to common problems. So find the funny side of things -- make a joke, laugh off a problem, and remember to smile -- it is proven to make you happier.Surround yourself with friends who make you smile or laugh, as they can help you put things in a more humorous light.
 Available over the counter at many vitamin stores and large retailers, there are a variety of supplements that may help soothe anxiety. While there is some debate in the scientific community about their effectiveness, low side-effects and positive personal testimonies indicate the following supplements may be useful to beat anxiety:


GABA, or gamma-aminobutyric acid has been shown to reduce stress in tests.Gingko
Melatonin
Omega-3s from cold-water fish (like salmon) or pills
PassionflowerKavaMake sure these supplements do not interact with other medication before taking them by reading the labels entirely.
 Teas, herbs, and scents have long been used as home remedies for a variety of conditions and disorders, and anxiety is no exception. While there is not a lot scientific data on effectiveness, the Mayo clinic notes that relief can come from:


Lavender
Chamomile tea
Green tea
Lemon Balm
Valerian