 Start with the Christopher Eccleston series, and then all of David Tennant's, and then finally Matt Smith's.You should also watch the classic series, even though it might not have as good as special effects it is just as interesting. You should be able to find these online or on Netflix, but if you have the money a better option would be to buy the box sets.


Many people start watching with the Ninth Doctor, because this is the start of 'New Who'. If you do this, then you should watch up to the current episode and then start on Classic Who (preferably right from the start!). If you start watching from the very beginning, you may want to watch any current episodes at the same time to ensure you know what's going on.;
, A lot of the actors come back on specials after they leave, and plus Whovians love to talk about them.
 Choose whatever doctor you like, you don't have to pick a doctor from modern day Who. You can pick a doctor from Classic Who too! Learn as much as you can about your favourite Doctor.
 This is completely optional.
, Don't do this to the point where it gets annoying - no one wants to talk to someone who can't speak without quoting.
 If you want to go all out and wear a bow-tie, and a fez. Or maybe a leather jacket, or a long trench coat and converses .If you like Rose Tyler you could wear a British flag shirt and white sneakers. If you like Martha, you could wear a red leather jacket, jeans, and high heels. If you like Amy, and are a girl you could wear a red shirt, short leather jacket, and a skirt that comes up just before your knees, and some cowboy boots.
 Not just toys, but the books and posters and DVDs as well. Get the sonic screwdriver app for your Android phone or iPod/iPhone

,, If you get set an essay about a hero, write about the Doctor. If you have a birthday party, theme it Doctor Who fancy dress. But don't do everything Doctor Who themed, or you could seem obsessed and the people will think you have unhealthy obsession with the show.
 You could also try learning the recorder like the Second Doctor.
