 In large cities like Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore, there are as many people who wear Western-style clothing as there are who wear traditional Indian clothing like saris and lungis, and you will see all kinds of fashion and styles on the streets. However, though many people wear Western-style clothing, it’s still a good idea not to wear anything too outrageous or revealing as a tourist.You shouldn’t have to buy a new wardrobe if you are visiting a city in India. Pick out clothing that you like, just avoid wearing very short shorts or skirts.
If you’re a woman, you also may want to avoid wearing plunging necklines. In the end you should wear what you want, but be aware that you may be one of the only people you see wearing this revealing of a garment, and you may attract stares.
Even though you may see many Indian women with their navel exposed below their traditional short shirt (called a choli), it’s important to understand that this is a traditional garment and is not considered immodest.
 Small towns and villages in India are typically more traditional than urban areas, and you will see more men and women dressed in traditional Indian clothing. If you are visiting a small town, dress in clothing that covers your shoulders and doesn’t come above your knees.If you are a woman, wear long skirts, capris or pants. Try to wear shirts with sleeves that don’t have low necklines.
If you are a man, wear capris or pants and a T-shirt or button-up.
 Many of the holiest sites in India are also tourist destinations. If you plan on visiting temples, make sure that you are dressed respectfully. Even if you are in a large city, avoid exposing your legs by wearing pants, or a long skirt if you are a woman. Wear a modest short-sleeved shirt or a long-sleeved shirt.


Keep in mind that you may need to cover your head or take off your shoes when visiting a temple.If you don’t want to wear long sleeves, a good way to transition your outfit is to put on a shawl or scarf. Wearing a shawl or scarf is a stylish way to be able to quickly change your outfit from casual to respectful.
 Even though it’s completely fine to wear swimwear at the beach, you should try not to wear revealing items like bikinis or speedos. If you are a woman, wear a standard one-piece bathing suit, and if you are a man, wear board shorts or trunks.


Bring a T-shirt along with you, as well as a skirt or sarong if you are a woman to wear when you aren’t swimming or sunbathing.
Goa is one city where you won't feel out of place wearing a bikini, as it is a big tourist destination known for its beaches and parties.