 Heat the butter and oil in a saucepan over medium heat until the butter melts. Add the minced onion, salt, and pepper. Stir the onion and cook until it turns clear, about 3 minutes., Add the flour to the onions and stir really well, letting it cook for 1 minute. Whisk or stir in the milk. Keep stirring and cooking the mixture for about 3 minutes. There shouldn't be any lumps and the mixture should start to thicken a little., Stir in the finely diced ham and 1/3 of the grated cheese. The mixture should be very thick but not lumpy, like a paste, by this point. Set the mixture aside to cool completely.To speed up cooling, spread the mixture on a baking sheet.
 In one bowl, whisk the eggs and set them aside. In another bowl, stir together the breadcrumbs and the remaining 1/4 cup of Manchego cheese. Set this mixture aside.
 Place the oil in a large pot on the stove and heat it to 375 degrees.You really need to have a deep-fry thermometer to gauge how hot the oil is. Your croquettes may not cook evenly if the oil is too hot or not hot enough.
 Using a spoon or cookie scoop, scoop 1 tablespoon of your cooled ham and cheese mixture. Shape the mixture into a 2-inch oval. Repeat this with the rest of the mixture.Dust your hands with flour to make shaping easier. Floured hands will keep the mixture from sticking to your hands.
 Take an oval and completely cover it in the whisked egg. Then place it in the breadcrumb and cheese coating. Roll it around so the croquette is completely covered. Place it on a baking sheet lined with wax paper or parchment paper. Repeat this for the rest of the croquettes., When your oil has reached 375 degrees F, carefully lower 3 or 4 croquettes at a time into the oil. Do this slowly or the temperature of the oil will drop quickly, making them cook unevenly. Fry the croquettes for 1 or 2 minutes, or until they're completely golden brown.


Fry the rest of the croquettes and let them cool off a little bit before you serve them. Keep checking the temperature of the oil as you fry the other batches of croquettes., Remove the cooked croquettes with a slotted spoon and set them on paper towels to cool a little. 