 If you want to introduce two rabbits, consider the pair. Certain combinations of rabbits, like males and females, bond easier than others. If possible, choose a second rabbit that has a good chance of bonding with your first.


You should spay or neuter rabbits before pairing them. If you have a male and female pair, this prevents breeding. Hormonal-driven aggression is also less likely in spayed or neutered rabbits.
Two males or two females are more likely to fight with one another. If you're getting a second adult rabbit, things will go smoother if you pick a rabbit of a different gender.Two babies usually bond very well. An adult and baby may bond easier than an adult and another adult.If at all possible, get two rabbits at the same time. It's much easier for a pair to bond if both of them are in new, neutral territory., Unless a pair has lived together previously, you should never throw two rabbits together right away. Keep the rabbits in separate cages, but in the same room. Allow them to observe one another through their cages.You might want to try swapping toys or bedding between cages. This gives your rabbits a chance to get used to one another's smells.
 When you feel ready to let your rabbits interact, choose a neutral territory. Rabbits can get territorial and even aggressive if another rabbit is in their territory. Therefore, choose a location in your home neither rabbit frequents. For example, you can introduce them on the kitchen counter or in a closed off room, like your bathroom.Keep a few obstacles in the room, like toys and nest boxes. You can also add some food in the middle of the room. This may encourage the rabbits to interact.You should observe your rabbits closely during their first introduction. There is always a risk of fighting. If your rabbits do fight, break them up immediately. You can use a spray bottle to quell them or pull the rabbits apart. It's a good idea to wear protective gloves during the first introduction. In the event of a fight, separate the rabbits and try again the next day., If the first introduction is fairly successful, allow the rabbits to start interacting about 20 minutes a day. Again, keep them in a neutral territory. Observe interactions so you can break up any potential fights.Watch for aggressive body language, as this may mean a fight is brewing. If your rabbits seem to be getting hostile with one another, it's a good idea to separate them. If your rabbit's tail is erect, his body is tense, and his ears are back, this is a sign of aggression. Also, watch for noises like growling. These can indicate the rabbit feels threatened., If your rabbits seem comfortable together, try keeping them in the same cage. For the first couple of weeks, observe your rabbits at all times when they're sharing a cage. Make sure they're in separate cages at night. If all seems well after a few weeks, you can safely leave your rabbits in the cage together unsupervised. Most rabbits enjoy having a companion as it lessens loneliness when their owners are away at work or school.