 The DASH diet is a low sodium eating plan. On this diet you will be consuming large amounts of foods that are naturally low in sodium, and avoiding high sodium foods like processed foods. On the DASH diet, you should limit your sodium intake to 2,300 mg per day, or to 1,500 mg per day if you are:Over 51 years old.
Have high blood pressure or hypertension.
Diabetic.
Have chronic kidney disease.
African American., On the DASH diet, you will need to keep your consumption of sugar and sweets in check. This means consuming 5, but preferably fewer, sweets per week that are low in fat.Examples include 1 tablespoon of maple syrup, 1 tablespoon of jelly or jam, or 1 cup of lemonade.
Opt for low fat sweets when you do indulge, such as jelly beans and low-fat frozen yogurt.
Watch out for added sugar in everything from dry cereal to condiments. Always check the label to find out what the sugar content is before you decide to eat something.
Try replacing sugar with artificial sweeteners. For example, if you usually take sugar in your coffee or tea, replace it with stevia or Splenda. You can also opt for sugar-free versions of things like diet soda.Make sure that you check the sodium levels of any sweets that you eat as well. Add these amounts to your daily sodium intake tally.
 The DASH diet requires you to limit foods that contain high amounts of saturated fats, such as fatty meats and dairy products that contain full fat. You should also avoid tropical oils like palm oil, coconut oil, and palm kernel oils, which are all high in saturated fats.Cut back on your intake of meat, cheese, butter, and other fatty animal products.
Try substituting for healthier options wherever you can. For example, you can opt for lean meats, low-fat cheeses, and even light butter.
Be sure to check the sodium content of all of these foods as well. These amounts must be included in your daily sodium tally.
 These foods include:Cold cuts and cured meats. Deli meats and cured meats can be extremely high in sodium, with up to 1,050 mg of sodium per serving. Read the labels and look for low sodium options.

Pizza. Pizza has a high sodium content due to the sauce, cheese, and even the dough. Some of the toppings can also add extra sodium, like pepperoni and olives. One slice may even have up to 760 mg of sodium. Try making your own pizza at home with a low sodium sauce and by using fresh cut veggies as toppings.

Soup. One can of soup can contain half of your daily sodium requirement! Read the labels on soup cans and look for low sodium options. You can also try making a low-sodium version of an old favorite at home, like split pea soup.

Breads and rolls. Always check the packages of any bread you buy in the grocery store. They can contain up to 230 milligrams of sodium per slice!

Chicken. Processed chicken like chicken patties, chicken nuggets, and other fast food chicken concoctions can contain a large amount of sodium. Try to stick with fresh chicken breast and avoid eating chicken that has been breaded or marinated in a salty sauce.

Burritos and tacos. The seasoning often used for preparing burrito and taco meat fillings is loaded with sodium. Avoid using these seasoning blends or opt for a reduced sodium version.

