 You should have an area or separate stall outside of your horse’s regular stall where you groom her. Tie your horse up so that she does not wander away while you are trying to groom her.Wear some clothes that you do not mind getting dirty because grooming your horse can be a very messy job.;
, Move the brush in a circular motion over your horse’s body. To avoid injuring your horse’s more delicate skin, don’t use the rubber curry brush on your horse’s face or legs., With the direction of the hair, move the brush in rapid, short strokes, ending each one in a flicking motion to get the dirt off of your horse’s coat. You should see a cloud of dust come off from your horse’s coat each time you flick the brush.Make sure to use the flicking motion or the dirt will just stay on your horse’s body and may cause irritation.
 Use long even strokes on your horse’s coat to smooth out her hair and get any remaining dirt off of her coat. This brush will help your horse’s coat look nice and shiny., If there are any areas of your horse’s coat that look like they need to be trimmed, use a pair of electric clippers to neaten them up. Don’t use the electric clippers on or around your horse’ face or you may startle her and even injure her.Never clip inside your horse's ears; the fur there protects them from dust and flies. You can clip the outsides of the ears.
 Be gentle and work through major tangles carefully using your fingers to avoid pulling out or breaking any hairs. You can also use the dandy brush on your horse’s tail to get it nice and soft. , Stand next to your horse and use one hand to bend and support your horse’s hoof. Use the hoof pick to remove any rocks, turf, or other objects that have lodged in your horse’s hoof. Scrape away from you so that you do not cause the objects in the hoof to fly towards your body or face.You should also have your horse's hooves trimmed every 3-8 weeks to keep them in good condition. Shoeing horses is not always necessary. In fact, some experts believe that shoeing can cause problems with the hooves rather than protect them. , If your horse is looking extra dirty, you may want to give her a bath. Start by hosing down her body with warm water to rinse off excess dirt and prep her coat for shampooing. Then, massage shampoo into her coat using a curry brush and rinse. After you have rinsed out the shampoo, massage conditioner into her coat using the curry brush and rinse well.To avoid getting shampoo and conditioner in your horse’s eyes, use a wet washcloth to clean her face.

