 Iguanas as pets aren't for everyone. You need to know that they get up to 4 feet and some grow as much as between 5 to 6 feet long and have been known to get a little larger. They can overpower small adults and can seriously injure you if you're not careful. They have a very strong bite, and a very strong tail which they use to whip. Most of their body is tail and that is their main defense. Do your research thoroughly before deciding, and if it's not for you, there are smaller choices for keeping a pet lizard, such as a bearded dragon.


Make sure that you are ready for the commitment. Iguanas can live from 15 to 30 years, and sadly, they are the most thrown away pet; people let them loose outside and they get rid of them because they get too large and require a whole lot of food when they get fully grown.;
, The typical green iguana is the most commonly sold iguana used for captive keeping. There are also red, blue, albino and rhino iguanas but these are harder to find.
 You may be better off purchasing from a breeder than a pet store––check the environment in which the iguana has been raised; it should be a spacious, quality environment to ensure the optimal health of the iguana.
 Iguanas may have mouth problems, missing toes or fingers, injuries, or be sick looking. Go for the biggest greenest iguana in the bunch. Ask the breeder about the iguanas and if he or she has the parents, ask to see them too, to make sure they look healthy and well formed.
 The housing must have the right temperature and humidity for the iguana. For more details, read How to care for an iguana. You also be interested in building your own iguana cage.


Iguanas will require plenty of room. You will need a 55 gallon tank at the least and that is just starting off. A juvenile iguana can stay in that size tank for a while but you will need to go up as it gets older.
Iguanas need a UVB (ultraviolet B) light in order to absorb the calcium they need to help them avoid a common problem for captive iguanas, namely metabolic bone disease.
There must be a heat lamp, and no light at nighttime so that they can sleep, although they will sleep most the day too.
 That is what they prefer to use for washing, using the bathroom in, and sitting around.
 It helps them to feel safe.
 The iguana will be nervous, so don't bother it for about a week. Let it get used to the new home and surroundings before it starts to get used to you.



Get calcium powder and dust the iguana's food with this every day.

