 Journaling is a great way to express your feelings and emotions.You can also use your journal to make notes about how you are managing your MS and your depression and document what works to make you feel better and what doesn’t.


Write in your journal at least once a day about the good things in your life, as well as the challenges that you face.
Write about the strategies and treatments that seem to help you manage your MS and your depression. For example, you might write, “Today I found that taking a walk helps me feel better.”

, Both MS and major depression can make it difficult for you to do the things you need to do each day. You may feel too unfocused, weak, or in pain to take care of all the things you need to. Creating a routine and sticking to it can help you treat your depression and possibly help you manage your MS, as well.When you have a routine it helps you meet your daily goals and find focus throughout the day.


For example, your daily routine might be: get out of bed, brush your teeth, do 10 minutes of yoga, eat breakfast, take a walk, and then meditate.
Sometimes you won’t complete the whole routine, but congratulate yourself on what you do finish. For example, you might do everything from your morning routine, but be too weak to do your afternoon activities. Tell yourself, “I did well this morning and I’ll give myself a break now.”
Try to make basic grooming an essential part of your routine, as well as leaving the house at least once a day. Grooming and hygiene can fall by the wayside when you are ill, but these can have a major impact on your self esteem. Make sure you are bathing, brushing your teeth, etc. You should also make an effort to go outside, however briefly, to stay connected with the outside world. A little sunlight can lift your mood and keep your sleep/wake cycle regular.
 When you are battling MS and major depression you may sometimes find yourself feeling worthless, helpless, or bad about yourself in general.If this happens, you should do things to improve your self-esteem to help you treat your depression.


Try to involve yourself in something you find worthwhile, such as volunteering, or writing for a small, local publication. Contributing to something that you find important can help lift your self-esteem.
Make a list of all your good characteristics, qualities, talents, and skills. For example, you might write: nice, generous, funny, charming, good at skiing, great student, and good project manager.
Use positive self-talk with yourself, such as saying things like, “I’m a good, capable person and I can manage my MS and my depression.”

, Talking to and being around other people that are going through the same thing as you can help you in a lot of ways. The support group members can provide you with encouragement and new friendships. They can also give you suggestions for new strategies to manage your MS and your depression.Ask your therapist or healthcare professional for a reference to an MS support group in your community. People there may also be experiencing depression as they cope with their multiple sclerosis.
Check the Anxiety and Depression Association of America’s webpage at https://www.adaa.org/supportgroups to find depression support and online groups.
The National Multiple Sclerosis Society provides information about MS specific support groups at http://www.nationalmssociety.org/Resources-Support/Find-Support/Join-a-Local-Support-Group.
 You may already be relying on the people close to you for support for your MS. It’s okay, and actually a good idea to turn to them for help managing your depression.They can help encourage you and boost your self-esteem. They can also help you avoid the isolation and withdrawal that often accompanies depression.


Let them know that you’re having a depressive episode. You might say, “Right now I’m coping with MS, but also having to overcome depression. I could use your support.”
It’s also okay to ask someone to just be with you. For instance, you could say, “I don’t really want to do anything or even talk. I just need someone to be with me right now.”
Make sure you have a few people you can count on. This way, if one person is unavailable, there are others you can still reach out to for support.

