 If you need a business license for using nuclear materials, you must file the NRC's application for materials license, also known as NRC Form 313. This form and instructions are available on the NRC's website.Form 313 is a deceptively simple single-paged form. However, there are a number of other forms which also must accompany Form 313 and will take you a little more time to complete.
Download and read the instruction guide for Form 313 as well as the Form 313A series of forms, which relates to the training and certification of authorized users.;
, Federal regulations are published in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). NRC regulations are found in Title 10, with Chapter 35 covering regulations related specifically to materials licenses.The information you provide on your forms must comport with these regulations, or the NRC will deny your application.
Make sure you've read and understand the regulations thoroughly, especially those related to the storage and handling of materials and the training of employees.
You also can download a regulatory guide applicable to your license from the NRC website. The guide explains the applicable federal regulations in plain language that may be a little easier to understand.
Links to additional resources particularly for small businesses are available on the website of the U.S. Small Business Association in its section on starting a business. Under "learn about business laws" search for "federal compliance contacts and resources" and follow the links for the NRC.
 Once you have the information necessary, you're ready to fill out the forms you'll need to send to the NRC to get your license to use nuclear materials in connection with your business.Form 313 requires basic information about the material you'll be using it, where you'll be using it, and for what purpose. Because applications will be made available to the public, avoid including proprietary information or trade secrets if at all possible.
The application guide provides instructions on how to describe the material and uses. This information cannot be written on the application itself, but should be typed on separate sheets of paper attached to the form.
The information provided in response to items 5 through 11 on the application must comply with federal regulations. Type this information using a standard font and black ink with a high contrast between the words and the white paper.
To expedite the NRC's review process, use the suggested wording found in the application guide rather than trying to put statements into your own words.
Once you've included all required information, print and sign your name at the bottom of the application to complete the form.
Your application must be accompanied by Form 313A, which describes the training and experienced of authorized users, including any state or federal certification or licenses held by those individuals. #Submit your application. The original and one copy of your completed application forms and related materials must be mailed to the address listed on Form 313 that issues licenses in the state or territory where your business is located. Make sure you also make a copy of all documents for your own records.Make sure you've included all required documents and that they've been signed by the appropriate individuals. Since the NRC will scan your documents, keep the paper as smooth and crisp as possible.
You may want to mail your application materials using certified mail with returned receipt requested. Certified mail allows you to track your materials as well as receive notification when your application materials have been received by the NRC.
 Obtaining a license from the NRC requires payment of either hourly or annual fees. For material users such as radiographers, a single annual fee is charged according to the schedule listed in the federal regulations.Generally, you will pay annual fees if the total amount is less than $100,000. The amount of fees owed may change every year, so once your license is issued you must keep up with federal regulations so you know how much you owe each year.
For example, in 2015 the annual fee for radiographers was $25,800. However, regulations were proposed that would increase this fee to $25,900 in 2016.
In contrast, the same regulations proposed a decrease in fees for broad scope medical uses, from $37,500 to $37,300.
You may qualify for a reduced annual fee if you have a small business. You must file NRC Form 526, "Certification of Small Entity Status for the Purposes of Annual Fees Imposed Under 10 CFR Part 171."
The form includes instructions that you should read thoroughly before you complete it. You also can download a small entity compliance guide from the NRC website. Keep in mind this form must be filed every year you want to qualify as a small entity for the life of your license.
If you have any questions regarding your business's small entity status, you can call the NRC at 1-800-368-5642.
You can pay your fees by submitting a check, or you can pay the fee electronically using a credit or debit card, or an ACH withdrawal directly from your bank account.
Do not send fee payments with your application. Checks or money orders must be sent to the NRC's post office lockbox and can only be sent by regular mail.
The address for the lockbox is U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, U.S. Bank Government Lockbox, SL-MO-C2GL, 1005 Convention Plaza, St. Louis, MO 63101.
 The NRC evaluates your application to ensure it complies with all existing federal regulations. Provided you meet the requirements, the NRC will issue you a license that is valid for 10 years.Federal regulations establish standards for storage, usage, and disposal of nuclear materials.
The NRC has regular procedures to review your application. Part of the agency's role is to ensure that your use of nuclear materials will not adversely affect the environment.
Provided you've filled out your application completely and accurately and there is no information that might flag a regulatory violation, you can expect to receive your license within 30 to 60 days from the date you mail your application and pay your fees.
 If you have a materials license, you can modify that license using the same Form 313 that you used to apply for your existing license. On the first question, you would check the box next to "Amendment" and provide your existing license number.Certain changes, such as a new or different responsible person or authorized user, changes in areas of use, or changes in the material used, require you to file an amendment.
Changes requiring an amendment include an increase or decrease in the amounts of nuclear material stored or used.
Particularly if you're requesting modification relatively soon after your license was issued, it may not be necessary to fill out the form completely. If information hasn't changed, you can leave it blank and the information provided in your original application will be used.
Make sure you're referencing and using the most current version of the NRC's application guidance document and the federal regulations when you complete your application for amendment.
 Once you've completed the application form and related documentation, make two copies of it for the NRC and one copy for your records, then send it to the appropriate address listed on the form.Different NRC offices are responsible for licenses issued for businesses operating in particular U.S. states and territories. The addresses for these offices are listed at the top of Form 313.
Make sure you're sending it to the appropriate office for processing modifications or renewals rather than new applications.
Consider sending your application using certified mail with returned receipt requested, so you know when your application is received.
Take care not to fold the pages of your application, as they will be scanned by the NRC. Use a thick, flat document envelope the size of an unfolded piece of paper or slightly larger.
 If the modification you're proposing would expand the scope of your existing license, you may have to pay additional fees as a result. To determine whether you owe additional fees, you must check the applicable regulations in the federal register.Any additional fees required for a modification can be paid using the same processes available for paying fees associated with a new application.
There is no requirement that you pay additional fees using the same method you've used in the past. For example, if you previously paid your fees by mailing a check to the lockbox, you can pay additional fees electronically if you prefer.
 The NRC reviews your application for modification using the same procedures as it did for your original application, to ensure that the modification would be in compliance with the applicable federal regulations.Provided all of your information is in compliance with regulations and is timely received, the NRC typically will approve your modification or amendment within 30 to 60 days of the date you sent your application.
Where appropriate, a new license will be issued to reflect your modification. However, keep in mind that modification does not change the duration of the license, and your new license will expire on the same date that your original license was set to expire.
 When you renew your license, you must use the most recent guidance documents and federal regulations to ensure the information you provide complies with federal regulations.Although licenses are good for 10 years, the regulations may have changed significantly in that period of time. It's your responsibility to prepare a renewal application using the most current guidelines and regulations, regardless of whether changes are required.
Keep in mind that the regulations place the responsibility on you to renew a license that is soon to expire. The NRC won't send you a notification or renewal packet when your license is about to run out.
 Not only do fees potentially change each year, but your annual fees may be different depending on the size of your organization and whether your renewal application also seeks an expansion of your original license.Check the federal regulation for the current year to determine whether your annual fees will be different in your renewal year from what you paid the previous year.
If you have been paying reduced fees as a small entity, you must file a new form for renewal just as you did every year while your original license was in effect.
You also want to find out what methods are available for paying your fees. Keep in mind that the NRC may add or change methods of payment each year, typically in an effort to make fee payment more convenient for you.
 Once you have the appropriate information and have thoroughly reviewed the regulations and guidance documents, you're ready to fill out the forms to renew your license.In some cases, you may not have to fill out the entire application. Since you'll enter your existing license number, any information that is the same on your renewal as it was on your original application doesn't need to be provided again.
However, typically you should provide a complete application, particularly if many of the documents referenced in the original application you filed for your existing license are now outdated.
A complete application also may be necessary if there have been significant changes to regulatory requirements or to the NRC's application guidance. Given that licenses are good for 10 years, you're safe in assuming that significant changes are likely over that period of time.
Alternatively, you can simply describe the changes, additions, or deletions that should be made to your original application.
 Send your original application along with one copy to the address listed for the NRC that issues license renewals in the state or territory where your business is located.Before you send your application, make sure you have a copy for your own records.
Using certified or express mail to send your application provides you a method to track delivery of your application and receive notification when it is received.
If you want to continue to operate under your existing license even after it expires, your renewal application must be postmarked at least 30 days before that expiration date.
 The NRC reviews your renewal using the same procedures as it used for your original application, and will determine whether your use, storage, and disposal of nuclear materials complies with existing federal regulations.Provided the information on your renewal application complies with current federal regulations, you can expect to receive your renewal license within 30 to 60 days of the date you sent your application.
You can continue to operate even if your original license expires, as long as your renewal application was postmarked at least 30 days before that expiration date.

