 You can start massaging your baby right after birth. No matter if you want to start immediately or are starting when your baby is older, don’t just jump into full body massages. Instead, start introducing skin-to-skin touch slowly.Start by just holding your baby on your chest. Then, slowly add strokes to the back and legs, then expand to other body parts.
Watch your baby’s reactions to make sure they are alert, calm, and content.
Newborns may respond better to massage if you leave their clothes on.
 Massaging your baby should be done when your baby is in the correct mood and wants you to massage them. A fussy baby will not enjoy getting massaged. Instead, wait for your baby to be calm and happy. If your baby is looking at you calmly, that is a good time to massage them.As you undress your baby and cover your hands in oil, you may want to ask you baby if they want a massage. Just ask, “Would you like a massage now?” Watch your baby’s reaction. If they are happy and content, then the answer is yes.
If your baby looks away from you or is very distracted, the answer is probably no and it may not be a good time to massage them. You should also wait if your baby is stiff or squirming when you pick them up or touch them.
 Massaging your baby after feeding may lead to nausea or vomiting. Instead, let your baby’s food fully digest before massaging. A good rule is to wait between 45 to 60 minutes before massaging your baby after feeding., There is not a “right” amount for how often you should massage your baby. There is also no specific time that is better. This is up to you and your baby. As you incorporating infant massage, decide how often and when would be the ideal time to massage your baby.You may want to massage your baby every day. You may choose to massage them only at night or in the morning. For example, your baby may be more responsive in the afternoon or after a bath.
Your baby may like certain parts of their body massaged at different times. For example, you may be able to massage their tummy while you change them and massage their legs in the morning.
 If your baby has health conditions, or if you want to make sure baby massage is right for your baby, talk to the doctor. They can let you know if it is okay and provide some suggestions.Your doctor may also suggest going to a baby massage expert to help teach you how to massage your baby.
 Many places offer infant massage classes that last for around four to six weeks. During a class, you learn proper stroke technique and become comfortable massaging your baby. You also learn how to read your baby’s cues and body language.You can start by looking at the directory at The International Association of Infant Massage or Infant Massage USA.

