 You probably can’t imagine anything is wrong with your website until you receive notice one day that someone thinks it is inaccessible. The person complaining will probably be someone who has low vision or is blind. Alternately, they may be deaf. You will be notified of a problem in one of the following ways:


A demand letter. Someone’s attorney might send you a demand letter to make your website accessible and to pay them a sum of money (fees and costs). The letter will probably threaten to sue you if you don’t.A complaint filed with the Department of Justice (DOJ). A disabled person might file a complaint with the DOJ. The DOJ might then reach out to you to get your side of the story, or it may propose that you mediate the dispute with the person complaining about your website.A complaint filed in court. A disabled person can also sue you in court. They start the lawsuit by filing a complaint. You will receive a copy of the complaint and a “summons,” which should tell you how much time you have to respond to the lawsuit.;
, No matter how you are notified, you should be told what is wrong with your website. There are common accessibility issues, and you should double-check to see if your website might not be accessible. For example, look for the following:Check whether you have text equivalents for images. People with low vision often use screen readers or Braille displays to read computer text. However, these readers can’t translate visual images unless you add a text equivalent.
Identify if all documents are accessible. You may provide documents for download. However, PDFs are difficult for people with low vision to use because it is hard to resize them or change the font color. Accordingly, you may need to upload HTML or Rich Text Format (RTF) versions.
See if a reader can manipulate the text. In order to read a website, people with low vision may need to change the font size or color.
Check if videos are accessible. Deaf people can’t hear the audio, so video should have closed-captioning. Also, people who are blind or have low vision can’t see the images, so you would need a text equivalent.
 If you are a federal, state, or local government agency, then you are certainly covered by the ADA. However, private businesses may also be covered by the ADA if they offer goods or services through the website., The ADA requires that covered businesses make “places of public accommodation” accessible. However, it’s not clear whether a website qualifies as a “place of public accommodation.”In some federal courts the answer is “yes,” and in others it is “no.” Also, many courts haven’t even considered the issue.


You can do basic research on Google Scholar to check whether federal courts in your district have interpreted “places of public accommodation” to include websites.
Go to the Google Scholar page.Then click on “case law” and “Federal Courts.” Then click on “find courts.”
Find your state and click on the relevant district court and the Appellate Court. For example, if you are in Maine, then click on Maine and “1st Circuit Court of Appeals” since that is the appellate court that covers Maine.
In the search box, type “ADA” and “website.” Read to see if any court opinion addresses this issue.
 This is a confusing area of law that is still developing. Accordingly, you need an experienced attorney’s advice. You should get a referral to an attorney and ask to schedule a consultation.You may be a small business without a lot of money. Unfortunately, people are targeting small “mom and pop” type establishments for website inaccessibility.If you don’t think you can hire a lawyer to represent you, then ask the lawyer if he or she offers “limited scope representation.” Under this arrangement, you will pay for whatever help you need but generally handle the case yourself.
 You have to respond to a complaint by drafting a response. One response could be an “answer.” In the answer, you admit or deny each allegation made by the plaintiff in their complaint. You can also claim insufficient knowledge if you don’t know whether an allegation is true or not.Your lawyer should draft your answer for you. However, if you are representing yourself, then you should check if there is a printed, “fill in the blank” answer form you can use.
Also see Answer a Civil Lawsuit for more information about what you should include in your answer.
 You might not want to file an answer as your response. Instead, you might file a “motion to dismiss.”In this motion, you can argue that a website isn’t covered under the ADA and that the plaintiff hasn’t brought a valid legal claim.


Your lawyer can also raise other issues in a motion to dismiss. For example, the person suing you (the “plaintiff”) might have filed the lawsuit in the wrong court.You shouldn’t be surprised if this happens—they may try to find a court that believes websites are “places of public accommodation.”
Your lawyer could also argue that the “statute of limitations” has run out. This is the maximum amount of time the plaintiff has to file the lawsuit after they were injured by being unable to use your website. The amount of time will differ depending on your state’s personal injury statute of limitations.However, the primary argument your lawyer will make in the motion to dismiss is that the ADA doesn’t cover this case.
 You need to file the answer or motion to dismiss with the court clerk in the court where the complaint was filed. Be sure to make a copy for your records and a copy to serve on the plaintiff. You can take your original and the copies to the court clerk. Ask to file., You have to give the plaintiff a copy of the document you filed, whether an answer or a motion to dismiss. You can have this document served by hiring someone 18 or older, who isn’t a party to the case, to make hand delivery.


If the plaintiff has an attorney, then serve the answer on the attorney., The person who filed the lawsuit will have a chance to respond to your motion to dismiss. The judge will then probably schedule a hearing. At the hearing, your attorney will have to argue that the ADA doesn’t cover your website.


If the judge agrees, then the case is dismissed. The plaintiff might be able to refile, but he or she will have to sue you for something other than an ADA discrimination claim. The ADA claim will be dismissed “with prejudice.”

, If the case proceeds past the motion to dismiss stage, then you enter the fact-finding stage of the lawsuit called “discovery.” In discovery, you can request helpful documents and other information from the plaintiff. You can also ask that the plaintiff sit for a “deposition,” which would be very helpful.


In a deposition, the plaintiff has to answer questions face-to-face and under oath. A court reporter will record the questions and answers.A deposition is a good way to probe why the plaintiff went to your website in the first place. If you are a small “mom and pop” business, then you want to check that the plaintiff really was trying to do business with you on the website. In order to win their case, the plaintiff has to prove that he or she intends to return to the website and use it., You can also request other information using different discovery techniques. This information will help you either at trial or in a summary judgment motion. You should request the following:


Use interrogatories to ask how many ADA lawsuits the plaintiff has filed. Some people make a career of suing small companies over website violations.Request medical records that confirm the plaintiff’s disability. Some people might not be as disabled as they claim. Also, the disability has to relate to why the website is inaccessible. For example, someone might be paralyzed below the waist. However, he or she should still be able to use your website if it lacks text equivalents since they don’t have low vision.
 You might be able to avoid trial by filing a “motion for summary judgment.” You file this motion after discovery has ended and all of the facts are out in the open. In the motion, you tell the judge that there are no meaningful factual disputes. Also, you argue that you are entitled to win based on the law.Your lawyer might once again raise the issue about whether a website qualifies as a place of public accommodation. The judge might not have been comfortable saying “no” on a motion to dismiss, but with more evidence he or she could rule in your favor.
If you win, the case ends. However, the plaintiff could appeal the motion for summary judgment.
If you lose, then you will continue on to trial.
 Most trials are very similar in structure, regardless of what the lawsuit is about. You can expect that your trial will generally follow this sequence:


Opening statement. Each side presents a roadmap of what evidence will be presented.
Cross-examine the plaintiff’s witnesses. The plaintiff goes first. He or she will have to testify that they tried to use your website but found it inaccessible because of their disability. You will have a chance to ask them questions.
Present your own witnesses. You might also have witnesses testify. For example, you might have a medical witness testify that the plaintiff is not really disabled.
Closing arguments. Each side summarizes the evidence presented at trial and argues that the judge or jury should adopt its interpretation.
Verdict. In federal court, all verdicts must be unanimous unless you agree ahead of time to a non-unanimous verdict., You have the option of settling the dispute at any point in the lawsuit. You could mediate a dispute after the plaintiff contacts the DOJ. You could also negotiate a settlement with the plaintiff’s lawyer after receiving a demand letter. In fact, you can settle the dispute at any time. Before doing so, you should discuss the pros and cons with your lawyer:


One advantage is finality. If you settle the lawsuit, it goes away. You may have to pay money, but you can rest comfortably knowing this person won’t sue you again. However, another person might unless you change your website.
Other advantages include the fact that settlement is usually quicker and cheaper than going to trial.Even if you win the lawsuit, it could take years to resolve. Also you could spend thousands in fees and costs, even if you represent yourself.
One negative is that you have to pay money even though you might not have done anything wrong. If your website is accessible, then you might want to fight.
 Since negotiation is voluntary, you should decide ahead of time the maximum amount you are willing to pay to settle the dispute. This is called your “walkaway” point.You can come up with your walkaway point by meeting with your attorney and discussing how much the plaintiff is likely to win in a lawsuit.
 You might negotiate through letters with the plaintiff’s attorney. If you participate in mediation, then you would negotiate in person with the help of the “mediator.” You should remember the following tips:Use silence. If you talk too much, you might let slip how much you are willing to settle for. You also give up a chance to listen.
Seek concessions. You might be willing to settle but you want, in return, for the plaintiff’s attorneys to help you make your website compliant.
Don’t settle too quickly. If you feel rushed, you won’t make the best deal for yourself.
 If you come to an agreement, then get something in writing. In particular, you want the plaintiff to sign a “release.” By signing this document, the plaintiff agrees that they will not sue you again on the same website accessibility complaint.
 As part of a settlement, you will probably have to agree to change your website. In particular, you will probably have to agree to make it compliant with the World Wide Web Consortium’s (W3C) Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.0 AA). The plaintiff may even agree to assist in the transition.The changes you must make will include:


Provide text alternatives for non-text content.
Separate the foreground from the background, so that the content is easier to read.
Make sure your website can be accessed using only the keyboard.
Increase your web page’s compatibility with assistive technologies, such as Braille displays.

