 If you want to tune your guitar, do it in a quiet place to make sure. Tune your guitar by ear to make sure that you know how to turn it up with the right vibrations.;
, The standard tuning of a guitar is E-A-D-G-B-e. Since you are striving to get the C-G-C-G-C-d tune, first you'll need to know what your strings sound like.


E=C, A=G, D=C,  G is still equal to G, B=C, e=d

, The tuning requires to be sharped and flatted, theoretically speaking.
 Tune it down to C. Of course, you know how to play the guitar, so make a C chord now. The C bass, which is actually the A string or the second thickest, is on the third fret (as you can see when you've done the C regular chord).
 Get down as carefully as possible to get the C. The string may loosen but that's actually it and it's totally fine. Keep on going but make sure that you're still on the right track. It should sound thicker than the C bass in the A string. Just make sure that it sounds the same.



Hit the seventh fret on your guitar with your newly tuned string (the E to C string) and it makes a G note.
From there, tune the A string (the second thickest/bass) to the G on the seventh fret. Tune it down carefully again, don't miss your note and there you have it. Compare how it sounds by hearing the two string carefully, feel the vibrations and the tone.
 Hit the fifth fret on the G string (the one you've tuned earlier from A to G), and that makes a C again. Tune your D string down again, don't miss the C and tune accurately.
 So, don't worry about it. Let it be!

, This is going up C. From the previous strings, you went down but here you go up, (tuning going up is easier than going down). Since the D string is already C, then just make it as the same as the B string, you just need to slightly go up, it's just a one step note. Don't miss it!

, Now you are on the Little E going down to D. So hit the third fret on the C string (the string from B to C) and you get a D. Tune down again, do it carefully and you're done!

