 You can use the string lights commonly used to decorate Christmas trees to make a lamp that emulates the appearance of fireflies in a jar. Get a glass jar of any color and shape. A simple mason jar with a metal lid can work, but so can a glass jar with a flip-top lid.The easiest option is turning the jar upside down and running the plug out of the jar’s opening.
You can also add a hole for the plug end of the string lights to leave the jar. Depending on the material, it may be easiest to poke or drill a hole in the lid. You can also get drill bits made to drill holes in glass.
Alternatively, use battery-operated lights and hide the battery storage area within the jar, perhaps beneath the lid. This will give you a stand-alone light fixture you can put wherever you like, and even move around.
 Filling a metal can with string lights can create a lighting effect on the walls of a room that looks a bit like fireflies glowing in the distance. Coffee tins are especially good, as they have strong metal and the opening does not have sharp edges. Remove any product label, and use a marker to cover the can in dots that are about the length of paper clip away from one another.Paint the can, if you so desire, in whatever color or pattern you wish. Spray paint will be the easiest and fastest method.
Fill the can with a string of lights and run the plug out of the can’s opening, or make your own hole elsewhere.
 For instance, place metal firefly jars somewhere they can project light onto the surrounding walls. Glass or metal firefly jars can be hung from the ceiling, or placed on tables around a room. These fixtures can make especially enjoyable porch decorations, allowing you turn the overhead fixture off and immerse yourself in firefly-like lighting.


If you intend to place your electric firefly light outdoors, consider powering them with solar-powered string lights. Fasten the solar panel to the top of the jar and simply place the fixture on an outdoor table for an automatic evening light source.

