 In this mode, the main goal is to find the hidden gummy bears. The number of gummy bears you need to find is indicated in the upper portion of the screen.
 The gummy bears you need to find are hidden beneath the jellies on the board. You can only uncover the gummy bears by clearing the jellies on top of them. Start by randomly clearing out candies above the jelly blocks to see what’s underneath them.


If there’s a gummy bear under a jelly block, you will notice its greenish color. Once you figure out where the gummy bears are, you can now start targeting these locations.
 The hidden gummy bears can vary in sizes; they can be as small as two blocks or as big as 18 blocks. For each gummy bear you’ve uncovered, determine its size so you will know how many blocks you need to remove around it to free it.
 Don’t pay too much attention to the other candies or obstacles on the board. Your sole focus should be on freeing up the gummy bears. Don’t waste your moves on matching the other candies.
 Similar to the original Candy Crush, you can make some combos that will generate special candies. These special candies can help you clear out more candies and earn more points. They are also useful in clearing up a bigger portion of the board so you will easily know where the gummy bears are hidden. Match these special candies with each other to get more awesome results.



Striped candy — A Striped candy is a special candy that results from matching four candies in a row. When you use a Striped candy as part of a match, it will clear out a whole row or column from the board. The direction is dependent on what direction the stripes are on the candy. Striped candies are useful in removing jellies and chocolate, when placed in the right position.

Wrapped candy — A Wrapped candy is a special candy that results from matching at least three vertical and three horizontal candies forming a plus, T-shape, or corner-shape. This one’s more challenging and difficult to get as compared to a Striped candy. When you use a Wrapped candy as part of a match, it will first explode and knock out the nine candies surrounding it, and then it will drop and explode again, knocking out another nine candies the same way. Wrapped candies can be useful in removing obstacles within their explosion area, which can otherwise be difficult to get to.

Candy Bomb — A Candy Bomb is a special candy that results from matching five candies in a row. It can be difficult to get, but not impossible. You just have to work on getting the right candies in place to swap with to form the five-in-a-row. Color bombs do not need to be matched in order to be used. You can just swap it with another candy, and all similar-colored candies will be removed from the board.

Jellyfish — A Jellyfish is a special candy that results from matching at least four candies in a box of 2 by 2. When used, a Jellyfish attacks an obstacle or a soda bottle, depending on the level. Jelly Fishes can be useful in removing obstacles or soda bottles from hard to reach areas, though they move in random.
 Aside from the main goal, every level requires you to meet a certain minimum score to in order to move to the next level. If you’ve successfully completed the goal, but didn’t meet the required score, you will still lose the game. Go for huge combos and cascading matches to get some bonus scores.