 Maybe the attacker won’t harm you if you don’t challenge them. If you plan to disarm the attacker, you will also want to act passive and deferential at first to throw them off too.


Ideally, all you need to do is comply, and you will not have to attempt anything risky.
Act cooperative and as passive as possible. Say something like, “Hey, don’t worry, I don’t want any trouble. What do you want?” Give the attacker the impression you are not a threat
Raise your arms higher than the handgun, and don’t keep them still. Wave them side-to- side in a repetitive way to lull the attacker’s peripheral vision and hide the defensive movement you are about to make by moving your hands forward.
 In one swift movement, move your head first and grab a hold of the gun. Turn the gun away from your body. Turn the gunman’s wrist in. Distract the gunman with a punch, kick, or both.
Reach under the weapon, placing your free hand on the hammer and being aware of where the barrel is pointed at all times. Keep both hands on the gun as you kick, stomp or knee the gunman. With both hands firmly on the gun, and the gunman’s wrist twisted, rip the gun away. Now you have the gun.
 The best case scenario once you have the gun is for you to get away without having to fire it.


Flee with the gun. If the gunman keeps coming at you, you may have no choice, but inspect the gun with your hands by tapping the bottom of the magazine to be sure it’s in.
Scream, make noise, and try to draw attention. Hopefully, the gunman will run away. Again, the goal is to not have to fire the gun. Learn the self-defense laws. You are entitled to defend yourself in many cases if you are in immediate danger of death or great bodily harm., You do not want to show panic because this might make the person with the gun panic, and that is very dangerous.


You want to retain psychological advantage. Make eye contact with the gunman. This will force him or her to see you as a human being and might make it harder to shoot you. Do not make this an intimidating or challenging gaze, however.
Calculate the context. Why is the person pulling a gun on you? If the motive is robbery, then the motive of the gunman may not be to kill you. If you’re being targeted in a mass shooting where the motive of the gunman is to kill as many people as possible, this is a very different scenario. If you’re not sure if the motive is to kill you, you can hope that the gunman spares your life without your needing to get the gun.
 There are ways you can reduce the chances you will need to use self-defense in the first place.


Avoid walking on foot alone, especially if it’s night, if you’re female, and if you’re impaired. Criminals look for moments of vulnerability. If you’re drunk and walking down the street, they might see you as a target. Don’t flash money or expensive jewelry around.
Be aware of your surroundings. Don’t walk with your head down or distracting yourself by talking on a cell phone. Be aware of what’s going on around you at all times. Wear shoes that would allow you to run.
You could consider getting a concealed-carry permit if this is lawful in your state and you are properly trained. Ask for a security escort at your college or apartment building or work, if one is available. Carry mace or pepper spray if this is legal where you live.

