 When it comes to hair extensions, quality is key. Hair extensions are often made from real hair, but can also be made from synthetic fibers. In terms of quality, authentic extensions are the better choice. They last longer and look more natural. However, authentic extensions are pricey and may not be within your budget.If you want longterm extensions, ones that you want woven or glued into your hair, you may want to spend the extra money on real extensions. For best results, get extensions directly from your stylist and have them designed for you. You want extensions to look natural, so you should have them colored and shaped for you hair type.If you're looking for extensions you can take in and out, which you will not wear all the time, you may be able to get by with synthetic extensions. There are two types of synthetic extensions: Toyokalon and Kanekalon. Kanekalon extensions have more fiber, meaning they're more resistant to heat. If you plan on styling or curling your extensions, go with Kanekalon. Toyokalon are not as easy to style, but may last longer.;
, Before making a purchase, you want to make sure you know how long your extensions should be. Hair extensions are attached to the center of your hair. You should measure the length of your hair from the center the the tips. Then, add the number of inches you want to this number. This should give you a rough idea of the length you should buy.For example, say you want to add 5 inches of hair. The length from the center of your hair to your tips is 10 inches. You would want extensions 15 inches in length.
Keep in mind where the center of your hair falls depends on your hair type, as well as torso and neck length. Therefore, it's a good idea to ask your stylist for a length recommendation before making a purchase.
 You want to get a sense of how much extensions cost before making a purchase. You do not want to overpay for extensions. However, you should be suspicious of extensions are priced too low, as they may not be high quality.Real hair extensions tend to be very pricey. A partial head of extensions will cost between $400 and $800. A full head of hair extensions designed to just fill out your hair will cost between $1,300 and $1,600. If you want to fill out your hair and add length, the cost will be $1,600 to $4,000.
Synthetic extensions will cost much less. Things like clip-ons or hair flips are particularly cheap. While synthetic hair is not recommended, it's a decent option if you're on a budget.
 It's a good idea to buy extensions in a store, so you can make sure they're a good match for your hair color and texture. Visit a variety of local salons, beauty stores, and department stores and see what types of extensions they sell and for what prices. You may want to talk to stylist at your local salons and ask for suggestions based on your hair type.


As stated, real hair is going to cost you more. However, you may be able to find cheaper, synthetic extensions. Price ranges may vary slightly from salon to salon and store to store, so look out for minor differences in prices.
Do research on a salon before settling on it. If prices are lower, make sure the salon still has a good reputation. Low prices may indicate poor quality.
Also, call a variety of salons and ask about added costs. The cost of attaching the extensions will vary. In addition to paying a lot for the extensions themselves, there's a cost of labor you should consider.
 You may be able to find cheaper extensions online. If there's a brand you like at a local store, see if you can find it at a discount price online. You may also find stores online that sell extensions that are closer to your price range.


You should be sure to do some research before making an online purchase. Read user reviews to make sure that type of extension has a good reputation.
 The duration you want to keep your extensions in place makes a big difference in terms of the types you choose. Certain extensions last much longer, and are placed in the hair via things like hot glue.Strand by strand extensions and tubing extensions are inserted into your hair for the longterm. Usually, you will have to go to a salon to have these types of extensions woven into your hair. This can be time consuming and costly, but will give you extensions that will stay in for the longterm.Other types of longterm hair extensions are glued or fused to the heat using heat, cold, or glue. These also usually require a salon visit.Micro tube extensions are also longterm, but easier to apply and less damaging. You clamp these extensions onto existing hair without any adhesives, which may cause less damage to hair than other permanent options. If you have some experience working with hair, you may be able to use a tube extension kit on your own. However, most people will need a salon., Not all extensions are made to last. If you're on a budget, or simply don't want to commit to a look longterm, look into things like hair clips and hair flips.Hair clips and hair flips are shorter term extensions, which you clip or attach yourself in the morning when getting ready. They are generally cheaper and easier to apply than more permanent measures.
However, the process of attaching hair clips or flips each morning can take awhile. Hair flips tend to be slightly more expensive than clips, but are generally easier to attach.
 Salon visits can get costly. Hair extension options that require tubing, weaving, or fusing almost always must be done at a salon. Research a variety of salons in your area to get a sense of the average cost of these kinds of procedures. See if that cost is within your budget. If you cannot afford a salon, you may want to go with synthetic hair clips or flips that you can attach yourself.
 If a salon is out of your budget, look into DIY extensions. Many stores sell cheap hair clips you can easily attach yourself. They may sell color strip or extensions made from feathers. If you're looking for a wilder style, this may work for you. You should also look into ponytail extensions, which you attach to a headband or existing ponytail. These types of extensions are not as authentic in appearance as pricier clips or extensions that require salon care, but tend to be affordable for most people., It's very important that you get the right color match when selecting your extensions. A mismatched color can look jarring and call attention to the fact you're wearing extensions.Look at a variety of color options. It's a good idea to see extensions in real life before making a purchase to make sure they match your hair tone.
If you can't find extensions that match your own hair color, you may want to consider coloring your hair at home or professionally. You can then purchase extensions to match. Usually, you want extensions colored ahead of time. Extensions are not as strong as regular hair, so dyeing them to match yours can cause damage. Dyed hair extensions tend to not last as long.
Certain hair tones, like reds and highlights, may be lighter on extensions. If your extensions are old, and you've already gotten a lot of use out of them, it may make sense to simply dye them if their color fades.
 Make sure you get a length you're comfortable with. As extensions are often attached to the middle of the head and not the top, the total length of your hair is usually longer than the advertised length of the extensions. If you're getting 15 inch extensions, for example, keep in mind your hair will end up longer than 15 inches. Hair extensions can be cut, but longer extensions cost more. To keep things in a reasonable budget, it's a good idea to get extensions in your desired length., In addition to making sure you get a color match, you want to make sure your extensions are the correct texture. Extensions come in straight, wavy, and curly varieties. When selecting your extensions, make sure to buy a type that's fitting with your current hair. You should also keep in mind how you style your hair. If you frequently curl of flat iron your hair, make sure you get a heat resistant extension., Unless you have professional experience, you should never attempt to attach longterm extensions on your own. Extensions that require fusing, weaving, or heat/cold treatments can cause damage to your hair attached incorrectly. Always hire a stylist if you're going with these types of extensions., You should not sleep on your extensions. They tend to be more delicate than regular hair. Wrap your hair in a shower cap or a silk bonnet at night to avoid damaging your extensions., Like regular hair, extensions require washing and care. However, you want to be careful when washing extensions, especially if you have synthetic extensions. Consider using a dry shampoo. You should also be sure to avoid placing conditioner near the glue or bonds holding your extensions in place.