 Check the stuffed animal’s tag for washing instructions. Depending on the stuffed animal’s fabric and inside material, the toy may or may not be machine washable, and may need to be washed by hand or spot cleaned.


Always follow the suggested cleaning instructions.
 Check to see if there are any electronic parts on or inside the stuffed animal. Make sure any ribbons or string are secured and tied tightly before washing. Any removable plastic pieces such as crowns, swords, purses, or any other accessories, should be detached before washing.


Do not machine wash any stuffed animals that have electronic parts. These parts will be ruined in the wash, and can damage your machine.
If the stuffed animal has fragile clothing that can’t be taken off (or is made out of glitter, sequins, or rhinestones) consider washing the toy by hand. These items can easily become loose in the wash machine.
 Putting your soiled stuffed animal into a mesh laundry bag allows the toy to be delicately cleaned in the wash machine, while catching any parts that might come off during the wash.A mesh bag also prevents the stuffed animal from getting caught on the machine’s interior.


Alternatively, you can use a pillowcase to encase the stuffed animal in the washing machine, though it doesn't clean the stuffed animal as well because less suds and water gets to the stuffed animal.
 The wash machine should be set to a delicate or gentle washing cycle. Change the water temperature setting to wash with cold water.The cold water will reduce any dyes on the stuffed animal from bleeding.
 Insert the stuffed animal into the wash machine and add a small amount of mild laundry soap (about two tablespoons worth). Wash the stuffed animal by itself in the wash machine.


Be very cautious of washing old or antique stuffed animals in the wash machine. Even on a gentle cycle, washing the stuffed animal by hand might be the gentlest option.
 After washing, remove the stuffed animal from the mesh laundry bag. Reshape the stuffed animal if any lumps or bumps have developed from washing. Allow the stuffed animal to air dry laying it flat on a towel, clipping the toy on a hanger, or clothes pinning the toy outside.


Drying a stuffed animal in a dryer (even if the dryer is on a low-heat setting) can cause glue and fur to melt. Avoid drying the stuffed animal in a dryer.