 Eating a diet rich in fruits and vegetables is essential to weight loss. It also provides your body with essential nutrients, such as vitamins, minerals, and fiber. Eat at least five servings of fruit and vegetables a day, and try to vary up the color as much as you can. Add some fruit and veggies to every meal to get your servings in. Breakfast: add spinach, tomatoes, or mushrooms to your morning eggs in place of cheese. If you eat cereal or oatmeal, add fresh fruit such as a banana, blueberries, or strawberries.
Lunch: Try making a big, filling salad with leafy greens, a lean protein, nuts, dried fruit, and some carrots, peppers, onions, or broccoli. Or, add some greens, tomato, onion, or cucumber to a sandwich or wrap.
Dinner: Instead of canned tomato sauce, sauté up some broccoli, garlic, tomatoes, and peppers in some olive oil and eat with whole wheat pasta., If you’re really going to start taking your health seriously, it’s best to start from scratch. Get rid of all unhealthy foods and staples that you have in your fridge and pantry. This will eliminate any temptation to go back to your old ways. Donate what you can to a local food bank. , Processed foods and sugars are linked to diseases such as diabetes, cancer, heart disease and stroke. They fill you up without actually providing any nutrients. Fill your pantry with natural foods like whole grains (oats, quinoa, whole wheat breads and pastas), fruits and vegetables, legumes, nuts, meat, and protein or probiotic rich dairy products (kefir, Greek yogurt, cottage cheese).Stick to food author Michael Pollan’s rule of thumb: don’t eat anything your great grandmother wouldn’t recognize as food. If you can’t pronounce an ingredient or the product has more than five ingredients, stick to something more natural.Get all-natural sweeteners. For those with a sweet tooth, use honey or agave instead of sugar in your coffee, tea, and baked goods.
 Eating when you’re not hungry is one of the easiest ways to gain unwanted weight. Only snack when you’re hungry, and when you do, try to eat snacks high in protein, as this will keep you feeling full longer.


A piece of whole wheat toast with nut butter, a mozzarella cheese stick, a hard boiled egg, or hummus with veggies are great options for beating the mid afternoon crash.