 Make sure that you're parked away from ice, snow, and traffic.;
,, For example, if you're changing the right rear tire, then you'll want to block off the left front tire and wheel by using a wheel chock.
, Your Jeep's spare tire and wheel, as well as the jack, are located underneath of the rear cargo floor. To access these items, open the rear cargo hatch, and open the carpeted rear cargo cover.


To remove the spare tire and wheel, fully loosen the wing nut holding them into place, and set aside the wing nut. Remove the "J" hook that secures the spare tire and wheel to the vehicle, and set it aside as well.
Remove the spare tire and wheel from their location, and lay the spare tire and wheel flat on the ground with the outside of the wheel and the tire valve stem facing outwards towards you. Remove the jack from the spare tire storage location.
 The tools that you'll need to jack up your Jeep are located under the right rear passenger's bench seat. To access the jack tools, pull up on the vinyl loop to fold the passenger's side rear bench seat cushion up. Remove the jack tools from the floor underneath of the rear passenger's bench seat.


You do not need to fully fold the rear passenger's bench seat backrest down, so keep the backrest in the fully locked and upright position.
 Do not loosen the lug nuts any more than one turn until the Jeep is up off the ground.
 Insert the jack into the notch of the jacking location you'll be using (usually indicated by a notch on the underside of the Jeep), and make sure it is fully engaged.


Do not begin to raise the Jeep up off the ground until you're sure the jack is fully engaged in the jacking location notch.
 Then insert the jack rod into the jack, and use the lug nut wrench tool to turn the jack rod clockwise (towards you) to begin to raise the Jeep up off the ground.



Only raise the Jeep up off the ground until you gain enough clearance that's required in order to remove the tire off of the wheel hub. Minimum tire lift provides maximum stability.
 Make sure they're all removed.
 Set the tire flat on the ground, with the face of the wheel and the tire valve step facing towards you.
 Make sure the spare tire and wheel is straight on the wheel hub.



Do not tighten the lug nuts by hand.
 You should use as much effort as possible in order to ensure that the lug nuts are tightened properly. You'll finish securing the lug nuts once your Jeep is back on the ground.



Do not remove the jack tool or the jack until you're sure your Jeep is fully back on the ground.
, Again, maximum effort should be used in order to ensure that the lug nuts are fully tightened onto the spare wheel.
 You're almost done now! With the Jeep lowered back onto the ground, unblock the wheel you blocked in the first few steps, and open the rear cargo hatch. Place the jack back into the spare wheel and tire location underneath of the rear cargo floor, and store the wheel and tire you removed back into the spare wheel and tire location. Secure the wheel and tire by using the "J" hook and wing nut you removed in the first few steps. Replace the carpeted rear cargo cover.
 Store both spare tire tools in their original locations underneath of the rear passenger bench seat cushion, and fold the rear passenger bench seat cushion back into its original, flat position.
 You should have the lug nut tightness checked by your Jeep dealership's service department, or by an authorized service station by a torque wrench in order to ensure that you've tightened the lug nuts on the spare wheel and tire securely. It's also a good idea to replace the tire that you removed as soon as possible. That's it, you're done!

