 Because you are having trouble paying your property taxes, you probably don’t have a lot of money to spend on a lawyer. However, you may qualify for legal aid. Legal aid organizations provide low cost or free legal help to people with incomes less than 125% of the federal poverty level.As of 2016, these limits are:$14,850 for an individual
$20,025 for a family of two
$25,200 for a family of three

, You can find the nearest legal aid office by visiting the Legal Services Corporation’s website at http://www.lsc.gov/. Click on “Find Legal Aid” in the upper right corner. You will be asked to provide your address or zip code.


The website will then display contact information for legal aid organizations in your area.
 You probably have to apply for legal aid before you can get help. The application process is necessary to check that your income is sufficiently low and that your legal issue is one that the legal aid office handles regularly. You should gather the following information before applying:sources of all income, such as wages, tips, child support, alimony, disability insurance, Social Security, etc.
how much money you get from each source every month
how much money is in each of your bank accounts
assets in addition to your home, such as vehicles

, You might not qualify for legal aid. In that situation, you should get a referral to a private attorney. You can contact your local or state bar association.Once you have the name of someone, call them up and ask to schedule a consultation.
 You might not have the money to hire a lawyer to handle the case from start to finish. However, in most states lawyers can offer “unbundled” legal services (also called “discrete task representation” or “limited scope representation”). Under this arrangement, the lawyer does only the work you give them.For example, you can hire a lawyer to draft an appeal letter for you but otherwise handle the rest of your case. You might also pay for regular coaching from the lawyer.
Unbundled legal services can help keep your legal costs low while allowing you to get the answers and help that you need.

