 Your family, like most families, may have behaviors and actions you value. As your teen begins to push back against these values and your expectations, you may wish to decide which values you want to enforce above all others, and perhaps relax on your enforcement of other behaviors.Write down a list of what you value most in your family. It could be actions like being generous, showing kindness, living your faith, or being of service to others. Decide which of these values you will demand your teen to uphold, and decide that you will be more flexible about others.
For example, you may decide to make “showing kindness” an enforced value, but perhaps could be more flexible on “living your faith,” letting your teen skip religious services now and again.
Tell your teen what you expect of them. You could say, “In our house, we value family above everything else. I’m not going to let you off the hook for Sunday dinners with Grandma. I will negotiate with you on other expectations, but not on family activities.”

, Give your teenager a certain amount of freedom to make their own decisions. They are rapidly approaching adulthood when they will need to hold themselves accountable, so give them the opportunity now to learn some skills under your watchful eye.


Consider giving your teenager more financial responsibility. They may have a part-time job, or perhaps you give them an allotted amount of spending money per week. Teens enjoy being able to manage their own savings, and this is a great time for them to learn about managing money. Don't interfere if you think they are making a stupid purchase -- this is all part of learning about money.Let your teenager wear what they want, within reason and their school’s dress code. Back off if they want to dye their hair or shave their head. It’s part of them expressing themselves.
 If your teenager is irate, any attempts to restrict or discipline them will only be counterproductive. Give him or her some time to cool off. If the situation calls for punishment, it can be dealt later.Calmly approach them and continue the discussion after a while, later in the day, after both of you have had time to calm down. You could say, “Now that we’ve both had a chance to cool off, I want to talk to you about what you did.”

, Adolescence is about becoming independent from your parents and determining your identity as an individual. Make sure you are giving them the space they need to grow and figure themselves out, and alone time as necessary. While maintaining a solid connection is important, be sure not to smother them.


Be conscious of the importance of your teenager’s social life right now. Allow them time with their friends. Be aware of who they are hanging out with and where, but give them more freedom if you believe they are trustworthy., Don’t expect your teenager to behave like an adult all of the time. Even though they may look more grown up, they still have a growing brain. Understand they will make mistakes and will sometimes act like a much younger child. If your teenager is working hard, doing their best, and is a kind person, they are doing just fine.Don't compare the teen to others. They are likely already doing this all the time to themselves, they don’t need someone else chiming in! Don’t say things like, “I wish you were more like Mary. She gets such good grades!” Instead, you could say something like, “I’d like to see you put more effort in on your math homework.”

