 Locate the sparkwheel and the ignition button.


The spark wheel is made of serrated, hardened steel wire. When it is rotated with sufficient speed and force, it will strike a bar of flint within the lighter, creating a spark.The ignition button, when pressed, releases the gas valve to the fuel tank. In order to light the lighter, you'll need to strike the sparkwheel and hold the ignition button at the exact same time. Don't worry--the process is much simpler than it may sound.
On Bic lighters, the ignition button is made of red plastic, and it sits on the fork of the lighter next to the sparkwheel. On Zippo lighters, the ignition button is round and metallic, and it is embedded into the lighter directly below the sparkwheel.;
, You can use the tip of your thumb, or either side--but make sure that you have the leverage to roll the sparkwheel into the ignition button. Your thumb should sit near the apex of the sparkwheel, but slightly down the arc toward the ignition button.









Find a grip that feels comfortable. You may need to experiment with your thumb at several angles before you get it right.
Apply light pressure to the sparkwheel, such that the sparkwheel presses into the ignition button and releases the gas valve. Now, you just need to make a spark.
 Do not move anything but your thumb, and then keep holding down the ignition button to keep the gas flowing. If you don't see a flame, try again.









If it works, the sparkwheel will strike a spark, which will ignite the gas that is released by the ignition button. You will know immediately: either the lighter will make a steady flame, or nothing will happen.
If you roll the sparkwheel with sufficient speed and force, but the lighter sparks and does not ignite--try again. If the lighter continues to spark but not ignite, the gas reserves may be low or empty. Try using another lighter.
 If you are having trouble, try pressing harder on the sparkwheel and placing your thumb slightly closer to the ignition button. This may give you extra leverage to apply more force.









Make sure that you're rolling the sparkwheel fast enough. Grip the rest of the lighter with your other four fingers, as if clenching a fist around a stress ball, and only move your thumb. Keep your hand steady.
Try pressing the ignition button once or twice without using the sparkwheel, just to make sure that you are pressing it down all the way. If you aren't applying enough force, you may not be releasing enough gas.

