 Most of the visible signs of Horner’s Syndrome will appear in your cat’s eyes. You might notice drooping eyelids, unequal pupils, and sunken eyes. There might also be redness around your cat's eyes, and the red area may be warm to the touch., If you notice your cat stumbling when they walk, they might have Horner's Syndrome. Your cat might also tilt its head to one side or the other., Because Horner's is sometimes caused by head trauma, consider if that's a possibility with your cat. Was your cat hit by a car? Was your cat in the car with you when you got into a car accident? Did it get hurt by another animal? These could indicate your cat has Horner's., To fully diagnose Horner's, your cat needs to have a complete physical examination. This might include blood work and the administration of epinephrine.The amount of time between administration of the epinephrine and dilation of the pupils can tell your vet where the injury or issue causing Horner’s is., Horner's can prevent your cat from blinking normally. The application of phenylephrine eyedrops can help dilate your cat's pupils and make it easier for your cat to blink. Your vet might also prescribe other eye medication depending on your cat's condition. You should give this medication to your cat as instructed by your vet., Your cat might require surgery, particularly if the Horner's Syndrome is caused by tumors. If this is the case, your vet will perform a physical examination on your cat to determine if surgery is an option. If it is, your vet will give your cat a general anesthetic to make it more comfortable during the surgery. Your vet will also provide you with a list of at-home care instructions for after the surgery. You should check the incision daily for bleeding or swelling, as this can be a sign of infection.Your vet may not perform surgery if he or she determines that the symptoms your cat is experiencing are less traumatic than surgery might be.
 Your cat might suffer from inflammation around the eye from Horner’s. If this is the case, your vet might recommend you give your cat an anti-inflammatory drug to reduce the swelling.Many anti-inflammatory drugs can be dangerous to cats if the dose is too large or cats take them for too long. Make sure you carefully follow your vet's instructions if they prescribe anti-inflammatory drugs., Because Horner's Syndrome can be both a condition by itself and a sign that something else is wrong, the treatment your vet prescribes will vary. Talk to your vet to get the best information possible regarding treatment options for your cat.