 Your new wall coverings should work with what you’ll be putting in your home, so take a look at what you already own. Try to determine your style aesthetic based on what you’ve gathered so far.


If you plan to put up a lot of hanging art, don’t install a busy wall covering that will compete with it.
If you have a bunch of modern furniture, an ornate print on a wallpaper might clash.;
, Some people like to make a statement with their style, while others just want to add a little personal touch to the room. Which type of wall covering you choose should reflect how you like to express yourself. If you choose a bold pattern, then you might not be happy with it if that’s not your style.For example, bright paint colors or stenciling can create a bold, trendy look, but pale gray, tan, or white paint is more classic and easier to match with other room furnishings.
Similarly, wallpaper is a more long-term style option than paint, so picking a bold print on a wallpaper is a big decision.
 Grab a few home style magazines and check out the photos. Note the shared features in the ones that you prefer. For example, do you notice that you prefer a vintage feel or a modern aesthetic? Do you tend to go minimal, or do you like your home to be a richly furnished? Create a list of your design preferences to help narrow down your choice of wall coverings.


While it can be helpful to pull out the pages you like the best, don’t feel like you have make a project out of flipping through the magazines. Just look at a few spreads to find what you like.
 If you’re really invested in expressing your personal style, go to the home and gardens section of your local bookstore or library to pick up a few books about creating a stylish home. You will be able to look at how other people have created your favorite looks in their own homes, often on a budget.


You can also find blogs and websites online that discuss home decorating topics, such as A Beautiful Mess.
Check out Pinterest to pin a few of your favorite looks.You may also be able to use the preview function to flip through style books on Amazon.
If you have a general idea about what kind of style you like, try googling a few keywords to pull up pictures of that style.
 Wall coverings can be found in a variety of styles, from classic to trendy. Depending on your budget, the size of your space, and how often you redecorate, know if buying a trend is right for you.While it might be fun in the moment, next year you might find yourself trying to cover it up.


For example, prints such as chevron or animal print can be trendy and fashionable but then quickly go out of style, while soft colors like eggshell white, tan, or pale gray are classic and timeless.
When choosing a print, think about how popular it is and how long it’s been around. If you’ve recently started seeing it everywhere, then it is likely a trend.
Color schemes can also be trendy. If you are interested in a color scheme just because it’s fashionable, then it is likely a trend.

