 Many antique shops and flea markets sell Depression glass items. Visit antique shops and flea markets in your area, or call ahead to see if they currently have Depression glass for sale. Some antique stores also have websites that list their inventory, so you can look online to see if any of the pieces interest you.

Talk to the staff at the antique shop or flea market before making your Depression glass purchase. Make sure they are informed and can offer advice about the best pieces. Do not hesitate to ask questions.;
, Estate sales are a great place to find Depression glass for low prices. Moving sales and yard or garage sales often carry Depression glass as well. Stroll or drive through your neighborhood to find sales, or use an online site such as Craigslist to locate sales in your area.

Look through the items carefully, as there may be Depression glass hiding in unlikely places, such as with cheaper or less desirable items.
 Depression glass is offered through a variety of online shops. Check Amazon, eBay, and Etsy as well as smaller retailers. You can also do an online search for “Depression glass for sale” and browse through the results. You’ll have your choice of colors, patterns, and pieces. Be wary of scams and reproduction pieces, and research items carefully.

Make sure you can return the glass if it does not meet your expectations before deciding to purchase any pieces.
 The National Depression Glass Association (NDGA) hosts a convention each year. Not only do they have a Depression glass show and sale, they also offer seminars and tours of the NDGA National Glass Museum. If you are an avid collector, consider joining this association to learn more about Depression glass and connect with others who collect and adore it., A guidebook will teach you how to recognize true Depression glass and tell it apart from reproductions. It will also give you an idea of the price point for specific pieces, colors, and patterns. Bring it with you when shopping for Depression glass so that you can compare prices and check styles, patterns, and colors with those listed in your guidebook.


Check out the Pocket Guide to Depression Glass & More published in 2002 by Gene Florence or Colored Glassware of the Depression Era Book 2 published in 1974 by Hazel Marie Weatherman.
 Depression glass was made in a variety of hues. Pieces in common colors such as light to medium green, pink, amber, and clear are easier to find. Canary yellow, amethyst, cobalt blue, red, jadeite (opaque green), opaque black (may appear as an intense purple), and milk glass (opaque white) were made in lesser quantities and are more difficult to find., The most popular patterns of Depression glass today are Cameo, Mayfair, American Sweetheart, Princess, and Royal Lace. However, nearly 100 different patterns were made by 20 different companies, so you will have your choice of patterns.Other patterns include swirls and spirals, bubbles, birds, cherry blossoms, buttons and bows, horseshoes, pineapples, and more.You may want to choose to buy a variety of patterns, or stick to one that you really like.
 Be aware that many pieces of Depression glass have flaws that are characteristic of this type of glassware. Depression glass often has bubbles, imperfections, and marks because it was made using an inexpensive process and cheap materials.In addition, some of the molds that were used to make Depression glass were uneven or ill-fitting, resulting in pieces with dents, irregular areas, and other imperfections.
These flaws add to the charm of Depression glass. Just be sure to avoid pieces with signs of extreme wear and tear, such as large chips, nicks and cracks.

