 In a medium-sized mixing bowl, combine your egg whites, powdered sugar, and cream of tartar. Stir until they form a thick paste. Make sure no patches of dried sugar or tartar remain. For best results, let it sit for 12 hours so the sugar absorbs as much liquid as possible.Since the eggs aren’t cooked, avoid serving to anyone who is pregnant, elderly, or under the age of four, as well as anyone with a compromised immune system.;
, In another medium-sized mixing bowl, use a whisk to mix together your rice flour, all-purpose flour, and salt. In a third mixing bowl, switch to an electric mixer to combine your butter, sugar, and ground lavender at medium-high speed for roughly five minutes. Once this mixture appears pale and fluffy, add the flour-and-salt mixture and mix at low speed until evenly combined.Once you’re done, cover the bowl with a lid or plastic wrap. Refrigerate for at least two hours before moving on to the next step.
 First, set your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius). While that preheats, dust flour over a sheet of parchment paper. Place your dough on that and dust more flour over its top. Cover with a second sheet of parchment paper and then roll the dough out until it thins to roughly ⅛-inch thick (0.3 cm). Then:Use a large cookie cutter to cut out 16 cookies. As you do, collect the trimmings and reroll them to cut more cookies.
Switch to a smaller cookie cutter to punch a hole from the center of each. Reroll the trimmings from these as well in case you have enough for more cookies.
 Line a baking sheet with new parchment paper and transfer the cookies to that. Once the oven has heated up, place the baking sheet inside. Bake for about 12 to 14 minutes, or until the cookies’ edges begin to golden.Once they’ve baked, remove from heat and transfer them to a wire rack to cool off.
 Once the cookies have cooled off enough to safely handle, start decorating them one at a time. Dip the top of each one into your glaze. Hold it over the bowl so any excess can run back into it. Then place it on your wire rack and stick your whole lavenders into the glaze.You want to move fast as you do this, so the glaze doesn’t have a chance to harden and grow less adhesive.
At the same time, you need to handle the lavenders gently so they don’t tear or fall apart.

