


FHA-backed loans require that you have a minimum down payment of 3.5 percent. Your down payment may be higher based on the loan terms that you qualify for but it will not be less than 3.5 percent of the purchase price.
You must provide income documentation high enough to cover the payments.
FHA-backed loans also require that the home price falls under federally mandated geographic limits. The geographic limits vary by location and fluctuate with market standards. You can verify the geographic limits for the areas that you are considering by using this calculator: https://entp.hud.gov/idapp/html/hicostlook.cfm

You will also be required to pay a loan insurance premium (approximately 1.5 percent of the full value of the loan).
You can only have 1 FHA loan at any time.;
, You can act as your own representative but the paperwork and program complexities involved may be difficult unless you have previous real estate experience.



You will need to have your last 2 years of addresses, social security numbers, 2 years of employment information, current gross monthly salary, current check stubs, 2 years of past W-2 forms, 2 years of personal tax returns, current income statement, balance sheet for self-employed individuals, checking and savings account information, investment account information, and information on any existing loans. You will also need documentation on other real property that you possess, the estimated value of all your personal property, certificate of eligibility and DD-214 (veterans only).
 These requirements are less stringent than they once were.


There are now FHA loans available to cover properties that require repairs. FHA 203(k) loans allow you to borrow up to $35,000 above the price of the house to make repairs. You may wish to have a professional inspection done to ensure that repairs needed will not exceed the amount allowable by the program that you applied for.



Unlike real estate transactions in the private sector, transactions that involve bank-owned properties generally take 2 to 3 months to close. You may have to wait 30 days or more before you find out if your offer has been accepted, rejected or whether a counter offer has been made.
Once your offer has been accepted, you or your broker will coordinate with the closing company to arrange a closing date. The bank will typically be represented at the closing by the real estate agent who listed the property for them.
Once all the paperwork has been signed, the sale will be complete.

