 Visit Facebook’s home page from any web browser.;
, Use your Facebook account and password to log in. The login fields are found on the upper right corner of the page. Click the “Log in” button to proceed.
 Click your name on the header toolbar, and you will be brought to your Timeline or wall. Click the Friends tab, right below your cover photo, and you will be brought to your Friends page, which lists all your friends on Facebook.
 On the Friends page header, click the “Find Friends” button. You will be brought to the Friends Finder page of Facebook.
 There’s a box on the right panel titled “Add Personal Contacts.” You can import your contacts from Skype, Yahoo, iCloud, and others. Click the mail icon to indicate an email account, since you’re adding your friends from Gmail.


Type your complete Gmail email address in the field provided, and then click the “Find Friends” button below it. A new tab or window will open with instructions on how to access, export, and import your Gmail contacts.
Do not close this page yet.
 The first step in the instructions page will take you to Gmail contacts. Before you can access your Gmail contacts, you will be asked to sign in. Enter your Google email address and password, then click the “Sign in” button.
 Click “More” on the header toolbar, then select “Export.” The “Export contacts” window will open. The window has two options for the export parameters.
,, A file “google.csv” will be exported and downloaded to your computer., Go back to the tab or window with the instructions on accessing, exporting, and importing your Gmail contacts. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click “Choose File.”


Navigate through your local file directory and click the “google.csv” file that you exported. Facebook will process the imported file.
 After Facebook completes processing your imported Gmail contacts, it will ask if you want to invite them to be your friends on Facebook. Click “Yes” and friend requests will be sent to your Gmail contacts.
 Your friends need to accept your friend requests before you become official friends on Facebook. Once they do, they will appear as your friends and you will be notified on Facebook.