 Perhaps it goes without saying but it's a little hard to be a good fan if you're not watching the games. However, simply having the games on in the background while you're reading, playing on your iPad or staring out the window isn't the same as actively watching and learning. So, while watching, be sure to listen to the commentary and to study how the teams are playing. Whether it's about an unselfish offense (passing the ball more), or it's about an aggressive mentality on defense, try to take it all in and learn from it. Learning the different parts of the game will make it far more interesting for you and will improve your appreciation of the game. And always gather the following basic information about the game:


What teams are playing?
Which one are you supposed to be rooting for?
Who's the coach?
Who's the mascot?
What are the team colors?;
, There are shows like College Gameday on ESPN every Saturday that analyze the game, teams and the most recent news.


Listen to podcasts on college basketball. Go on iTunes and search for any college basketball podcasts to listen to more analysis on the game at your convenience.
 Overdressing in team paraphernalia is a great way to make others think you know more than they do about the game and team!

, Write down the name and ailment of one injured player for each side, and practice making mention of them during the game.


Use phrases like, "Lambert would’ve had that rebound!" Or "Good thing they don’t have Boyd in the line-up!_".
 If you're uncertain as to whether or not it's a good time to cheer or boo, just follow the crowd's actions. Stand when they stand, cheer when they cheer, boo when they boo.
 Learn some of the basic basketball lingo. They’re not bouncing the ball, they're "dribbling" it; when a player gets "fouled," the shots he takes from the "foul line" are called "foul shots" or "free throws."


Pepper your personal banter with basketball terms, too. For example, when you get up to use the restroom, say you’ll be back after you make a few “offensive adjustments.”

, Pick out a go-to phrase, like "Three in the key!," which is good to yell whenever an offensive player, which is a player for the team with the ball, is lingering for more than 3 seconds in the "key," which is the key-shaped box that... Oh never mind, just shout it whenever a lot of people are crowded around the basket.


If you feel compelled to yell "Slamma-jamma!" after a big dunk or block, stop yourself. Relying on tired phrases from old video games is just lame.
 If anybody calls your bluff, immediately grow nostalgic. Mention how much "purer" the game was before the 24-second clock, the 3-point shot, or the A.B.A. merger came along.
 End with a basketball-related joke, especially if your team loses. On the way out, turn to your companions and say, "Hey, we'll win next time – we're playing the Washington Generals!" That’s a really bad team.
 Catch up with your buddies and talk college basketball at the end of the year while watching the end of the national championship, drawing on all of the suggestions from the above steps.

