 Actively engage physical reactions to critical portions of the book as you would when listening to a friend tell you a face-to-face story. If there is a surprising plot-twist, raise your eyebrows or mouth the word “wow.” The key is to absorb and ingrain the a portion of the story, so the entire tale is memorable. When a villain gains the upper hand, furl your brow in disdain.
Laugh out loud when something comical occurs.
Tense your muscles during action, battles, or fights.
 Avoid passive discovery of concepts and story subplots.Engage the literature and analyze underlying intentions. Being a critical reader means you understand the words being read, their meanings, and then you anticipate a likely future.


Carefully read seemingly insignificant monologues for hints at future revelations.
Gather clues about characters to determine their potential outcome. If a character constantly drones on about impending doom or death, is the author attempting to hint at their demise?
When making connections about the future of the literature, ensure your connections are based on content rather than supposition., While identifying major concepts and themes may be a clear objective, noting how the author proves these points is also important. Once you know the main arguments, look in the text for smaller claims that either support or contradict the primary thesis.Does the author make assumptions to prove his or her point?
Are credible characters in the literature providing the evidence? If a doctor declares something a medical emergency, it likely is. If a bystander says the same thing, it could be to mislead a reader.
Is thesis-supporting data based on reason or emotion?

, Writing notes about specific sections can be an all-encompassing way for you to summarize all your thoughts and questions related to the topic. It could also help you keep complicated details clear in large pieces of literature. Use a variety of techniques so your notes doesn’t get confusing.Dog ear pages that have details difficult to remember.
Use sticky notes or plastic tabs to reference key plot points.
Make your own spreadsheet of the various characters, families, allies, and enemies.
Draw flow-charts, pictures, diagrams, and other visual aids to help with learning.
 Make sure to focus on important selections, creating your own system, or legend, to identify the reason for the annotation. Being able to quickly focus on the portions you’d like to isolate will help you maintain focus throughout your review. For instance, if you only want to flip through pages and look for unfamiliar words, you could quickly find the words you’ve circled or underlined. Use asterisks to mark curious or interesting selections.
Use arrows to connect ideas that appear to be related.
Circling words you don't know, or underlining creative language by the author, can be beneficial to your linguistic and grammatical skills.
 Connect to what is going in the selection, or summarize the key point. Ensure you identify what the section means to you, what you believe it portends, and any overarching themes with which it aligns or contradicts. Use a few key marks in the margins to quickly convey your methods. A large question mark could be your way of identifying a section you didn’t understand.
Mark particularly moving sections, ones which moved you emotionally, with an heart.
Exclamation points are attention-getters, for those selections that appear contradictory.

