 Continue blotting until the area is only a little damp.;
, Cover with newspaper. Stomp around on the newspaper for at least a minute to bring up as much of the moisture as possible. When you are finished the area sound be almost dry.
, Do this frequently, and remove as much of the water as possible each time using either towels or a wet vac.
 While it may seem like the urine should be cleaned up at this point, there are still traces in the carpet that may entice your pet to use the same spot again. Using an enzymatic eliminator will break down the odor compounds, minimizing your pet's attraction to that spot.
 Fill a small spray bottle with white vinegar. Spray the affected area and then work in with a scrub brush. Let stand. Once the solution has penetrated the affected area, go over with a steam cleaner or wet vac.










Never start with vinegar. Vinegar, although effective as a cleaner, will "set" the stain like it sets the color of dyes on Easter eggs.Try vinegar after exhausting other options, and especially if you're only trying to neutralize smell, not stains.
 Pour as much baking soda or cornstarch over the affected area as it takes to cover it up completely. Work the baking soda or cornstarch into the area with a scrub brush. Allow to soak up as much of the urine as possible for 24 hours. Revisit the scene of the crime after a full day and vac up any of the remaining baking soda or cornstarch.









If the damage is particularly bad, create a baking soda or cornstarch paste by mixing it with a bit of water and then scrubbing into the affected area. Let the paste dry overnight and then vacuum up as much as possible the next day.
 Use a gentle stain remover, like CitraSolve, to soak a clean rag. Apply the rag to the carpet, using the back of a spoon to work the stain remover into the rug.Once the stain remover is applied, dust a little borax over the stain, cover with paper towels, and weigh paper towels down with heavy books. After a day, vacuum up any remaining borax.
 Rinse the area with water and, if necessary, make another pass. Some stains will require multiple passes, although most should crumble under the weight of these powerful but gentle home solutions.








