 Paying attention to the way someone acts can help you figure out some key things about their character. It can be very interesting to watch how someone interacts with people they don't know. Pay attention to this in a variety of situations.Maybe you are out on a first date. If your companion treats the waiter rudely, that can be a negative sign.
People who are rude to strangers might also be rude to people they know. There might also be issues with a superiority complex.
Perhaps you are in a taxi with a new co-worker. Observe how he or she treats the driver.
If your colleague refuses to answer questions or make small talk, that can reveal some negative things about character. It might indicate an unwillingness to be kind to others.
 Make sure to observe the person in several different situations. You want to be able to see how they react in a variety of scenarios. You don't want to judge character based on one interaction.Look for patterns in behavior. Is this person consistently rude to the other mom's at your son's school? She may not be a nice person.
However, you might see that most times your new neighbor behaves kindly. Just because there was one rude remark about your loud music, that doesn't necessarily mean they are a bad person.
Remember that everyone has bad days and good days. The key is to try to observe the person in a variety of settings.
 Reading people can be hard. Unless you know someone well, you may not really have a good grasp of their character. Fortunately, there are some signs you can look for to help you figure it out.Notice whether the person seems very quick to anger or likes to talk about violence. This can indicate some anger issues.
Pay attention to a tendency to blame others. For example, maybe your co-worker always passes the blame if a client doesn't like the proposal. That can indicate some character flaws.
Be wary if the person seems to lack compassion. If you have an acquaintance who never gives up his seat on the bus to an elderly women, that is another warning sign.
 Lying is generally an indicator that someone has some character flaws. But how to tell if a person is honest? Fortunately, there are some signs to look for.A person might be lying if the tone and volume of their voice radically changes. For example, if you are talking to your neighbor and you mention that a package went missing from you porch, be wary, if your neighbor practically shrieks, "I don't know what you're talking about!"
A person who continually proclaims their honesty may have something to hide. For example, if your brother's new girlfriend regularly proclaims how honest she is, she might be covering something up.
For example, if she regularly says, "I am a really honest person. You can ask anyone!", you might start to wonder why she regularly feels the need to say that.
 Sometimes it can be difficult to tell if someone means well, or if they are intentionally trying to hurt you. This is an important distinction. Someone with good character will not try to intentionally cause you to feel uncomfortable or upset.Think about your best interests. Ask yourself if the person in question is also thinking about your best interests.
For example, is your mom constantly trying to fix you up on blind dates? It is likely that she just thinks you'll be happier in a relationship.
But what if a friend regularly belittles your spouse? That is likely not something that is being done with your best interests in mind.
Ask yourself questions such as, "How does this person make me feel? Am I happier when I am around her?"
You can also think, "Does this person care about my feelings?" If the answer is no, then your best interests are likely not a priority.

