


Apply moisturizer to keep your skin from getting dry because you really don't want dry skin! Also, try using skin care products such as ProActive, Clean and Clear or anything that works for your skin. You can also make or buy a face mask; this is optional if you have the time.;
, Wear sophisticated and stylish hairstyles. Comb your hair with a comb or a hairbrush.


If you have hair straighteners, curlers, or hair dryers, use them to style your hair.
If you want to have shiny hair, wash it with cold water after shampooing. This will make your hair look polished and clean.
Add some finishing touches or hair accessories. Wear barrettes, bows, flower crowns, or headbands. These can help you to look cute and stylish.
If you have short hair, you can do lots of different hairstyles and haircuts that fit you. Make sure haircuts are flattering to your face, and if you wish, use some small hair accessories.
 Makeup is the epitome of being girly. Try watching some YouTube videos to some new learn techniques for applying makeup.


Always wear lip balm to prevent your lips from chapping, and then add some lip gloss to add that glossy and shiny look to your lips. If you want to have some colour on your lips and you love shiny lips, try some tinted/coloured lip gloss. Don't overdo it though.
You can also wear a bit of eyeshadow. Some natural colors for school are light brown, gold, dark gold and brown.
 Make sure you're comfortable in them, but make sure they're also cute as well.


Boots are great. This doesn't mean rain boots, just boots such as ankle-high boots and knee-high boots. Boots look great with a nice skirt.
Wear ballet flats to look elegant in school. If you want to look elegant while making a bold fashion statement at the same time, try wearing a pair of slippers. Again, they match well with a skirt.
Avoid high heels. They hurt your feet and cause knee problems. Kitten heels or shoes with a slight heel are fine though.
You can be creative by making your own pair of shoes.
 It doesn't have to be extravagant - simple outfits can do wonders!


Wear skirts rather than jeans. You will look - and feel - much more girly, especially if all your friends are in jeans. You can match this with a cute jacket or sweater on top.
Casual dresses with a bold belt (studded belt, neon belt etc.) can look really awesome if you put the look together properly.
There are certain stores that cater to the "girly girl" image. Try checking out those stores and seeing what you can find. Be careful, though - they can be expensive!

, Depending on how strict your school is, you may be able to get away with some alterations to the uniform. However, make sure you don't do anything that would get you in trouble for messing with the uniform!


Wear a cute, girly scarf or put a jacket or a sweater on top.
Don't make your uniforms look dull and baggy, make it look as lively as possible.
If your school won't let you alter your uniform, just act more girly in general. By doing this, people will see the more girly you! Be polite and kind to others, always listen and get rid of any nasty vocabulary you might have been using.

Don't overdo it. People won't like you if you start acting like a snob.
 This doesn't have to be limited to what you wear - try decorating your bag or school supplies, too!


Wear jewelry. Colorful earrings are a must, as well as cute bracelets or necklaces. However, don't go overboard; you don't want to jingle when you walk!
If your bag looks boring, decorate it. Put cute badges and key-chains on it or sew different fabric swatches on your bag to add a creative and artsy yet girly flair.
If you have school supplies that belong to you, such as a binder or a notebook, don't be afraid to decorate it! Glue photos to it, put stickers on it, or do whatever you want. However, if you have something that belongs to the school, such as a textbook, don't decorate that. You don't want to get fined for vandalism.
 French manicures are good because they are sophisticated and simple. You can also go bold with your nails by adding some colorful nail art to your nails or by using a bright or sparkly nail colour.


If you go to a strict school, you may not be allowed to wear nail polish or nail decorations. However, a clear polish won't be noticed and will make your nails look shinier.
 Don't shake your hips too much; many people find that strange or annoying. Don't skip or run around the school. After all, girly girls are also cute, and how is getting in trouble cute, sweet, and innocent?

, Don't act like you're suddenly famous and rich. Be kind. Meet new friends, and just have fun!

