 One of the best ways to bug your sister is to steal her things.


Sneak into her room and take something really important, like her iPod, her favorite pair of earrings, or the stuffed animal she sleeps with every night.
When she confronts you about it, deny that you took it - you should practice your innocent face beforehand. You could also pretend to be really offended that she accused you.
Make sure that you've hidden the item well, in case she decides to search your room for it. Then, when she's out of the house, put the item back exactly where you found it. She'll start to think she's gone crazy!;
, Everyone knows how much girls love their clothes, so what better way to annoy your sister than to hide them all!


When she's out of the house, sneak into her room with a big bag and dump all of her clothes inside. Hide them somewhere she won't think to look for them, like the bathtub or the garden shed.
She'll probably freak out when she sees that her wardrobe is empty, so have a good excuse prepared. Try telling her that your mom decided that she had too many clothes and gave them all away to charity!

, There's nothing more satisfying than giving your sister a good scare, especially if she screams!


Plan your attack carefully. Lie in wait for her in a dark room, behind her bedroom door or behind the shower curtain in the bathroom.
When she comes in, you have two options: you can either scream at the top of your lungs or creep up behind her and grab her - both can be really effective.
For added effect, try wearing a scary clown mask or brandish a fake knife.
 Another great practical joke that will definitely drive your sister crazy is to cover her room with toilet paper.


Grab a roll from the bathroom and just go crazy. Try to zig-zag the paper across the room by hanging it from the ceiling light, the windows and the wardrobe.
Cover her bed in piles of the stuff (or even put it in the bed). If you want to get really creative, soak some of the toilet paper in water and throw it at her walls, ceiling and mirror. This should make it stick.
Just be warned that if your parents find out, you'll probably be the one who has to clean it up - so don't go too crazy!

, Get your sister in trouble with your parents by pretending that she hurt you - either physically or emotionally.


Just before they walk into a room, lie down on the ground in front of your sister and cry out, as if in pain. When your parent ask what's wrong, tell them she pushed you.
Pinch your own arm so that it leaves a red mark, then tell your parents that your sister did it. They'll never believe that you intentionally hurt yourself, so she'll get in trouble.
Tell your parents that your sister called you stupid, or ugly or that you have no friends - the meaner the better. She won't be able to prove that you made it up!

, Annoying your sister while she's sleeping is so easy to do, and produces some pretty hilarious results!


One of the best practical jokes you can play is to squirt shaving foam or whipped cream into her hand and then tickle her nose. She'll try to scratch her nose and wind up with a face full of cream!
Alternatively, you can try waking her up in the middle of the night. Wake her up in some annoying way, like jumping on her bed or poking her face. Tell her it's 8.30 am and she's going to be late for school. (If you're really clever, you'll change the time on her alarm clock as well.) Hopefully she'll get up in a panic and start getting dressed for school - even though it's really 5 am!

, Water balloons are the perfect tool to bug your sister with, especially if she hates getting her hair wet!


Get your hands on some water balloons, fill them with cold water and carefully tie the ends. Lie in wait for your sister (somewhere outdoors or your parents will kill you) and when she comes attack her with water balloons.
It'll be extra funny if you wait until she's sunbathing with a bunch of friends in the garden, or hanging out with her boyfriend. Be warned though - soaking her with water balloons is sure to make her see red - so run away as fast as you can afterwards!

, Have you ever been sitting on the toilet when someone accidentally turns off the light in the bathroom? Not fun, is it?


Use this technique to bug your sister - especially if she's hogging the bathroom, again. It's easier if the light switch is on the outside, but if it's on the inside just open the door very quietly and flick it off before she notices.
If you can, try locking the bathroom door from the outside, leaving her stuck inside in the dark. Don't leave her in there for too long though, have mercy!
If your sister leaves the bathroom door unlocked while she's in the shower, you could also try sneaking in and flushing the toilet. Sometimes this will turn the shower water cold, which she'll hate!

, Messing with your sister's food and drink is one surefire way to drive her up the wall!


If you're sitting at the kitchen table and she has a glass of water or soda in front of her, point out the window and say "look!". When she turns back around, tell her you just spat in her drink (you don't actually need to spit in her drink, just say you did!) She'll be so disgusted, she'll have to pour the drink down the sink!
If your sister is eating something tasty, like a muffin or a bar of chocolate, try grabbing it really quickly and licking it all over. She'll be so grossed out that she won't want it anymore and you'll get to eat it instead!
If your sister is drinking a can of soda, wait until she puts it down somewhere and leaves the room. Then, very quickly, pour the rest of her soda down the drain and fill the can with milk (or some drink she hates) instead. Then when she comes back and takes a drink she'll be so surprised she might spit it out again.
If you wanted to be really mean, you could put something like soy sauce or juice from the pickle jar into the can instead.
 Your sister probably always has her phone in her hands, so it may be tricky to pull this one off. But if you can manage to steal her phone somehow, this will be the best prank of all.


Once you have the phone, go somewhere private to do your mischief. Look through her phonebook for the names of boys in her class, then send them all a message like "I have a massive crush on you. Wanna go on a date on Friday night?" Your sister will be mortified when she finds out!
You could also message a few of her best friends saying something like "I am so mad at you right now...I'm telling everyone your secret". Be careful with this one though - you might end up starting a major catfight!
If your sister has a smartphone, try logging into her Facebook or Instagram account from the apps on her phone. Take a picture of yourself and post it to her wall, saying something like "I have the best brother/sister in the whole world! I love him/her soooooo much". Your sister will go crazy when she sees it!

,


Get electric tape, duct tape or scotch tape.
Stick a piece under the faucet. Leave a small part toward the front of the faucet uncovered.
Make sure no tape is showing.
When your sister turns on the faucet, the water will spray up and onto her; she will get soaked and you will crack up.

