 There are two main forms of play, called "Woodsball" and "Speedball". They have various different subcategories and names, but the most basic distinction is this: Woodsball is played in the woods, Speedball is played with large inflatable bunkers, or man-made objects in a small court.;
, Safety always comes first in paintball.
 You are going to want to look for something that fits well, and provides an accurate amount of coverage. Since Masks tend to fog up over time, looking for a Thermal Lens will help you ensure that your first game is clear.
 A sweatshirt and sweatpants are advised. If you attend a professional field for your first time, which is recommended, then you will be required to chronograph your marker to an acceptable level, usually below 300 FPS. However, bruising may still result. Layers will help keep the damage from the impact to a minimum.
 Barrel plugs are not permitted, because if misfired, they can become a projectile.
 You want a durable marker that will not break down on you over time, and operates simply. Since you are just beginning, I would recommended looking at products produced by Tippmann Pneumatics, Spyder, or Smart Parts, because they have markers that run in the $100-$200 range.


Choose the type of marker you wish to use first. There are three main types: Electronic, Mechanical, and Pump. Electronic Markers use a computer board to make the gun fire faster . These can be adjusted to "ramp" or fire more than one ball per trigger pull. Mechanical markers operate on springs or other devices to fire one paintball at a time, except when a Response Trigger or E-Trigger is added to the marker itself. Pump markers have to be "pumped" every time a paintball is to be fired.








Smart Parts provides markers that are designed for "Speedball" play (Vibe, Ion), with a few notable exceptions (The SP8 and the SP1).






Spyder (Kingman USA) does both, with a woodsball line (MR1, MR2, MR3) and a speedball line (VS1, VS2, VS3). Spyder also produced the Pilot series, which was recently discontinued.






Meanwhile, Tippmann covers the "Woodsball" end with their 98 Custom, A5, and X7. Keep in mind that these are not the only markers available, and there are many fine products made by groups such as Worrgames Paintball Guns, Airgun Designs, Dye, Proto, and various other brands.
 However, if you have the choice of what kind of paint to use, do not put too much thought in to it for your first game. Most paintballs will do. Expect to pay $50 U.S. for one case of 2,000 rounds. Take into account what sort of weather you are playing in, some brands of paint do better in certain conditions than others. Visible Impact gets very fragile and breaks easily in winter play but is fine for warmer weather, whereas Monster does well in cold but not in heat.
 CO2 is cheaper, and is recommended for beginners. However, as you advance, you may want to consider upgrading to HPA, as it has much better accuracy, is easier to regulate, and will save you money in the long run if you have access to free compressed air fills.

