 If you cannot get insurance through an employer, then you may want to search for insurance plans on the open market. You can find private insurance plans in the following ways:


By contacting insurance providers directly. In many areas, there are only a few health insurance plans available. Ask nearby hospitals and clinics which types of insurance they accept and contact those companies.
Through an insurance agent. Look for insurance agents in your area that represent a number of insurance companies rather than just one.
With comparison sites on the Internet. Websites such as eHealthInsurance and NetQuote allow you to comparison shop. These sites take your information and pull up all of the health insurance plans available in your area.
 There are several different elements that make up the total cost of health care. When comparing health insurance plans, you should pay attention to each.


Premiums. A premium is simply the monthly payment made to the insurance company to keep the policy active.
Coinsurance. Coinsurance is the amount that you pay for any service (in addition to the deductible).A more natural way to think of it is the amount of any medical bill that your insurance company will pay. For example, many plans have 80/20 coinsurance rates. This means that the company will pick up 80% of the costs after your deductible has been met.
Deductibles. A deductible is the out-of-pocket charge that you must pay before some other part of the health insurance will kick in. Typically, deductibles must be met before the insurance company pays coinsurance. Deductibles may not apply to all services.Co-pay. A co-pay is a fixed flat fee that a consumer pays when receiving a medical service. For example, you may have to pay $25 for each doctor’s visit. The amount may vary depending on the service., To find a cost-effective plan, you should consider your health care needs. Families will have different needs compared to single individuals, and healthy young people can anticipate needing a different level of service than elderly people. To assess what kind of plan you need, consider the following:


The number of visits you make in a year to the doctor or specialist.
Whether you have had hospital stays or anticipate hospital stays in the future.
If anyone in the family has a chronic illness.
Whether the plan covers your doctors.
Whether you or family members have jobs or hobbies that are risky.
Whether you want brand name prescription drugs or generics.
 To increase coverage on an individual plan, see if the insurance company offers riders, which will provide coverage for a specific situation at an increased cost.


For example, if you were enrolled in an individual plan that does not provide dental care, then you might be able to get a rider for a root canal for an extra fee each month.
 After deciding which hospitals near you accept which carriers, choose a health insurance plan that works for you. Nowadays, the most efficient and easy way to sign up is online. In your online application, you may need to submit information pertaining to:


Your previous insurance plan
Your medical history, including any prescriptions or medications you may take
Any previous plans or past doctors

, Under the Affordable Care Act, a child under the age of 26 may join their parent's health insurance plan if that plan covers children.You may join your parents' plan even if you are:


Married
Not living with your parents
Enrolled in school
Financially independent
Eligible to enroll in an employer's plan

