 If you go for an initial appointment and your doctor recommends further action, it is crucial to educate yourself about their policies so that you don’t receive bills from your local hospital or doctor’s office and faint when you see the amount.Figure out if you need a referral from your primary care doctor to see other specialists.
Learn the percentage of your doctor’s visits and tests that your insurer will pay.
Be aware of the deductible amounts for in-network and out-of-network services that you are responsible for.
 There is no reason to think that you can't get treatment just because you don't have coverage. There are many options available to you. Don't risk your health. Make sure that you take action!If you are not sure where to start, try a women’s center at a local college.
You can also try social services or the department of health in your city.
Talk to someone at a hospital. Some states offer financial assistance to low-income people when it comes to health care. A hospital worker may help you learn about such programs.
There are also organizations dedicated to breast cancer education that provide resources.
 Most doctors have websites that highlight their degrees and expertise. If the site offers a video of the clinician, watch it to see if you like his or her vibe. Even though you’re in the early stages, you want to ensure that your doctor can diagnosis you accurately.Start with those in your network if you have health insurance. If you don’t, still look into the physicians that are available to you.
You can also check doctor’s ratings online. Remember that one or two low ratings aren’t a big deal, but shy away from those who hardly have any positive comments.
Asking friends, colleagues, and family members for referrals is a great way to feel more secure, too.
 The first step that your doctor will take is to conduct a thorough examination, similar to a regular physical. Go to the appointment with a positive outlook and remain calm.Your doctor will ask you many questions about your general health, specific symptoms, and whether or not cancer runs in the family.Then, your doctor will look at the skin on your breasts as well as the nipples to check for any warning signs.Finally, your doctor will press on your breasts and armpit area to check for other lumps or problems., Another method that doctors commonly use is to conduct one or several types of tests that involve taking a picture of your breasts. This type of procedure will help your doctor determine whether or not the lump is cancerous and what the next step should be.A common test is the mammogram. It is a type of x-ray specifically for the breast and will zone in on specific parts of the breast so that your doctor can take a closer look.Alternatively or in addition, you might need an ultrasound. This procedure uses sound waves to produce information about your breast, specifically regarding whether or not a breast lump contains fluid.If diagnosing you poses challenges, your doctor might also suggest an MRI or ductogram, which involve the use of dye to emphasize the appearance of breast tissues for further scrutiny., During a biopsy, the doctor removes a tiny piece of tissue from your breast. This is a common procedure that is not incredibly evasive. The results will help shed more light on what is going on.Two options are core needle and fine-needle aspiration biopsy. Different needles are used to withdraw tissue from your breast. Core needle allows your doctor to take a larger sample.The stereotactic method involves a needle too, but before using it, your specialist will also take more images of your breast.With a vacuum-assisted biopsy, your doctor will numb and cut your breast to take the tissue sample.Finally, during a surgical biopsy, the doctor actually removes part of the lump. You will be medicated so that you don’t experience pain.