 Although each child is different, there are some common symptoms you are likely to see when a child has RAD.Being able to recognize these symptoms will help you treat reactive attachment disorder. It will help you anticipate and plan for the symptoms you may see.


Children with RAD may not like being touched. They may resist being held, hugged, or cuddled at first.
They may get angry easily, or may try to control their environment by being manipulative or stubborn.
They may also act like they don’t feel guilty or ashamed after doing something wrong.
Children with reactive attachment disorder may also show their caregivers little attention, but be overly affective with strangers.
 Some children with RAD may show symptoms that are best characterized as inhibited or withdrawn.Knowing more about the inhibited symptom pattern will help you treat specific behaviors you may see in a child with reactive attachment disorder.


A child with these symptoms may become aggressive when others try to get close to them.
Children with inhibited symptom patterns may be extremely withdrawn even though they are very aware of everything going on around them.
 You can help treat reactive attachment disorder if you are able to recognize the disinhibited symptoms that children may display. These are symptoms characterized as dependent and anxious.


Children with disinhibited RAD symptom patterns may cling to and seek attention from anyone.
They may act much younger than their age and seem nervous all the time.
 Before starting any new treatment for a child with reactive attachment disorder you should find out as much as you can about the treatment. Unfortunately, there are a number of cases of supposed treatments for RAD that end up doing more harm to the child than good.Avoid treatments that involve forcing a child with RAD to do anything. Remember, these children may have issues with control and forcing them may make the situation worse.
Seek a second opinion if you are unsure about a treatment. For example, you might tell your child’s pediatrician, “Our counselor is suggesting a RAD treatment I’m not sure about. Could you and I talk about it?”

