 Though this method is not medically verified, apple cider vinegar can be used to “dry” out the mole, causing it to eventually fall off.Start by cleansing the top of the mole to remove any dust or oil. After washing, gently dab the area dry. Use your finger to apply some vaseline around the mole. This will protect the skin around the mole from the acid of the vinegar.
Dip a cotton ball into the apple cider vinegar. Hold the cotton ball against the mole and use a band-aid to keep the cotton swab against the mole. Leave it on overnight.
When you wake up, remove the bandage. If the cotton ball doesn't come off with the band-aid, let the cotton swab fall off on it's own. Don't tear it off yourself.
Repeat these steps nightly for a few weeks to see results. The mole should reduce in size and start to flake off.;
, Garlic is another natural remedy for mole removal that is not medically verified. Use a garlic press to crush several garlic cloves or mince the cloves with a knife.Start by gently washing the area with the mole with warm water. Dry the area with a dry towel after washing. Apply Vaseline or petroleum jelly to the area around the mole as the garlic can burn or irritate the surrounding skin.
Use your fingers to press some of the crushed garlic on to your mole. Apply a band-aid to hold the crushed garlic in place on your mole.
Wait four hours and then remove the band-aid. Wash the area again to wash off the crushed garlic. You can also leave the band-aid on over night. Use the crushed garlic method every day for no less than four hours and you should see results in one to two weeks.
 A paste made out of flaxseed oil, ground flaxseed, and honey is a natural remedy for mole removal but it is not a medically verified solution.Get a small bowl and put a teaspoon of flaxseed oil, a teaspoon of ground flaxseed, and a teaspoon of honey into the bowl. Mix the ingredients into a paste with a spoon.
Apply the paste to your mole. Use the spoon to cover the mole completely with the paste.
Repeat the process three times a day. Wash the paste off after a few hours and then repeat two more times. Do this every day to see results.

