 At the beginning of every class, the students' brains aren't primed yet for the content. If someone just started explaining open heart surgery, you'd probably be all, "Woah, woah. Slow down. Go back to "take the scalpel."" Ease them into it. That's what the warm up is for -- it not only gauges their knowledge, but it gets them into your groove.


The warm up can be a simple game (possibly about vocab on the topic to see where their current knowledge lies (or what they remember from last week!) or it can be questions, a mingle, or pictures used to start a conversation. Whatever it is, get them talking. Get them thinking about the topic (even if you don't explicitly say it yet).
 That's just about as straightforward as it gets, huh? However your format, you need to start with the information presented. It could be a video, a song, text, or even a concept. It's the very core the entire lesson is based on. Without this, the students will go nowhere.


Depending on your students' levels, you may have to go pretty bare bones. Think about how far back you need to go. The sentence "He put the coat on the rack" makes no sense if you don't know what "coat" and "rack" mean. Give them the very basic concept and let the next lesson (or two) cultivate it.
You may find it useful to flat out tell the students what they'll be learning. That is, give them your objective. You can't make it any clearer than that! That way, they'll walk away knowing what they learned that day. No two ways around it!

, Now that the students have received the information, you need to devise an activity that allows them to put it into action. However, it's still new to them, so start off with an activity that has training wheels. Think worksheets, matching, or using pictures. You wouldn't write an essay before you do a fill-in-the-blank!


If you have time for two activities, all the better. It's a good idea to test their knowledge on two different levels -- for example, writing and speaking (two very different skills). Try to incorporate different activities for students that have different aptitudes.
 After the guided practice, assess your students. Do they seem to understand what you've presented so far? If so, great. You can move on, possibly adding more difficult elements of the concept or practicing harder skills. If they're not getting it, go back to the information. How do you need to present it differently?


If you've been teaching the same group for a while, odds are you know the students who might struggle with certain concepts. If that's the case, pair them with stronger students to keep the class going. You don't want certain students left behind, but you also don't want the class held up, waiting for everyone to get on the same level.
 Now that the students have the basics, allow them to exercise their knowledge on their own. That doesn't mean you leave the room! It just means they get to do a more creative endeavor that lets their minds really wrap around the information you've presented to them. How can you let their minds flourish?


It all depends on the subject at hand and the skills you want to use. It can be anything from a 20-minute puppet making project to a two-week long dalliance with the oversoul in a heated debate on transcendentalism.
 If you have a class with ample time to cover the subject matter, leave ten minutes or so at the end for questions. This could start out as a discussion and morph into more probing questions on the issue at hand. Or it could just be time for clarification -- both will benefit your students.


If you have a group full of kids that can't be paid to raise their hands, turn them amongst themselves. Give them an aspect of the topic to discuss and 5 minutes to converse about it. Then bring the focus to the front of the class and lead a group discussion. Interesting points are bound to pop up!

, In a sense, a lesson is like a conversation. If you just stop it, it seems like it's left hanging in mid-air. It's not bad...it's just sort of a strange, uncomfortable feeling. If time allots for it, sum up the day with the students. It's a good idea to literally show them they've learned something!


Take five minutes to go over concepts for the day. Ask them concept-checking questions (not introducing new information) to reiterate what the both of you have done and gained from the day. It's sort of a full-circle type of thing, book-ending your work!

