 Shake the bag to coat the sliced onions with your cornstarch and 3 tablespoons (21 g) of rice flour and 3 tablespoons (21 g) of cornstarch. Continue to shake the bag until all of the onions have a nice coating of the cornstarch-flour mixture. Once they are covered, remove them from the bag and place them aside.You can also purchase pre-made crispy onions at the store.
The rest of your cornstarch will be used to thicken your casserole.;
, Fill a deep skillet or pan with 1/2 inch (12.7 mm) of vegetable oil. Heat your oil over medium-high heat until the oil is hot. Use a slotted spoon to lower your coated onions into the oil. The onions should sizzle when the oil is hot enough. Do this in a couple of batches until you've fried all of the onions. Once a batch of onions is brown and crispy, remove the onions from the oil and place them on a paper towel lined plate.


If your oil is smoking, it is burning., Bring a large pot of water to a rolling boil. Add two teaspoons (10 g) of salt. Allow the beans to boil for 5 minutes before removing them and straining them through a colander. The beans should still be a bit firm because they will finish cooking in the oven.
 Immediately after cooking the beans, place them into a bath of ice water to prevent the beans from overcooking. Keep the beans in the ice bath for about 2 minutes. This will prevent them from getting softer as they sit on your stovetop or countertop. Drain the water after they are shocked and pat the beans dry with a paper towel.


You can use a colander or pasta strainer to strain the ice water.
 Add onions and garlic to a saucepan over medium heat with two tablespoons (14.2 g) of butter. Stir the onions to prevent them from burning. Continue to cook them until the garlic and onions are browned. This should take six to seven minutes.
 Add the 8 ounces (226.79 grams) of mushrooms into the pan. Cook them for two minutes or until the mushrooms are tender., Combine your 16 ounces (453.59 grams) of fresh green beans to the pan. Add 2 cups (473.17 mL) of milk and 2 tablespoons 14 (grams) of cornstarch to the pan. The cornstarch will be lumpy at first. Continue to stir your pan until the mixture becomes smooth. Once the sauce becomes thick and bubbly, you can move onto the next step.The mixture will be light brown in color.
 Transfer the contents of your green bean casserole to a dish that you can put into your oven. The dish should have the capacity for at least 1.5 quarts (1.4 L) so that you can fit all of your ingredients into it.Casserole dishes are typically made of ceramic or glass.Remember to grease your casserole dish with a cooking spray or vegetable oil before transferring your casserole to the dish.
 Place your casserole dish into the oven on the middle rack and allow your casserole to cook. The surface should become a golden brown, and the sauce should be bubbling., Press the onions down with a wooden spoon. You can also add additional cheddar cheese over the top of your casserole if you want it to be cheesy.


You can cool your casserole to room temperature and refrigerate it for two to three days before it goes bad.