 Instead of focusing on what they lack or wish they had, help this person to build up their skills and abilities. Have them define what areas they think they need to work on. It is okay for you to make suggestions, but they will have the best insight about this. If the person struggles to meet deadlines or participate in meetings, encourage them to build skills in these areas and bring up their strengths.For example, challenge them to make at least one comment during every meeting or provide a new idea.
 Encourage the person to approach their manager and ask for feedback to do a better job. Finding ways to improve specific to what the manager is wanting or looking for can help raise their favorability. Instead of waiting for annual evaluations, encourage the person to take the initiative in seeking out feedback.They may even request to be observed or get feedback if there is not a system in place for them to get this kind of information.


For example, they can say, “I’m looking for ways to improve at my job and I’d like some feedback from you.”
If the person gets passed over for a promotion, have them talk to the manager about how to prepare for the next promotion.
 Outside of doing excellent work, encourage the person to be more social with their co-workers and managers. Build rapport without needing constant feedback about performance. Tell the person to take initiative in engaging social interactions. Even initiating small talk can be a way to show that they’re interested and want to interact.For example, instead of waiting to be invited for lunch, tell your friend to make an invitation to lunch with their superiors or other co-workers.
 If your friend knows that they are not favored but doesn’t know where to start, tell them to watch their manager and start to mimic their behavior. For example, if the manager tends to be very prompt with meetings, assignments, and deadlines, encourage your friend to share this value. If the manager is very neat and organized, encourage the person to use spreadsheets and more organization in their work.Have them think about what kinds of questions the manager asks and whether they can beat them to the punch. For example, if the manager asks for a list of meetings each week, tell the person to start sending in the list before the manager asks.
 Talking to HR or to a manager can help clarify things. While proving favoritism is tricky, the person can at least raise their concerns as to their qualifications and the opportunities they are given. If the person was clearly more qualified than someone who got a promotion, have them ask questions and gain insight as to what happened.For example, they can say, “I’m feeling a bit ignored even though I believe I’m doing good work. What’s going on?”
Instead of making accusations, encourage the person to ask questions and seek more information. Blame and accusations can strongly backfire at work.
 If the person is discouraged by being overlooked for projects and promotions, gently ask them whether their current job is a good fit. Talk about the benefits and drawbacks of the job and whether there is any potential for things to change. If change doesn’t appear possible and the person cannot imagine continuing as things are, help them look for other job opportunities that may have better options.