 Your loved one may be fine in one area, but have difficulty in another area. Make a list of the specific areas that need attention. Most of the needs will fall into 5 major categories.Housekeeping- laundry, shopping (e.g. groceries, toiletries, household items), yard work and cleaning
Meal preparation
Healthcare
Activities of Daily Living
Social needs - transportation and interaction with other people

, Once you have made a list of the areas that need attention, write down who will be responsible for each area. Will it be you, a friend, family member, home health professional, or a community organization? If you are relying on a friend or family member, make sure you get a specific commitment from the person and the services they have agreed to help with.


Support will likely come from multiple sources. For example, you may come clean the house once a week, and another relative may grocery shop and prepare some quick meals.
To find local community resources in your area, call 411 and say the specified business you're looking for.You can also ask their primary care physician for referrals to services in your area.
Depending on the situation, the elderly can sometimes qualify for home services such as physical therapy or nursing visits.
 Ask your loved one if they have organized their important documents and medical information. If they have not, encourage them to do so and offer your help. If they have already organized their documents, take a look to see if everything is complete. Important documents include:Health insurance and/or Medicare card
Social Security card
Birth certificate
List of health conditions, medications, and allergies
End-of-life care, will, living will, and power of attorney
Insurance policies (e.g. life insurance, long-term care insurance, etc.)
Financial information (tax documents, financial advisor, accountant, bank information, etc.)
Name and contact information for physicians and pharmacies

, Your loved one's needs will change over time due to many different factors. Your loved one may have a health crisis that requires acute care. There may be changes in you or your loved one's financial status. You may experience changes that affect your availability as well.You may want to evaluate your plan at regular intervals (e.g. 3 months, 6 months, etc.). See what is working and what is not working.
Do not forget to include your family members, care givers, and loved one in these evaluations.
Make planned and unplanned visits to your loved one's residence to get a picture of how everything is going.

