 You can’t realistically expect your team members to outperform you. Accordingly, you need to be a conscientious employee yourself. To get the best results, model hard work and the right way to interact with people.Also acknowledge your mistakes. You’ll earn respect from your employees and create a culture in which others aren’t afraid to approach you when they mess up., Both are important. If you create only individual goals, then you’ll damage team cohesion. If you set only team goals, then individual team members won’t know where they fit into the larger picture.


Goals for individual team members should be challenging but still something the employee can achieve. Also make sure the goals are measurable.Something like “bring in more clients” isn’t a good goal. Instead, provide a bench mark: “Increase number of new clients by 50% in a year.”
Remember to involve your team on setting the team’s goals.Of course, you can’t let the team set the goals all alone, but make sure you tell them how you have incorporated their ideas.
 If you want to get outstanding effort, you need to reward it. Your reward can be small—a gift card to a nearby coffee shop—or it can be more substantial, such as a bonus. Whatever you give is beside the point: the key is to recognize the effort.Sometimes the only reward necessary is public recognition. Tell the other employees about the great job Sue and Steve did on a client presentation.
Remember to be consistent when giving rewards. If you reward one team member for bringing in a client, you can’t overlook another team member who does the same.
 No two members of your team are alike. Accordingly, you shouldn’t use the same management style with each employee. Instead, find out what makes each team member tick.For example, some team members might be overconfident and need to be challenged regularly.
By contrast, other members might lack confidence and do their best work when they receive praise.
 Strive to make even the lowliest member feel that their job is crucial to the team’s success.Most people yearn to be part of something larger than themselves, and they find meaning in helping the group accomplish its goals.


Don’t just tell employees you value them (though that is important). Also explain to them why their job is crucial to the team’s success.
 Avoid spending a lot of time trying to improve a weak employee. Generally, you’ll never be able to make them better than they currently are.Instead, tell them what they need to do to keep their job and give them a deadline for meeting your expectations.


If you need to fire someone, remember to follow your organization’s policies to the letter. There’s logic behind all that paperwork you have to fill out. You’ll sleep better at night knowing you fired someone in the right way.
Also pay attention to how the termination affects those team members left behind. Talk about the firing. Even though you can’t explain in detail why you let someone go, you can put your team at ease that you aren’t downsizing for economic reasons.

