 Not every exhibition is capable of being reviewed in a manner that reaches the Wikipedia criteria, but every well-written review helps future reviews of the same artist, exhibition, collective or exhibition space meet the criteria, as well as developing the reviewing skills of the author.  Reviews of early-career artists, pseudonymous artists and collectives and certain kinds of anarchist traditions employing deliberate obfuscation present particular problems. Reviews need to be independent of the subject: reviewing your own exhibition, your friends’ exhibition, your partners’ exhibition is going to cause problems. There are, however, methods of overcoming this, for example, a collective of a couple of dozen people who review each others’  exhibitions and other exhibitions in the area.;
, Reading the exhibition flyer or promotional material to see who's exhibiting what, check the them out on the web and in any print libraries you may have access to (keeping notes of what you read where). This will inform your visit to the exhibition and help with writing the review.
 This is where you'll get to meet the artists, curators, etc. and get a feel for the reception of the material. You will probably need to come back for a second look at the exhibition when there are fewer people around; but get as much information as you can.
 Describe the works in detail, their nature, size, shape, texture, etc, etc. Describe their presentation, staging and interaction with the space. Describe the exhibition space itself. etc, etc. Whether you do this from memory, notes or a repeat trip(s) to the exhibition is entirely up to you.
 Your review will need comparative coverage. How do these works compare with previous works by the same artists / curators (ideally compare to public art or pieces with images accessible on the web, since these are typically the most accessible to the most people)? How does the exhibition reflect what you know of the artists and curators lives and influences? How do these works compare to other artists working on the same subject matter, genre and/or technique? How does the presentation of the works compare to previous exhibitions in the same space?

, Don't be afraid to take your time writing up the review and checking the details and checking the spelling and grammar. Don't be afraid to email the artist or curator with any questions you may have, but ensure that the bulk of the review is not a direct quote from them, since interview-based items aren't 'reliable sources' by Wikipedia standards. Go back to the exhibition if necessary to check your first impressions.
 These are very important, because they are evidence that your review is a 'secondary source'. Ideally these references will either have a URL to them (for things on the web), an ISBN (for printed books) or an ISBN and details of issue (for newspapers, etc that aren't on the web). If you can't find many sources on the works, artist and venue of the exhibition, or can only find sources that are not independent, your review is unlikely to meet the bar for Wikipedia. The good news is, however, that by publishing your review, it can be used as a source for other reviews to meet that bar.
 When looking to publish your reviews, don't worry about the technical platform you use, blogger.com, WordPress or the website of your local art society is just fine; what's important is the clear editorial intent rather than the method of publication.

