 Adding calcium to your toothpaste helps to rebuild the calcium in your teeth. Put four tablespoons of baking soda into your bowl.;
, Measure out two tablespoons of baking soda and add them to your bowl.
 Stevia helps to improve the flavor of the tooth powder by making it a little sweeter. You can add a little more stevia if you prefer a sweeter tooth powder. Measure out ½ teaspoon and add it to your bowl.
 Measure out one teaspoon of sea salt and add it to your bowl.


Make sure the salt crystals are not too large, as these can be too abrasive to use on your teeth.
 After you have added all of the ingredients to the bowl, use the wooden spoon to mix them together. Make sure that the ingredients are well combined.


You can add additional ingredients if desired, or just transfer the mixture to a mason jar and seal it until you are ready to use it.
 Try adding in two tablespoons of bentonite clay to your tooth powder. Stir it in until it is well combined with the other ingredients.
 You can add just about any herbs or spices that you want to improve the flavor of your tooth powder. Make sure that any herbs or spices that you use are ground into a fine powder. Some good herbs and spices to try include:Peppermint
Spearmint
Cinnamon
Cloves
Ginger
Sage
Aloe

, If you want to whiten your teeth a bit or if you have stubborn stains, then you can add two teaspoons of 3% hydrogen peroxide. Keep in mind that adding hydrogen peroxide will turn your powder into a paste. The hydrogen peroxide will also cause some foaming and tingling, but that is normal.Hydrogen peroxide is antibacterial and works as a bleaching agent and, along with baking soda, will have an increased whitening effect.
Don’t use anything stronger than a 3% solution because higher concentrations can burn and irritate the gums and mouth and increase tooth sensitivity.
 If you would prefer to have a toothpaste to brush your teeth, you can add coconut oil to your tooth powder. The coconut oil serves as a natural carrier for the other ingredients. Mix the coconut oil with the dry ingredients until they are all well-combined., If you have only used dry ingredients to make your powder, then you can seal it in your mason jar and keep it in your bathroom for daily use. If you have added wet ingredients to your paste, then you may want to keep it in the refrigerator.
 When you use the tooth powder, wet your toothbrush a little bit and dip it in your tooth powder. Brush gently and rinse. Remember that the powder is going to be a little bit abrasive, ideal for stain removal and whitening, but it may harm your enamel if you use it with force. Brush your teeth with the tooth powder twice daily for best results.Use a soft-bristle toothbrush. If it is older than three months, throw it out and use a new one.
 Since you will be dipping your toothbrush in the tooth powder, you may want to provide a separate jar for each member of the family. Try putting about a half cup of tooth powder into small mason jars and adding labels to them., After your first batch, you may decide that you want to adjust the ingredients to change the flavor or properties. Try out different herb combinations or increase/decrease the amounts of some of the ingredients.

