 When starting the game, you will be able to choose a few upgrades for your virus. These are unlocked by beating the game multiple times, and you may not have access to all of them. This mode is still beatable if you don't choose any upgrades. The following are some suggestions if you have them available:DNA Gene - Metabolic Jump. This gives you bonus DNA for popping bubbles.
Travel Gene - Native Biome. Gives you bonus infectivity in your starting country.
Evolution Gene - Sympto-Stasis. Keeps symptom costs from increasing.
Mutation Gene - Genetic Mimic - Slows down cure research.
Environment Gene - Extremophile - Gives a bonus to all environments.;
, Your starting country is very important, as this will determine how quickly the virus starts spreading. Start in China or India. The best location for your bacteria is either China or India. China and India have the largest population in the world, which hasten the spread rate of the infection.


Both nations have warm climates, which automatically gives your plague the ability to withstand warm weather.
China and India can quickly infect neighboring countries, and since both have seaports and airports, it won't take too long for the infected citizens to migrate on planes and boats and infect other parts of the world.
 Your bacteria will randomly evolve symptoms as the game progresses. Make sure to devolve every single one, otherwise too much work will start on the cure. To devolve, tap the DNA button at the bottom left of the screen and then choose Symptoms. Tap on the gene that has generated and then choose Devolve, which can be found at the lower right of the menu.
 Once you start earning some DNA, you can work on increasing the transmission capabilities of the virus. Start of by unlocking Water 1 and Air 1. These will increase your bacteria's ability to spread over boats and airplanes.
 Bacterial Resilience is the Bacteria's unique ability. This will thicken the Bacteria's shell, making it more comfortable in all climates. Drug Resistance allows the bacteria to spread in more developed countries. Evolve the following upgrades, improving transmission as well:


Bacterial Resilience 1
Drug Resistance 1
Water 2
Air 2
Extreme Bioaerosol - This becomes available after maxing out Air and Water transmission. It gives a boost to both.
Bacterial Resilience 2 and 3

, Remember to keep devolving every symptom that randomly mutates, even if it isn't lethal. This will keep work on the cure to a minimum while allowing everyone to get infected.
 This will probably take a while, so set the game speed to the fastest setting. Make sure to keep popping bubbles and devolving symptoms when they mutate.


Once the entire population is infected, you will receive a message letting you know that there are no healthy people left. Time to unleash the symptoms!

, With everyone infected, it's time to hit the population hard and fast so that they start dying before the cure is finished. Evolve the following symptoms, preferably in order:


Rash
Sweating
Fever
Immune Suppression
Total Organ Failure
Coma
Paralysis

, Once people start dying off, hit them with another round of deadly symptoms. These have the added benefit of slowing down cure research as well:


Insomnia
Paranoia
Seizures
Insanity

, Most of the world should be dead or dying, but you may still have the cure to worry about. Evolve Genetic Hardening and Genetic ReShuffle to slow down the cure's progress. If your Cure percentage reaches above 60%, use Genetic Reshuffle. This will make your disease harder to analyze in the lab and slows future cure research.


Evolving this ability will also decrease the cure percentage to 15–20% percent.
If the cure rate increases beyond 60% again, use Reshuffle once more, upgrading it to level 2 then level 3 if it reaches 60% again.
Genetic Hardening is useful as well since this increases the time before the cure is finished. Use this to your advantage until the population in the world declines and no one is left.

