 This is an effective way to earn money and works really well if you are excellent in certain school subjects such as mathematics and language. Really try to teach your pupil different ways of completing problems or thinking about the subject. You won't get that many repeat customers if you're not a great teacher and you charge a lot of money for the privilege.This will or may not be hard if parents want you to tutor their kids on the subject your bad at.
 People love hearing music, and live music is even better. If you know how to play an instrument and you're not making money playing it, you're missing out on an opportunity. Try these simple ideas to monetize your skills:


Try teaching other kids an instrument you already know. If you know how to play any instruments (guitar, drums, piano, flute, etc.), advertise to teach others for $5-$10 a week.
If you provide musical entertainment, go in a public area and put out a hat and a sign to advertise your "act." People may give you a bit of money if you're good enough. They will probably only give you change, but you could make lots, if you keep at it. Ensure beforehand that the location allows this type of activity so that you don't end up in trouble.
 Some people like to have an animations of their own, and if you know how to animate, a 30-second animation can cost up to $30! Animation is easy to learn and is an awesome way to make money. Start to learn how to animate by getting a simple animation program such as Scratch, or if you are already pretty good at animating (or drawing) go to Deviantart.
 Make a website that features something that you know is insanely popular and have a section of your website devoted to a fan club for the thing/animal/food etc. Ask people to join for $20 per person, and voila! You're rich, if people think it is worth it! Most of the popular website names are already in use, but if you think of a good one that is not in use, then your website could be a hit!

, If you get popular, you can apply for the Partnership program and get paid. (If you are under 18, you will need your parent's email address, but that shouldn't keep you from trying.) If you can suddenly get your video to go viral, you could be making tons of money each month, with the added possibility to make more with successive videos.


Try video game tutorials. What's the latest video game craze? If you can make or do something awesome in a popular video game, you'll definitely get some followers. Minecraft, Halo, Call of Duty, Bioshock, and more are currently very popular.
Teach people how to solve a popular problem. Do you know a really cool way to boil an egg? Do you have a surefire way to ask a boy or girl out? Make a video about it and watch the views rack up.
 You can draw amazing pictures for people, perhaps, or maybe even take wonderful black and white pictures if you're a good artist. Why not make some extra money on the side by selling your paintings, landscapes, or profiles?


There are lots of online websites, such as Etsy, eBay, CafePress, Kijiji, or Facebook Yard Sales where you can list or auction off your artwork to people around the world.
 You're a computer whiz; you make jokes about 404 errors; you have dreams about assembling and disassembling all sorts of electrical gadgets. If you fit this profile, you should definitely consider making some money by helping other people out. A computer is an awful thing to waste.


Why not make a website advertising your expertise? Of course, advertise the fact that you're still young, but offer great prices and testimonials describing how professional and useful you are. Who knows — your business could take off!

, Who says you need to be a grown-up in order to put on a show? It can be a talent show, a sketch comedy show, or something else. If you're into doing a one-man thing, you can keep all the profits of your show. If you involve other people in your show, you should of course be prepared to pay everyone who helped you out or performed with you in your show. The fee should be $5 per ticket.
 If you are especially good at designing PowerPoints, you can get information from people and then format a presentation out of it for them. Especially at online sites such as Odesk or Elance, you can work freelance for people if you are chosen for the job.

