 You can find aircraft at various points throughout the map, but parachuting to the soon-to-be-yours Rhino tank will require you to bail out of your vehicle at an acceptable altitude while overhead Fort Zancudo. Some locations to consider:

Los Santos Airport
Los Santos Hospital
Merryweather Helipad (Elysian Island)
Vinewood Police Station (roof)
Grapeseed Runway, Exit your aircraft at a significant enough altitude to safely parachute into Fort Zancudo and locate the tank you plan to heist. Activate your parachute by pressing the action button on your control, for Playstation users the default button should be "X." PC parachute deployment can be achieved by left clicking.You can practice parachuting and receive a crash course in deployment and usage by attending flight school.The San Adreas Flight School Academy opens at the Los Santos International Airport after you complete scouting the port.Parachuting into Fort Zancudo will earn you a four star wanted level, which will cause tanks, soldiers, and enemy vehicles to spawn.
 As you fall, use your control to direct your line of sight to the base and find a tank suitable for your purposes. It should stand out against the asphalt or concrete with its tan camouflage.

Make your approach with caution. Enemies, including tanks, will begin to fire on you before you hit the ground. Direct your parachute in evasive maneuvers to avoid being hit in the air.
 The hatch of the Rhino tank is located in the front. Use the same button for commandeering any vehicle to gain access to your new Rhino tank. You character should hop up, pull the soldier out, and the tank will be yours., There are many threats in the fort, and though highly durable, your tank is not indestructible.In single player mode, the east and west sides of the fort are automatically controlled and as you approach, these will let you escape.

Multiplayer mode does not have automatic gates that you can use to escape. If you use the parachute method in multiplayer mode, you will be unable to leave the base. Multiplayer users might consider stealing a cargobob helicopter after parachuting in to lift the Rhino tank out of the base.

