 You need your name, job title, and company. You also need contact information, such as your email and phone number. Finally, you need location information, such as your website. If it's essential, include an address as well. Keep any other text off of it so you're not cluttering it up too much.It's also a good idea to make the cardstock white. That way, people can easily add notes to it.Make the font legible and at least 12 point so people can read what's on them without difficulty., One way to make your card memorable is to add your face to it. That way, when people look at it, they make the connection between your business and your face. In addition, it will likely help them remember meeting you.Make sure the photo is professional and in good taste. You should be in professional clothing and have a professional background.
In addition, the photo should be a head shot, so the contact can easily recognize who it is in the picture.
 One way to ensure people keep your cards is to print something useful on them. Usually, you print it on the back, so it's out of the way of the main information. That way, people who get them will want to hang onto them.For instance, you can add a calendar to the back or common conversions.
You could even print tiny rulers on the back so they can be used for measurements.
 QR codes can be helpful to include on the back of a business card. A QR code is something that can be scanned with a phone that automatically takes the person to a website or social media page.While not everyone understands QR codes, it can make it easier for some people to get to your page.
You can use an online generator to make a QR code for your website. Be sure to test with a scanning app on your phone first to make sure it works.
 Many apps are making it easier to share information digitally. While these apps are still in progress, you can use them to easily pass information to new contacts. The downside is they need to have the app, too.Some apps to consider are Zap, Bizz Card,and Haystack.