 Imagine being a child and having someone much bigger looking down to talk to you. It can be intimidating. When you get down to your child’s height, you’re literally putting yourself on their level, which is a great way to start.Don’t attempt to have a conversation or give a child instructions from another room. It might seem easier to yell from upstairs, but it actually makes communication much harder.
You can also sit together at a table or on a couch if that’s comfortable.;
, Eye contact lets the child know that you’re listening and that you’re focused on them. It’s also a great way to see if they’re listening to you. If a child feels embarrassed or stubborn, they might not want to make eye contact, but if you stick with it, they may come around.Try to keep your gaze warm and non-threatening. If a child thinks you’re angry or trying to control them, they will probably be resistant.
You can gently let them know that you’d like them to look you in the eyes. You can say, “I’d like for you to look at me,” or “When you don’t look at me, I feel like you’re not ready to have a conversation.”

, There’s no point in trying to communicate with a child who’s in the middle of a tantrum or very aggravated. Before you try to communicate with the child, make sure they’ve calmed down.You can let them cool off by themselves, in their room or another safe place.
If you have a routine for calming the child down, you can do that until the child is ready to talk.
 Children can easily sense your intention by your tone. If you sound angry, controlling, or frustrated, they’re likely to get defensive. By using a positive tone, you are telling the child that you’re on the same team and that things aren’t so bad.If you have never been firm or direct with the child, this may come as a surprise to them. That's okay. You can say, "I know we have done things differently in the past, but we're doing things this way now."
Even if you’re saying something that’s no fun, such as, “I’d like you to pick up your toys now,” or, “There won’t be any TV tonight,” you can still use a tone that sounds positive.
 Ideally, you only have to tell or ask a child something once. However, it’s likely that you’ll have to ask them more than once until they get used to listening to you. You want to limit the amount of times you’re willing to repeat yourself.After asking once, wait to see how they respond. If you don’t get the desired response, repeat your request in a firmer tone.
Avoid repeating yourself too many times. Repeating yourself shows children that you are willing to keep nagging them, rather than taking action if they don't respond.
 For example, if you’ve said, “You need to get dressed before watching TV, or you’ll be late for the party,” it’s okay to let the child be late and understand that there are consequences for their actions.


Never do this when the consequences would put the child in danger or scare them.
 Young children have short attention spans and limited vocabularies. Avoid using big words or long sentences. Be clear and brief when you make a specific request.Find a single word or phrase that you can use to remind the child what you’ve asked. For example, if you’ve asked them to pick up their toys and they haven’t, you can just say, “toys.”
Use words they can understand. For example, instead of saying, “It’s your responsibility to brush your teeth in the evening,” just say, “You need to brush your teeth at bedtime.”

, Children will model their behavior on what they see from the adults in their lives. If you make promises you don’t keep, or don’t show up when you say you will, children learn that this is acceptable.If you promise a child a reward or something they’re looking forward to, be sure to follow through.
Don’t assume children will forget promises you’ve made. Something that might seem small to you can be a big deal to them. For example, if you said, “we can go see that movie when it comes out next month,” the child may remember that and be very much looking forward to it, even if it’s unimportant to you.
Stick to your new system of communication and discipline. This will show the child that even if you treated them differently before, the new rules are here to stay. It may take a while for them to get on board, but stick with it.
 It’s not fair to surprise a child by saying, “this room needs to be clean in five minutes.” Give the child time to understand the expectations, and to adjust their behavior.Very young children might not be able to fully understand units of time (such as, “in an hour” or tomorrow). However, you can still use these to make your expectations clear and help them learn. For example, you can say, “I need you to clean your room sometime today so that we can go to the park tomorrow,” or, “School starts in an hour, so you don’t have enough time to watch TV.”
If there are going to be negative consequences, the child definitely needs enough time to feel like they had a fair chance. For example, you can say, “You have half an hour to get dressed, or you won’t be able to play with the hamster before school.” Half an hour is plenty of time for a child to get dressed, even if they take a few minutes to hem and haw about it.
 Empty threats are one of the fastest ways to get a child to ignore your authority. If you state that there will be consequences for actions (whether positive or negative) be honest and follow through.It may be tempting to exaggerate or even lie sometimes, by saying things like, “Your face is going to freeze like that,” or, “Sugar will make your teeth fall out,” or, “If you’re not ready to go, I’m going to leave without you.” However, avoid doing this.
You can explain the actual consequences of actions, which are still substantial. For example, you can say, “Making faces like that around other people isn’t polite,” or, “Eating a lot of sugar isn’t healthy or good for your teeth,” or, “If you aren’t ready, we’re going to be late, and will miss part of the party.”
If you promise to reward good behavior, do it. Otherwise, the child will learn that their efforts won’t be acknowledged.
 Especially if you’re dealing with your own child, it can be painful to watch them feel upset or uncomfortable. The child might express frustration, or might make you feel guilty or bad for their suffering. However, if you’re using your best judgement and doing what is best for the child, maintain your position and accept that learning to accept discomfort is part of their maturing.If the child throws a tantrum or says things like, “I hate you,” or, “You’re a bad mom/dad/babysitter,” remain calm. Let them get these things out of their system and eventually calm down. You can talk to them about their unkind words later.
The child may express extreme discomfort when they’re not allowed to play with a certain toy, see a certain movie, or stay up extra late. However, remember that they will live through this, and will learn the important lesson of restraint and consequences. The limits you’ve set are healthy for them, not harmful.
 If a child listens the first time, or demonstrates good behavior, praise them. It’s also good to reward good behavior when you can. The reward may be something you had already promised, or it can be a surprise.If you didn’t promise a reward, a surprise reward can be very instructive to the child. For example, you can say, “Wow, since you cleaned your room so fast, we have some extra time. Do you want to go play in the park or get an ice cream down the street?”
Praise from an adult they respect can be a great reward for a child. You can say things like, “Thank you so much for doing your chores! You listened so well, and you did a great job. Your room is so clean, it’s amazing!”

, It’s always easier to listen to someone when they listen to you. No matter what you think about why the child is behaving a certain way, listen to them. You’ll likely learn about how they’re feeling and how to change this behavior in the future.Ask the child questions to help them articulate their feelings. You can say things like, “Did you think that was unfair?” or, “What did you want to do instead?”
Avoid getting into an argument with the child. Even if you disagree with them or think their feelings are irrational, remember that they’re a child. Let them express themselves before you explain your reasoning or justify your stance.
 Children will feel heard if you can say to them what you’ve heard about how they feel. Children might not know why they feel certain things, but if you can articulate something, their feelings may be validated and they’ll trust that you care about them..If a child says something like, “I wanted to play with the dinosaur but you took it away before I was done!” you can translate that into feelings and say something like, “It sounds like you felt like it was unfair that you couldn’t play with the dinosaur for as long as you wanted. It sounds like you’re really upset about that.”
If the child is upset and says hurtful things like, “I hate you”, or “Go away,” you can say something calm like, “It sounds like you’re really mad at me right now. When you calm down a little, I’d like to know more about why you’re so mad.”

, Children might not be able to understand (or agree with) all of your reasoning. However, when you explain things to them, it shows that you are interested in engaging with them, rather than simply making rules without their understanding.It’s okay if a child doesn’t agree with, or understand your reasoning. For example, if you say, “I need the livingroom to be clean,” and the child doesn’t see why, you can simply say, “Because it’s important to me. I like to have a clean house.” That is explanation enough.
Avoid going into extended lectures. If a child asks what it means that sugar is unhealthy, you can offer some age-appropriate explanation, such as, “Sugar doesn’t actually contain the kinds of vitamins and minerals that give us energy. And it can actually make you sleepy after you eat a lot of it.”

, Do this without assigning blame or expressing judgement. Simply state, in a calm tone, what you’re observing. You can also reference a request you made previously.Keep it simple. Instead of saying, “You left your clothes on the floor. I told you not to do that,” say, “I see clothes on the floor. Clothes need to go in the hamper.”

, When children feel that they’re always being told, “no,” they’re likely to become less agreeable. If there are times when you could negotiate instead of saying, “no,” try to find them.Be creative and talk it out. For example, if you’ve told the child they can’t play ball in the house, but they’re upset about that, find out what they really want. Is it that they just want to play ball? Or do they want to play in the house? Once you know, you can say something like, “Okay, when I’m done with work, we can go outside and play ball together,” or, “If you want to play in the house, I can play an indoor game with you when I’m done with work.”
Some things might be okay at another time. For example, you can say, “You can’t play video games today, because it’s a school day. But on Saturday, you can use the computer for video games.”

