 Babies come down with a wide variety of rashes, and diaper rash is among the most common. To identify diaper rash, pay close attention to the appearance of your baby's bottom. Diaper rash looks like a red, irritated patchwork across the skin, or in isolated spots.Babies have very sensitive skin, which causes them to be very susceptible to skin irritations. Diaper rash is typically caused by wet diapers, or a diaper that has not been changed recently.
To avoid diaper rash, make sure to frequently change your baby's diaper and make sure the area is clean and dry before putting on a new diaper.
While diaper rash can look scary, remember that it is completely normal. It can be typically cleared up by using an over the counter cream. Air drying can sometimes cure the least severe cases.
 Cradle cap, or seborrhoeic dermatitis, is another common skin ailment in babies. Cradle cap is characterized by yellow, greasy, scaly patches of skin. Typically, these patches occur on the scalp, but can also appear on the face, ears, or neck.Sometimes cradle cap will cause the infected area to become flaky, and the skin to peel off. This can also cause hair loss. Don't worry, it will grow back.
Cradle cap is very common, and typically goes away by itself in a week or two. It does not cause discomfort or irritation to your baby. It looks scary, but is normal and harmless.
If your baby is trying to scratch at the scaly area, this is a sign that it could be something other than cradle cap. Ask your doctor for a definitive diagnosis.
 This is one of the most common skin infections that affects children and is usually caused when the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus or Streptococcus pyogenes penetrate the skin.It causes one or multiple honey-crusted lesions on the face, arms or legs. Fever is also common.

Your child may be more susceptible if she has already had skin problems such as eczema, poison ivy, insect bites, and cuts or scrapes, as this can make it easier for the bacteria to penetrate the skin.Frequent washing of the face and hands can help prevent impetigo. It is contagious and can be spread by direct contact or by touching an item that was in contact with infected skin (such as clothes, towels, and bedding).Impetigo is usually treated with antibiotic ointment. If the infection has spread over the body or topical treatment doesn't seem to be working, the doctor may prescribe oral antibiotics to be taken for seven to 10 days., Because babies have such sensitive skin, they are prone to many other minor rashes when they are small. One rash is called milia, and looks like tiny white spots on the infant's face. Almost half of all newborns have milia, and it is no cause for concern. It typically disappears within four weeks.If your newborn has blotchy, red skin, it is likely a rash called erythema toxicum. This rash typically appears when the baby is two to three days old, and is completely normal. It will disappear on its own within a few days.
Just like adults, babies can also suffer from acne. If your baby has what appear to be small pimples, try washing with a very mild moisturizer and warm water.
 Children of all ages can develop what are known as drug rashes. These inflammations occur when the child has a negative reaction to a medication. Drug rashes can be tricky to diagnose because they can occur even after the child has been taking the medication for a sustained period of time. Drug rashes can take many forms, such as scaly patches, pimples, hives, and general redness.Typically, you will need your doctor to diagnose a drug rash. Take notes about the appearance of the rash and the duration. You'll want to be able to clearly answer your doctor's questions.
 Children can be allergic to many things: foods, pollen, animals, and chemicals. If your child develops a rash after coming into contact with an allergen, that is known as contact dermatitis. The skin may be raised, red, and itchy. If the allergy is severe, the skin might blister.Contact dermatitis can occur from coming into contact with certain cleaning agents, plants, and some cosmetics.
Medication allergies (for example penicillin) can manifest themselves as a rush.
Food allergies are also very common in children. An allergy may appear as hives or eczema.
A child can be allergic to any food, but the most common are eggs, nuts, soy, wheat, and shellfish.
If you suspect an environmental factor, such as pollen, is the allergen, try closing your windows and keeping your child in doors for a few days.
If your child has any difficulty breathing, contact your doctor immediately.

