 Although you may have signed up with a "no contract" or "no sign-up fee" promotion, you still signed an agreement that designates how you can cancel and what situations may allow you to waive your cancellation fees.;
, Your contract lays out the exact terms and conditions, and you should be informed. You should also note if you have an annual or monthly contract.Regardless of whether you pay annually or monthly, you likely signed a 1-year contract.
Also, check to see when your contract is up. It might be easier to wait a month or two until your contract is up to cancel if you only have a couple of months left on your contract. Cancellation fees can be as much as 5 or 6 months of regular payments.
 Usually, for a monthly contract, you must cancel before the 10th of the month, as you are generally billed on the 17th, and the company needs time to process your request. For an annual contract, you must cancel before the 25th of the month prior to when you are billed. In other words, if you usually pay your annual bill in March, you need to cancel on or before February 25.Think of a fitness contract like a leasing contract. Having to give 30 days notice and fees for early cancellation are common with gyms. In fact, if you don't cancel your membership correctly, you may have to pay your contract out in total.
 If you can give written proof that you are injured or that you must move out of range of a Planet Fitness, then you may be able to have the fees waived.If you have an injury, ask your doctor's office to write a note confirming that you will be unable to use the gym facilities.Ask him or her to give a specific amount of time that you will be unable to use the gym.
If you are moving to a new place, it must be farther than 25 miles (40 km) away from any Planet Fitness location. Planet Fitness aims to transfer memberships whenever possible. Ask your employer to write a relocation letter, and make sure to map out the distance before specifying where you will be moving. That is, establish that you will have no Planet Fitness gyms within 25 miles (40 km) of your new address. You can print off maps with your new location and the closest Planet Fitness locations marked to help your case.If neither of these situations applies to you, you will be required to pay the cancellation fee, though you can plead your case if other situations inhibit your ability to go to the gym. Be sure to have written proof of your situation, as they will not just take your word for it.

