 For all additional information, such as the make of engine or the exact assembly plant that made the vehicle, you'll need to know the internal system that car manufacturer uses.


If you don't know the car manufacturer, you can look it up based on the second character. Look up the most common manufacturer's code online.
Try to find a VIN lookup service or the VIN decoding sheets on your car manufacturer's website. Failing that, use a search engine to look for "VIN decoding sheet" + "(name of company)". This may be difficult or impossible for some manufacturers.
Contact the company's support service if they have one and ask about VIN decoding specific to their cars.
Ask an auto service shop if you can see their decoding charts. The workers there use the charts to direct the repairs and adjustments they make., Depending on the manufacturer, the third character of your VIN is used either to narrow down the location further to a company division, or to describe the vehicle's type. Most of the time, this character simply means "car" or "truck", or provides little information that the country code doesn't, for instance "made by Honda Canada".
 These make up the "Vehicle Description System" or VDS. According to specific company codes, they describe the vehicle's engine and transmission types, exact model, and similar information.


Technically, the 9th character is also considered part of the "VDS" section, but is used to confirm the VIN is real, not to describe a component.
 If you want to know exactly which factory was used to make your car, the 11th digit will tell you. Just like everything else in this section, you'll need to find that company's system to find out more. See the beginning of this section for more details on how to accomplish that.
 Each manufacturer can decide how to use this space for their own purposes.Most commonly, this is a single 6-digit number that tells you the vehicle's serial number.


Some manufacturers never repeat serial numbers, while others start again at 000001 each year.
The 10th through 17th digits are referred to as the Vehicle Identification Section.

