 Start by making a slipknot. To make a slipknot, loop the yarn around your index finger two times. Then, pull the first loop over the second loop to make a slipknot and slide the knot onto your crochet hook. Then, chain two stitches., Make six single crochet stitches in the second stitch from the hook, which should also be the first chain stitch you created.To single crochet, insert the hook through the stitch and loop the yarn over the hook. Then, pull the yarn through the first loop on the hook and yarn over again. Then, pull through the remaining two loops on the hook.When done, you should have your first round. This round has six stitches in it.
 Complete your second round by working two single crochets into each single crochet stitch from the previous round.Your second full round should have a total of 12 stitches.
 For your third round, make two single crochets into the first stitch of your previous round, then one single crochet in the second stitch of the previous round. Alternate between one and two single crochets into each stitch all the way around, using every stitch from the previous round.You should make a total of 18 stitches in this round.
This will be your last round of increases.
 For rounds four through six, single crochet once into each stitch of the corresponding previous round.For round four, stitch into round three; for round five, stitch into round four; for round six, stitch into round five.
Each round should have 18 stitches in it.
 Make a single crochet decrease across the first two stitches of your previous round. Afterward, work one single stitch into the stitch that follows. Repeat this all the way around.To do a single crochet decrease, start by inserting the hook through the next stitch in your round and yarn over. Then, pull the yarn through the first loop on your hook and insert the yarn into the next stitch in your round and yarn over again. Pull the yarn through the first stitch again and then yarn over one more time. Pull the yarn through the remaining three stitches on the hook to complete your first single crochet decrease.You should make a total of 12 stitches for this seventh round.
You have reached the halfway point of your ball and are beginning to narrow it back down with this step. Essentially, you will be creating the same rows you had for the first half of the ball, but in reverse.
 It is a good idea to start stuffing the ball before it is too close to being finished or you may have a hard time adding the filling with only a small opening.The ball needs to be stuffed or it will look deflated. You can fill the ball with fiberfill stuffing, dried beans, or plastic bags.


If using something small like dried beans, you may wish to wait until after you complete another round before filling it. If you wait any longer than that, however, the ball might become too difficult to fill at all.
 For the eighth round, make a single crochet decrease over the next two stitches from the previous row. Repeat all the way around.You should complete a total of six stitches.
 Make a single crochet decrease over two stitches of the previous round. Repeat all the way around.


You should only need to make three stitches.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a long tail. Wrap the tail around your hook and pull it through the loop currently on the hook. Then, tie a knot to secure the ball.Weave the loose end into the stitches of the ball to hide it.

