 If you have already ridden coasters for a while, think about what coasters you have ridden before and seek out ones similar to that. Rather than riding the same coasters you have been on many times before, new ones of similar intensity will increase your enjoyment. If you started out with a few wooden coasters and low-key steel coasters, try moving up to a more intense steel coaster.You can even use a coaster directory to explore.One thing to pay attention to is what type of seat the coaster has. Are your feet dangling? Are you standing up in the harness? You can tell a lot by the track and seats of the coaster.
If you can tell for sure it goes upside down, goes super fast or you can see huge drops, consider whether you are ready for these aspects.
Most mid-size to large parks have steel coasters that are more moderate and may be fast and high but don’t go upside down.
 If you have only been riding for a while, maybe you have spent most of that time holding onto the lap bar or harness.


Take the step of letting go and raise those hands up for the whole ride, as long as this is an option.
If you have ever kept your eyes closed before, try keeping them open and seeing all the different views along the way.
You may have noticed people tend to scream on roller coasters. This can be a fun way to release any lingering fear you may have during the ride.
 Inexperienced riders may take a seat wherever there is one open, but when you want to try some new, try choosing a seat you've never sat in before. Even if you have ridden the coaster many times, sitting in a new spot can change the ride.


Sit in the very front and see things before everyone else.
Sit in the very back for a faster and rougher ride.
Some coasters may have forward and backward facing seats, so pick a direction you haven't faced before.
 One of the most exciting aspects of roller coasters is that there are almost endless ways they are designed, specifically regarding the types of seats and how you are positioned during the ride. Trying types of coasters you’ve never experienced is kind of like riding one for the first time.


If you have never ridden a standing coaster, find a park that has one and go ride it. Never ridden one where you are hanging from the seat and facing the ground? You’ll feel just like you are flying. How about riding one that launches you at top speed or one that faces backwards?

, You might still be near the beginning of your roller coaster riding career, so you don’t have to become an all out adrenaline junkie in one trip. Try one new coaster that you were too scared of at first, or one new seat location. Don’t think that you have to tackle the whole park at once.

