 Ultraviolet (UV) rays can damage the skin when exposed for prolonged periods. UV rays often cause sunburn and can lead to skin cancer.


Apply sunscreen before going outside to protect the skin.
Wear a hat to protect your neck, ears and face.
Check skin regularly, from head to toe. Look for skin changes such as growths, moles and any changes in color and texture. If you see changes such as growth or major color changes, consult your doctor.
 Avoiding stress can also reduce nervous habits such as lip or nail biting.


When your body is stressed, it produces hormones like cortisol. Too much cortisol can cause reduced immunity, prematurely aged skin, and inflammation. Take steps to keep stress down.
Try drinking some black tea. Black tea possesses ingredients like polyphenols and flavonoids which can greatly reduce your cortisol levels. Go for a walk. Getting outside and simply stretching your legs for a few minutes can also reduce stress.
 Additionally, smoking can cause premature aging resulting in crow's feet and mouth lines.


Smoking is one of the easiest ways to harm your skin, along with the rest of your body. It causes bags under your eyes, loss of a natural glow, and increases the risk of psoriasis.
Smoking also depletes your body of Vitamin C, which you need for healthy skin.
Smoking also constricts your blood flow and starves your body of oxygen. This can result in broken capillaries and veins, which cause dark scarring.
 Exercising is a great way to have healthy glowing skin. While sweat from exercise can cause breakouts, the benefits outweigh the negatives. Exercise increases blood flow which carries more oxygen and nutrients throughout your body. This helps to nourish your skin cells.
Exercise is also a great way to ease stress, a major cause in unhealthy skin. Whether you run, lift weights, or practice yoga, a little bit of exercise a couple times a week will reduce stress levels, and keep your body healthy.
Exercise also helps your immune system to stay strong and fight off infections which may affect your skin.
 Make sure you’re getting your beauty rest. Not only does a proper amount of quality rest make you feel more attractive and ready for the day, it actually improves your skin and your overall health.

Getting between 7-9 hours of sleep a night will greatly increase your energy, mood, and skin’s healthiness.
When your body is able to shut down and rest and you enter the deepest stages of sleep, it produces the most growth hormones. These hormones aid in cell and tissue repair which can slow down how fast your skin ages.
Your body also rehydrates during sleep. This reduces lines and wrinkles and takes away those bags under your eyes.

