 Listen to your child's point of view, and negotiate with your child about some details of the new rules, but you should also make clear that future or repeated misbehavior will see consequences.;
, They have a great influence on kids' behavior.
 If you continue to do so, your TV privileges will be taken away.
Timmy, please do your homework. If you don't do it by tonight, your iPad will be gone.
Richard, please don't watch Futurama. It is rated TV-MA and if you continue to do so, your TV privileges will be taken away.
Courtney, if you watch Drawn Together, your iPhone will be taken away from you.
 You should start with a mild form of punishment and to went over stricter punishments, if this failed. (If you want a picture, imagine a "punishment-stairway", which you should go up.)

,


You should give him/her some extra chores, too.This can also apply if they are suspended from school.There will be bigger consequences if your child/children misbehaves after such measure.

You can reduce and/or take away some TV or video game privileges.
Consider spanking, if you use it as part of your regular disciplinary approach. Opinions on spanking differ from culture to culture and family to family, but if it's part of your preferred disciplinary method, follow through as you usually would, if they repeat their behavior. Spanking is sometimes recommended for older children, but do not be abusive towards your child by causing injuries!
If you're unsure what to do, you can read up more on How to Give a Spanking and How to Punish a Child in the Right Way.



Example:If Grandma/Grandpa is more likely to be sympathetic and let your child watch TV all day,that won't work.
If you should leave your older child alone,take any power cords and electronics with you so can prohibit him/her from watching TV or playing on the computer.
 Consider examples such as:


Dale, since you passed your spelling test, I will buy you an iPad, but I will set a few restrictions before you use it. It doesn't always have to be physical rewards, words of encouragement and appreciation go a longer way.

