 Remove the eggs from the refrigerator and let them sit out on your counter for about 30 minutes, or until they drop to room temperature.


The cooking times will change if you use cold eggs, and you will have no way of knowing whether or not the eggs have coddled correctly until you crack one open. As a general rule, though, add another 1 to 2 minutes of cooking time if using cold eggs instead of room temperature eggs.;
, Fill a wide saucepan with 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of water. Set the saucepan on the stove and heat on medium-high until the water begins to boil.


You'll only want to use a little water. When you place the coddler inside, the water level should not reach above the halfway point of the coddler body. Do not fully submerge the coddler in water.
To prevent the egg coddler from sliding around, line the bottom of the saucepan with a kitchen towel., Coat the inside of the egg coddler with nonstick cooking spray, butter, or cooking oil. Grease the inside of the metal lid, as well.


Complete this step simultaneously with the previous step. In other words, you should prepare the egg coddler and the egg while the water is still working up to a boil, not after the water has already reached a boil.
Use clean fingers or a clean paper towel to spread the grease on all inner sides of the coddler. The sides need to be well greased, but you should not have enough excess to form a puddle at the bottom of the coddler.
 Both the white and yolk of the egg should be broken directly into the coddler. Add any salt and pepper you want to the raw egg, as well.


The number of eggs you should use will depend on the size of your coddler. Small egg coddlers only fit one egg, while large egg coddlers can fit two eggs.
You can add other ingredients and seasonings, as well. Consider sprinkling in a look grated cheese, fresh herbs, crumbled bacon, or 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) heavy cream.
 Loosely turn the lid on top of the egg coddler to secure it in place.


The lid needs to be tight enough to prevent water or steam from seeping into the inner coddler, but it does not need to be extremely tight. A loose turn is usually enough.
 Carefully lower the egg coddler into the boiling water. Allow the egg to cook for 5 to 8-1/2 minutes.The exact cooking time will vary depending on the size of your coddler and the size of your eggs.

For one medium egg in a small coddler, cook it for 5 minutes.
For one large egg in a small coddler, cook it for 5 and 1/2 minutes.
For two medium eggs in a large coddler, cook the eggs for 6 and 1/2 minutes.
For two large eggs in a large coddler, cook the eggs for 8 and 1/2 minutes.
 Carefully remove the egg coddler from the hot water and place it on a heat-resistant surface, like a kitchen towel. Grab the side of the metal lid with an oven mitt or separate towel and twist it off.


Insert the end of a spoon or fork into the ring on top of the metal lid and lift the coddler out that way. Alternatively, lift it out by grabbing it with oven mitts.
 The egg should be enjoyed immediately and served while still inside the coddler.

