 The major female Greek system is governed by the National Panhellenic Conference (NPC). The NPC is made up of 26 member organizations. They rotate chairmanship within the group based on the date of entrance of their group in the Conference. There are additional sororities that are regional or specific to certain schools. Other sororities are specific to different groups such as minorities or particular groups like music or academics. Most sororities are U.S. based, but many have chapters abroad in countries such as Canada and the United Kingdom.;
, A recruitment party from the perspective of a potential new member is different from the perspective of those who are on the recruiting end.


As a potential new member, you will be treated to food and conversation at each sorority house. After each night is over, you will return to your dorm room, and wait to fill out your order of preference.
 When you sign up for recruitment, you will most likely be assigned a recruitment counselor to help you through the process. They will help you understand the different rounds of the process, and they are available to answer any specific questions you might have that pertain to what goes on at your university. Usually, earlier rounds start as informal functions, and later rounds advance to be more formal with more pomp and circumstance.
 If you have any family members or family friends that have went through the Greek system, you can have them write recommendations for you to be sent to the local sororities to which you are applying. These forms tell the chapters who to keep an eye out for and seek out. Most sororities have their forms online that you can just download, print and mail to the recruitment chair. Having immediate family members such as sisters, mothers and grandmothers that were in a sorority gives you the advantage to being what is considered a “legacy.” In some sororities, this gives you a preferential status, but being a legacy doesn’t mean that you automatically will be given a bid or invitation. That’s up to you to earn. To have a RIF written for you:


Instruct the volunteer writers to visit their national sorority’s website. They can usually easily find the Web site by typing their sorority name into a Web search engine, and following the Web link to their group’s official homepage.
Have them download their recruitment form, sometimes called a Rush Information Form or Recruitment Information Form (RIF).
Provide a head shot photograph. A 4x6 or 5x7 is an ideal size to go with each RIF.
Have those people mail the form to each of the sorority’s “Recruitment Chair” at the sororities’ chapter house address or mailing address.
 When going through the recruitment process:


Dress appropriately to the particular round that you are going through.
Be prepared to carry on a conversation about your background and your college plans.
Refrain from using any profanities.



Consider carrying around a small notepad in your purse to jot down notes between parties.
Write down names of and information on people who you met.
Write down what stood out to you about the chapter. When you go through long nights of recruitment parties, sometimes the details start to blend together. This will help refresh your memory later.
After each round, the chapters will vote on who to ask back. You will be provided a list of which chapters are asking you back. Work with your recruitment counselor to properly fill out the forms to narrow your list down for the next round.
Be aware that each university will stage recruitment in different ways with different regulations upon both sorority members and potential new members participating in recruitment. Research your specific Panhellenic system as much as possible before recruitment and always feel free to ask questions.

