 Soon after the boss fight begins, Bowser will toss a pair of mechakoopas out of his clown car. These will hurt Mario if they touch him.;
, Unlike a normal koopa, a mechakoopa will become frozen and squished when you jump on it. It won't stay in this state forever, so move fast.Spin jumping (the A button) will destroy the mechakoopa. If you do this, you'll have to wait for Bowser to release more mechakoopas.
 Pick up the stunned mechakoopa, aim upward while Bowser is approaching, and throw it. This will hurt Bowser only if the mechakoopa lands on him from above. Hitting the clown car is not good enough., Repeat the same steps to throw a second mechakoopa at Bowser. This will trigger the next phase of the fight.
 Bowser will fly away, then fireballs will fall from the sky. Stay on the ground so you can see them coming and get out of their way. Two lines of fireballs will fall before Bowser returns., Bowser's clown car will return to the screen, but the princess will pop her head out and throw a super mushroom to the left. Pick this up if you need it.
 Bowser's car will float over you, turn upside down, and drop a large bowling ball (a "Big Steely") that rolls toward you.Get out of the car's way when it turns over, and spin jump with A to leap over the ball. Use the same tactic to avoid the second bowling ball.


You can jump over the ball with a regular jump, but spin jumping allows you to touch the top of the ball without getting damaged.
 Stun and throw the mechakoopas just as you did before. Bowser will fly away again after the second hit. The clown car will return and give you a second super mushroom.
 Bowser will now follow you around and stomp on the floor, trying to crush you. Since Bowser bounces off the edge of the stage, it's usually impossible for him to reach you if you run to the left edge and duck until he stops stomping.This does not work in the Gameboy Advance version of the game, so you'll need to dodge his jumps instead. Bowser jumps in a steady rhythm, so it's not too hard to time it correctly. The moment after he starts an upward jump is a good time to run under him. Keep running after you're through, as Bowser changes direction quickly.


Avoid the propeller of the clown car, which can damage you.
 Bowser will drop another bowling ball, then toss out more mechakoopas. Throw two more mechakoopas at Bowser to win the game. This time, Bowser will keep stomping on the ground while the mechakoopas are around. This is the toughest part of the fight, so it may take a few attempts.


Bowser will destroy stunned mechakoopas if he bounces too near them.If you can, grab a mechakoopa when you're at the opposite side of the screen from browser.

