 A study of Japanese men was done on the effect of green tea on gums. Drinking at least a cup of green tea once a day was shown to ward off gum disease. It may be because green tea contains the antioxidant catechin, which can help reduce inflammation.Remember that green tea has caffeine, which can keep you up at night. Drink it earlier in the day if you find that's a problem for you.
Be aware that drinking too much green tea can have side effects, such as causing stomach discomfort or even an irregular heartbeat. You can sidestep some of these issues by drinking a caffeine-free version.;
, The acid in citrus juices can wreak havoc on your teeth, breaking down the enamel over time. Grapefruit and lemon juice are two of the worst culprits, and soda can also be a problem.


If you still want to drink these juices, try using a straw and then rinsing or brushing your teeth immediately afterwards. A straw will protect the teeth in the front of your mouth to some extent, and the water will help rinse away the acid in the back of your mouth.In addition, skip swishing. If you tend to swish soda or juice around your mouth, you should get into the habit of swallowing more promptly. The longer you hold soda in your mouth, the more damage it can do.
 Foods that are harder to break down, such as crunchy or chewy foods, increase the saliva in your mouth. That saliva is essential to keeping your mouth healthy, as it reduces the amount of acid in your mouth that is created by bacteria.In addition, these types of crunchy foods help remove plaque from your teeth.The acid leads to cavities, which is why it's important to keep the acid level down. Try foods such as carrots, apples, or nuts.However, stay away from sticky, chewy candy. Their stickiness allows the sugar to hang around in the mouth for longer, encouraging the bacteria to create more acid. You should also try to avoid snacks like potato chips and cookies, which can be even worse for your teeth because they stick around for even longer., Eating a bit of hard cheese, such as cheddar, after dinner can help reduce the acid in your mouth. It also has a protein called casein, that protein, along with the calcium and phosphate cheese also provides, can help protect your teeth against cavities. Cheese also increases saliva flow, helping to wash away acids and sugars.Other hard cheeses include Parmesan, Colby, and Gouda.
 Water can help wash away the bacteria and acids that plague your teeth. Try drinking some after every meal. In addition, if your mouth stays too dry, it can increase cavities.Be sure to limit dark drinks like coffee, soda, and red wine that stain teeth.

