 The size doesn't matter. You can always scale it down later. The size created for the screenshot is 3 feet (0.9 m), which would be quite a substantial lantern. However, if you're making one in real life, stick with the dimensions that you require.;
, Double click on the neighboring face to repeat it.
 The goal is to have the interior void of materials. It might take a few attempts to get it right.
 Select the entire object, right click, and Intersect with Model.


If you can get it to look like this, you are almost there.
 Do this all four times.
 There are four on the top and four on the bottom.


Check your progress with this screenshot.
 This will allow you to find the exact center of your lantern to place the flame.



With the Offset tool, create another circle inside of the first one.
 With the Move tool, shrink the outer circle to just outside the sides of the inner circle.
, This is the candle. Raise it up.


Candle raised up.
 This one is just smaller than the one you are using. Push it down a small amount using the Push/pull tool.
 Do the same steps as before, but the offset circle will be very small. After you have created it, raise it up slightly.
 Use the Offset tool to create a smaller square inside of it.
,, Raise it up as much as you need it. Select the four lines at the top of the raised shape.
 Holding down CTRL keeps the narrowing centered.
 Using the same process that you did for making the center of the candle holder, create a small circle in the top of the lantern.
 You will be creating the beginning of the cord that you will suspend the lantern from.
,, Select Intersect Faces with Model. This will create the edges on the edge of the cord at the top of the lantern.


Orbit to where you first drew the circle for the cord. Draw a line across it to close it, then use the eraser to close it.
 This will give you an x-ray view of your project. Get rid of the lines around where the cord connects with the lantern.



Paint all of the white surfaces a light shade of gray (for light metal). Paint the cord at the top of the lantern a darker gray (or whatever color you want).
 Paint it yellow and move it to the wick that you created earlier.


If you want, put glass on the sides of the lantern.

