 If you believe you may have been exposed to tuberculosis or have simply spent time in countries or specific environments where tuberculosis is common, get tested. Initially, your doctor will likely administer a skin test. A needle will place a small amount of material just beneath the surface or your skin, and you’ll be assessed a few days later based on your body’s reaction to the test.A blood test may also be administered to ascertain a TB diagnosis.


If you live in an overcrowded environment, frequently visit or live impoverished environments, have ever been incarcerated in prison, have an immunodeficiency, or work in a hospital or other type of medical treatment facility, you should get tested for TB every few years.
 Fortunately, you cannot spread tuberculosis while your infection is latent, and you will not feel sick, as your immune system is effectively preventing the infection from propagating. You are, however, at risk of developing active TB later in life, often as a result of a diminished immune system either due to disease or aging. You may quickly become contagious to others before you realize your infection has become active.Your doctor may wish to take preventative measures to kill the bacteria in your body that are causing the infection to reduce the potential of TB disease. Expect treatment for latent TB to last from six to nine months.
Take TB drugs exactly as your doctor tells you to. It is extremely important to follow TB drug regimens exactly as you are directed.
Stopping too early, or failing to consistently take your medication may lead to a worsening of the disease, and your TB may even become resistant to the drugs you’re taking.
 After your doctor establishes that your infection is latent, you will likely begin a nine-month drug regimen, likely of 25 mg of pyridoxine per day. If you suffer from a weakened immune system, you will likely be considered at high risk of your TB becoming active. In particular, the following conditions put you at greater risk:HIV infection or another autoimmune disease
Contact with those who have active TB
Damage to your lungs
Organ transplants
Taking drugs that suppress your immune system
Recent immigration from a country with a high prevalence of TB
Injection drug use
Large amounts of time spent in a correctional facility, nursing home, homeless shelter, hospital, or any other high-density habitation, as either a resident or employee

, Smoking not only places you at greater risk of contracting a TB infection, it also causes inflammation in your lung tissue. This damage makes you more susceptible to the worsening of an infection from latent TB to active TB. Further, smoking also weakens the immune system generally, reducing your ability to fight infections such as TB.
 Alcohol and other drugs weaken the immune system, reducing your body’s ability to resist and fight infection. Long-term habitual use makes you especially predisposed to TB, as your level of immunity to catching infection will become lower and lower the longer you use drugs.


If you drink heavily, start by reducing the amount your drink everyday incrementally. Not only will you likely begin to feel better, you may also feel more motivated to steadily reduce the amount you drink.

