 She's very witty and clever. She's always loyal to Riley, her best friend, and she's always willing to fight for what she believes in. She can be daring and rebellious. Sometimes she goes a little too far - but it's better, she thinks, to go too far than not to go far enough. She also is a little careless, or acts this way, and is always cool and calm. Understanding Maya's mindset, what drives her to act the way she does, will help you be able to act more like her. Watch the show as much as possible to figure her out.;
, Maya will always go for what she wants, right away. She's very confident and outgoing, and when she decides she wants to do something, she makes it happen. If you want to be like her, adopt a similar "just do it!" attitude. Don't hesitate before you act - when you know something's right, just go for it.
 Maya loves to draw and has incredible artistic talent - in the second episode, she drew an amazing rendition of the city. Spend a lot of time sketching, and practice drawing until you get good.
 Her style is funky and fresh. She loves to mix together different clothing, colors, and styles, and she always accessorizes with a huge variety of things, from scarves to necklaces. She also always has a nice jacket or blazer to make any look more sophisticated. You don't need to wear exactly what Maya wears, but adopt her attitude towards fashion: create your own style that fits your unique personality, just like she did.
 Loosely curl your hair to get her big, curly waves. Wear a little foundation and bronzer, a tiny bit of eyeshadow, eyeliner, and mascara to bring out your eyes, and a little colored lip gloss. You should look good, but don't overdo it - keep it natural and make sure you look like yourself.
 Maya doesn't care about the negative people around her. Regardless of what others say or do, she stays true to herself. She sticks up for herself in so many ways, and she never gives up on who she is or what she believes in. You should do the same: love who you are and fight for it, no matter what anyone else says or thinks.
 Above all, Maya is always loyal to her best friend, Riley. She's always there to support her, comfort her, and give her good advice about life, boys, or anything else. Be just as loyal to your own best friend or friends. Always love and support your friends, and make sure to stay loyal to them.
 Maya is cool as a cucumber, but her emotional stability is a laugh.

