 There are 30 stories divided into six episodes of five chapters each. During the first three episodes, you play Batman and attempt to foil the villains. During the last three episodes you play the villains and attempt to foil the Batman. There are two goals to achieve while playing through story mode.


Complete the mission and thereby unlock several things: (1) free play for the level completed, (2) the corresponding villain level, (3) the next level and (4) extra characters or vehicles. The chart below illustrates which characters and vehicles are unlocked at each chapter.
Collect LEGO studs to achieve superhero or super villain status. The number of studs required to achieve this status varies in each chapter, but the studs are color coded by value: silver studs are worth 10 points, gold studs are worth 100 points, blue studs are worth 1,000 points and purple studs are worth 10,000 points. This goal can also be completed in free play. When you achieve. superhero status in all 15 chapters, you will unlock the bonus mission: Wayne Manor, accessible from the trophy room. Likewise, when you complete super villain status in all 15 chapters, you will unlock the bonus mission accessible from the trophy room at Arkham Asylum.;
, There are 10 mini-kits in each chapter for a total of 300 mini-kits. Ten mini-kits collected in one chapter will assemble into some creation for the trophy room and earn 50,000 points. It is possible to find some of the mini-kits during story mode, but some mini-kits can only be found in free play and even then you need specific characters to find some mini-kits. The last mini-kit in either the Hero or Villain missions will give you 500,000 points.
 There is one power brick hidden in each chapter for a total of 30 power bricks. They are red, and like mini-kits, some are available in story mode, but most are only available in free play and even then you need specific characters to find some power bricks. Power bricks unlock suit upgrades and extras. Once you find a power brick and complete the mission, you purchase the extra back at the Bat Cave or Arkham Asylum. Some are very expensive.
 There is one hostage being held somewhere in each of the minifigure levels (not the vehicle levels). Some hostages can be set free in story mode, but many can't. Freeing all 25 hostages will unlock the character Hush, a super villain. You can keep track of which levels still have hostages that need freeing by checking for a smiley face of a frowny face in the mission map.
 There are two bonus mission: (1) Wayne Manor and (2) Arkham Asylum. Wayne Manor is unlocked by achieving superhero status in all fifteen hero levels. Arkham Asylum is unlocked by achieving super villain status in all 15 super villain levels. In Wayne Manor, you need to find 100 blue studs, total 1,000,00 points. In Arkham Asylum, you also need to collect 1,000,000 points but it's a lot easier than Wayne Manor because there are more than a 1,000,000 studs available.

