 You cannot reduce the fat in particular areas of your body, but you can lose weight over all of your body, which will help reduce the size of your calves as well. To lose weight, you should consume fewer calories than you burn during exercise. To help you do this, keep track of how many calories you burn each day as well how much exercise you do.

You can use a fitness tracking app like MyFitnessPal or SuperTracker.
How many calories you need to eat a day can vary based on gender, age, activity level, and other lifestyle factors. You can visit a registered dietitian to find a diet plan that works for you.
Do not eat fewer than 1200 calories a day.
 If you have fatty calves and need to lose weight, then you can't really target the calves with a weight loss plan, but you can eat a low fat diet that reduces your overall weight. When eating fats, go for healthy fats like avocados, nuts, and olive oil.


Avoid products with trans-fats trans-fats like pastries, baked goods, margarine, fried foods, and snack foods like chips or crackers., A varied diet of fruits and vegetables will give you plenty of important vitamins, minerals, and fiber. All fruits and vegetables are good for you, but some really healthy choices include:

Leafy greens such as spinach, chard, and mustard greens
Cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli, kale, cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts
Citrus fruits such as lemons, oranges, limes, and grapefruit, Whole grains are good sources of fiber, which will make you feel full faster. This will help you eat less. White or refined grains, in comparison, can make your blood sugar spike and then crash. This will both make you feel hungrier and more tired.Whole grains include whole wheat bread, oatmeal, brown or wild rice, whole wheat pasta, and barley.
Refined grain products include white bread, white rice, pasta, and most types of crackers and pastries.
 Protein is important for any diet, and it may help you feel fuller fast while giving you a boost of energy. This will help you eat less and burn more calories. Choose lean sources of protein instead of fatty ones like ribs or fatty steaks. Instead, look for:

Lean cuts of meat such as white chicken or turkey or lean beef
Legumes such as beans, lentils, and peas
Eggs
Low-fat dairy products like milk or yogurt

