 You'll need to keep in contact with your former co-workers to see if work is picking up or getting too much to handle. You may even want to let your former boss know you're still available if they decide to hire another person.


If you knew your boss or co-workers well, try to keep in touch outside of work. Have lunch or dinner with them. Join them for birthday parties or cookouts. You may want to have a social event and invite them to join you.
 Use your time off to refresh and polish the document. Take time with your job summary to highlight the important work you performed. Emphasize the skills you gained from working at the company and what you have learned since.
 People trust those that they know. They know they can rely on you if additional help is required. Go ahead and find people willing to vouch for you when business picks up again. Go ahead and ask them to permit you to include them on your list of references.


Co-workers are great references. Your boss or other managers and supervisors are better though. Their word means more to hiring personnel. Be careful to only use those references that you know will be positive though. Better to have co-workers who like you than a manager that barely tolerates you.
 They may not be hiring but they will know you are serious about working for you again. If they need you your updated documentation will be on file. Hopefully they will be in touch soon.
 Pay close attention to new trends and projects your former co-workers tell you about. If work suddenly picks up they may call you hoping you are available almost immediately. This saves them a lot of time and money forgoing an extensive job search.


Whenever you hear of a new process or procedure being started at your old employer, take time to read up on it. If you are close with your co-workers, ask them about what's going on. You want to stay as up-to-date as you can so that you can demonstrate skill and proficiency if asked to work again.
 What happens if business slows down again? You may want to discuss an employment contract requiring the company to keep you on for at least a year. At the very least you can ask that your previous time working for the company be considered part of your history. In other words, you retain some seniority in the company despite being only recently rehired.

