 You can download this free, open-source program from videolan.org. As long as you download from VideoLAN, you don't need to worry about adware.;
, You'll be using Handbrake to rip the video and audio from the DVD first. If you try to rip the audio directly from the DVD in VLC, you'll often get static and errors. HandBrake is free and open-source, and can be downloaded from handbrake.fr.Both VLC and HandBrake work for Windows, Mac, and Linux. The interfaces may vary slightly, but the process should generally be the same.
 Close any AutoPlay windows that appear.
 You'll see a window open with a lot of options. Don't worry, you won't have to worry about most of them.
 HandBrake will begin scanning all of the titles on the disc, which may take a while to complete.
 DVDs are split into different "Titles," which are the different pieces of content on the DVD. Movies will typically have a title that is the full length of the movie. DVDs with TV episodes usually have a separate title for each episode. You can use the length of the title to get a quick idea of which one you've selected.


If the title has multiple chapters, such as a movie, you can select which chapters you want to start and end on.
Click the Preview button to create a short preview of your selection. This can help you double-check that you've selected the correct title and chapter.
 This will allow you to select where you want to save your video file.
 Choose a location that will be easy to find later, such as your desktop. Give the file a name that will allow you to recognize, which is more important if you're going to be converting a lot of different titles.
 You can find this in the Presets frame on the right side of the window, or by clicking the Presets menu and selecting Presets → Normal.
 This will add your selected title to the processing queue.


You can add multiple jobs from the same disc by adding each to the queue individually.
 The selected title will begin ripping to your computer. This may take a while, especially for full-length movies.
 Find your ripped file and open it in VLC. If it plays as it should, you can proceed with ripping the audio from it.


If the video has errors, either the disc is damaged or protected with copyright protection that prevents being ripped. If this is the case, you may need dedicated copy protection removal software.
 After you've verified that the video file is working correctly, it's time to launch VLC player and rip the audio from the video file.
 This will open the "Open Media" window.
 This will let you browse for a file to add.
 Select the file that you created using HandBrake.
 This will let you set your conversion options.
 This will set VLC to create a new MP3 file using the audio from the video file.
 This will open the standard "Save" window.
 Give it a name that will help you recognize the file.


The "Save as type" menu should display "Containers (.mp3)."

, You'll be able to monitor the progress in the VLC main window. This may take a little while, but should go quicker than watching the video itself.
 After the conversion is finished, you'll find your new MP3 file in the location you set. Open it in your favorite media player to test it out.