 At the end of every year, a list of the 25 most common passwords is released. These passwords are the easiest to guess and thus the most commonly hacked. Though you should avoid picking any of these passwords for yourself, try guessing from this list of passwords:Password
123456@
12345678
abc123
qwerty
monkey
letmein
dragon
111111
baseball
iloveyou
trustno1
1234567
sunshine
master
123123
welcome
shadow
Ashley
football
Jesus
Michael
ninja
mustang
password1;
, Other than guessing the most obvious passwords, there are a few tricks that are used by professional password guessers. They know, for example, that there's at least a 50% chance that a user's password will have one or more vowels. Here are a few other tricks that you should know:If the password has a number in it, it will be usually be a 1 or a 2 and it will be at the end of the password.
If there's a capital letter in the password, it will usually be at the beginning -- often followed by a vowel.
 See if the password has to be a certain length (typically passwords have to be at least 6 characters long), and if it has to have at least one number or one symbol or a special character. If you're not sure, you can try setting up your own account at the site where you're trying to guess the password from, and you'll be told the requirements of the password.
 If the password has a "hint" option, then ask for a hint to guide you in guessing the password. The hint question can be something like, "What is your mother's maiden name?" or "What is the name of your first pet?" These questions can help narrow down your guessing; though you may not know the name of the person's first pet, you can guess from a number of pet names. Or, if you want to be extra sneaky, you can try to bring up first pets in a conversation with that person.


The hint can narrow down your search quite a bit if you know some personal information about that person. For example, if the question is, "Where were you born?" you may already know the person's birth state -- or even his birth city.

