 This may not sound like much fun, but you can make it enjoyable by putting on your comfiest pajamas and wrapping up in your favorite blanket. As a benefit, naps will increase your immune response and help you feel better faster. This is your chance to really take a break and get some sleep., Zoning out in front of the television is sometimes frowned upon, but not when you’re sick. Take this time to watch your favorite movie or binge watch a new series you have been meaning to check out. Time will fly by and you won't have to move a bit.


Ask your friends for recommendations if you don’t know what to watch.
 You really can dive into a book and end up in another world. Turn the pages of a good novel and your mind will inevitably begin picturing the world of the story and place you in it.For even less effort, listen to an audiobook. You can get your first one free from audible.com.
 The warmth of the water can soothe aches and pains, while the steam from the bath can help clear your nasal passages. Bathing is also relaxing and relaxing can set off endorphins to you brain which can help kill some pain.Your body cools itself down to prepare for sleeping. A hot bath can help you sleep by raising your body temperature, then triggering sleep mode as your body slowly cools after you get out of the bath.
 Have a little concert in your bedroom. Put your favorite album on repeat and turn it up as loud as you want. Your favorite tunes will make you happy, more relaxed, and even help you heal faster by regulating your breath, heartbeat and stress levels.Have roommates? Put in your headphones and rock out.
 You can play on gaming devices or your phone or tablet. Video games can take your focus off your sickness for a while. In fact, there is an organization called "Get-Well Gamers Foundation," which provides games and consuls to sick children in hospitals in order to promote quicker healing., Hop on an online delivery service like Grub Hub or Postmates to search menus from restaurants in your area, or call up your local restaurant and treat yourself by ordering in. Best of all, you only have to get out of bed to answer the door!Try ordering hot and sour soup from your local Chinese restaurant to get the comfort of the soup as well as clearing your sinuses with the spiciness.
You may even want to combine this meal with some hot tea to sooth a sore throat.

