 Just like humans, dogs have certain areas that are more delicate and sensitive than others. When grooming your poodle, be extra careful around these specific areas to avoid hurting the dog and making it bleed.These sensitive spots include the eyes, nipples, lips, and ears.
 Clipper blades can heat up fairly quickly while being used. If you aren’t careful, it’s possible that you could burn your poodle’s skin with the metal blades. While using the clippers, pause every couple of minutes to turn the clippers off so you can safely check the temperature of the blades. If it feels hot to the touch, you should wait a few minutes until the blades cool down before continuing.Don’t try to feel the blades while the clippers are in use as this could cause you to cut yourself.
 You don’t want your dog to be scared or nervous during the grooming process, so make sure you talk to the dog and pet it to keep the dog calm while you’re grooming it. Try to watch for signs of nervousness like whimpering, jerking away, darting eyes, and crouching down. If your dog does any of these things, take a moment to comfort it and reassure the dog nothing bad will happen.If your dog is squirming too much, you may want help it expel some energy before you begin grooming. Take your dog for a walk or run around with it in the backyard.
To make sure your dog is as comfortable as possible during the grooming experience, be sure to let it outside to go to the bathroom before you start. Grooming can take a while and you don’t want your dog to be uncomfortable because it needs to go outside.
 If you make a mistake while grooming, try to even it out on the other side. For example, if you cut the hair shorter than you intended to on one pom, try to even it out on the other side if there is a corresponding one. If you make a mistake in a more noticeable place, like the top knot, just go with the flow and let your dog’s top knot be a bit smaller this time. It will grow back out soon and you’ll be able to fix it.


If you can’t even it out, then just get it as close as possible and give the hair some time to grow back out. No matter how big the mistake may seem to you, don’t stress about it because it’ll just be a week or two before the hair will be long enough again to fix the problem.

