 The horse’s gallop must also be balanced so that it does not lean to one side or turn as it slides to a stop. If your horse’s gallop is off, work on correcting it before you begin training it for the sliding stop.;
,, Keep your body squarely positioned on the saddle, and your arms straight and forward so that the reins are kept loose for the horse. Your legs should be against the horse, helping to signal to it that it needs to keep straight and balanced.


Don’t pull your shoulders or body back as you begin the stop. This may make your horse “skip,” or lower its body, then raise it again before lowering it a final time.A galloping horse has considerable momentum; if you don’t maintain your balance, you may flip over the front of the horse as it begins to stop.
 A horse should be trained to do a sliding stop upon your command. You can start by making sure that your horse understands the cue you give to ask it to stop.Depending on your horse, this cue may involve a call (such as “Whoa!”), a slap, a kick, a repositioning of your body or the horse’s reigns, or a combination of these.
 When you are ready for your horse to attempt a sliding stop, you should move your body in several ways.These movements, along with your cue, signal the horse to lower its hindquarters and come to a stop.


Use your body to push down on the saddle.
Drop your heels.
Pull your legs slightly away from the horse’s sides.
 A sliding stop essentially asks a horse to stop quickly, so work on getting your horse to respond rapidly to your command to stop. Keep practicing, and whenever your horse responds quickly, reward and encourage it.
 To complete a full sliding stop, the horse should round its back and lower its hindquarters toward the ground, while the front legs stay loose and in motion., This will make the movement seem jerky and/or stiff.
 It may also be helpful to have another person on the ground to observe the horse’s form, and your own. Look for the following:


The horse’s back should be rounded as it stops.
The front legs should continue to move in a “walking” motion as the horse stops.
Your own legs and hands should remain slightly off the horse.
 The follow-through in this case is the end of the sliding stop, in which the horse and rider come to a complete stop. This should be done fluidly and with balance.If you are the horse seem to jerk or lose balance at the end of the sliding stop, keep practicing it until it becomes smoother.
 Your hands and legs should remain firm but not tense. You should keep a hold on the reins, but not pull back on them. All of this will encourage your horse to come to a smooth stop.
 Afterwards, you and your horse can halt, or proceed to the next reining movement.

