 You should begin the cleaning process with your tape fast-forwarded all the way to the end. Press the button to open your cleaner. You should be able to easily slide the VHS tape in. Close the cleaner and press the clean button. Allow the cleaner to fully rewind the tape, cleaning the film as it goes. The precise directions for tape cleaners vary, so refer to your instruction's manual to make sure you're using your cleaner correctly.;
, Close the cleaner and press the clean button. Allow the cleaner to fully rewind the tape, cleaning the film as it goes. Most cleaners will have a button you press to run a cycle. If you're unsure how yours works, refer to the instruction's manual., Once the tape has run one cleaning cycle, remove the tape from the machine. Use a Phillips head screwdriver to remove the screws from the casing that houses the film. After removing all the screws, separate the casings so you can reach the reels and film found inside. Sometimes, tapes will have a sticker or seal on the side to keep the casing together. If your tape is sealed, use a small knife to gently slice open the seal to open the tape.
The majority of tapes can be opened with a Phillips head screwdriver. However, if a Phillips screwdriver does not work, use a flathead screwdriver instead.
Store the screws in a safe place as you'll need them later to reassemble your tape.
 Dip a Q-tip in a small amount of isopropyl alcohol. Swab the sides of the casing and around the empty reel to remove mold, dirt, and debris.Avoid cleaning near the reel that the film is currently wrapped around. Only use your tape cleaner to remove mold from the film itself.
You can purchase isopropyl alcohol at most drug stores.
 After running the tape through the cleaner again, you will clean the other reel. Therefore, do not screw the tape back together yet. Simply place the casings together again so they're loosely secured., Place your tape in the cleaner as you did before. This time, allow the tape to fast forward completely to remove any mold remaining on the film. Simply place the tape in the cleaner and then press the cleaning button., Once the tape runs through the cleaner again, remove it and open it up. Again, dip a q-tip in isopropyl alcohol. Use this to clean the empty real and around the interior of the casings. Remove any lingering mold, dirt, or debris.Remember not to clean near the reel that contains the film.
 Place the casings back together. Place the screws back in place. Use your screwdriver to securely screw the tape back together.If your tape had a sticker in place as a seal, it is not necessary to reseal your tape after cleaning it.
 You should always end the cleaning process with a rewound tape. Pop the tape back in the cleaner one last time. Rewind it to the beginning. When you're done, your VHS tape should be clean and ready to watch.Keep in mind, no method is ever 100% successful. Very dirty or damaged tapes may not come completely clean. You may need to consult a professional if your tape remains dirty or will not play after using a tape cleaner.

