 It's the red, green, yellow, and blue circle icon.;
, If you aren't, you'll need to click the person-shaped icon on the top right side of the Google Chrome window, click Sign In, and enter your Google Account credentials.


Your email address must end in "@gmail.com" for the password lock to work.
 To do this, type chrome://flags/ into your browser's URL bar at the top of the Chrome window, then tap ↵ Enter.


Don't edit any values on this page other than the one described.
 This is easiest to do by holding down Ctrl (or ⌘ Command if you're using a Mac) and tapping F to open the "Find" field, then typing "profile management system" into the provided field.
 The box below the "New profile management system" text should say "Enabled"; if it doesn't, click the box and select Enabled from its drop-down menu.
 Your changes should have taken place, meaning you're ready to proceed with adding a password lock to your Google Chrome browser.
 It's in the top right corner of your Google Chrome window.
 You'll find this toward the bottom of the drop-down menu here.
 This is under the "People" heading toward the bottom of the page.Make sure the Enable Guest browsing and Let anyone add a person to Chrome boxes are both unchecked.
 This is completely optional, since you won't be using the account in question.
 This box should say "Control and view the websites this person visits from (your email address)." Doing so will allow you to apply a child lock to your own account when you're not using it.


You can un-check the Create a desktop shortcut for this user box.
If you see a prompt that says "Your account sign in details are out of date. Sign in again", you'll need to sign into your Google account to continue.
 This will create your secondary supervised account.
 It's important that you don't switch over to the other account, since your Google account is the one that can lock your browser.
 It's to the left of the Minimize button in the top right corner of the page.
 It's at the bottom of the drop-down menu here. This will lock your Google Chrome browser down so that no one can use Google Chrome without first entering your account password.


Simply clicking the Exit button in the top right corner of the Chrome page will not lock your browser.

