 Intercourse is usually better for men’s climaxing, but women need other stimuli to get there. Some foreplay before penetration, such as rubbing, petting, kissing, and giving oral sex can help enhance your partner’s pleasure while delaying your gratification., Sometimes you and your partner get into a rhythm or rut in the same positions, which will make you anticipate finishing sooner. Trying a new position in bed can be a distraction, and make you last longer as you think about how it feels.Another way to change is in the middle of sex. If you start to feel close to finishing, stop and switch around to another position.One position to avoid if you are trying to last longer is doggy style. This can be a good position if you want a quick session, but most men will last longer in positions like missionary or girl-on-top., Make yourself last longer by giving yourself time between thrusts, maybe waiting 3 seconds between in and out strokes. Slowly increase over the next 4 to 5 minutes. You don’t need to mimic a jackhammer, as going faster will probably make you finish faster.If you start to feel like you are close, stop thrusting and hold yourself inside your partner until you feel in control again.
Another way to slow yourself down is to focus on other activities. Caress and explore your partner’s body, using your hands and lips to explore.
 Sex experts say that the 7 and 9 technique can help men who suffer from premature ejaculation last longer. Do seven fast in-and-out strokes, followed by nine slow strokes, and repeat for the duration of intercourse., One way for you and your partner to help prevent you from finishing too soon is the pause-squeeze technique, which involves putting pressure on your penis. When you feel almost ready to ejaculate, have your partner squeeze your penis where the head meets the shaft. Hold for several seconds until your urge to ejaculate has passed. Once your partner lets go, wait 30 seconds, then go back to foreplay.You can also try squeezing and pushing other parts of your penis. Make a tight ring with your index finger and thumb around the base of your shaft. This will help maintain blood flow to keep you erect. You can also press the area between your anus and the base of your testicles. Pushing in this area, called the perineum, will prevent flow, and help slow down an early release.