 Children are not yet familiar with the many nuances of vocal tones, but they know a kind voice versus a harsh voice. In general conversation, use a calm, quiet, gentle tone to help the child know you are friendly and to put them at ease.The wrong tone can either keep a child from listening or can overshadow the content of what you say. Make sure your tone invites the child to listen to you.
Practice the kind tone that you want to use with children, and remember it when you start speaking to them.
In general, shy away from sarcasm because children tend to misunderstand it and could take it negatively. Once you know them well, you can use sarcasm sparingly.
 Kids love to laugh and joking with them will build rapport and trust. Joking together will put both of you at ease and open up better lines of communication between you.It’s important to pay attention to the age of the child you’re talking to as you think about how to joke with them. Make sure you’re joking in a way that the child will understand.
Joke about adult responsibilities by saying, "Haven't you gotten a job yet?" or "Can you drive me to the bank?" This usually cracks kids up.
Act silly like you are trying to find something that is obviously right in front of you, such as putting your glasses on top of your head and asking where they are. Or pretend like you can't do something that's really easy and let the child do it for you.
Also, a simple smile goes a long way with a child!

, Besides using legal names to convey your respect, using loving names like buddy, champ, son, honey, kiddo, and other creates a sense of affection that kids respond to. Names like these show kindness becuase it lets the child know that you care about them.For kids that you spend time with often, you can even ask them what names they like and use those.
Nicknames and abbreviations of their names also show familiarity.
 When kids do well, they need to be told so they can do it again. Use affirming language to tell them that what they did was good.Use simple clear statements such as, “It was nice of you to hold the door for you grandma.” Or, “You did a good job finishing your chores on time.”

