 It's likely that you have quite a few Pinterest boards online and to replicate them all is probably asking too much of your wall or living space. Select the one that you feel is the most inspiring or creative and that you'd really enjoy seeing "live" in your own home. When considering which board to choose, or which series of pinned pictures to display, keep in mind your current home décor/theme and any special interests you have, such as pets, crafts or cooking.


Develop specific idea categories such as food (recipes), fashion, organization, work life, kids, fitness, holiday and more. If you already have Pinterest boards, these might be all you need to inspire the category creation.
Consider how you’d like each category to flow into one another. For example, you could post the recipe board next to fitness so your low calorie recipes could be inspiring to the next workout you plan to try.
Obviously, you're not limited to Pinterest. Feel free to pin on photos from magazines, anywhere off the Internet, old books, newspapers, advertising materials, and any other resources. What you might find though, is that this is a reciprocal exercise, in that you discover things to add to Pinterest while making your offline real Pinterest board! That's fine––enjoy the journey.;
, This will determine both the size of the board chosen and the room or space where you'll keep it. For example, if you're creating a Pinterest board featuring cupcakes, you might like this to be displayed in the kitchen where it inspires your baking. Or, you might have a series of animals in amusing poses and think that it'd make a great conversation piece in the lounge room when you're entertaining guests. If the board is of the organizational variety, you'll need to place it somewhere that the family can see it daily.


Assess the available wall space or leaning options open to you. This will help you to decide the optimal board size and the suitability of placement.
Plate or book holders can be used effectively to lean the board against, on a buffet, countertop, side table, etc. This might open up more options to use your space than only hanging it.
In some cases, you might think that creating a series of boards of smaller size would prove better than a single board of a large size. Think laterally!
There is no limit to the boards other than space––if you want one in the sewing room, one in the kitchen and one in the bedroom, go for it! The more you have, the more themes you can indulge in.
 Old or new cork boards, pin boards, clipboards (make use of the clip), heavy cardboard backing, picture frames, etc. are all likely to make suitable real life boards. Whatever the board backing, just be sure it is strong and will be compatible with having items pinned or stuck to it and that it can be safely hung or displayed as needed.

