 First, you need to allow the tablet to install applications that aren’t from the Amazon app store. To do this, access Settings by swiping down from the top of your tablet to view the “More” button.


Tap “More,” which is a plus icon inside a circle. You should be taken to the Settings menu.;
, This should be accessible by swiping to the bottom of the page a bit. Tap the “Off” button to toggle it to “On.”

, App installers have a file extension that is APK. You will need to download these manually, but first you need a competent file manager to make it easier for you.


From the home screen, tap the Store icon at the upper-right corner of your screen. This should open the Amazon app store.
 In the search bar at the top of your screen, enter “ES File Explorer” and hit the magnifying glass icon.
 The results should yield two ES File Explorer apps as the top results. Pick the free one by tapping on it.
 At the left of the app description, tap the orange “Download” button. The app should download and install automatically.
 Open your tab’s browser. Head to these link on your tablet browser:


http://forum.xda-developers.com/attachment.php?attachmentid=1342097&d=1348188625
http://forum.xda-developers.com/attachment.php?attachmentid=1342106&d=1348188766
These links automatically download two essential Google Service apps that will make Gmail work properly.
 Tap on this link to download it:


http://www.androidpolice.com/2014/07/09/gmail-updated-to-v4-9-with-google-drive-file-attachment-apk-download/
You now have all the essential installers to get Gmail up and running.
 On your tablet home screen, locate the ES File Explorer app by swiping left or right on your home screen and tapping it when you locate it.


You should be taken to the internal storage of your tablet, indicated by the SD card name at the top.
 Tap on the Downloads folder to access the downloaded installers from earlier.
 Do this by tapping the APK files then tapping “Install” when Android notifies you. Tap “Done” when installation is finished for both installers.
 Tap on the Gmail.apk file, and install it like you did the first two, but tap on “Open” on the final notification. This will launch Gmail when you finish installing it.

