 If that was your fault, be mature and apologize.


In this case, think back! Did you do something that would hurt them?
If your best friends stopped speaking to you, go up to them and ask how you hurt them. If they reply, just say,"I'm sorry I hurt your feelings. But if you give me a last chance, I'll promise to keep up to my words and be loyal to you."
Or simply say,"I feel that we both are drifting apart which is very sad because you mean a lot to me. I'm sure that I'm sorry if it was anything I did. Let's just forget everything and be friends again!";
, But if they still refuse to talk to you, move on and stop caring. It's not your fault anymore if you apologized. Consider that, maybe, you should stay away from them because if they were your true friends, they would have understood your emotions. So just let go!

, Are they talking to someone whom you hate? Are they saying mean things to others about you behind your back and stopping people from being friends with you?


If this is the case, you never have to be sorry! It's not your fault at all, it's theirs because true friends never do this. If they're not even sorry, it's not your fault anymore. Just don't worry about it. Then probably they deserved that.
 It's hard to forget something and concentrate back on your studies. Just let out all your feelings by writing in a diary or talking to somebody. Alternatively, just write it down on a paper and tear it off while saying this to yourself, "This is it! Now no more betrayals!" It's okay to cry, to be sad. After all, you're a human, and you, too, have emotions. Cry it all out! Cry until it gets out of your head. After that, forget it.Talk to someone about it, maybe they'll have suggestions for you and find a listener. Even if it's a wall or your pet. But just don't show them that you're upset. They may want this reaction because you're not sure now if they were your true friends. So keep smiling always and walk straight.
 Whenever you suddenly remember the hard times you've had, think about things you enjoy; like fashion, planning your studies, watching horror movies, or investigating something that interests you.
 The only advantage of being alone is that you learn to be independent! So there's nothing you have to worry about.
 Just try confronting them again and if they're being mean, then just say, "If you're mad at me for nothing, just stay away! I don't think I care anymore. I asked you if it was anything done by me and I was mature enough to explain it to you. But you? You said mean things behind my back. Anyway, it didn't affect me! You and your pathetic attempt to make me upset!" Then just walk away, never, ever talk to them again unless you feel they're really sorry and they come out of themselves.



If they're still being mean, never make an eye contact with them. Avoid looking at them at all costs. Stop talking to them. If they come by themselves to talk to you about common topics, don't ignore. Be civil and let them see that you are within the boundaries.
If they start up personal topics,then just say: "I think we should stick to (the topic you both were talking about), because I'm not comfortable with this subject, so you'll have to excuse me!"

, Try working hard on your studies. Your books never betray you like people! They'll always be there for you and will help you to create a great future. Set goals for yourself and try finishing it within that time!


Try practicing it with short goals first,and then move towards big goals. This will keep you busy that you'll almost forget everything! And this may even reflect in your grades.If your ex-best friends see that,they'll definitely get a proof that they didn't affect you very much and this will burn them up!
If your grades are good, many people may come to you to clear their doubts and this is a nice opportunity to make friends and move on. This may even make them regret to leave your company.
 Visit a dermatologist if you have a poor skin, stay hydrated and keep washing your face frequently. Go shopping for awesome clothes. See your complexion and buy clothes according to that. If you don't have a great closet, read this-

, Your appearance too matters at times!

, Start with a "Hi", keep smiling at everyone in the hallway if you know them. Keep complimenting people and make it look real. This works!

, This burns up your crush who rejected you and even that person who betrayed you. Because they'll see that you're actually moving on.
 Upload photos, add everyone you know and keep having fun.
 Take it to school, take photos with your new friends and upload it on Facebook! Now, take care of this so that you don't block that person because they need to know you're actually having fun.
 Be friends with your parents, and value people who like your company. Be friendlier, and expand your group of friends.

