 To be feminine, you can't curse like a sailor, yell to get what you want or talk so loudly that any person in the building can hear you. Part of being feminine is knowing how to get across exactly what you want to say, while being graceful, poised, delicate and considerate. Speak more softly, more slowly and express your thoughts as eloquently as possible. A lady says, "It's a little chilly today," rather than "I'm freezing my butt off!"


You don't have to change the way you think or all of the things you ordinarily talk about to be feminine. You just have to consider the way you convey your thoughts.
 Giving fake compliments is catty, not feminine. A lady should be able to find something kind or complimentary to say or make a person feel special and important by pointing out something that he or she is doing well. You can say something as simple as, "I love your dress. It matches your eyes perfectly." or "You're so great at piano. How long have you been playing?" Take a sincere interest in a person and find a small way to show that you're paying attention.


You don't have to go overboard. Just give a compliment whenever the mood strikes you.
 If you want to be feminine, then avoid bragging about your accomplishments, talking about how amazing you look or generally showing off. A truly feminine person is confident enough in her looks and abilities to let other people figure out how amazing she is. You don't have to be so humble that you can't take a compliment or never talk about your achievements, but avoid doing anything that may come off as bragging or making you seem a little full of yourself.


A truly feminine person doesn't need to show off for the compliments to come.
 A feminine girl isn't rude, off-putting or generally mean to anyone around her. Even if you're hanging around someone you don't like very much, you should avoid being openly combative or hostile. Instead, smile, be polite and limit your contact with the person as much as you can. A feminine woman also says "Please," and "Thank you" whenever it's necessary.


Being polite also means talking about polite topics. Don't talk about anything overly vulgar, curse too much or bring up inappropriate topics in mixed company.
 A feminine woman feels compassion for other people, knows how to sympathize with people and says the right thing when she's trying to help someone. Know how to say things like, "I'm so sorry you're feeling that way," "I can't imagine how hard that is for you," or "Please let me know if there's anything I can do." A feminine woman knows how to recognize when someone is feeling upset, whether it's a dear friend or a small child and knows how to make that person feel better.


While you're saying comforting words, you should also behave in a comforting manner. Don't be afraid to put your arm around the person or to use your body language to show how sympathetic you are if it's appropriate.

