 The SSA has a list of all injuries and impairments that it has judged significant enough to impair a person’s ability to work. Before beginning the disability process, it may be helpful to check whether your condition is on the SSA’s list. This will give you a better sense of whether the SSA may be more or less inclined to approve your for benefits.


Even if the SSA does not list your impairment, you can still apply for benefits. However, the SSA may require additional information or make the process more difficult to qualify.You can view the SSA’s list of impairments at: https://www.ssa.gov/disability/professionals/bluebook/listing-impairments.htm.;
, If you are recently disabled, it is imperative that you seek medical attention for your condition. The SSA requests and reviews all medical records and are looking closely for proof that your condition interferes with your ability to do any work. It is highly unlikely that the SSA would approve a claim for disability benefits without medical documentation., In order to assist with your disability application, the SSA created a Disability Starter Kit that you can download for free from their website. This kit provides information about the specific information that you will need in order to apply for disability benefits and provides forms for you to fill out in order to assist you in gathering the appropriate information.You can download the kit at: https://www.ssa.gov/disability/disability_starter_kits.htm

, The SSA requires you to provide them with a copy of all medical records in your possession. They will also have you sign a medical record release authorization so that they can request any additional medical records. If you can easily get the medical records from all of your doctors, you should request those records. This allows you to provide a completed application to the SSA.


However, if your medical care providers can not provide you copies quickly, you should move forward with your disability benefits application.You should contact your doctor’s office and ask them for the form that they use for medical records requests, complete the form and return it immediately.
If they do not have a form, ask the medical office for the best way to request the records. Typically, you must submit a request in writing, asking for the records that you want, and include your social security number, date of birth and signature.
 You will need to provide the SSA with a complete list of all medical care providers that you saw related to your condition. Specifically, you must provide the following:


Medical practitioners’ names, addresses and phone numbers. Medical practitioners include any doctors, caseworkers, hospitals, and clinics, therapists, or emergency rooms that you visited because of your condition.
If possible, you must also provide the date your first saw each practitioner or were admitted for care and your date of discharge or last date your saw the practitioner.
This information will be contained in your medical records but the SSA also wants you to summarize this information for them.
As discussed below, you should download a Medical and Jobs Worksheet, which has limited space for you to type in this information. If you were under the care of many doctors, it may be easier to just type up the information and forego using this portion of the worksheet., If you have already been involved in a worker’s compensation claim, you must provide the SSA information related to the claim. This information includes: any settlement agreement; date of injury; claim number; and proof of other disability awarded payment amounts., You must provide a variety of identifying information for you and certain family members, including:


Your name, date of birth and social security number.
Name of your current spouse and prior spouse (if the marriage lasted more than 10 years or ended in death), if applicable.
Your spouse’s date of birth and social security number.
Beginning and ending dates of marriage(s) as well as place of marriage(s).
Names and birthdates of your children who: became disabled prior to the age of 22; are under age 18 and are unmarried; or are aged 18 to 19 and still attending secondary school full time.Name, address, and phone number of a person the SSA can contact if they are unable to get in touch with you. , As mentioned above, the IRS provides a free Medical and Job Worksheet to assist you in gathering all of the information that you must provide during your in-person interview or when preparing your online application. You can download the worksheet at: https://www.ssa.gov/disability/Documents/SSA-3381.pdf. To complete the worksheet you must provide the following information:


A list of all medical conditions that impair or limit your ability to work. This can include emotional and/or learning problems. For cancer, you must provide information as to the stage and type.
As mentioned above, you must provide a list of all sources of medical care.
Provide a list of all medications, including: why you take them and the prescribing doctor’s name.
Provide a list of all medical tests that you have had related to your condition and any tests you will have in the near future.
List the previous 5 jobs that you had in the 15 years before you became unable to work. You must include: the job title; type of business; dates worked; hours per day; days per week; and pay rate.
The name and address for your employer from the last two years that you worked., You will have to provide your most recent W-2 form. Self-employed individuals must provide a copy of their most recent federal tax form.


If you want your disability benefits direct deposited into your bank accounts, you must provide your checking or savings account number and your bank’s routing number., If you were born outside of the U.S., you must provide the name of your country at the time of your birth and your permanent resident card number, if you are not a U.S. citizen., The SSA requires information on all of your education and training, including:


The highest grade in school that you completed and the date you completed it.
The name of any specialized job training, vocational or technical schooling and the date you completed it.
The name of any special education school, the city and state where it is located, and the date you completed the schooling., You should begin the disability application as soon as you become disabled. If you are approved for benefits, the earliest your benefits can begin is six months after your first full month of disability. By submitting your application as close as possible to the date you became disabled, you may be able to receive benefits as early as possible under the SSA regulations., In order to apply for disability benefits online, you must:


Be at least 18 years old or older.
Not currently receiving Social Security benefits.
Be unable to work because of a medical condition that is expected to last at least 12 months or result in death.
Not have been denied disability benefits in the previous 60 days., Applying for disability benefits online can take between one to two hours. It is important that you have all of the materials discussed above accessible during the application process. You are able to save your application and finish it at a later time if you are unable to complete it in one sitting. You will be required to provide the following information:


Your name, date of birth, social security number and your gender.
Whether you are blind.
Whether your disability is expected to last at least 12 months or result in your death.
Information about your illness, injuries and medical conditions.
Medical records in your possession.
Information about your work history.
Contact information of someone who knows about your disability and who can help with your claim.
Most of the information that you included on your Medical and Jobs Worksheet, discussed above., In addition to submitting your application online, you must send hardcopy documents, such as your W-2 or medical records to the SSA. When sending documents, you must include your social security number on a separate piece of paper and include it with the rest of the documents that you are mailing.


You can mail or hand deliver your documents to your local SSA office.You can find your local office online at: https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp.
 Generally, the SSA will notify you that they received your application and contact you if they need additional information. Once your application is processed and a decision is made by the Georgia DAS, a decision will be mailed to you.


You can check the status of your application at: https://www.socialsecurity.gov/disabilityssi/.
If your application is approved, you will receive a letter detailing the amount of your payment and when you will begin receiving your benefits.
If your claim is denied, the SSA will inform you on the process for appeal if you do not agree with their decision., You have the right to appeal a denial of benefits. You can appeal online at: https://secure.ssa.gov/iApplsRe/start.


Gather any additional medical records, doctor’s statements or information that will support your disability claim.
If you haven’t already done so, contact a disability attorney in your area.
Complete your online application or submit a written request for appeal within 60 days from the date you received the letter denying you benefits., You can locate a local SSA disability office online at: https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp.
 Call 1-800-772-1213 (or 1-800-325-0778 if you are deaf or hard of hearing) to make an appointment to apply for disability benefits. You can also go to your local office and schedule an appointment., On the date of your interview, bring all of the materials that you collected and forms and documents that you drafted, as set forth above. This will allow a SSA representative to assist you in applying for benefits., Once you have submitted your application and supporting documents, SSA will process your application and notify you of its decision.


You can check the status of your application at: https://www.socialsecurity.gov/disabilityssi/.
If you application is approved, you will receive a letter explaining the amount of your disability benefit and the date you will begin receiving payment.
If your claim was denied, you will receive information on how to appeal the decision.
 Before beginning the appeals process, you want to gather any additional information that may support your claim, such as additional medical documentation or doctor’s statements.


It may be in your best interest to contact a disability attorney in your area. You should do so right away since there is a time limit on when you must submit your appeal.
You can appeal online at: https://secure.ssa.gov/iApplsRe/start.
You must submit your online appeal application or a written request for appeal within 60 days from when you received the letter denying your claim.