 Use a tape measure or a measuring stick to measure the height of the area from ceiling to floor. You should also measure the depth and width of the water heater area.


Take the full height measurement of the entire space from floor to ceiling, not the height of the water heater. The curtain will need to be long enough to extend from the ceiling down to the floor.
Measure the distance between the front of the water heater and the wall (depth) and the space the water heater takes up from side to side (width). Add 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) to both dimensions so that the final mounted curtain will not sit against the water heater itself.
 You'll need a special curtain rod that can be mounted to the ceiling, and the curtain rod track must suit the dimensions of your water heater area. The curtain you buy must be long enough to hide the entire water heater from sight.


The curtain rod track will need to have one or two bends in it. Make sure that the curtain rod tracks will extend over the width and depth of the water heater. The tracks can be slightly longer than necessary but should not be shorter than the sides of your water heater.
If you cannot find a curtain that matches the height of your ceiling within 2 inches (5 cm) or so, pick a curtain that is too long instead of one that is too short. A long curtain can be hemmed if necessary.
While the choice is yours to make, a non-sheer, lightweight curtain that complements the rest of your décor is recommended., Use a pencil to lightly mark where on the ceiling each bracket should be placed.Take into account the full length of your curtain tracks. You may need to draw light lines on the ceiling indicating where the tracks will rest before you mark out the brackets.
Space the brackets apart evenly along the length of each track.
Take a step back after you've made your marks. Look at the marks from a distance to determine if they look even and make any necessary adjustments.
 Use an electric power drill to make a hole for each drywall anchor directly over each marked spot.


Drill a hole in the center of each marked bracket location using a drill bit. Make sure that the hole is as deep as the drywall anchor.
Push the anchor into the hole until the head lies flush against the ceiling. You may need to use a screwdriver or drill to push the anchors in completely.
 Remove the bottom track piece from each ceiling bracket that came with your curtain rod.Slide the track pieces into your curtain track after removing them from the ceiling bracket structure. The spacing of each piece along the track doesn't matter at this point.
 Insert screws through the center of your empty ceiling brackets. Use a power drill to fix these screws into the anchors already on your ceiling.


The screws used to attach the ceiling brackets must go through the center of each bracket and into the drywall anchor already mounted in the ceiling.
 Use the connector pieces that came with your curtain rod track to connect the individual track rods together.


On a flat working surface, line up the individual track pieces end-to-end.
Slide the connector pieces into the tracks and snap in place.
Slide the fitted plastic curtain gliders onto the track one at a time. If the curtain rod did not come with plastic gliders, you will need to buy some separately from a hardware store.
Attach the end pieces to both ends of your connected track. Secure them in place using a small Allen wrench.
 Re-insert each track piece into the ceiling brackets previously mounted on the ceiling. Use a small Allen wrench to tighten the entire fixture.


Space apart the track pieces of the bracket structure so that they line up with the brackets on your ceiling.
You may need some assistance with this step. One person should hold the track in place so that the bracket pieces on the ceiling and on the track align. The second person should slip the two pieces together and tighten them with an Allen wrench.
 Attach hooks to your curtain, spacing them apart evenly along the top edge.


The clip part of each hook should be attached to the curtain and the hook part should extend out.
The number of hooks you use should match the number of plastic gliders inserted into the curtain rod track.
 Slip each hook into one of the plastic gliders currently sitting inside the track.


If the curtain has a definite front and back, make sure that the front of the curtain faces outward as you slip the hooks into the gliders.
 Pull the curtain so that its hooks slide across the entire curtain rod, completely hiding the water heater in the process.


Once you finish this step, the process is complete.

