 More than eighty percent of people need corrective eyewear but many are wearing the wrong fit or prescription, increasing eyestrain and putting them at risk for more serious eye problems. , Choose sunglasses that screen out 75 – 95% of visible light and block out 99 – 100% of UV-A and UV-B rays.Ultraviolet rays from the sun can cause vision to deteriorate and lead to damage to the cornea, cataracts, age-related macular degeneration, and growths on the eye surface and surrounding skin.
 Using a humidifier can help keep air moist and prevent dry eyes.


Avoid going outside when air quality indexes are poor or the pollen count is reported to be high.
If you have pets, make sure to vacuum and clean furniture regularly; pet dander can be an eye irritant.
 Often, prolonged viewing of screens can cause Digital Eye Strain or Computer Vision syndrome.To help alleviate this condition, try the 20-20-20 rule; take a 20-second break to view something 20 feet away every 20 minutes.Symptoms of Digital Eye Strain include headaches, blurred vision, dry eyes, neck and shoulder pain, and eye pain.Consider using computer viewing glasses or a screen glare filter when using digital devices. These decrease the amount of light a screen emits, and can clip directly onto a monitor or tablet.
 Smoking increases the risks for developing cataracts and age-related macular degeneration, as well as cardiovascular diseases that affect the eyes., People with diabetes are 40% more likely to develop glaucoma and 60% more likely to develop cataracts., Foods like carrots, fish, and leafy greens have been shown to improve vision and lower the risk for developing cataracts.Try adding spinach, strawberries, kale, eggs, salmon, olive oil, and nuts to your diet to improve eye health. These foods are rich in antioxidants, lutein, vitamin C, zinc, and vitamin E, and may help reduce the risk of developing macular degeneration and other serious eye problems.
Drink green tea. It contains catechins, a type of antioxidant that they eye tissues can absorb well., During sleep, the eyes are replenished with essential nutrients. Not getting enough sleep can result in eye irritation, eye fatigue, sore, dry, or watery eyes, and blurred or double vision., An extra pair of glasses is handy in case you experience irritation or infection, or are waiting on an updated prescription from your physician for your contacts., Care for your contact lenses and store them according the manufacturer and professional guidelines.


Always handle both glasses and contacts with clean hands.
Wear and replace contact lenses according to the schedule provided by your eye care professional.
Keep your contact lens case clean and replace it every three months.
Remove contact lenses and contact your physician immediately if you experience redness, irritation, pain, sensitivity, blurry vision, eye discharge, or swelling., Wash your hands before applying products to your face and eye area, and keep product containers clean and dry. Throw away products that you use on or near your eyes at least every three months. If you experience conjunctivitis or “pink eye,” it is especially important to toss makeup and products to prevent re-infection., Nearly 2.4 million eye injuries occur in the United States annually.Protective eyewear includes safety glasses, goggles, safety shields, and eye guards.
Make sure your employer follows safety guidelines and provides protective eyewear if needed. Follow workplace safety compliance and wear eye gear when instructed.
 The high-energy visible (HEV) light, often called “blue light” emitted by digital screens is the main culprit in damaging eye tissue.Ensure computer monitors are about an arm’s length away (between 20-26 inches).Tablets and smartphones should be held at least 16 inches away. To aid in reading small font, increase the text size on the screen rather than holding it closer to your face., Experts recommend that all adults at least get a comprehensive dilated eye exam by the age of 40, and follow up with regular visits thereafter.

Check to see if you have vision insurance or a health policy that covers eye care.Regular health insurance typically covers screenings for those with an increased risk factor for eye disease. If you don’t have insurance coverage, find out the eye doctor’s fee for a routine exam, and for any special testing that may be required.
See the right kind of eye care professional at the right time. Ophthalmologists, optometrists, and opticians all deal with eye care and treatment but have different training and expertise..
You can request a referral for an ophthalmologist or optometrist from your family physician, or call a local hospital or medical center’s department of ophthalmology or optometry for information., Most commonly, eye drops are placed in the eye in order to dilate the pupil. The patient’s eyes are then evaluated for vision acuity, coordination of eye muscles, peripheral vision, response to light, color testing, eyelid health and function, the health of the interior and back of the eye, and pressure., Beginning at the age of six months, infants should have their first eye examination. Vision and eye development problems in children are best treated if they are caught early.
 Some conditions like diabetes, high blood pressure, HIV or AIDS, or thyroid diseases can cause or worsen eye conditions. Additionally, you should also contact your physician right away if you have pain in the eye, unusual red eye, or any of the following issues:Bulging or misalignment of one or both eyes
Dark curtain or veil that blocks your vision
Distorted, doubled, or decreased vision, even if temporary
Excess tearing
Halos (colored circles around lights)
Loss of peripheral (side) vision
New floaters (black "strings" or specks in the vision) and/or flashes of light

, Common eye problems and diseases include glaucoma, cataracts, conjunctivitis, retinal disorders, and macular degeneration. These diseases do not always have symptoms, so if you have a sudden change in vision, it is important to contact your health care professional right away.Cataracts — A cataract is a clouding of the lens in the eye, and are common in older people. By age 80, more than half of all Americans either suffer from cataracts or have had cataract surgery. Common symptoms include blurry vision and seeing halos.Glaucoma — Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness in the United States, with the main feature being damage to the optic nerve. Symptoms include slowly losing peripheral vision. There is no cure, but symptoms can be controlled through medication and surgery to lower the eye pressure.Macular degeneration — More common even than glaucoma, macular degeneration is the leading cause of vision loss, affecting more than 10 million Americans.It consists of the deterioration of the eye’s macula, which is the light-sensitive tissue lining the back of the eye that controls a person’s central vision.
 Your physician will want to know if you have experienced certain conditions or problems before, or have had family members experience them. Diagnoses of nearsightedness and farsightedness have a genetic component.Additionally, diseases like glaucoma and macular degeneration may also involve genetic causes., Flushing the eyes with saline can help if you accidentally splash cleaning products or other substances in your eyes.