 If you’re talking to other people, this means you are also listening to what they have to say. Boring people don’t listen, but instead only wait for the other person to stop talking so they can start; instead, always listen to others so you can have a two-way conversation with them.Pay attention to the other person’s body language. If they are slouched, have their arms crossed, or seem disengaged, they may be bored by your conversation.
Ask plenty of questions about the other person. Try to avoid standard conversation starters like “What do you do for a living?” but instead ask fun questions like “What’s the best part of your week?” or “What makes you feel passionate?”, Boring people often have no opinions or are afraid to share their opinions. Sharing your opinions shows that are paying attention and have something to contribute.If you disagree with someone, be considerate of their opinion. Don’t attack them, but show that you are listening and engaging with them.
When you do share your opinion, make sure to know both sides of the conversation. Otherwise, you may come across as uninformed.
 Look for opportunities to have a good time. Boring people are often inhibited or afraid to do something that seems crazy; instead, try to always look for a way to have fun with others.


If you have any skills or talents, show them off. Don't make yourself the center of attention, but find ways to show that you know how to do things.
Try not to worry too much what others think. If you're feeling and acting natural, that will make you a less boring person.
 Boring people often moan about their life and work, whereas less boring people see life more positively. Talk about the things you care about, not the things that bother you.If you are talking to people about what you are excited about in life, you are more interesting and engaging to others. Being passionate really shows through in your nonverbal body language.
 Focus on the talents and skills of other people as well. When you're talking to them, ask them about things they care about, so you don't make the conversation all about you.


Don't be conceited. Try not to worry about how you come off to others. If other people are the center of attention, that does not make you a boring person.
 A grin shows that you approach life with a positive attitude and that you're interested in making friends. If you have a blank or sad expression on your face, you’ll come across as boring and disengaged to others.


Smiling makes you feel happier and more open to new situations. It can really improve your mood and make you more likely to talk to others.When you smile at others, it’s often contagious. They’ll want to smile back at you and feel more receptive when talking to you.