 It is important to make sure the child knows that they can approach you to ask questions and to get help with their problems. Let the child know that you are available if they need your help, or even if they just want to talk. Listen to them without judgment to build a trusting relationship with them and so they will feel comfortable coming to you if they have a problem., To help prevent sexual abuse, teach children about what is appropriate and inappropriate touching when they are young. Let them know there are places on their bodies where no one is allowed to touch because they are private.Help tell your children that they have a right to say “no” and not let someone touch them if it makes them uncomfortable.
Explain that children may also touch them inappropriately, not just adults.
 Children should be taught about safety from an early age. This includes everything from safety when playing outdoors and crossing the street to avoiding kids who bully and strangers. Have this conversation often with your child.Make your child aware that it is not only strangers who can hurt them. A family member or friend could also hurt them while still being nice to them. Abusers use different forms of manipulation to keep children quiet about the abuse.
Tell your child how to report a child or adult who has hurt them. Help them understand it is not their fault and they will not be in trouble if someone hurts them.
 Children may not want to tell an adult that someone is physically or sexually abusing them because they may feel scared or guilty. Make sure to let the child know that they won’t get in trouble if they tell an adult that someone touched them inappropriately.Also, let them know that their family and loved ones will not be in danger. Abusers may tell children that they will hurt their family members if they don’t keep quiet.
Help them trust themselves about what feels right and wrong and to tell someone if they feel violated.
 Child molesters will try to get close to children through volunteer programs, their jobs, and even churches and community organizations. Make sure to choose people who will have interaction with children very carefully. This includes parents who volunteer.Run background checks on people if you can.
Have a rule where adults cannot be alone with children. Have two adults at once, or multiple children. You may want to have a rule where adults cannot be in private areas alone with children.
Certain activities, such as sleeping, bathing, or dressing, should be done in private and not alone with an adult.

