 Using your dominant hand, wrap a bundle of embroidery thread around your non-dominant fingers 20 to 30 times.


The final tassel will be about four times as thick as the width you produce here, so keep that in mind as you wrap the thread around.If you find it difficult to use your fingers or if you want a larger tassel, wrap the embroidery thread around a heavy piece of cardboard or cardstock, cut to your preferred dimensions. Note that the tassel will be about half as long as the width of your cardstock.
 Carefully slip the embroidery thread loop off your hand. Tightly wrap both loose ends of the thread around the center of the loop several times. Tie these ends together with a tight knot.Note that you need to be careful about where you wrap the thread. If you do not wrap the loop in the precise center, your tassel might be lopsided.
 With a sharp pair of scissors, cut the looped ends on either side of your knot. Rearrange the loose ends of thread so that they all come together below the center knot holding everything in place.


You should already see the tassel shape forming at the conclusion of this step.
If the ends of the tassel seem uneven, carefully trim them using your scissors until they are all roughly the same length., Cut a separate length of embroidery thread. Wrap this thread around the top of the loose ends, just a little below the knot, cinching that top portion together.This piece of embroidery thread will need to be about three to four times as long as your tassel.
You will need to wrap the thread around a dozen times or more.
Tie a small knot at the base of the wrapped portion when done. Let the ends of the thread hang down into the tassel, trimming them to size., Presently, you should still have two unconnected pieces of embroidery thread hanging off the knot. Tie these pieces together as close to the ends as possible, forming a loop.Snip off any excess thread hanging from this top knot so that the knot looks less noticeable.
Set the tassel aside until you are ready to add it to the hat.

