 When dealing with an irritable elderly person, your first step is to try to figure out what the problem is. Is it evident what is bothering them? For example, do they seem to be struggling to get groceries inside the house during nasty weather? If so, that's probably why they're cranky.If you can't tell at a glance what the problem is, try to dig a little deeper. If your neighbor or relative seems cranky for no discernible reason, try to use communication to figure out what might be the problem.;
, Keep in mind that elderly people are often dealing with an extra set of attributes that can affect their mood. For instance, as people age, their bodies are changing. It is entirely possible that the elderly person in question is dealing with physical pain that you don't know about. That could certainly affect their mood.Many older citizens are on several different types of medication. Often, different prescriptions can have negative affects on a person's mood. Be aware that your elderly friend might be crabby because of medication, not because of an immediate issue.
 When trying to figure out why a person is irritable, the most straight-forward and effective way is to ask questions. You don't have to pry, but you can try asking a series of open-ended questions. By opening up a conversation, you might be able to ascertain the cause of irritability.For example, instead of just saying "How are you?", use a more open-ended version such as, "How's your day going? What's on your agenda for the day?". Using open-ended questions will not only provide you with more information, but will allow your relative to vent some frustrations.
Make sure to speak clearly. Some older people suffer from hearing loss. They might not necessarily be cranky--maybe they just didn't hear you when you said hello.
 When you initiate a conversation with an elderly person, make sure that you are being an active listener. Focus all of your attention of the conversation. Make the older person feel like you really value what they are saying.There are several ways you can demonstrate that you are fully engaged in the conversation. Make sure to make eye contact. Also paraphrase what the elderly person is saying, and ask questions throughout the conversation.
 Remember that when an elderly person is irritable, it likely is not your fault. Sometimes you might be the only person they are interacting with that day, so they unfairly take their anger out on you. Try not to take their negativity to heart.When you remember not to take it personally, you will become more objective. That will allow you to step back from the situation and more clearly assess the problem.

