 Most skin is oily, dry, combination, or normal. If your skin type is extremely oily or dry, reference general guidelines on how to care for oily skin and dry skin.;
, If your skin already becomes red, irritated, or acne-riddled when exposed to the sun, other skin products, or perfume, then you have sensitive skin. , These might include wrinkling, acne, dull skin, or dark spots.
 A full skincare regimen involves exfoliator, cleanser, toner, moisturizer, and spot treatments, but you do not have to use all five. Most skin products either clean or moisturize your skin.
 Below is a list of moisturizing at-home ingredients.For dry skin: olive oil, coconut oil, almond oil, cream, honey, avocado, aloe vera
For oily skin: lemon juice diluted with water, egg white, tomatoes, shredded apple, shredded cucumber, apple cider vinegar
For combination skin: yogurt, milk, honey, avocado, shredded apple, shredded cucumber
For normal skin: yogurt, honey, avocado, almond oil, green tea

, Scrubs slough off dead, dull skin cells while locking moisture into the remaining skin. Most scrubs are equal parts liquid (listed above) and exfoliant (listed below):


Sugar, brown or white
Flour
Oatmeal or dried oats
Fresh strawberries

, You can apply spot, leave-on treatments to acne so that your skin clears up while not irritating other skin areas. These are best applied with Q-tips or cotton balls.


3 drops of tea trea oil that has been diluted to 5-15% to your problem area daily.6 drops of jojoba oil to keep your skin moisturized while not promoting acne growth.3 drops of lemon juice to your problem area daily. The acidity of lemon juice kills a lot of bacteria causing acne., This can be an oil, aloe vera gel, or any other moisturizing lotion that does not aggravate your skin if left on for more than 15 minutes.


It may seem strange to use a moisturizer that contains oil when you have acne, but oil dissolves other oils, and the sebum in acne is an oil. Many dermatologists recommend oil-based moisturizers because they are hygroscopic and attract/hold water, which will hydrate your skin.
You can buy a moisturizer that is all-natural or organic, but not made at home.
 Listed below are some examples of common masks and scrubs:


1 egg white and 1 tablespoon lemon juice1 ripe avocado and 2 tablespoons yogurt, First try your new regimen for 1 day out of the week, then 2, then 3. Depending on your skin type and chosen ingredients, you might only need your face mask once a week, or scrub twice a week. Notice what balance is best for you.
 If you have dry or sensitive skin, use warm water.
Use light and gentle motions to cleanse. This may help prevent wrinkles and will not irritate your skin.
 This is particularly important for dry skin areas. 