 The tank (fount) may be under pressure so open slowly.;
, A funnel that has a filter will ensure the cleanliness of the fuel. If the lantern is capable of using unleaded gasoline, then it can be used. If the lantern is for use with Coleman liquid fuel, then this is the only type that should be used. Coleman fuel is preferred due to the cleaner burning as compared to unleaded gasoline.
 If the lantern does not have mantles installed or the old ones have a hole in them, they will need to be installed or replaced. Tie the mantle(s) on the burner tube and cut off the excess string. The instructions should be on the package. With a match or lighter, hold just beneath the mantle and it will burn. Allow the mantle to burn until it turns into a white ash. Once it turns into a white ash, it will be fragile so if it gets touched or bumped, it will break. Never use a mantle that has a hole in it. This will let a jet of hot gas shoot out of the hole and could burn the glass globe. Reinstall the glass globe and reassemble the lantern.
 What you are doing is unlocking the check valve so air can flow through it. With your thumb over the hole in the pump handle, give it 30-40 full strokes. This will build up air pressure inside the tank (fount). After pumping is complete, turn the valve to the right until it closes all the way.
 The lantern, if it's older should have some sort of small lever sticking either out of the back or out the side of the frame. This could resemble a small brass wire either bent over or bent into a small loop. Rotate this lever in a circle, either direction, for a couple of turns. This is clearing the generator tip where the fuel/air mixture will come out of. If it's a newer lantern, rotate the main valve wheel fully open and closed several times, this also is clearing the generator tip.
 This is the fuel/air mixture being released from the generator tip into the mantle. If you just hear air, you may have a fuel air tube problem.
 It should light on fire. Flames may be visible inside the globe and may go up into the vent hood. This is normal. Once the mantle produces enough heat, the generator, the small brass tube behind or near the mantle, will heat to the point when the fuel is converted to a gas. Once this happens, the flames will subside and a bright glow will appear. Open main fuel valve fully.
 The lantern should remain bright for several hours with a clear tip and the initial air pressure that was applied. If the lantern dims after a short time, a half hour or so, it may be leaking pressure.
 The lantern may burn for up to a minute or so while the remaining fuel is burned off.
