 Although treatment is usually effective, it is important that you check with your doctor or a specialist (podiatrist or an orthopedic surgeon) right away if you experience signs that your recovery is regressing. If pain, discomfort and swelling do not subside, it is best to head to the emergency department of the nearest hospital or treatment facility.


Some indications that you need to return to your doctor are: shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, frequent and painful urination, redness or increased pain around the incision site, the presence of excessive drainage, swelling, increased temperature (more than 37 degrees Celsius), incessant pain not controlled or managed by analgesics.
 The doctor will interview you and ask you some questions are necessary to gather information. This information will aid the doctor in accurately diagnosing a broken femur.
 A thorough physical examination is done where the doctor will inspect, palpate and percuss the affected area. Symptoms such as tenderness, pain, and swelling are determined in this manner.
 Imaging will help the doctor confirm the diagnosis. The extent and severity of a broken bone can be shown using different forms of imaging. Generally, x-ray is sufficient to determine whether or not you have a broken femur. If the x-ray is unsuccessful, further imaging will be ordered. Some possible types of imaging are seen below:


X-ray. The use of radio waves to determine the site and extent of a break in bone.
Computed tomography scan. A modernized method of evaluating the internal structures of the body. CT scans take computerized images and convert them into visual diagrams to provide a clearer picture of what is happening within the affected site and its surrounding joints, ligaments or bones.
Bone scan. Can identify a broken bone. This scan uses a radioactive tracer injected through an intravenous line to demonstrate areas where bone cells have increased activity and blood supply, suggesting bone repair. A bright white spot is shown on the scan image.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A procedure used to establish the degree of injury acquired by the patient through a scan. It uses radio and magnetic field waves to form a more detailed and clear picture of the scanned body structure.

