 Rooibos and rosehip teas are high in Vitamin C, which can strengthen your immune system and may help you better resist the cold and flu, especially in the winter months.Rooibos comes primarily from South Africa, and is also known as red tea. Its high antioxidant content means it has other health benefits as well, such as relieving skin conditions and fighting the signs of aging.
Rosehips are one of the best plant sources available for Vitamin C. This tea also benefits the health of your skin and other bodily tissues.
Another tea that could help strengthen your immune system and prevent the common cold is echinacea tea.;
, Some clinical trials have shown that green tea might have the ability to boost your metabolic rate and ultimately burn more fat. It may be particularly helpful at burning belly fat, which is dangerous for your overall health and difficult to lose.Green tea often is included in weight loss supplements, so you might consider getting your green tea that way if you don't like the taste of tea or enjoy drinking it.
Regularly drinking green tea could lower your body fat percentage over time, even if you don't change any other part of your diet or lifestyle. However, there are competing studies on this, some of which show no change at all.
Ultimately the weight loss benefits of green tea may boil down to when you drink it and how much you drink. For example, a cup of green tea a half hour before you workout may have a greater impact on your weight loss than a cup at night before bed.
 Some people believe peppermint tea can heat up your body, easing gas and bloating. Peppermint teas hasn't been scientifically proven to have any medical benefits, but drinking it can be a flavorful option.If you're not sure why you're bloated or gassy, use caution with peppermint tea until you can talk to your doctor about your symptoms.
You can grow peppermint easily at home. Even if you don't have a yard, you can create a small herb garden in a window box. Growing your own peppermint may save you money compared to retail prices, and you can control the quality of your herbs.
 Like peppermint, some people also believe that ginger aids in digestion. If you're looking for natural remedy for upset stomach or motion sickness, ginger can be a good option.For colds, adding lemon juice or honey to your ginger tea might help fight off the virus.
Ginger should be use with caution, as it can interact with certain medications. Talk with your doctor or pharmacist before starting a ginger tea regimen.
 You may be familiar with the calming effects of the scent of lavender. Drinking an herbal tea may ease the pain from a headache or backache. The herb also can treat chronic pain, but should be used in that context only under a doctor's supervision.Lavender tea calms your respiratory system as well, and may provide temporary relief for a cough.
Hot tea generally will be better at treating respiratory issues than drinking it over ice.
While lavender tea isn't one of the most common teas, you still typically can find it at specialty stores – or you can make it yourself with fresh lavender.
To make a cup of lavender tea, simply put two teaspoons of lavender flowers in boiling water. Cover the mixture and steep for 10-15 minutes to unleash the herb's benefits.

