 Either type “Tednugent.com” into your web browser’s address bar, or search “Ted nugent” in a search engine. When you search for this, the first link that shows up should be for Ted’s website as listed above. Click the link to go to the website., When you get to the website, you’ll see an ad for Ted Nugent’s current concert tour. At the bottom of the page, you’ll find a rectangular button labeled “Enter Tednugent.com.” Click on this to go to the main page of Ted’s website.

If this ad is removed at some point, you won’t have to follow this step. The web browser will automatically load the main page of the site.
 Once you are on Ted’s main site, you need to navigate to the Contact page. Scroll all the way to the bottom and locate the navigation bar, which has multiple links you can click. Click the link labeled “Contact” to view the page with options for reaching out to Ted.


You’ll have to scroll past sections on the page for News, Media, Discography and a few others.
 In the section labeled “For press, appearance and advertising inquiries,” you’ll see the name Linda Peterson listed as the person to contact.It is possible that at some point Ted’s press person will change. If you don’t see Linda’s name, there should be someone else listed as the contact person.
The page clearly states that Ted does not respond to emails himself. He has people who receive and respond to emails that are sent to him.
 You’ll copy the address which can then be pasted into the “To” section when you write an email from your personal account.

Clicking the name “Linda Peterson” will take you directly to an email address to her, if you have this function set up in your web browser.
 Open your email account and start a new email. In the “To” box, right click and select paste so that Linda Peterson’s email address shows up in the box. Write a fitting subject in the Subject box, such as “Fan letter for Ted Nugent.” Write a clear and concise email that tells Linda why you are writing to Ted.

Remember that Ted will not see your email himself and won’t respond personally. Because he gets so many emails from people, he has people take care of his email communication.
Be specific about why you are writing and what information or action you are hoping for Linda or Ted to do in response to your writing. It may help to include a phone number in case they wish to call in response.

