 What would you love to do for a living? Where would you like to live? What hobbies would you like to pursue? You don't need definitive answers for any of these questions, but this is a good way to get the ball rolling and help you find ways to prepare and train for adulthood. Brainstorm what you want life to look like when you're 20, 30, and 50. Note what things are important to you, and know that there are absolutely no wrong answers. You may want to be living easy in a beautiful location, or working hard in the bustling big city, it doesn't matter. Having an idea of your goals and dreams for the future helps you make the most of the present.


If you're having trouble, think about all of the things you don't want to do. This can reveal your real passions., Perfection only comes one small step at a time. You will not become the most popular kid at school, the best soccer player, or an award-winning filmmaker overnight, but you can start taking steps now to make these goals a reality. Start with your end goal, then work backward. What do you have to accomplish to get there? For example, if you wanted to be a professional soccer player:


Sign with a professional team or club.
Play high-level college soccer.
Get recruited to a college soccer team.
Succeed on a competitive youth team.
Train for your tryouts.
Improve you shooting, passing, opposite foot, and fitness.
Talk with current coaches and players about skills you still need to learn to become a pro in 10 years., Being a teenager is hard. You have a lot of people -- coaches, parents, teachers -- who all have different plans and ideas for your future. There is so much advice being shoved at you that it is hard to listen to the one person who knows you best: you. As much as possible, schedule time in your life to pursue your own passions, whether that includes finishing all of the Game of Thrones books or coding your own app.


Let people know your goals and ask them for their support. Oftentimes, adults don't realize what you want to do and compensate by telling you what they think you should be doing. Take pride in your plans and let people now so that they can help you.
 This is a great way to get an idea about what you need to do in order to make your dreams come true. It also helps you find out the realities of the job you hope to have, which may or may not influence how you feel about it. If you don't know anyone in your chosen field, fire off some emails to magazines or companies that do what you love and ask if they would be willing to answer any questions. Colleges and universities are other great places to get in touch with people with experience in your field. Some questions to ask include:


What is a typical day in your job like?
What do you like about work? What would you change?
If you could give yourself any advice when you were my age, what would it be?

, One of the biggest burdens on a teenager's mind is the worry that they have to plan their entire lives now or they will fail in the future. Nothing can be further from the truth. History is filled with stories of people who ended up in wildly different places than where they started, and you shouldn't stress yourself out planning a perfect future when chances are good your desires will change. Just work on being happy, expanding your mind, and sticking to your passions. The success will come, and the doors will open.