 Nutrition information on food packaging in the U.S. is based on a 2,000 calorie diet, which may not be right for everyone. Take the time to tailor your diet, including caloric intake and levels of fats and proteins, to your specific body type and needs.


You may need more or less, depending on your health, lifestyle, and level of activity. Don’t assume that the recommended daily allowance is universal - tailor it to your needs., Most restaurants offer huge portions, and it’s very easy to eat poorly while dining out. Social and work obligations frequently include dining out, so it isn’t practical to just avoid doing so. Instead, plan ahead to make restaurant dining healthy and enjoyable.


Go out at lunchtime instead of dinner. If you overdo it, you can make up for it with a lighter evening meal.
Ask for half of your meal in a doggie bag. You’re less likely to overeat, and you’ll have a meal for later.
Eat your veggies first. Fill up on the green stuff before moving on to other foods., Going to the grocery store on an empty stomach is a great way to blow your budget and your diet. Make sure you’ve had a healthy meal or snack before shopping.


Research shows that you make impulsive choices and generally have an acquisitive mindset when hungry. You’re not only more likely to buy unhealthy food, you’re more likely to buy even non-food items on impulse. Save your waistline and your bank account by eating before you shop., If you tend to wolf down your meals, hit the brakes. Eating slowly gives your stomach more time to feel satisfied after a meal. You brain must receive signals from digestive hormones that are secreted by the GI tract. Eating slowly can also increase your enjoyment and sense of well-being.


It can take around 20 minutes for your body to recognize satiety - that is, that it does not want more food. Take your time, if you can, and enjoy the meal.
Taking the time to savor your meal, even a simple one, can improve your satisfaction with what you’ve eaten., Research shows that most people respond better to “do” than “don’t” when it comes to healthy eating. Psychology and self-control are an important aspect for healthy, happy diets.


While negative messages can be effective with nutrition professionals like dieticians or doctors, people with less information at hand prefer to learn what to eat and how it benefits them, rather than just hearing what not to eat and how it can hurt them.
Rather than saying, “don’t eat that pizza, it’s unhealthy,” tell yourself or your loved one to “eat your broccoli because you’ll feel healthier.”