


Spread polishing compound or oxidation remover onto the fiberglass. Use a sponge or abrasive pad to spread the polishing compound or oxidation remover.
Wash the fiberglass with water.
Allow the fiberglass to dry.;
, Eliminate paint flecks or primer from the surface of the fiberglass. Use a paint scraper to remove paint or primer from the fiberglass.



Use a foam roller to cover the fiberglass surface in 2 to 3 layers of resin. Each layer should be very fine.
Spread each new layer of resin over a wider area of the fiberglass than you did with the previous layer.
Place a heat lamp near the treated area.
Allow the area to dry.



Go over the surface of the fiberglass with an abrasive pad and water.
Allow the fiberglass to dry.
 Use sandpaper to smooth over the surface of the fiberglass.
 Mix the desired gelcoat pigment with the gelcoat to match the original gelcoat tint. Follow the instructions for your particular brand of pigment and gelcoat.



Strain the tinted gelcoat through a paper strainer.
Add 15 drops of hardener (Methyl Ethyl Ketone Peroxide or MEKP) to each ounce of Gelcoat.
Pour the gelcoat into the spray gun.



Use the filled spray gun to apply a fine layer of gelcoat to the desired area of the fiberglass.
Wait a few minutes to allow the coat to set.
Repeat spraying and waiting, applying a total of at least 5 layers of gelcoat to the fiberglass.
Spray a wider surface with each new layer of gelcoat.
Apply enough layers of gelcoat so that you are unable to differentiate between the treated and untreated areas of the fiberglass.
 Allow the gelcoat and fiberglass to sit for 48 hours or more.
 Use sandpaper to go over the treated fiberglass.



Use a sponge or abrasive pad to buff the fiberglass with medium-cut, white rubbing compound.
Apply fine rubbing compound over the buffed fiberglass with a sponge or abrasive pad.



Apply the wax to the treated fiberglass with a foam pad or cloth. Rub the wax into the area in a circular motion.
Allow the wax to dry.
Rub a soft cloth over the waxed area to make it shine.

