 While there are some general guidelines for feeding a cat with cancer, your cat’s needs will vary depending on their age, size, overall health, and the type and stage of their cancer. Talk to your vet about the best kind of diet for your cat.Your vet may recommend a prescription cat food, a home-made diet designed to meet your cat’s needs, or some combination of the two.;
, Too many carbs can feed your cat’s cancer cells, causing the cancer to grow and keeping your cat from getting enough nutrients. Vets recommend that cats with cancer should eat food that contains less than 25% carbs on a Dry Matter Basis (DMB).To calculate the DMB percentage of carbohydrates or any other ingredient in your cat’s food, use an online calculator like the one available on the Feline Nutrition Awareness Effort website: http://fnae.org/dmb.html


, In contrast to carbs, it is much harder for cancer cells to convert fat to energy. Give your cat foods that are relatively high in fat and omega-3 fatty acids, which may actually inhibit tumor growth.Your cat’s food should have a fat content of about 25-40% DMB.
Look for foods with at least 5% DMB of omega-3 fatty acids.
 Protein intake is important for helping your cat maintain a healthy lean body mass. In general, cats with cancer should eat a diet containing at least 40-50% DMB of protein.However, be aware that your cat may need to eat a smaller quantity of protein if the liver and kidneys are not functioning properly.
 In some cases, cats with cancer may benefit from additional dietary supplements, such as arginine (an amino acid that is important for the feline diet) or vitamin B12, which can be especially important for cats with intestinal cancer. You should consult with your vet before starting your cat on any sort of dietary supplement., Cats with cancer often have trouble getting enough fluids, especially if their kidney function is impaired.Make sure your cat always has access to plenty of fresh, clean water.

You can boost your cat’s fluid intake by feeding them a wet food diet or adding water to their kibble.