;
, Practice for a while on your own, making sure you can keep the stick balanced well before moving on to step 3.
 Sure, you can balance your stick, but anyone can do that!


Backhand: Balancing the stick in your dominant hand's palm, push the stick into the air. In mid-flight, flip your hand over so your stick butt lands on the back of your hand. Remember to push your stick up in such a way that it lands vertically. Also, try to have your hand absorb a little of the impact by moving your hand slightly down as your stick lands.






Around the World: Set up balanced, and start spinning your whole body. You will have to tilt your stick into the turn slightly to keep it balanced. See how many times you can go around the world! Can be done in backhand.






Hand-to-Hand: Balance your stick, then gently hop it to your other hand. See how many times you can go hand to hand! Be careful not to go too fast, or your stick will lose its balance. Can be done backhand.






Piano Fingers: Balance your stick, but on one or two fingers. Better yet, hop your stick from standard position to the very tip of a single finger. Stick butts have a very small flare tip, so you can support the entire stick with the edge of one finger while the whole of the shaft isn't really on top of your finger. Can be done backhand.






The Insult: Balance your stick on the tip of your extended middle finger.






Thumbs Up: Balance your stick on the tip of your vertical, extended thumb.






Fur Elise: Balance the stick on your fingers, quickly moving it between your fingers, as if playing a piano. Can be done backhand.






Foot job: Balance your stick on your foot.






Getting Head: Balance your stick, but with your hand hold the head, keeping the shaft in the air. Can be done backhand.






Tandem: With a friend, go hand to hand between the two of you. Feeling daring? Try it with two sticks! Can be done backhand.






The Flip: Just as it sounds, balance your stick, flip it up in the air, and catch it balanced. Can be done backhand, but only it you're really daring!






Cycle: While balanced, spin your stick by "hopping" it while giving it a small amount of radial spin. Go for a 360!







, You won't be great the first time you try! Behind every great trick are a hundred failed attempts.
 Create a trick combo, moving fluidly from one trick to the next. Easier said than done!

, Nothing's keeping you from creating your own signature move.
 Just like shooting and cradling, practice righty and lefty. The Hand-to-Hand, one of the most basic tricks, will be tough if you've never practiced with both hands.

