 Try to sweep your porcelain tiles every day or so. Use a soft, natural bristle broom or take a vacuum attachment and suck up the dirt. Regular sweeping will prevent your tiles from becoming caked with dirt and stained.


If your porcelain tiles lead up to an entryway for your house, you'll want to sweep them more often. This will prevent people from tracking dirt into your house.;
, Every few days (or whenever you notice a little dirt or grime building up) you should clean your outdoor porcelain tires with warm water. Fill a bucket with clean, warm water and mop the tiles. This will remove most of the dirt and keep the tiles looking their best.Try to wring most of the water out of the mop. You don't want excess moisture just sitting on the tiles.
 At least once a month, fill a large bucket with 2 gallons (7.6 litres) of clean water. Add 1/4 cup (60 ml) of white vinegar and stir the mixture well. Submerge a mop into the cleanser and wring it out. Mop the floor with the cleaner to loosen any dirt.If you prefer, you can buy a commercial cleanser designed for porcelain tiles instead of using the vinegar mixture.
 Once you've scrubbed the floors with the vinegar mixture, submerge the mop into clean water and wring it out. Mop the floor with the water to rinse off the rest of the cleanser. Take a large clean towel or microfiber cloth and dry the tiles.If your porcelain tiles are really dirty, you may need to deep clean and rinse them a second time.
If your porcelain tiles cover a large space, consider mopping, rinsing, and drying small sections of the floor at a time.
 Try to remove any stains as soon as you notice them. Fill a 5-gallon (18.9-litre) bucket with water. Buy a commercial floor cleaner that's safe to use on porcelain and add 3 to 4 capfuls of the product to the water. Use a small brush or mop to scrub the mixture over the stain until it's removed.Avoid using an oil-based cleanser for stain removal on your porcelain tiles. These can leave an oily residue on the tiles which can make them slippery.
 While you might think that you need to scrub built on dirt with a rough brush, you should avoid anything that's abrasive to the porcelain. Avoid using abrasive cleaners like:Hard bristle brushes or steel wool
Cleaning products with ammonia or bleach
Oil-based detergents or wax cleansers

