 Watering the soil deeply but infrequently is the best way to keep apple trees healthy.During the first two growing seasons, plan to water the tree deeply about twice a week. Don't water the tree after it rains, since this can cause it to become waterlogged and create rot around the roots.


If the leaves look dry and wilted during the growing season, you may need to increase watering. Check for signs of drought during the hottest times of year.
As the tree gets older, water near the edges of the perimeter of the branches, since the roots grow outward and not downward.
 Mulch helps to regulate the temperature around the base of the tree, keeping it from getting too hot or too cold. It also provides nutrients as it decomposes and keeps weeds from growing. Use a few inches of straw, wood chips or compost as mulch.Place the mulch in a wide circle around the base of the tree.
Don't pile the mulch in a "volcano" shape around the base of the tree; rather, there should be a "donut" shape to keep the mulch from covering the tree's bark. Mulch will rot the bark, which can attract mice and hurt the tree.
 A young tree doesn't need to be heavily pruned. For unbranched trees, also called whips, you can prune back 2-3 feet after planting. For other trees, remove dead branches as necessary. Then, start shaping the trees the year after planting. In order to direct growth into a few healthy branches, you can use a few techniques:


Rub off low-growing buds so that they won't grow into full-sized branches.
If you want to slow growth and promote fruiting, bend a branch down horizontally (without breaking it) and tie it to a stake in the ground for a few weeks.Trees will require regular pruning to remove crossed or dead branches and promote good circulation. Cut away upright stems that grow high in the tree, and remove stems that are weak or droopy.
 Deer, mice, rabbits and insects may be attracted to your apple tree. Keep your tree safe by protecting it in the following ways:


Keep deer out with fencing around your property
Keep mice and rabbits out by installing wire mesh around the base of the tree. You can also avoid putting mulch right at the base of the trunk to discourage rodents.
Keep maggots away from fruit by trapping them with hanging balls coated in a substance called "tangle trap" throughout the summer
Keep the leaves and fallen apples cleaned up to avoid attracting pests

