 The beautiful people generally only want to hang out with other equally gorgeous people. If you aren’t putting your best face forward, you’ll lose a lot of potential hot friends. And photography can make you look your absolute best, so don't fret:


Re-take your profile picture or look for a really good recent picture. Have it taken professionally for the absolute best results as a photographer will ensure the best lighting and will get your best angle. Also consider using makeup and having your hair styled for the photo, so that you look your best. Avoid having the photo taken on a bad hair day or when that zit looms bigger than your nose.
Make sure the picture is relatively new––in the event you meet one of your new friends in real life, you won’t want him or her to feel as if you were deceptive by showing an old photo.
Only feature you in the profile picture. Even though you may think that including your other hot friend or someone from the opposite sex is a good idea, resist the temptation. You want the other person to connect with you and you alone. They may see your picture and be more interested in the other person in the picture and not you but you won't necessarily know. This rule goes for dogs or cute pets too––you don’t want your new friend to only be friends with you to get to your dog.;
, Hot people want to associate themselves with intelligent, exciting individuals who lead fascinating and debonair lives (or at least, seem to). If you write down that you're into laying around in your sweatpants and watching endless hours of Star Trek on TV, you may get bounced. Equally, if you keep exclaiming that you're too stuffed to exercise, attend that party or make a healthy meal, the beautiful people will not be interested. Always put yourself in the other person’s shoes and think about what information would turn you on or intrigue you about the other person and what would be a turn-off. Stick with what excites, interests and intrigues people, even if you're creating a bit of an illusion (you can always live up to some of the more far-fetched parts later, like a future promise to yourself).
 You may already have a nice group of hot friends but haven't really seen them in this light before. Look through your friend list to see who is hot and who is not. Also, consider friends you haven’t friended on Facebook yet. You may have attractive friends or acquaintances in real life that haven’t joined your network of online friends. Other areas to consider include:


You may have overlooked someone and didn’t realized you passed up friending a total hottie. Think about your current and past list of friends carefully. You may have skipped over or forgotten about a previous friend or acquaintance who is smokin’ (or even relatively) hot. Be sure to check all requests for friending with their hotness potential in mind!
Check old school chums for the hotness factor. The ugly duckling in high school may have finally blossomed and you would never know unless you checked. Troll through old yearbooks or school rosters and then do a search on Facebook––doing this may produce one or two new attractive friends.
 One of the easiest (and most common) ways to expand your list of hot friends is to look at friend’s lists. Although some friends will hide their friend lists, check out those who reveal a complete listing and then check for common bonds. For example, Facebook allows you to filter through friend lists by school, workplace and locale. You have a better chance of friending someone you may not know who went to the same school versus someone whose only connection is your mutual friend.
 While doing this may turn up a few cuties, be extremely careful when trying to mine new friends from work colleagues or clients. If you go about this the wrong way, you could damage or even ruin your career, especially if you friend them and then reveal too much of your wild or less professional side. If you do intend to lurk around work associate contacts, play it safe by following these tips:


Only send friend requests to hot people who work within the same industry or area. For example, if you're a graphic designer, friend other designers or people who work in the same industry (if you work in banking or retail, only reach out to those in the same industry).
Make the friend request all about business. Your potential friend doesn’t need to know that the real reason you want him or her on your friend list is because he or she is hot. Instead, when extending the request, mention that you both work in the same field and were broadening industry connections.
Refer to the mutual work contact in your friend request. The fact that you both know the same person may open the door to a friend request acceptance so mention that you’ve worked with “Sheryl” or “Dan” in your invitation.
 Familiarity and having a common bond is key to making a connection. Check out fan lists for your favorite show, book, film, athletic team or music group. Popular groups will often have extensive fan lists so you may want to create a short list of potential friends based on locale, demographics and age. As with any other friend request, send a message along with your request noting that you would love to be friends so you can discuss your mutual adoration for the book, movie, band etc.
 If you want hot people as Facebook friends, you need to sustain your own hotness. This means being considerate about what you post and how often you do it. Posting frequently and posting a stream of negative consciousness will soon convince everyone else that you're not only not hot but that you're full of hot air, whining and complaining all the time and having nothing better to do but air your grievances on Facebook. A total no-no. Instead, keep the postings irregular, fascinating, free of negativity and always reveal the exciting aspects of your life. It's not much different from editing our life stories at the watercooler, so don't bleat about inauthenticity; we edit out the dull bits all the time in daily conversations.


Be classy; if you wouldn't say it out loud, don't write it down.
Be mysterious––a little suspense and mystery is alluring for everyone and builds up interest.
Love what you're doing. If you don't, then it's pointless and you could be pursuing something else of interest.
No photos of drunken revelry, nude parts or cranky facial poses. Those are just not hot.

