 When your day is filled with work, chores, or activities, you may lose touch with yourself. Through the act of mindfulness, you are making a gentle effort to be continuously present by:Being present "on purpose" through a conscience direction of awareness.
Being attentive to the present moment. Your mind may be racing with things to do, and people to see, but instead you focus on the simpler things.
Being non-judgmentally aware. By paying more attention to the moment, you experience more about the world around you. You may listen or see more than before, because of your heighten awareness.
 Studies have shown that being more appreciative about one's life and one's world will lead people to live more fulfilled lives. The act of paying attention to the good things in life, and being appreciative actually makes people happier. Surround yourself with positive people who don't always focus on the negative.
Focus on the present moment, and find something in your line of vision that makes you happy. Hold that image in your mind, and focus on it in a positive way.
 This is a helpful practice for mindfulness, as a way to clear your head of negative or hyperactive thoughts. It can make you feel "centered" in a chaotic world.
 How we see the world is all a matter of the mind. Our mind can be shaped and changed. One way is through positive rather than negative statements about yourself. Affirmations can build your confidence, and keep you focused on the good things in life., In our daily lives, we are often disconnected with nature, and all its beauty. Our Earth is a reminder of how precious life is. Appreciate the little things, both big and small:


Walk along a beach, river, or lake. The sound of water can be calming.
Notice the birds in the trees or sky. Watching a large bird migration can be magical.
Go star-gazing. The universe is big and beautiful.
 Go into a florist shop, or a garden, or even out in the wild. Flowers are beautiful, and smell oh-so-sweet. The scent of a fresh flower is like nothing else.


Sometimes when we see a lot of flowers at once, we forget the beauty that each has. Look at one flower closely. Notice things about it that you never saw before.
 Take a deep breath and look around you. While there are things that you wish could be better, be grateful for the things that you have, and the beauty of living on this Earth. You only have one life to live, and it is yours.

