 Adding weight or resistance builds muscle, but additional repetitions of an exercise increases the exercise's aerobic nature and helps burn fat. Do more exercises with lower weight or resistance if you want to work out your abs to lose weight.If you want to lose weight while exercising, aim to start breaking a sweat during your warm up, and continue sweating throughout your entire routine.
Once you get your technique down for specific exercises, you can increase the fat-burning intensity by doing them faster.
For example, try to do 20 sit-ups in one minute. As that gets easier, gradually increase the number of sit-ups you do in one minute.
 With interval training, you divide your routine up into segments. One segment is highly intense exercise, followed by slower, more deliberate exercise. Then you do another intense interval, and so on.Interval training can be highly effective for weight loss, and may decrease the chance of injury.
The slower intervals allow you to recover so you can push hard through the next intense interval.
 If you want to lose weight, you need to increase your heart rate to get your body to start burning calories. If you do abdominal exercises without aerobic exercise, you run the risk of simply building muscles underneath a layer of fat, which won't do anything to give you a slimmer appearance.The easiest way to add aerobic exercise to your routine is to take a brisk walk or jog around the block a couple of times a day.
In inclement weather, you can always jog in place or do jumping jacks inside. You also may want to invest in a treadmill or exercise bike – but don't think you have to spend a lot of money (or take up precious space in your home) buying exercise equipment just to get some aerobic exercise.
Balance your aerobic exercise with the specific exercises, such as leg lifts, planks, and sit-ups, that you're doing to work out your abs.
 No matter what exercises you do, you won't lose much weight if you don't control what you eat. Particularly if you're trying to lose belly fat, focus on eating smaller portions of food with fresh ingredients.Get rid of snacks and other problem foods – especially those that are high in calories and sugar – in your house so you won't be tempted.
Focus on lean meats and fresh vegetables, and make sure you drink a lot of water.
Especially if you're just beginning your weight loss journey, a food journal can help you understand what you're eating.
Writing down everything you eat each day helps you see eating that may have been mindless or without purpose.
Limit your food intake to meals at specific times of the day, to get your body used to a routine.

