 Some studies show that lemon juice contains antioxidants that can help with weight loss, manage high cholesterol levels and flush out excess sodium in the bloodstream. This will help reduce plaque build-up in the arteries and avert angina pain.Squeeze half a lemon into a cup of warm water and drink this mixture on an empty stomach in the morning.
You may also add lemon juice as flavoring to your regular foods.
 Garlic is used for many conditions related to the heart and circulatory system, such as hypertension, irregular heartbeat, high cholesterol, coronary heart disease, heart attack, and to reduce plaque build-up in the arteries, thereby managing angina. This is because garlic contains a component called allicin, which aids in relaxing hard blood vessels. Garlic can also help reduce headaches, stress and promote healthy liver function., Eat one clove of raw garlic in the morning. If you do not like eating raw garlic, you can add minced or chopped garlic as a flavoring to your meals.
Garlic supplements are also available at most pharmacies and nutrition stores. The recommended dosage for aged garlic extract is 600 to 1200 mg daily, divided into two to three doses. Garlic capsules or tablets should contain 0.5–1.5% of alliin or allicin to be beneficial, at a dosage of two 200 mg tablets, three times a day.
People using prescription or blood-thinning medications, or those with ulcers and thyroid problems, should ask their doctor before using garlic or garlic supplements.
 Gingerol, a natural compound in ginger root, may help to lower blood cholesterol levels thereby potentially helping to prevent angina pain from occurring. It is also an antioxidant that protects the blood vessels from damage by cholesterol, helps manage stress and lower blood pressure., , Do not take more than 4 gram of ginger per day without asking your doctor. Ginger should not be used with blood-thinning, hypertension or diabetic medications.
Ginger can be added to your diet in many ways. You can boil 2–4 grams of ginger in a 1 cup of water to make unsweetened ginger tea. You can also take a ginger supplement, which are available at most pharmacies or add chopped ginger to your food.
 Studies show that ginseng contains antioxidants that can help fight off free radicals, and improve heart health by regulating blood pressure, high cholesterol, blood sugar levels, reduce stress and improve physical strength and endurance, thus reducing the risk for angina and heart disease.Ginseng comes in different forms, such as liquid extracts, powders and capsules, and is often used in combination with other herbs or nutrients.


Ask your doctor before using ginseng, especially if you are using prescription medications to manage angina. Your doctor will help determine the right dosage for you.
 Curcumin, the active compound in turmeric, inhibits plaque formation in your arteries and reduces bad cholesterol levels, both of which can lead to angina pain. Turmeric may also aid in managing obesity that can lead to other heart conditions, as well as reducing arthritis pain., Turmeric and curcumin supplements are considered safe when taken at the recommended doses. The recommended dosage for adults is 400–600 mg, up to three times per day. Taking large amounts of turmeric for long periods of time may cause stomach upset and, in extreme cases, ulcers. People who have gallstones or obstruction of the bile passages should talk to their doctor before taking turmeric.
Add 1 teaspoon of turmeric powder to a cup of warm milk to create a heart-healthy drink that can be taken one to three times per day. You can also add a pinch of turmeric powder to your cooking for flavor.
Ask your doctor before using turmeric if you are taking blood-thinning or diabetes medications.

