 Plan the structure of your dissertation according to the standards of your discipline. You will definitely want to outline your paper before beginning. The more detailed it is, the easier it will be for you later on. This outline will be an invaluable road-map and should not be ignored or discounted.


Generally, it will follow the same basic form as shorter research papers, beginning with an introduction to the topic, giving some background, presenting research by previous scholars, presenting your own evidence, combating evidence which does not fit or contradicts you, and then wrapping up. There will usually be a discussion of your methods, but where that goes and to what extent it is integrated into other sections will depend heavily on your discipline.
 Before beginning too much writing, you will want to get feedback from your peers and advisers. Show them the structure you have planned and give them an overview of your research and evidence. Their feedback will allow you to see where you have neglected information or made too many logical leaps. They will help you to ensure that your evidence is presented in the best way and that your conclusions make sense.
 Before getting too deep into your dissertation, analyze your topic and thesis to see if there are any ways in which you can limit the scope of your paper. Is there information or discussions which are unnecessary to proving your thesis? Remove anything from your research that does not serve a purpose, as such extras can result in having to write pages upon pages of unnecessary text. Keep it reasonable and you’ll save yourself a lot of time and stress.


This is another area where you can make use of feedback, especially from your adviser.
To consider the problem yourself, run down a list of your evidence and every point in your outline. If it doesn't directly tie back to your thesis, or if another section or point proves the same thing, consider cutting it.
 Developing a set schedule will go a long way towards helping you get your dissertation done. Set aside time each day for writing and do not use that time for anything else. This will get you in the habit of focusing and will also deal with motivation issues.


Be sure to choose a time of day that is good for you. If you are too tired to write at night, write in the morning. If your brain takes half the day to boot up properly, write in the evening. When you write will entirely depend upon what is best for you.
 Be sure to use the correct voice and tense for papers in your discipline while working on your dissertation. It is incredibly difficult and time consuming to go back through your text and edit for tense and voice, so try to get it right the first time through. Ask your adviser what is the correct method and then make sure you pay attention to those details while writing. Also be sure not to switch voice in the text, unless there is a very good reason.
 Certain types of language do not serve you in high level academic work like this. Avoid these types of language from the start and you will save yourself some editing later on, since your adviser will undoubtedly tell you to change or remove it.


Colloquial language, slang, overly informal language and regionalized language are all extremely poor choices for inclusion in a dissertation. Do not include them under any circumstance.
The use of contractions are also frowned on in high level works. This tends to make language sound regionalized and informal, as discussed above. However, it also makes it very easy to slip in grammatical errors, so it is best to avoid them just in general.
Indecisive or overly-open language is also very bad for a dissertation. You do not want to say that your thesis is “probably” right or that this evidence is “maybe” significant. Stand by your assertions, even if they may not be as solid as you’d like. You can always discuss problems with the theory later on.
 Seriously, not citing can get you accused of plagiarism. That’s a whole headache you want to avoid, so cite absolutely all of the information you present that is not yours. Citing will also serve to make your work seem more credible, since it proves that other scholars have come to similar conclusions.


If you want to emphasize that an idea is coming from you, rather than constantly stating that A said this or B said that, you can phrase your sentence like this, “String cheese is delicious and fun because it cheese and you can play with it. Further evidence of this can be seen in the research of Dr.’s A and B, in their earlier paper on the topic.” The idea is to present your view and evidence first and follow it with the research of others. This makes it seem like they support you, rather than you supporting them.
Particularly bold claims or ideas which go against the common knowledge will especially need to be cited. These stand-out statements are usually the first for which others will look for evidence. Not citing will make you look incapable or incompetent.
If there is any doubt about whether you should cite something, just cite it. The answer is probably yes.

