 Many companies provide descriptions of company dress codes. They may specify that work is casual, business casual or business.;
, They will set the tone for how you should dress. It is common for bosses to dress slightly more formally than their employees, so you may decide to tone down a few details.
 If you are applying for a project management position, it is always better to overdress than under dress. Take extra time to groom yourself and wear a suit.


If you believe the company values personal style, then use jewelry, bags, scarves, shirts or ties to express yourself. It is better to be safe in a suit than to take chances with other types of clothing.
 Upon reading your employee manual, you should be able to determine if you are required to wear coveralls, hard hats or other safety equipment. Maintain this equipment so it is always in good condition and available for use on a construction site.
 Women should avoid wearing high stiletto heels, especially if they are visiting construction sites. Men should wear leather shoes that can be cleaned and treated for scuffs fairly easily.
 Each color says something about you.


Navy blue and gray are popular suit and pant colors. They convey authority, while still showing style. Keep these colors on hand.
Black is the color of authority. If you want to be a commanding presence, then choose black for meetings. However, black can show construction dust more easily than other colors.
Wear khaki and other neutral colors on construction sites. Pressed khakis or suits in shades of tan or brown are very practical. They are better for a work site than a dedicated office job.
Clean, crisp white shirts or blouses maintain professionalism. You can wear shirts of almost any color, but you should ensure they fit well, are clean and are freshly pressed.
Red is a color of style and some authority. If you want to get noticed, wear accent pieces, such as a shirt, scarf, or coat in red.
 A button-up shirt fits nicely below a thin v-neck sweater. Dry clean sweaters after wearing 5 times or when it is visibly dirty.



Buy a high-quality pen to carry at all times. A beautiful pen can convey success.
Own a nice pair of sunglasses and a quality watch. These items are both practical and distinguishable. Remove sunglasses when you go indoors, instead of placing them on your head.
Wear high-quality belts and/or handbags. Try to buy quality, classic pieces, instead of those that are trendy and bright.
 Never go to work with wet hair, clean and file your nails and wear light makeup. As a courtesy to others, never wear strong perfume, cologne, or aftershave.

