 Tour guides work at parks, historic homes, sightseeing companies, cruise ships, and many other locations. Consider where you’d most enjoy working. Narrow your search to those types of positions.To get started, enter something like “Be a tour guide on a cruise ship to the Caribbean” into your favorite search engine. You can then browse through tour guiding jobs with different companies, job requirements, and salaries.;
, In order to decide where you want to work, attend a variety of tours. Go to museums and historic homes in your area and book a tour on a sightseeing bus. Make note of the pros and cons of different kinds of tour guide jobs.You may need to space these tours out, as some could get expensive. Budget in one tour every two weeks or so. While you’re looking for jobs, go on tours instead of going out to eat or doing other fun activities.
Invite friends and family to take tours with you. They’ll be able to share their likes and dislikes with you, which will help you be a better guide once you find a job.
 When you go on tours, be sure to bring a notebook with you to keep track of your thoughts about the experiences. You can refer back to these notes later if you’re weighing different job offers. The notes may also help you develop your own tour guiding style., Many cities, countries, and regions have professional organizations of tour guides. These organizations help guides advance their careers and promote tour guiding as a positive aspect of international tourism. They can help you find educational opportunities, and they may point you in the direction of job openings.For more information and to find a list of associations located around the world, visit: http://www.beabetterguide.com/tour-guide-associations/.
 Travel agencies may partner up with local sightseeing companies for advertising. Take the brochures they keep in their office, and ask which companies they recommend to their clients most often. Contact the best companies using the information you find in the brochure and ask about openings.


Be aware that travel agents may tell you they love a certain company if the two are in a partnership together, even if they know the company has some issues. Be sure to do your own research by going online or visiting the company’s offices.
 Especially if you live in a big city or even a larger town, there are probably sightseeing companies right down the road from you. Get in touch with these companies via email or phone and ask whether they’ve got openings. These local opportunities could be a great place for you to start your career as a guide.

You can also look online to see if the companies have open jobs, as many will list these positions on their websites.
If you’re hoping to become a tour guide to travel, this might not be your favorite option. Remember that doing work locally can help you build your resume and gain experience while staying in your comfort zone. You can always keep looking for travel-oriented jobs while you’re working!

