 We feel bored with our lives because we let ourselves. Appreciate the simple things instead of living life under a cloud. Smile at the people you see everyday. Smell the roses. Take a second to take in a beautiful day.;
, Many people get caught doing jobs that they absolutely HATE. While those jobs are important and some need them simply to get through college, you have to make it enjoyable for you. Your happiness is far more important than a minimum wage paycheck. Find something that you love to do, or at least make goals to get to that dream job. Envision it, and you'll achieve it.
 Say yes to opportunity. Do things you normally wouldn't. Go to that quilting fair. Eat at the new Hindu place down the street. Take that yoga-lates class. Simple things like this will significantly change your mood for the better. The world is your playground. Why not have a little fun? You never know where little things like this might take you, and you can be sure you won't regret it.
 Why does anyone? People who hold back who they really are are missing out on life. Everyone has something to significant to contribute and you'll never know what could have been it you don't just BE YOURSELF. You are the writer of your own story. YOU say where your life leads. And who knows, you be be the future clarinet super star, or even the first man to walk on Pluto. Mention this article in your autobiography eh?

, Surround yourself with people you enjoy being around. This one may seem like a no-brainer, but it is oh so important. Make friends with people that understand you. This will make dealing with any problem you may encounter a breeze.
 Your life is intended to entertain YOU. Talk to that guy/girl looking at you from across the way. The worst feeling possible is one of regret.
 Do your hair up nice. Wear make-up. Put on a nice outfit. Be the best you you can be. Life is an occasion worth looking good for.
 Stop lazing around and be the you you CAN be. The endorphins are fantastic, and it's the perfect way to work out any aggressions.
 Express yourself. A life without passion is no life at all. Write. Paint. Sing. Do what makes you you.

