 Foster to adopt programs are available through many major animal welfare organizations and animal shelters. Contact an animal shelter in your area and inquire as to whether they offer foster to adopt programs. Some organizations that are known to operate foster to adopt programs include:PAWS Chicago
Copper’s Dream
Black Dog, Second Chance

, Organizations that offer foster to adopt programs all share certain features in common. At their core, all foster to adopt programs allow individuals to foster a dog for a given length of time, then decide if they want to adopt it. However, the specifics of each foster to adopt program differ slightly.Some programs, for instance, require that the foster owner decide if they want to adopt closer to the beginning of their fostering process.
Other programs allow foster owners to wait until the end of the process.
Contact the organization that you intend to foster a dog through in order to learn more about their terms and conditions. Alternately, you could consult the organization’s website for the details.
 With a process like fostering a dog, there are lots forms you’ll have to fill out along the way. Contact the organization through which you hope to foster, then adopt, your dog for information about what forms they need.Most organizations have an extensive questionnaire process. You may be required to provide proof of income, personal and professional references, and information about your interest in fostering the dog.
You’ll need to be at least 18 years old. Some organizations require that you be at least 21., Find a dog that is a good fit. The dog should be the right size for your living space. You should feel capable of taking care of the dog you foster. At animal shelters, most of the dogs available to foster are medium or large adolescent dogs. Some foster dogs – especially those that previously had bad owners – might have temperament or behavioral issues. Others – especially puppies – will need to be housebroken and might take a bit of work to train. Visit the shelter or human society to select a dog you wish to foster to adopt.Ask questions about the dog’s personality and temperament during your visits to the shelter or humane society.
You should be prepared to deal with all these issues, along with the regular responsibilities that any pet owner faces like feeding, playing with, and walking the dog.
 Before you can take the dog home, you’ll probably have a meet-and-greet. This will allow you and the dog to get to know one another briefly before you take it home. Then, you can take the dog to live with you. Fostering a dog is a big responsibility. You’ll be responsible for:taking the dog for walks and providing other opportunities for exercise
feeding the dog regularly
giving the dog some minimal level of training (especially housebreaking
keeping the dog healthy
maintain regular contact with the animal shelter

, Most foster owners take dogs for a limited time before passing them on to permanent owners. But foster to adopt programs allow the foster owner to keep the dog after the fostering period concludes. The specific method by which you adopt the dog depends on the organization through which you obtained the foster dog. Talk to a representative of the organization and find out how you can finalize the adoption process once your fostering period is done., If you feel overwhelmed or unable to take care of the dog you fostered and then adopted, you have several options. You could hire someone to retrain the dog so that it behaves in a way that allows you to handle it more easily. If money is an issue, you could find extra sources of income – a second job, for instance – in order to help you pay for dog-related expenses. As a last resort, you could give the dog to a family that is able to take care of it, or surrender the dog to a humane society. The humane society will do its best to find a new home for your dog.To get your dog retrained, locate dog kindergartens online or in your yellow pages.
To give the dog to a family that can care for it, place an ad in your local newspaper or online classifieds.
To surrender your dog to the human society, call your local humane society and express your interest in surrendering your dog.

