 This is more important when you’re busy because you may not take a moment to do something for yourself, or something you actually want to do. Take some time and just do whatever it is you want to do, whether that’s watching a movie, having a nap, going for a walk, reading a book, playing with your pets, or a million other things — just do it.


Don’t think about the fact that you have other things on your to do list.
Don’t consider your time spent doing the things you want as a "waste of time."
Schedule time to yourself in your calendar if you have to, but consider it one of your priorities.
 Whether you believe your life is already planned out for you, or things simply happen as you go, you can still play a major part in your own life. This means you must take personal responsibility for your decisions. You cannot begin to change your life until you become accountable for your actions. If you tell yourself you do not possess the power to change your situation ("This is just how it is."), then you will simply be pulled along by the current of life.Identify the areas in which you have control over your life. You cannot control your genes, the family you were born into, natural disasters, or even other people.What you can control is how you react to these things. For instance, you cannot help that your genes predisposed you to depression, but you can choose to seek treatment.
Learn to set goals. Setting short-, medium-, and long-term goals can help you take your life in a new direction. Acknowledge that it may take a long time and many small changes to achieve what you want.
Remember that change can take time and is often uncomfortable. Practice saying to yourself: "This is uncomfortable, but it is not intolerable.", The purpose of taking a look at your finances isn’t to add stress to your life, but to make sure you’re spending money on the things that are important to you. Also use this opportunity to assess whether you’re spending money on material items thinking those items will fill a void. Finally, use this financial planning to create a savings plan for an activity, event, or trip that you’ve always dreamed about doing.


If a review of your finances indicates you may have a problem, take this opportunity to seek help. Speak to a financial advisor at your bank, or a credit counsellor at a non-profit organization.

