 This will open the iPhone’s settings. Here you can manage all sorts of customizable features for your iOS device.;
, Your iPhone’s iCloud service will launch.


The iCloud is a network storage service native only to iOS devices like iPhones, iPads, and iPods.
 Tap “Storage and Backup” from the iCloud Settings screen. Select “Back Up Now” from the listed options to start creating a copy of your iPhone’s data—including the contacts—on the iCloud service.


All you have to do now is to wait for the backup process to complete, which should take a few minutes depending on the amount of files that will be copied.
 You can usually find the Google Play’s icon on your home screen or app drawer. It’s the shopping bag with the colored “Play” button in the middle.
 Tap the search bar at the top, enter “Samsung Smart Switch,” and tap the magnifying glass to begin the search.


Samsung Smart Switch is an application that helps new users transfer their information to their new Samsung devices with ease.
 Tap Samsung Smart Switch from the results and you’ll be taken to the app’s info page. Tap the “Install” button, and a Permissions pop-up window will appear.


Tap the “Accept” button on the Permissions window and the app will automatically download and install itself onto your Samsung Galaxy.
Samsung Smart Switch is free to download and install on your Samsung Galaxy.
 Once the download and installation is complete, the app’s icon should appear on your home screen. Tap on it there.


If it’s not on your home screen, it’ll be in the app drawer.
 At the first launch of the Smart Switch, tap “Import from iCloud” from the first screen you’ll see to go to the iCloud login screen.


Enter your iCloud username and password on the text fields provided, and press “Let’s start the transfer” button at the bottom of the screen to begin.
 Samsung Smart Switch will ask you which contents you’d like to sync to your Galaxy. Tap the checkboxes next to “Contacts,” and press the “Import” button at the bottom of the screen to start copying the files from your iCloud account to your Samsung Galaxy.
 Once the sync is complete, tap the “Contacts” icon from your Samsung Galaxy’s home screen to open its phonebook. You should now see inside all the contacts you recently had in your iPhone.