 Most manufacturers emphasize either sitting comfort OR sleeping comfort, but very few consider both. So it's important to think about whether you want it primarily for use as a sofa or a bed. A sofa bed is always a compromise; it is never the best sofa or the best bed available.;
, You can expect a good quality sofa bed to sell for between $600-$1000. Anything under $500 and you're asking for trouble.
 Before shopping at a "bricks and mortar" store, do some research online so that you know what to expect and which questions to ask.
 They feature full and queen size models which seem to be designed as stand alone pieces of furniture whose primary use is for sitting. Unless you're willing to pay more than $1,000, the comfort level of the mattress in the bed position is highly questionable. With an undersized and thin mattress, heavy beyond belief, and famous for that "bar-in-the-back" feeling, these are the sofa beds that people love to hate.
 Made-to-order and offering sizes from chairs to queens, futon speciality boutiques soon appeared in all the major North American markets. Futons are practical and functional, but comfort depends totally on what's inside the mattress, as the wood or metal convertible frame serves only to lift the mattress off the ground. Most futon mattresses are made of layers of cotton batting and low-density foam, which should be no less than 1.5 lb. if you want it to last. Unless you buy a good one, these mattresses are prone to compact and harden.
 Featuring an 8" standard size mattress, elastic webbing for spring-like support, a click-clack mechanism, storage in the base, and "knocked down" for easy transport.
), but they are generally not as practical for everyday use as those above. Consider this before you order: If you're buying a sofa bed for loved ones, buy a good one so your guests will enjoy their stay. Nothing ruins a visit more than a poor night's sleep.
 Some sofa bed mattresses are fully upholstered, and the last thing you want to do is stain the material by eating and/or drinking in bed.

