 Many rental homes have dull carpeting or floors. This can make the whole room look darker. A few colorful rugs can cover up a dull floor, brightening up the room.Some floor rugs can be quite pricey. However, there are ways to cut down on cost.
Shop at secondhand stores or discount department stores. You may also be able to find fairly cheap rugs at larger retail stores.
 If you're in a smaller rental space, adding additional decoration may add clutter. You also may not want to spend a lot of money buying brightly colored decorations to lighten up a room. However, colorful objects you use regularly can be displayed decoratively when not in use.If you have colorful dishes, set them out in a cabinet in your kitchen. This can brighten up the kitchen and, when necessary, you can simply grab a dish out of the cabinet to use.
Toiletries that come in fancy containers, such as a nice perfume, can be set out in your bathroom for decoration.
If you have vases, put them out when they're empty. A nice white vase can brighten up the room and, in the event you need to use it, it will already be sitting out.
 You can buy flowers and plants at a local greenhouse. As long as you water and care for them, plants can brighten up your home for quite awhile. Some brightly colored flowers or nice green plants set out around your home can make everything look a little brighter.If space is an issue, you can hang plants from the ceiling rather than taking up floor space.
Plants that produce vines, such as philodendron and heartleaf, do not require a lot of light to thrive.Parlor palms, Boston furs, corn plants, and prayer plants also require little light.
 Mirrors can make great decorations. When set in the right place, they reflect lighting and increase the brightness in your room. Stop by a local furniture store, supermarket, or retail show and buy a few attractive mirrors for your home.Place mirrors in front of lights. They can reflect lights back into the room, doubling the effect.
Mirrors are a great idea if you don't have a lot of floor space for extra lamps.
 Colorful artwork and photographs can easily brighten up a dull white or beige wall. If you don't have any artwork on hand, look into secondhand shops and local art shows. Buy a few colorful paintings or other pieces of art and pin them up on your wall.If a lot of your photos are still on your phone or camera, many chain drug stores have photo stations where you can print out pictures.
If you're nailing anything to the wall, make sure the lease allows you to make holes in your dry wall.
 You usually cannot paint over walls, or put up wallpaper. However, you can order removable wallpaper online or buy some at a local craft store. You can easily place strips of removable wallpaper on dull white or beige walls. This will brighten up your apartment without breaking the lease. When you're ready to move out, the wallpaper is easy to remove.