 Don't slow down on exercise as you age. You should be exercising about 150 minutes a week or 30 minutes most days.Try to do something that gets your heart pumping, as that will help you burn off calories and help keep your heart healthier.For example, you might try taking a dance aerobics class, going for a jog, or swimming some laps at a local pool. Even a fast-paced walk can get your heart pumping faster. You don't have to run a marathon.
Try to find something that you enjoy doing to increase the chances that you will stick with it.
 Strength training can increase your resting metabolic rate, which tends to decrease as you age.Along with your 150 minutes per week of cardio, the CDC recommends getting at least two strength training sessions every week that work all of your major muscle groups, including your legs, abdomen, back, hips, arms, shoulders, and chest.If you have never done strength training, then you might want to try working with a personal trainer. A personal trainer can develop a strength training program for you that will help you reach your goals.
You can include other types of exercise as well to build strength, balance, and flexibility, such as yoga.
 If you haven't been exercising, you may not want to jump into a 30-minute routine five to six days a week. Don't fear! Even exercising 10 minutes a day can have benefits. Start where you are and work up to more., Exercise doesn't have to be something you dread. With all the different types of exercises out there, you may just need to search around a bit to find what you enjoy. Once you hit on something you like, you'll be more willing to spend time doing it.For example, maybe you'd enjoy taking up ballroom dancing with your partner. Swimming is also a great option because it keeps you cool and doesn't put as much stress on your joints. It's also a good full-body workout.
 You don't just get exercise when you hit the gym. You can also increase the amount of physical activity you get in a day just by making different choices. For instance, you can take the stairs instead of the elevator.You can also park your car farther out in the parking lot when you go to the store.
Try taking your dog for short walks instead of letting it go out in the backyard.
Gardening can also be good exercise.

