 How can you make an informed and brilliant decision without the necessary education that will allow you to know if a particular opportunity or sponsor is right for you?;
, If you have filled out online forms requesting information about a home business, know that someone is going to call you, be prepared for this. When they call to discuss their opportunity, if it’s not a good time just let them know, most people will understand this. If they do not, you really do not want to do business with them.
 This one is so obvious that it’s not even funny. People promoting systems and web site that will perform all of the work for you. They just do not work as effectively as they will lead you to believe. Or our favorite all you have to do is email them but no one knows how to write an effective email. Now do not get us wrong, everyone should have a personal web site, something we teach our members.
 Ok, so you think you have found the opportunity the sponsor, now what? Most people freeze up at this point in time, saying, "I’ll do it tomorrow or next week." Pretty soon they find its years latter and they are no better off now then they where then.


Procrastination is one of the biggest obstacles to overcome in all aspects of life. Time is such a precious commodity that really cannot be wasted. We have all know how compounded interest works with money, building your business also works on the same principle. It starts slow at first then gains momentum as our skills and education grow.
 If you’ve been doing your home work or due diligence you should be comfortable with your prospective sponsor. Give them a call and they’ll assist you through the signup process. It’s quick, simple and painless.


Most companies offer instant online signup through the internet, of course you’ll need a few items to fill out the forms because you’re starting a real business. Such as S.S# if you’re a U.S. resident or Tax I.D if you're not. This maybe different if you’re in another country but your sponsor will know what you need or can get the answers for you.
 Once you have joined a network marketing program, don’t just sit back. Think about it you’re now your own boss and sometimes this is good and sometimes it’s bad. Most of us are our own worst critics. Each day you will need to ask yourself this question "Would I have fired myself today for my actions?".
 It is very crucial, that you continuously improve yourself in the business, building more value to yourself that will make you attractive and a magnet to the marketplace.
