 Although not all colleges and community centers offer classes in the Thai language, you can find them online if nothing else. Finding a class to attend whether in person or online gives you an instructor to whom you may ask questions, gives you classmates to practice with, and it gives you tests to motivate you to remember what you learn.


For example, the University of Washington in Seattle has a Department of Asian Languages and Literature that offers courses in Thai.There are online schools like Thai Style USA that offer you an online learning environment to master the Thai language., Since you are in a class setting, you are most likely able to practice speaking Thai. It is important to practice speaking Thai so that you can master the different pronunciations of the Thai language. Since Thai is tonal, every syllable has a lot of meanings., It is helpful when learning a new language to focus on a few linguistic signals that indicate different elements of language. For example, learning how Thai speakers express formality, when they are indicating a plural, and which letters denote gender can help you quickly pick up on what others are saying.


For instance, Thai speakers make their statements formal by adding a particle to the end of each sentence. If a male is speaking, he adds a “krahp” to the end of a sentence to sound formal, and a female speaker adds “kha” to the end of a sentence., Practicing what you learn is truly the only way to speak Thai, especially since Thai is a language based in the tones of the words. If you don’t speak what you see on the page, you will never get the pronunciations right. Practice conversations with your classmates and teacher.


If you are in a live class, play games in Thai to practice.
 Test are a part of any class, including language classes. To help you get the tones correct, make sure that your teacher gives verbal tests. You need to have your tones tested so you can make sure you are getting them right. Remember, a word pronounced slightly different can have an entirely different meaning in Thai.

