 If you believe you have developed adult-onset allergies that can't be treated effectively with over-the-counter medications, you should go see your physician. When you see your physician, they will take a medical history and family history. Allergies tend to be common in some families. You physician will also determine if you are allergic to anything already since those with existing allergies tend to develop even more allergies.The physician will also do a physical exam and ask questions about your symptoms.
 The physician may recommend allergy testing. One kind of allergy testing may be done via skin tests. These tests can be done through a tiny prick or cut on the skin or by a very small injection just below the skin surface.A specialty physician called an allergist will most often conduct these tests for you.


Positive results are indicated by a wheal and flare reaction, which is a raised, red, itchy bump surrounded by a circular area of swelling and redness in the test area.
Most of the allergy tests are minimally painful, though the positive results will be itchy and swollen.
The risk of anaphylaxis, or a severe allergic reaction, is a risk during allergy testing. Your allergist or physician will be specially trained to manage this reaction, if it occurs.
 Another type of allergy test your doctor may suggest is a blood test. This type of test can be done to measure antibodies to allergens. Blood tests are sometimes ordered for a person who has a skin disorder that makes it difficult to skin test, for babies and very young children, or for people taking some types of medications if the doctor suspects that anaphylaxis may occur.With any allergy test, anaphylaxis is a possible risk and cannot be predicted with absolute certainty.
 There are a vast number of possible allergens that can be causing your symptoms. You can help your physician determine what you are allergic to by keeping an allergy diary. Keep track of where you are, what you are doing, and what is in your immediate vicinity when you experience your symptoms.Keeping track of where, when, and how bad your symptoms are can help narrow down the possibilities. Since one of the main treatment approaches to allergies is to avoid the allergen, keeping an allergy diary can be an effective method of both diagnosis and prevention.
For example, if you enter someone’s home who has cats and dogs, and you start to sneeze, itch, cough, or get watery eyes, chances are that cats and dogs can be at least part of the problem.
Check the pollen counts in your area when you start to have symptoms. Pollen counts are divided into the different sorts or classes of pollens. That may give you a better idea which pollens you may be allergic to.
If you begin to experience symptoms when you or someone else is dusting or vacuuming, you may have a dust allergy.
If there are certain plants that make you itch, those are potential allergens.

