 How do you want it to look? Look through magazines or websites such as 'Pottery Barn Teen' or 'Delias' for ideas, since they often have pictures of rooms. Decide on things you like and things you don't, colors you like and design details. You should have a rough idea of how you want your room to look.;
, Did you ever wonder how big your room is? How much stuff do you have in it? Take a tape measure and find out how long the walls are. Make sure to write this down or you will forget it. Your room might be a lot bigger than you thought. Now, list every piece of furniture that you have in there. You might have a lot, but be patient. Also, measure your bed, dresser, and some of the larger pieces of furniture.
 You need to know what you want your room to look like, but don't get too set on one idea. If you are copying a room from a catalog, look at the furniture. Ask yourself, "Well, they have a cast-iron bed, and mine is wooden. How would the room change if the bed was like mine?" How would your white desk look if you painted it blue? You can give furniture a completely new look by painting it.
 If you have time, make a design board. Cut out pictures of things you liked from the rooms you looked at, and draw a floor plan and maybe a sketch of how you think it will look when it's done. Once they see how much work you put into this, they will probably be more willing to let you. Make sure you point out things like, "See this? That's just like my bed right now." If they don't like something, be willing to listen to their opinion. If they say no, don't complain, tell them calmly that you understand if they do not support your decision. Accept their decision maturely, and they might change their minds. If they don't, you got plenty of practice for when you become an interior designer, and you'll have a plan when they finally decide that you can redecorate your room.
 A lot of time there'll be things up there that have been forgotten but would go great in your room. Before you move anything down there, though, get permission. A good way to ask would be, "Mom, I know you're busy, but I saw some things in the shed that would look good in my room. When you have time, can you come with me and tell me if I can move them into my room?"

, It's a long shot, but you might find the perfect chair, lamp, or picture frames there, and they'll be totally unique(and cheaper, too!)

, Start by making a list of everything you still need, and take pictures of things you liked if you can. Now, go to Target, Walmart, or some place that sells everything from paint to rugs to lamps, and sells it cheap.
 Make sure that you buy enough, but not too much. But, since you measured your walls earlier, you know exactly how many square feet of wall you have to cover. Also, get rollers and brushes if you don't have them, along with masking tape and anything else you'll need. If you're doing an interesting finish, like painted-on marble, ask the people how you would do that. If you aren't sure, stick with solid colors.
 Rugs, lamps, and translucent plastic boxes are always useful. You're probably going to need a cart. Keep a mental tally of how much this will cost you (just round up each item to the next dollar, you probably won't pay that much but it's always better to over-estimate it). You'll probably find some furnishings that are almost identical to what you picked out of the catalog. They might not be identical, but they have the same idea. Keep your eye out for these.
 Start with the bedding. Do you see curtains or sheets or a comforter that you just love? Keep these in mind while you head off to sewing.
 If you can sew, see if there's any fabric that would compliment your sheets or curtains. Make throw pillows out of it (You won't need more than a yard, probably). Now go over to the trim. Would that pom-pom trim look good on the bottom of your curtains? How would that gold braid look as a tieback?

, Take all the furniture out, and get to painting the walls. While you wait for them to dry, paint the furniture. Then set it up like you had planned. Put all the accessories up, make up your bed with your new bedding, and you're done!

, Keep them in boxes in your closet, or buy colored plastic boxes that coordinate and put it in there. The boxes can be left in your room and will look great.
 Your furniture may look ugly, the colors may not go with your room. Maybe the wood is chipping. If that happens, just sand the wood and paint to your desired color.
 Maybe you have one pattern that you like. It has very beautiful colors! BUT you can also try adding a whole different pattern (the same color of course)! This will make your room MUCH nicer looking. But be careful, you may clash colors.
 Okay, this probably sounds stupid, but maybe getting a jewelry organizer and buying hooks and mounting it up on the wall WILL make your room look nice. Perhaps you have clothes you want to "show-off". Taking off a closet door may look nice. (unless, of course, it's not organized and is messy.
 YOU SAVE LOTS!!

, You will save lots. Bed Bath and Beyond have a forever warranty AND addition to that you may use their $5 off your purchase of $25 or more several times. They ALSO allow coupons expired. I look at Bed Bath and Beyond and say, "What an amazing place!"

