 This method uses your preferred online search engine (Google, Yahoo, etc.) to look for your friend's profile outside of Facebook. If you can find it outside of Facebook but not within Facebook, you'll know you've been blocked. Before starting, make sure your friend's profile can't be found on Facebook. Try searching their name in the search bar at the top of your profile and tagging them in your posts - if you can't seem to locate their profile or you get a "Sorry, this page isn't available" error screen when you click on a link to your profile, this is evidence that you've either been blocked or that your friend has disabled their profile - one or the other - so, proceed to the next steps.


Also, keep in mind that Facebook users occasionally change their names - usually just for laughs. If your friend has done this, you may not be able to find them with their real name, so try checking an old conversation in your inbox - if they've changed their name, this will be reflected here.
 Next, log out of your account. Click the downward-pointing arrow at the top right of your profile to display a drop-down window with several option. Click "Log Out" to log out of your account.


It's important to be logged out of your account because if you've been blocked and you stay logged in, you won't be able to view your friend's profile even if you can manage to find it with a search engine

, Now that you're logged out, go to Google (or the search engine of your choice) and search for your friend's profile. You'll probably want to use a search query like "(Your friend's name) Facebook" or something similar.


If you're getting ambiguous results, try including personal information like where the friend lived or went to school as keywords in your search. For instance, for a friend who grew up in Albuquerque and went to Yale, you might use a search query like "Jane Doe Facebook Albuquerque Yale" to narrow down your results.
 Given the fact that any person on Facebook is likely to share his or her name with several (if not thousands) of other users, it can be tricky to find your friend's profile while logged out. Do your best, using relevant keywords to narrow down your results. Based on the outcome of your search, it's usually fairly easy to tell whether you've been blocked:


If you can find your friend's profile on Google while logged out and it appears to be active and functioning, but you can't find them on Facebook when you are logged in, they've probably blocked you.
If, on the other hand, you can't find your friend's profile on Facebook while logged in and you can't find it on Google while logged out or you find what appears to be a deactivated or broken link to their account on Google, they've probably removed their profile.

