 It is an important aspect of successful epics for your audience to connect to your hero. This can be accomplished if you give your hero humble beginnings. A hero’s journey must be one of development. If you start your hero’s journey at a low point, he has space to develop his strength, cunning, courage, and even to discover his inherent nobility in time, over the course of his great journey., Many times in epic tales, the future or fate of the hero is prophesied early on. This lends an air of both grandeur and urgency to the hero’s story. In many cases, this prophecy is that sends the hero on his journey. Consider including a prophecy of your hero’s fate., An epic tale always revolves around a journey. Your hero must travel far, see the world, and fight for good. Something big must often occur to send your hero far away. This could be a prophecy, a storm, a war, or some other emergency. Figure out what sends your hero on a journey as well as where he goes., At the top of an epic tale, we are usually presented with a humble but likable character, who is faced with a great task. Through the hero’s inevitable journey, he learns many things about himself (often his true origins, true strength, or even special powers) and proves himself to be worthy and great. Keep this aspect in mind as you work to create your epic hero., Each hero (or protagonist) must have a counterpart (or antagonist). Each good guy must have a bad guy to interact with. You can determine many characteristics of your hero by first visualizing his negative match. Your hero and your villain will share opposing characteristics, often acting as a kind of mirror for one another., All epic tales are cyclical in nature. In the conclusion, your hero must return to where he started, now changed by the journey. Determining the way your hero evolves, whether he succeeds or fails in defeating his challenge and/or opponent (heroes usually succeed), and the manner in which he returns home will tell you a great deal about your hero. 