  If you decide to go top lane, you'll need a role. Some top laners like Dr. Mundo and Maokai go for health, but little damage. Some like Has up have high burst potential, but get shredded down easily. Some laners like Garen or Darius have a bit of both, health + dmg can be a hard combo to beat. Figure out whatever type of top laner you're going to play, then head into the game.
 The  money that makes the man comes from farming. Farming, in case you aren't familiar with the term, means last-hitting minions to earn gold. You then spend the gold in the shop to get good items. Farming is crucial for the 3 dmg dealers in team fights: ADC, midlaner, and top laner. Many top laners start out with good dmg, so you don't have to buy a Cull or a Doran's Blade with your 500 starting gold. While farming is a very important part of the game, watch your lane opponent., Don't build anything like sightstone, but keep warding the river and the 3 bushes. Many melee characters will try to use the bushes to their advantage, and to keep away from surprises, ward the brush. This also prevents ganking.

Many players will put a pink ward/permanent ward in the river, when use their 4"4" key ward for the bushes. This is a good strategy, and highly recommended. Until a jungler comes up to tank, and sees and destroys your ward, you will have constant mission of the river.
 Many people will think "Oh, he hit me with 1 auto attack. I'll just heal it up." After a while, those auto attacks add up. Many players also don't realize the basic attack range. If you stand right behind your minions, you should be able to hit your opponent. Land as much dmg on him her as possible., As long as they don't have the bushes warded,  you can land several spells if you are playing a heavy dmg champion like Ekko or Illoai. Many ranged champions, if they get low HP, will stay in lane for a while longer than if they were melee or against another ranged. They will think, "I can see him/her coming before they get close enough to attack, so I can back off in time." Close the distance quickly; many abilities, such as Garen's Q add movement speed. Summoner spells, particularly Flash and Heal, are great for melee champions., It is your best weapon. You can stay back, yet still land a spell ever few seconds. Plus you rarely take minion damage. This is a good matchup; just be aware of your surroundings and constantly watch your opponent. Melee characters are more powerful than ranged champions at close range, so just stay at a good range, and Farm Farm Farm., Health or health regen is recommended for most melee characters some already have it in their passive. Mana-less champions do better here (Riven, Garen, Gnar, Yasuo); they recall less often. While many ranged champions rely on crit. dmg, melee characters build dmg okay every attack. Farm to get gold each early, and build up your dmg. To win in lane, you must start to win 2 our of 3 trades with your lane opponent., While batting for lane control, make sure you are safe. Your lane opponent will try anything to kill you or bring your health low enough that you recall. Melee characters will have a hard time fighting ranged characters, because the ranged champions can stay back from their enemy to harm them. If they start to get a little too aggressive, back off a little, but not too much., Make sure to keep your river/bushes warded, but sometimes you forget or can't get out in time. If you are banked, try to use a speed boost item/spell. Do not immediately flash.

If you are still too slow, and have a summoner spell like Ghost or Heal available, use it as well. Either one will work, and will get you to your turret. While under turret, you can easily 1v1 the enemy jungler or top laner, or even sometimes both. Your turret will wear them down with its shots, and if you can put a silence or a stun onto the enemy, that is very good.
A silence will make them unable to cast spells, and a stun will make them stuck and unable to cast spells. Either one will allow the turret to hit them several times, dropping their health bar significantly.
 Many teammates will be fighting for a dragon, turret, or just fighting the enemy., In case of a team fight, get down there as fast as you can. Top laners are one of the 3 dmg dealers in fights. In some cases, you can teleport to a nearby minion, turret, or ward to join the fight., Another, more advanced kind of teleport play, would be teleporting to a deep ward in the enemy jungle, behind their front lines, then charging up behind them. Champions like Sion and Hecraim to this very nicely; you can eliminate a member of the enemy easily.