 Throughout the process of making the makgeolli, ensure that every utensil and container is properly sterilized. Also see Warnings below.
 For best results, do this for up to 30 times.;
, Let it sit for about an hour.
 Add a cup of sugar to 3 cups of water, bring to a boil and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Put this aside and let it cool to the required temperature for whatever yeast you choose.
 There are multiple methods to use for steaming rice. You can use a steamer and cheesecloth, or you can use a bamboo basket. Be sure to boil the cloth or the basket in water to sterilize it either one.


Steam until rice is slightly yellow.
Stir the rice every so often, to cook it evenly.
 You can do this two ways:


Leave in the bowl and let cool. This will take a longer time and the internal temperature will be higher than the outer sections.
Spread over a clean surface and allow it to cool evenly. Make sure that the surface is sterilized and cleaned very well, otherwise it will be contaminated.
 Use purified water for the best taste. Tap water can be used, but it is not recommended. You can also boil the water before adding it if you are unsure of its quality.


If you choose to boil the water, make sure it is the right temperature before adding the yeast and rice, otherwise you will kill the yeast and ruin the batch.
 The following will explain the two methods:


For nuruk, moisten with water and create a paste, add in the yeast and mix well. Add the paste to the rice and mix well.
For amylase enzyme powder, mix with the rice and work in thoroughly. You can add yeast now, or later, it does not matter for this method.
 Be sure to stir it well.
 Take note of the temperature requirement for the yeast you are using. Avoid exposure to light, especially UV radiation. The paper towel will prevent insects from flying in and dying, but also allow for the mixture to breathe.
 Stir at least once a day with a sterilized spoon.
 You can also use a white t-shirt. Be sure to boil your choice of cloth before using and that it is clean and free of harmful chemicals.
 Usually, adding 3 parts water to 2 parts makgeolli is necessary. (This is optional.)

, You will need to keep the makgeolli cold and covered. You may bottle it if you like, or "back-sweeten" it to your taste.


When bottling, make sure you leave the cap slightly unscrewed in order to prevent it from exploding when you open it. Soda bottles or makgeolli bottles (the ones in which the commercial version is sold) can be used because they are built for pressure.
 The traditional method of drinking it is from a bowl.
