 Intaglio is Italian for "incis­ing," and correspondingly revolves around a process of applying ink into the grooves or etches or engravings, then using a lot of pressure to transfer that ink from the indents onto the page. This usually results in slightly crisper, more substantial lines that you can learn to identify. The process was developed in the 1500s. Engraving and etching are both styles of intaglio printing, with slightly different techniques and signifiers.Engraving is typically done on copper plates, using a burin, a v-shaped cutting tool, to remove slivers of metal from the surface of the plate. The shape of engraved lines are typically quite clean, and pointed at each end, where the lines will swell or shrink.

Etching is done using acid to draw freely over wax placed on the copper plating, using a needle. Etched lines will have a blunter end than engraved lines, and you should be able to see signs of the wax in unevenness and crumbling at the edge of the lines. In general, etched lines are less precise.
 Because lots of pressure is used to transfer the ink, the metal printing plate will leave an impression in the paper on intaglio prints. The corners of these marks should be rounded, since sharped edges would rip the paper, and the edges will often retain traces of ink that wasn't completely wiped off the plate during the printing process. Plate marks are always signifiers of intaglio printing, whether engravings or etchings.


If you don't see a plate mark, that isn't necessarily the sign that it isn't an intaglio print. It won't show up on every intaglio if the plate was wiped off completely.
 Because of the way the printing process works, the strongest and darkest lines should be raised when compared with the surrounding areas, because it will take more pressure and more ink to make the darker line pop out. This is one of the most reliable signifiers of intaglio printing, etched or engraved.
 In intaglio printing, the lines will have varying levels of intensity in terms of the ink displacement, compared to relief printing, which should be relatively uniform. This is because the depth of the grooves can be adjusted, resulting in darker or lighter printed lines, accordingly, in the same line.


Look along longer lines to see whether or not they become darker in the interior. If so, it's almost surely a sign of intaglio printing.
 Engraved lines will flow smoothly, swelling some before tapering to a point, while etched lines lines will have shakier, round edges. Often, intaglio prints will involve bits of both types of printing, as is found on US currency, in the printed pictures on the front and back.
 There are lots of subcategories of intaglio printing that will display particulars of the process, so you can narrow your identification skills even more specifically. Other intaglio techniques include:


Aquatint
Mezzotint
Steel Engraving
Stipple Engraving

