 Wash 2 large zucchini and use a sharp knife to carefully trim off and discard the ends. Slice the zucchini into 1/4-inch (6 mm) rounds and lay the slices on a baking sheet. Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (175 C).Try to use zucchini that are the same size since this will help the slices bake evenly.
 Measure out 1/4 cup (55 g) of marinara or pizza sauce and spread a little of the sauce on each zucchini slice. Get out one package (226 g) of shredded mozzarella cheese and shred a little cheese on each slice. Look for reduced fat cheese or pizza sauces that are low in sodium.If you want to make zucchini pizza bites and let your guests choose their own toppings, prepare the zucchini pizza bites up to this point.
 Set out the remaining toppings and make a variety of zucchini pizza bites. If you're letting guests make their own, let everyone top the bites with their favorite toppings. You'll need to set out:1 package (226 g) of grated parmesan cheese
1/3 cup (50 g) of prosciutto
Handful of fresh arugula
1/2 cup (55 g) of button mushrooms, diced
Handful of fresh basil leaves
1 medium tomato, diced
Salt and pepper, to taste

, Place the baking sheet of zucchini bites into the preheated oven. Bake them for 10 minutes. The cheese should melt and brown a little. The edges of the zucchini bites will also look crisp. Let the zucchini bites sit for a minute before you serve them.If the zucchini pizza bites aren't tender enough, continue to cook the bites for a few minutes longer. Check to see if they're tender before you remove them from the oven.
 If you'd rather grill the bites instead of baking them, just prepare a gas or charcoal grill. Once the grill is hot, add the zucchini bites directly onto the grate. Ensure that the bites won't fall through the grate. Put the lid on the grill and grill the bites for 3 to 5 minutes. The zucchini should soften and the cheese should melt. Use a spatula to carefully remove the bites. Let them sit for a minute before you serve them.


If there is a lot of cheese on your zucchini bites, you may need to grill them for only a few minutes. This will prevent the cheese from melting off of the zucchini.

