 Stand straight up with your feet about hip length apart.Take a large step (about 3 feet) forward with one of your legs, and dip down your back knee into a lunge. Lunge until your front thigh is nearly parallel with the ground.Keep your back knee off the ground as you lunge. Push off of your forward foot to come back into your starting position.


This functional exercise works not only your inner thighs but also your hamstrings, quadriceps, abs, calves, and glutes.You can also hold onto weights to increase the intensity of this exercise.
Consider doing this exercise in 3 sets of 10 for both of your legs., Begin this workout by lunging as usual: Take a forward step with one of your feet, and dip your back knee down until your front thigh is parallel with the ground. Keep your arms relaxed at your sides. Instead of pushing off your forward foot to come back to your starting position, you are going to shift all of your weight onto your front foot and stand up, keeping your other leg (that was previously back) up and bent at the knee.From there, straighten your hanging leg backward and you lean forward as you slightly bend your balancing leg and hinge at your hip. Swing your straighten leg forward, and immediately go into a lunge with that foot forward.From that lunge, repeat this process using your opposite leg to complete one full rep.


Complete 2–4 sets of 8–12 reps. Give yourself about 45 seconds to rest in between each set.As you are in the deadlift position, you goal should be to make a straight line extending from your crown to your heel., Stand up straight with your feet together. Take a big step out to one side of your body keeping your torso facing forward and your squatting side foot facing outward a bit.Push your hips back as your lunge to help keep your body posture correct with your back straight and knees over your toes. Lunge until your squatting leg’s thigh is parallel with the ground. Pause for a moment, and then push off your lunging foot and squeeze your thigh muscles to come back to your starting position.Do this exercise with both legs lunging out to the sides.


To increase the intensity of this workout, hold onto a dumbbell or kettlebell as you lunge.Complete about 2 sets of 10 reps for each leg.

