 Remember the importance of good quality undergarments for the foundation of any sexy outfit. Find a bra that features comfort in the cups, band, and straps.


Look for wide straps to support a larger chest. The center front of the bra should lie flat across your breastbone, the band should lie parallel all the way around your chest without riding up, and there should be no spillover from the cups or gap between breast and cup.Consider your outfit for an evening or other occasion when you want to dress to impress. A strapless top or dress will need a strapless bra, a plunging neckline will need a plunge cut bra, a low back or cutout style will need a low-back or backless bra, etc.
Consider a bra that’s built into a longer control-top undergarment if you want to offer more support for your entire midsection when wearing a form-fitting sexy outfit.;
, Look for tops that fit closely but skim the body without actually hugging the skin for the best long, sexy lines for your torso.


Try a plunging neckline to accentuate your chest, or a low back to show off some more subtle skin. Well-fitting, body-skimming fit will keep bared skin from looking overexposed or uncomfortably revealing.
Try an off-the-shoulder top or dress for an easy way to bare some skin and show off your shoulders and neck., Try tops and dresses that have structure or built-in padding and support for the chest to lend support as well as flatter a fuller chest.


Look for structure in the bust particularly when the garment is difficult to wear with a bra and can replace one.
Pay attention to the neckline shape as well. Choose a V shape or sweetheart neckline to elongate the body and show off cleavage, or opt for less cleavage but a beautiful frame for your neck and collarbones with a square neckline., Wear tops and dresses without sleeves, or opt for sleeves that are sheer as a way to both add some sex appeal and still be a little more covered up if you’d like to be.


Look for sleeves with lace detail, cutouts, or sheer sections for extra sexiness on the arms.
Opt for sleeves in a kimono or dolman style, or another similar style that floats away from the arm for an elegant and flattering look.Avoid regular t-shirt length short sleeves, which visually cut the arms off at their widest point. Opt for three-quarter length, sleeveless, or a shorter sleeve that lands at a diagonal angle on your arm.

