 As you will most likely be traveling by plane, you will have limits on how much you can take on board with you. Most flights will allow you to have two bags, one being a carry-on and the other being a checked bag, but neither can exceed a certain weight limit, and in the case of carry-ons, they are not allowed to exceed a certain size limit, either.


Keep in mind that not all things should go in your checked bag - some things should go in your carry-on. It's best to keep electronics, reading material, toiletries, and a change of clothes in your carry-on, as well as money, in case you don't get your suitcase back immediately. This can help decrease the weight of your suitcase.
Depending on how long your trip will be, you may not need a checked bag, which makes things much easier.
Most airlines allow a personal item, which can be a small bag. The general rule is that the bag can carry things onto the airplane, but it needs to fit under the seat in front of you. Things in the bag should consist of what you want to have while in flight, as you won't be able to access your carry-on.;
, There are basics that you will need when traveling, and it's best to create a checklist and cross items off as you pack them. Make sure not to pack too much, though!


The basics of what you will need will consist of clothes, toiletries, and money. It's best to take an extra pair of clothes in case one pair gets stained or dirty during the trip, but you don't need more than that.

The bare minimum you will need for clothes will usually consist of underwear, socks, pants, shirts, and a jacket. Keep in mind that this will also be dependent on the weather - if it's going to be rather cold, you may need gloves and a hat.


Toiletries consist of your toothbrush and toothpaste, hairbrush or comb, deodorant, and for girls, makeup and menstrual supplies. Be aware that liquids cannot exceed a certain size if they are being brought on carry-ons.
Make sure to convert money to the proper amount. As Japanese currency - known as yen - is different than your country's currency, you will need to make sure you have enough money. Do not rely on credit or debt cards, as you may not be able to use them abroad.
If you have a cell phone, take it with you. However, make sure that it can be used while abroad. Some cell phone companies may not cover areas that are outside of your home country.
If you take medications, these will need to go through airport security. However, don't leave them behind! You don't want a medication deficiency to ruin your trip to Japan.
 What you will need will differ depending on what you plan on doing during your trip. If you plan on mostly shopping and learning about the culture, that will require different things than if you plan on going on nature hikes and long tours.


Keep the weather in mind. If the temperatures will be cold, don't pack shorts!

, If you are bringing electronics with you to Japan, keep in mind that you may need to bring outlet adapters to plug things in. Power outlets in Japan are typically two-prong outlets, so a plug with three prongs will require an adapter.
 If your trip is short, you may only be taking a carry-on bag, in which case, things are much simpler. However, if you need to take a checked bag, this can be more difficult.


It's best to keep things such as phones and money in your personal bag. These are things that will be needed soon after getting off the plane, and you don't want to dig through your carry-on or your checked bag to find them.
Know the weight limits. Airlines have weight limits on checked bags and carry-ons, so make sure that however you pack, it doesn't exceed the weight limit.
Keep in mind that a checked bag runs the risk of getting lost or stolen. It's best not to put valuable items in checked bags for this reason.
 Whether packing a carry-on or a checked bag, it's best to put heaviest items on the bottoms so that they don't end up crushing something in your bag. Shoes, for example, are considered heavy, so it's best to put those in the bottom of the bag and then work your way up.


It's best not to pack more than two pairs of shoes. More than two pairs will cause the bag to get heavy and it may not fit the weight restrictions.
 Instead of packing your clothes while they're folded up, try rolling them instead. It will leave more space in your bag. However, keep in mind that this can wrinkle clothing, so it's best not to roll something you don't want to get messed up.
 When packing toiletries, for example, it's best to put them in a small bag so that they don't get separated when the bag gets jostled around. It may also be a good idea to put shoes in plastic bags for sanitary reasons - you don't want markings all over your clothes!

, Know how long the flight will be, and pack things to keep yourself occupied in the meantime. It's usually best to bring things such as reading material, as you may not be able to charge electronics or have Wi-Fi on a plane. Just remember that some airlines will provide charge plugs and/or Wi-Fi, depending on Airbus or Boeing fleet.
 As the flight may be long, it might be a good idea to purchase food before leaving the airport. Make sure you have currency to exchange, as Japanese money (yen) has different currency values.


Do not rely on a credit or debt card. It's possible these won't be accepted, the shop doesn't have a machine for it, or another thing that could go wrong. Make sure you always have some money on you no matter what.
 As you are a teenager, you're probably not going to need to go to a business meeting right after getting off the flight and into Japan. It's generally best to wear a comfortable pair of pants and shirt, as well as a jacket, since planes can get cold.
 As there's typically no Wi-Fi or reception on a plane, your cell phone won't be a source of entertainment unless you have games on it. Common ways of passing time include reading books, writing or drawing, finishing any work you may have with you, or sleeping. Depending on your airline and the fleet of Boeing or Airbus, Wi-Fi might be available. Check with your airline to make sure.
 Know that the flight is only part of it - a beginning to fun and great memories in Japan!

