 Managed and operated by San Jose Theaters, California Theater is one of the top tourist destinations in the city. It hosts major international performances and shows. The building was originally built in 1927 and served as a movie house which became immediately popular. It closed in 1973, but was re-opened again in 1985 and was renovated and restored in 2001. The theater features:


1,122 seats
14 wheelchair areas
85,000 total square feet
90’ x 40’ stage area;
, One of the largest museums of its kind in the United States, the Children’s Discovery Museum features a wide selection of exhibits where you are able to listen, touch, test and explore in order to learn. The museum exhibits cover 28,000 square feet of space. The museum includes temporary exhibits. Permanent exhibits include:


Art Gallery
Art Loft
Bubbles
Corn husk Dolls
Current Connections
Kids’ Garden
Mammoth Discovery
Rainbow Market
Streets
Theatre
Waterways
Wonder Cabinet

, Opened in 1961 after much planning, the Happy Hollow Park and Zoo features a zoo and amusement park. In 2008 it underwent major renovations and re-opened in 2010 with modern and up-to-date facilities and amenities. The attraction offers permanent features, as well as special events. It offers a wide range of activities and displays to appeal to all visitors, including:


16 acres
More than 140 animals
Amusement rides
Family rides
Puppet theater
Play area

, The San Jose Heritage Rose Garden was established in 1995 and is run almost exclusively by volunteers. The beautiful gardens are open daily and provide a serene location to spend some time. Workshops and programs are run regularly and you can join one of the projects run throughout the year. The gardens include:


Nearly 4,000 plants of more than 3,000 varieties
Modern and miniature roses
Planted by more than 750 volunteers

, Located in the heart of Silicon Valley, the Tech Museum of Innovation (otherwise known simply as “The Tech”) offers a wide range of interactive exhibits in a number of themed galleries. The museum aims to attract innovators of the future and features exhibits on a wide range of topics including customization, energy, exploration, genetics and more. Exhibits in the museum include:


Communication
Exploration
Innovation
Life tech
Social robots
The Tech studio
Tech Virtual
Temporary exhibitions including science, arts and more

, Hosting one of the largest exhibitions of Egyptian artifacts in the United States, the Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum is a worth a visit. Its more than 4,000 artifacts date back to the pre-dynastic times. It offers exhibits, tours and workshops with both permanent and temporary displays. Some of the galleries in the museum include:


Burial Practices, Afterlife and Mummies
Gods and Religion
Kings and Pharaohs
Daily life, Trade and Neighbors

, Opened in 1971, History Park features 29 historic buildings and landmarks that have been moved to or replicated in the park. Designed like a small US town at the turn of the century, this outdoors and indoors museum has something for everyone. Exhibits include:


Post office
Dentist
Fruit barn
Livery stable
Printing press
Gas station
Hotel
Fire station
Bank
School house
Doctor’s office
Homes

, A walled section in the middle of the city, the Japanese Friendship Garden provides a quiet and serene place to stop and have a break from the hustle and bustle of daily life. It covers six acres and is designed after Japan’s Korakuen Garden in Okayama. The gardens include:


Three ponds with koi
Waterfalls
Cherry blossoms
Pagoda
Wide grassy spaces

