 Going when everyone else goes, i.e during school holidays is inevitably going to mean waiting in a queue for ‘something’, be it a ride, attraction or ordering food. Alternatively going outside peak times may mean taking your children out of school. What’s the weigh up between less crowds and disruption to your children’s education?;
, Dreamworld has a number of different passes from one day to two years. There are also a number of tickets, called ‘World Passes’ that can be combined with its sister theme park next door Whitewater World. Combined, both parks cover an area of about 37 hectares and include 45 rides and attractions. If you plan to get maximum fun, you have to decide whether one day will be long enough, especially if you plan to visit both parks.
 Depending on your budget and when you want to visit will have an impact on overall cost. Visiting the park during off peak will not only save money on entry tickets but also most probably on other things such as plane fares and hotel accommodation. Remember also that it may be difficult to find suitable accommodation during certain times of the year so it may pay to book accommodation and plane fares well in advance.
 Surfside buses on the Gold Coast run a regular shuttle service between hotels and Gold Coast Theme Parks. In many instances buses can pick you up and drop you back off at your hotel. If you plan to drive your own car, read on for directions to Dreamworld.
 If possible get hold of Dreamworld’s park map or research on the internet all the different rides, shows and their times. Write down a list of what rides you want to go on and what shows you wish to see. If you’re forced to lock in a certain date, plan in case it rains. What alternatives are there on a wet day to keep it fun and enjoyable. Weather, especially during the summer peak months is very volatile and storms can sweep in at any time. Plan on bringing some wet weather clothing, sufficient for at least getting around if it looks like raining on the day. You don’t want to spend a long time pinned somewhere because you don’t have sufficient wet weather clothing to get around.
 Once you have decided on your tickets, you’ll save a lot of time queuing at the entrance gate if you pre-purchase your tickets. With pre-purchased tickets you can use the ‘express gate’ which will save you – perhaps an extremely long wait. If you want to combine your visit with Whitewater World then you should consider a ‘World Pass’ which allows to unlimited access to both parks through an interconnected gate. You can pre-purchase tickets at no extra cost online.
 If you’re really looking to get the most out of your visit, also consider purchasing an ‘early entry’ ticket. For $10 more you can enter the park one hour before the main crowd. You can purchase with Australian dollars or your credit card.


If your visit is during the peak season, consider purchasing a Q4U device. This is a virtual queuing system that reserves your spot in the line while you go off and do other more interesting things than wait in a queue. There are a limited number of Q4U’s so you must pre book one at an additional cost of $30 per family.
 Avoid the ‘follow the herd’ mentality. Many people simply follow others because they don’t have a better plan. Rather than rush from one popular ride or attraction to another, wait until mid to late afternoon when most of the crowd exits. You’d be surprised how quickly you can jump from one ride to the next with minimal waiting.
 What about food? Dreamworld does not permit visitors from bringing food into the theme park. Anything you wish to eat must be purchased within Dreamworld. If you’re on a tight budget make sure you have a big breakfast. To save time, consider eating lunch early or late to avoid the lunchtime crowds. If you plan to combine your Dreamworld visit with a visit to Whitewater World then you have the option of bringing your food and eating it in Whitewater world, which does allow food to be brought into the theme park.
 The sheer size of Dreamworld means that you will be doing a lot of walking, so comfortable footwear and clothing are important. In the probability that the weather will be fine and sunny remember to bring a hat and sunscreen lotion. If you plan to stay into the night, a coat or jacket may also be advisable.
 How’s your health? If you have a heart problem or any other health issue, you should seek your doctor’s advice as to whether you should ride the bigger and more terrifying rides.
 Dreamworld is located in Coomera just north of the Gold Coast. It is about 20 minutes drive from Surfers Paradise and forty five minutes drive from Brisbane. From the M1 Motorway take exit 54 at Coomera. Use the ‘Tower of Terror’ as your beacon. The Tower of Terror is extremely high and can be seen from miles around. Work out in advance how long it is going to take you to get from your accommodation to the theme park. If you have pre purchased an ‘early entry’ ticket you’ll need to arrive at the park at least an hour before it opens.

