 It's no fun going home in sweaty clothing. Pack a T-shirt, Spandex or shorts, and tall socks to change into before you begin. Include a sports bra if you need one.


Store your clothes in plastic bags so they don't get your bag sweaty after the game.
It's easy to lose socks or forget to pack them after doing laundry. Bring along an extra pair for yourself or your teammates.;
, Volleyball shoes are designed for court use, and can lose traction if you wear them on dirt or grass. Keep them in your bag, and wear sandals or other shoes on your way to practice. Even if you wear ordinary sneakers while playing, it can be nice to change to a less sweaty pair of shoes afterward.


Consider packing running shoes on conditioning days.
If your shoes are old and losing traction, buy a "court grip" product.
 When you're just starting out, you'll want knee pads that cover your entire knee, for full protection. Later, if you become more competitive, you may switch to smaller knee pads that only cover the part of the knee you slide on. This discourages you from sliding in the wrong position.
 Pack at least one bottle of water or sports drinks, and add more to your bag if you run out during practice. If you tend to get hungry during practice, pack a snack that won't go bad if you forget about it.
 Your coach may or may not require ankle braces. Even if she doesn't, there is good evidence that they help prevent injury. There is no good evidence that braces interfere with jumping or movement., Decide whether you need any of the following:


Pack deodorant or perfume to cover body odor.
If you have long hair, keep it out of your face with hair ties and headbands.
Bring a towel if you sweat a lot, or if you shower at the gym.
If you wear jewelry, put it in a small container so it doesn't get damaged or lost in your bag.
 If you plan to stay longer after practice, or to show up early, get your own ball. You can practice many volleyball skills with just two or three people, even without a net. Here's an example of a warm up called "peppering":


Have two people ("Player A" and "Player B") Face about 5-7 yards (4.5—6.5 meters) apart from the other person.
Player A sets the ball to Player B.
Play B spikes toward Player A.
Player A digs the ball back to Player B, where he can easily set it.
Repeat this sequence as long as you can, trying to stay in the same position.
 Naturally, you'll need your team jersey when you show up to a game. If you save it only for official games, it will stay in better condition.


If you will be playing in multiple games today, get a foam roller to clean up your uniform in between them.
 If you might be helping out as a down ref, you'll need a whistle to halt play when necessary.
 Taping your thumb or finger helps protect it from injury. You may not need this if someone else on the team is willing to share.


If you've injured your fingers before, it's a good idea to wear tape to practice as well.
 If you track team statistics, bring along a notepad and writing utensil.
 If you're heading to an away game, make sure to have some cash with you. This may come in handy in an emergency, or just to buy a meal at the end of a long day.

