 You can attach your saved Google Earth tour to an email, or email a tour from directly within the Google Earth application.


Launch your email client from your computer or log in to your Internet email account, then compose an email adding your saved Google Earth tour as an attachment.
If you are using a Macintosh computer, emailing a Google Earth tour will only be supported if you use the Eudora, Entourage, or Mail applications.
To email a tour directly from the Google Earth application, click on the envelope, or email icon from the Google Earth toolbar, then select "Email Image." You will then be prompted to log in to your email client so Google Earth can attach the tour to your email message.
By default, Google Earth will attach the tour in a Joint Photograph Experts Group (JPEG) file format; however, you will have the option to attach the file in a Keyhole Markup Language (KML) zipped format, also known as a KMZ format.
The KMZ format is recommended for use by other Google Earth users, as this format is directly supported by and built into the Google Earth application.;
, The Google Earth Community is a forum community in which you can share your tour with other Google Earth users.


From your Google Earth session, right-click on your tour file, then select "Share or Post." The Google Earth Post Wizard will then appear on your screen and prompt you to enter details about the tour you are submitting to the Google Earth Community.
You can only use this feature if you are registered with the Google Earth Community. If you are not registered with the Google Earth Community, visit the "Keyhole" website featured in the Sources section of this article, then click on "Register User."
Review and accept the Board Rules for Google Earth Community, then click the "Proceed" button to finish the registration process. You will then be required to provide information needed to create an account for Google Earth Community.
 This will allow other users on your network to access your tour from their computer.


Right-click on your tour or KML file from within Google Earth, then click on "Save As."
Indicate the folder or location on your computer's network in which you want to save your tour for access by other users. Depending on the file formats used by other computers on the network, users will have the option to open your tour as either a JPEG or KMZ file.
 A network link will allow other users on your shared network to click on the link to view your tour, and allows you to make changes to your tour at any time while the link remains the same.


Go to your saved Google Earth tour, then right-click on the file to display a pop-up menu.
Point to "Add," select "Network Link," then provide a name for your link in the "Name" field.
Indicate the path for the location of the tour on your network. You will also have the option to "Browse" for your tour's location on the network.
Enter a description for the tour link, such as "tour of Egypt." The description is only for your reference and will only be seen by you.
Provide the network link to other users on their network. The users can now click on your tour link at any time to being viewing the tour.
 This will allow visitors to your website to view your tour at any time.


Visit the Google Earth "Outreach" link provided in the Sources section of this article, then click on "Use the Embed Tour gadget."
Click on the "click here" link below the Embed Tour section. You will then be taken to a separate page that allows you to customize your gadget.
Enter the details for your gadget based on your preferences. You will be prompted to enter information such as a name for the gadget, the gadget's size, border colors, and more.
Click on the "Get Code" button to obtain the code that you can copy into your website's interface. After installing the gadget on your website, visitors can access the tour from any computer on any network.

