 These crescent-shaped inflatable pillows can make sleeping or resting much more comfortable. Long flights sometimes offer blankets. While these are often light, they deflect air conditioning and provide psychological comfort.


If you don't have a neck pillow at home, you can always pick one up at the airport itself. Most terminals have at least one shop selling inflatable, bead-filled, or memory foam pillows of this sort, and they're surprisingly inexpensive.
 Avoid wearing strong perfume or after-shave, it might provoke reactions, including allergic reactions, from other passengers. Sitting beside someone who detests your perfume may make a 6-8 hour journey seem a lot longer.
 Many planes and even trains keep their cabins cold and crisp. Bring layers, and consider minimising any makeup so that long travel doesn't make it cake and dry it on. However, consider a small travel tube of moisturiser, as skin dries in prolonged air conditioning.
 This is better than opening pill packets while travelling as the contents may spill or jump awkwardly, landing on the floor or disappearing. If you forget and have to unpack pills, go to the toilet, put a plug or cloth in the sink and use the available washstand space.
 Laces mean delays at security, especially for tall boots. Wearing tall boots is easier than packing them but, if so, clear security early. Slip-ons make life easier and some woman's flats can fold into hand luggage if bare feet make your journey more comfortable. Some shoe designs feature steel bars in the sole, avoid these where security checks will mean multiple security checks and delays.
 This is especially important if you'll be stuck on a long flight. Are meals offered? At a cost, or included in the price? Do you have special dietary needs and can you order before travelling?

, Hydration is important. Long trips are dehydrating. If you feel hunger it may actually indicate that you have been ignoring symptoms of thirst. For particularly long trips, pack effervescent Vitamin C&B tablets. Vitamin C helps ward off many common ailments and Vitamin B helps ease stress.
 If available and you want some, have a little to relax and take the edge off the day. Don't drink to excess because you have a captive audience with access to social media and complaint systems. Get drunk on the ground, where airborne antics won't get you barred from flying, or blacklisted. There is another reason to take care. Alcohol dissolves quicker into the bloodstream with carbonated drinks, e.g. champagne, or mixers and all alcohol dissolves faster into the bloodstream at altitude. Your "safe limit" may not apply.
 Consider other passengers and plan ahead. The most common problem is pressurization, which adults fix by yawning or blowing their nose, to "pop" their ears. Babies don't know to do this and the resulting ear pressure can be unbearable. Babies "compensate with their lungs" but to little effect. Sucking can help equalise pressure but a crying baby will spit a dummy. Try getting your child to suck on your finger, or feed the child. Your doctor or infant health centre may have other options.

