 This is the key form you'll need to buy a firearm in New Jersey. You use it to purchase both handguns and long guns (shotguns, rifles, etc.) as long as you fully fill out both the STS-33 and the attached Handgun Purchasing Permit. You will also need some supplemental paperwork too, including:


A government issued ID, such as a passport or driver's license.
A list of 2-3 references, who will fill out a questionnaire testifying that you have sound mental health and judgment.
Cash or Check, usually $60, for fingerprinting.You can find an online version of the form here.;
, You'll need two of these applications. It can't hurt to make a third copy to keep for your own records.


This form will suffice for any type of gun you wish to purchase.
You will still need to apply to carry a handgun separately, but you can buy one for private use with this form., The STS-33 requires you put down two character witnesses, which are the names and addresses of two people who can attest that you're in good mental condition. Be sure to call them ahead of time and ask them if they will be your references, preventing any surprised or nervous behavior that could adversely affect your application.


No one likes a surprise call from the police, so give people a heads up.
 This is offered by your local police municipality, either with the STS-33 or after you've already turned it in. This form allows for the state to perform mental health background check on you.


Make a copy of this as well, as 2 forms must be submitted.
 You'll need to bring the originals in with you as well, but you do not want to leave them there with the police. Once you've got this together, you're ready to finish you application.
 Remember that this needs to be your local municipality. When possible, it doesn't hurt to call ahead of time and run through your paperwork. Ensure that you have everything covered before you waltz into the station.Bring an extra $2.00 for each handgun permit that you intend to get.
Contact your local police department about the methods of payment that they accept. Check who you need to write any checks to. Finally, confirm that these fees are correct, as they may have changed by the time you apply for a gun license.
 In New Jersey, you must be fingerprinted if this is your first time applying for a gun license. If you've applied before, you may be able to skip fingerprinting. However, you must consent to be fingerprinted each time you get a pistol purchasing permit., New Jersey state law states that the police must get your application back to you within 30 days. However, this law is frequently ignored and it may take several months to receive notification if you aren't persistent.


If you have not heard about the status of your application in 30 days, call the police station you filed with. They are legally required to give you a response in 30 days.