 If your local sorority supports Autism Speaks, don't spend time there. If you get upset passing the blue lights in a store, go to a different aisle or store.


Blacklist tags such as #autism, #lightitupblue, #liub, #autismspeaks, and others.Some people choose to boycott groups that support Autism Speaks, such as Dollar General, Lindt, Toys R Us, and more.;
, Seeing people support Autism Speaks can be exhausting, and so can seeing people describe and dissect its every hurtful move. You may feel anxious simply from seeing so many mentions of it. Before entering or observing a discussion about autism awareness, ask yourself:


How much energy do I have?
How stressed am I right now? Can I take additional stress?
What am I doing after this? (You should not be reading upsetting content right before bedtime or before an exam.)
Am I prepared for seeing dehumanizing remarks repeated and discussed?
Are there trigger warnings? What about? Is it described as "possibly upsetting," "extremely disturbing," or somewhere in between?

, It doesn't need to be big: posting a sticker of protest on an Autism Awareness ad,sarcastically commenting on a hurtful post,or posting positive/critical flyersnext to negative posters. Doing something small can help you feel that you've made a difference, and encouraged people to think critically about what they read.


Don't waste time arguing with people who don't care what you have to say. You won't change their mind.Remember, some people genuinely don't know what they're supporting.People might post puzzle pieces on their blogs without having any idea what it represents.
 You may find it empowering and helpful to fight negative messaging for the sake of all autistic people. However, it can also turn draining and depressing. You can't single-handedly turn the world into a safe place, nor should you try to. Your first duty is to yourself, so put your mental health first.


Consider focusing on spreading positive messages, as opposed to engaging with negative ones, if you are concerned about your mental health.
A drained activist is not an effective activist. If you push yourself beyond your limits, you aren't helping anyone. Take a break for a day or two, then see how you feel.
Take it one step at a time. Don't shackle yourself to a large project; only participate if and when you are emotionally strong enough.
 Writing a blog post about fighting stigma? Promise to work on it for 30 minutes and then quit for the day. Wondering how to educate a family member who is lighting it up blue? Schedule a "brainstorming time" to deal with it, perhaps with the help of a supportive friend. Each time you catch your thoughts drifting back to the subject, stop yourself. You will deal with it during the brainstorming time, and no other time.
 You are under no obligation to keep educating yourself or others if it is impacting your mental health. You can always come back when you feel calmer (if ever).


If a friend brings up ableism, use a script like "I appreciate that you want to discuss this with me. I'm a bit overwhelmed right now, so it's not a good time. Let's talk about something happier."