 As with germinating clematis’ from seeds, propagating clematis from cuttings requires quite a bit of preparation and the proper materials. You’ll need a very sharp knife or pair of gardening shears, horticultural disinfectant, 6-inch planters, disinfected potting mixture, fungicide mix, rooting hormone powder, plastic bags, and straws/stakes of some sort to create mini ‘greenhouses’. Begin by using your disinfectant to clean your knife/shears, planting pots, and the stakes/straws you are using.
 Use your knife or gardening shears to make a single clean cut through an existing clematis plant. Cut a vine/branch that is at least 3-feet long, severing the plant just above a set of leaves and below the next node up on the stem. If you can, try to take your cutting from the center of the vine rather than the base or the tip, as this has the highest likelihood of sprouting. Continue to separate your cutting out into smaller sections for planting, by cutting just above a leaf node.
 If you want your cuttings to sprout, it is imperative that you very carefully follow the directions for using your fungicide and rooting hormone mixtures. Start by dunking each of your cuttings in the fungicide mixture, following the directions that came with the mix. Then, dip the ends of each cutting in the rooting hormone mix, being careful to get just the right amount. Adding too much of the rooting hormones can prevent growth, which is not what you want. Finish by cutting one leaf off each stem; this will reduce moisture loss.
 Fill each of your pots with your sterile soil mixture so that they are about ¾ of the way full. Bury the tips of each of the cuttings so that the joint of the leaves are level with the topsoil. Give them a light watering so the soil is damp, and label the pot if applicable.
 Clematis cuttings will thrive in a slightly humid environment, which you can easily create with a few household materials. Stick 3-4 straight straws or bamboo stakes into each container, and place a plastic bag over the top. Make sure that the bag is not touching the plant at all, and give the soil a good watering. Once a day, flip the bag inside out to let excess moisture out and to prevent rotting.
 It will take 6-8 weeks for your cuttings to start growing, and in the meantime they should be placed under the best growing conditions possible. Relocate the potted plants to a place that has plenty of ambient sunlight, but is mainly shaded, with a temperature between 60–70 °F (16–21 °C).


Too much direct sunlight can overheat the young plants, especially under their plastic bags.
 Although your cuttings may sprout in 6-8 weeks, they likely won’t be ready to be planted outdoors for about a year. During this time, water them regularly so that the soil is kept moist at all times, and continue removing and replacing your plastic bag ‘greenhouse’ to keep the humidity up.