 Whoever rolled the highest initial throw has the first attempt to begin the game. To start moving across the board, a player must roll a six to activate a pawn "into play." If the starting person doesn’t roll a six, then the player clockwise to them rolls. The initial six allows a pawn to leave the pocket.


Everyone gets one chance to roll a six, and if they don’t get a six, it becomes the next player’s turn.
 After a player rolls an initial six to activate a pawn into play, that player will roll the die a second time to move the pawn. You must follow the number that is thrown. To land in the “home” section, you need to move the exact number rolled. You can’t capture home pockets if you roll a higher number than required.If there is not a legal move you can make, you have to pass your turn., When the player rolls a six they can get a single pawn out off a pocket. Then you roll again and move that pawn the number of spaces corresponding to the second roll.


If the player rolls a six on the second roll, then the player can choose to place another pawn out of a pocket or move the first pawn. If you moved a second pawn out of your pocket, roll a third time and proceed to move a pawn.
If a player rolls a six on their third roll, they cannot place any pawns out of their pocket. The third six ends a player’s turn., You can capture an opponent’s pawn anytime you land on top of one of their pawns. The pawn that is captured goes back to the corresponding player's pocket. That player then has to roll a six in order to get their pawn out.If an opponent's pawn is blocking your pathway and you cannot capture the pawn, you cannot move that pawn.
 A blob forms when one or more pawns of the same color are on the same space. Blobs act as barriers for all pawns, including yours, on the board. When you have two pawns of the same color and an opponent’s pawn lands on the space, it is called a mixed blob.When a mixed blob occurs, all pawns on the space are returned to their respective pockets.


If there is blob three spaces away from your pawn and you roll a four, you cannot move your pawn towards the blob and must pass your turn. If you roll a four, you can capture your opponent’s pawns, but your pawn will also be sent back to your pocket.
Blobs act as barriers to your pawns as well. The only way to pass your own blob is to first land on it with an exact roll. Then on your next roll, you can move your pawn forward.
You can choose to instead play with "pairs" instead of blobs.
 This is a double edged sword that can either win you the game or lose you the game. You can pair pawns by simply landing one pawn on top of another with an exact number. When pawns are paired, you cannot separate them until you reach the home pocket or get captured back into your pocket. As long as you are paired and not in a pocket, the opponent cannot pass you or take you out, unless they also have a pair and land on top of your pawns.


If an opponent's pair lands on top of your pair, you lose both of your pawns.
You can instead play with the rule of blobs, or create a hybrid by using both options.
 In order to place your pawns into the home run, you'll need to make a lap around the track of the board. Each pawn starts by going to the right. Once you've made a complete lap you can file your pawns into the home run., To win the game, you need to get all your pawns inside the home pocket before your opponent can.You cannot jump pawns in Ludo. If you have an empty space in your homerun, you’re required to move the closest pawn into that space. You must move the pawn according to the number you roll on the die.


If you have one space to move and you roll a three or a two, you cannot move that pawn one space.

