;
, It is attached to the carb with usually 3 or 4 Phillips screws on the bottom. Once removed you can now see the internals of your carburetor. If the inside of the bowl is dirty, you know that you carburetor inside are likely to be as well.
 It is held in by the pin, that can be pushed through and the float will lift out. You can see at this point if the float isn't moving freely you could have a sticky float resulting in excessive flooding of the engine. Make sure this is working freely on re-install.
 first you can remove the high speed jet (the one with the slot on top). It is removed with a flat screwdriver. Once removed you can look at it against a light and see if it is clogged or not. If this is you can soak it for a minute in engine degreaser and then hit it with compressed air to blast out the debris. This may need to be done a few times until fully clear of dirt. Once clean, re-install make sure not to tighten excessively.
 It is usually the one sticking up higher, and usually a hex headed 1/4" brass jet.urn it out of the carb and inspect for a clogged passage. You can soak it in degreaser and blast it with compressed air as well. Repeat that to make sure it is cleaned right out. Look down the passage where the main jet came from and blast air down to clean it out as well. Now you can re-install the main jet.
 Remove linkage and lubricate to help in ease of operation. Clean intake of carburetor so no debris gets into the engine.
 Do all the jets, intake ports, idle ports, overflow ports and where ever you can blow the air. Blow the hole carb out to loosen and remove all the tiny particles of debris.
 You can soak the bowl in some degreaser to loosen some stuck on dirt. Be sure to wipe and clean all dirt at this stage so that no more gets inside. This will later help in less problems with clogged up internals.
 Now you can make sure that your pin is lubed with WD or whichever you choose to make that float operation smoother. Just a little spray on the pin and where it meets the float will help so much. Push the pin through the post coming from the carburetor and through the float mount and back through the other side post. No need to fasten it there because once the bowl is installed it will hold it all together.
 Once re-installed check final operation of the choke and blow last bits of dirt away. You can also hear the float moving if you shake it easily. Once all clean you can install you fuel lines and vent hoses and its all ready for re-installation on the vehicle!

