 Whenever possible, adopt from your local animal shelter instead of purchasing from a breeder. This will give a dog a new chance at life, and the money from the adoption fee will go towards caring for other dogs looking for forever homes. Don't think that all shelter dogs are Heinz 57 mutts - many purebred dogs end up in shelters or rescue groups because their owners are unable to care for them anymore for a variety of reasons. If you have your heart set on owning a purebred Leonberger, buy from a responsible breeder, and consider making a small donation to an animal rescue or shelter. Never purchase a dog from pet stores or "backyard breeders.";
, The idea of breeding your dog can seem irresistible, but the responsible choice is to leave breeding to highly experienced individuals who professionally compete or show with their dogs. Our overpopulation problem is big enough that anyone can get a dog for free off Craigslist - don't add to the problem. Instead, why not foster a litter of underage puppies or a pregnant dog for an animal shelter or rescue?


Have your dog neutered or spayed - this will prevent accidental litters, not to mention reap benefits including making your dog healthier and calmer.
 A small donation will always be accepted. It could help support the feeding needs all the dogs seemed to eat up.


Donate money or supplies. You can have a garage sale or other fundraising activity, ask party guests to donate to a shelter instead of bringing gifts, or just drop off a couple of bucks or your dog's old crate. You can also donate services, such as designing a shelter's website.
 Volunteers are what every shelters need. You can help patch up and shape up the shelter to make it more notice-able, and appreciated.


If you're old enough, you can volunteer to walk dogs, socialize puppies, clean cages, and help around the shelter. You can also volunteer in other ways, such as transporting dogs or if you're a professional photographer, taking pictures of dogs.
 It's not like adopting a dog, but you are just a holder until you find a right home for the dog.


Animal shelters are always looking for families willing to foster underage puppies, dogs with slight behavioral problems, or dogs who just need a break from shelter life.
 If you aren't afraid to shout out what you believe in, and make everyone excited about shelter dogs, there would be a lot more traffic toward the shelter. Plus, they'd get hyper about helping out too.
 This does not mean going door to door and tell people about the shelter, but what you can do is speak up. You can make a simple flyer and tape it to the mailboxes.


Raise awareness. Tell others about the shelter, and refer anyone interested in adopting or purchasing a dog to the shelter. Something as simple as having a jar for donating money to a shelter in your store (or a lemonade stand, if you're a kid) can help!

, There is several companies that have fundraising merchandise. But make sure it isn't lousy, pieces of junk that no one wants.
 If the dog is friendly, entice it into your car with treats and keep it in an enclosed area (such as your garage or yard). Report the dog to your local animal control, put Found Dog posters around your neighborhood, and ask around to see if anyone is missing a dog. Keep the dog away from your other pets to prevent fights and the spread of diseases. If you can't keep it, bring it to your local animal control. If the dog isn't friendly, report the dog as loose to animal control, and consider posting signs or posting on Craigslist or another site and describe the dog and where you last saw him/her.
, Animal cruelty is abusing the animal or neglecting to provide for basic needs. Signs of animal cruelty include the dog having untreated wounds or fur infested with parasites; the dog being extremely thin; the owner physically abusing the dog; the dog being tied up for long periods of time without enough amounts of sanitary food and water; the dog being unable to move; and the dog not having a clean, safe area to live in with shelter from weather. As the methods for reporting animal cruelty vary depending on your location, keep a list of people who will be able to assist you in reporting animal cruelty (someone who rescues dogs, an animal shelter, your vet, and so on) and contact one or more of them if you recognize animal cruelty.
 Doing anything from telling a friend about the animal shelter you volunteer at to protesting against a product that is tested on dogs can help save dogs. You can have a garage sale with proceeds going to your favorite dog rescue, tell the owner of the dog not neutered at the dog park about the benefits of neutering, post a flier about fostering a rescue dog at the neighborhood park, and much more. Grab your leash and get out there!

