 Break off four sections of your white polymer clay, all of the exact same size. On a flat, clean surface, roll these pieces into small balls using your fingertips. These are going to form the body of the snowman. Because these are going to be stud earrings on your earlobes, make sure not to make the balls too large.

You can find polymer clay at your local craft store or online.
 Once you’re satisfied with the size of the balls, lay them flat in two pairs. Gently press down on the balls so that the backs of the balls flatten against the surface. You should now have two figures, each made of two of the white balls.The two white balls are the body and head of the snowman.
If you want to create your earrings so that the head of the snowman is smaller than the body, simply make two of the polymer clay balls smaller. Note, however, that this will make the craft a bit more difficult. You will have less surface area to create the face of the snowman.
 Take sections of each color and roll them against the flat surface you are working on. As you roll them between your palm and the surface, move from side to side so that the clay starts elongating. You want to end up with three long strands of clay, about the width of a piece of yarn.These don’t need to be very long – a couple of inches is plenty., Once you have three even strands, pick them up together and twist them in one direction. The strands should begin coiling around each other. Once you’ve twisted the entire length of the strands, lay it on the surface. Gently press it down flat, just as you did with the white balls.As you press down, the three different colored strands should start to meld together, so they look like one cohesive strand, rather than three strands twisted around each other.
Trim the finished strand into two pieces the same width as the white balls. Place it between the two balls, creating little scarves between the body and head of the snowmen.
 Gently roll two bits of white clay into thin strips, the same width as the white balls. Press this into the “head” of the snowmen. This strip is the fur-lining of the Santa hat. Create triangles from the red clay, and gently press those on top of the white strips. Add a tiny little ball of white clay on top of the red triangle (the puff ball of the Santa hat) and you’re all set!, Once the bodies, scarves, and hats of your two snowmen are completed, you just need to add the details. Press two tiny dots of black clay into the top white ball to create eyes. Add a larger red dot for a nose. Finally, add two red buttons down the bottom white ball. Now, your little clay creations should look like perfect, bundled up snowmen., Baking the polymer clay will harden it and turn the snowmen into wearable earrings. Place your snowmen on a small piece of foil, and place that in the center of a baking tray or cookie sheet. Then, look on the package of your polymer clay to determine the temperature and baking time. It’s crucial that you follow the instructions for the exact type of polymer clay you purchased.Do not place your snowmen in the oven until it has preheated completely.
Once your clay has baked for the full time, turn off the oven. Then, let your clay cool in the turned off oven, or remove it and wrap it in a kitchen towel. It’s important that your clay snowmen cool gradually, instead of abruptly.
 You can buy earring backs at many craft stores or online. Once your snowmen have cooled completely, glue the back of the earring onto the snowman wherever you want it to go.You may want the snowmen to sit higher on your lobe, meaning your earring back should be placed on the body. If you want your snowmen to hang a bit off your lobes, you can glue the back onto the hat of the snowman. It’s completely up to you!

Let the glue dry overnight before wearing your new snowman earrings.

