 When an opportunity to be vague arises, consider whether it would be more accurate to provide more information. It's often a good idea to volunteer information to show that you aren't withholding information.Here's an example:


In a new one-on-one relationship, one partner might ask the other: "How was your day?" The response might be: "It was alright." This does not build trust, because you haven't shared any real information.
Now imagine another response to the question: “Well, I had a doctor’s appointment today. I thought it would be routine, but the doctor suspects that I might have a heart murmur. She said that she didn’t have any conclusive information, but she wants me to come in for more tests next week. I don’t know if I should be worried about this." This response suggests openness, and builds trust.
In this case, your new partner would be upset to not know about the doctor’s news, even though you aren’t certain of the results yet. Omission would hurt the closeness of the relationship. This is because you might be worrying about the test all week, but your partner wouldn’t know why you were anxious. He or she would also probably want to know in case there was anything they could do to help you.
 The main reason it is best not to omit important details is because it is hard to stay consistent in what you share. People will start to notice contradictions in your stories, and you will lose credibility, even if you are only omitting a little.


If you really want to build trust, tell people things they need or want to know.
 You shouldn't have to to give up your most personal feelings and secrets just to build trust. Remember, everyone feels they have a right to control their personal information.The key to being trustworthy while also maintaining your privacy is to make your boundaries clear.


For example, you might tell someone: "I am not ready to share my feelings about that right now. But, I promise you have nothing to worry about." This gives your listener a chance to prove that he or she is understanding and patient. Most importantly, it also gives your listener a sense of security. It is a better choice than being vague or dishonest to avoid talking about something private.

