 Chihuahuas, in general, are energetic. If they do not have structured play time, they’ll usually attempt to entertain themselves in a way that may be distractive or frustrating to you as a human. In order to make sure your chihuahua has some play time to work off some of his excess energy, and to make sure you have time to interact with him, schedule time to play with him every day.It is best to make this play time the same time every day. Your chihuahua will learn what time is play time and will come to expect it.
This play time should be dedicated to your dog, which means you don’t get distracted by other activities you may also need to do.
This might also be a great time every day to take your chihuahua outside, maybe into your backyard, where you can chase him or have him play fetch with plenty of room.
 Think of your daily walk with your chihuahua as both good for you and for him. It gives you a 30 minute walk outside every day, and it gives him a chance to work off some energy. To make things interesting, don’t walk the same route every day, change it up.A 30 minute walk is likely long enough for your chihuahua. Unlike larger dogs, your chihuahua will not be able to go jogging or hiking with you.You can, however, carry your chihuahua with you in a dog carrier that’s also a backpack or even a stroller.
 Because the inside of your house or apartment may be too small, and may have a lot of breakable items, you will probably want to keep the energy level of play inside at a much lower level than outside. Every now and again, take your chihuahua outside to a place where you can take off his leash and allow him to run around all he wants. In an ideal situation, this could be your backyard. But if you don’t have a large enough yard, or you don’t have a yard at all, you might want to consider a dog park or fenced area where you know it’s safe.Be careful where you let your chihuahua off his leash. Some cities and municipalities may have bylaws regarding where dogs can be allowed off-leash. Not to mention some open areas or even dog parks may have large, aggressive dogs also off-leash that may harass or injure your chihuahua.
You may also want to consider doggy day care for your chihuahua. Doggy day cares are great in that they keep your dog entertained all day while you’re at work. That means you dog isn’t getting into trouble in an empty house and he’s burning off energy before you get home. Some doggy day cares have large indoor and outdoor play areas where the dogs can run around and play with each other.
 Chihuahuas are small and so are their mouths. As such, most regular-sized dog toys are too big for them to hold onto with their mouths. This means you may have to be careful about the size of toys you buy your chihuahua. One great option is to get him stuffed toys rather than plastic or hard toys. Stuffed toys are easy for your chihuahua to crush and put in his mouth, and they’re quite light for him to carry around.These toys are great for him to use when you aren’t able to play with him. The toys can keep him entertained so he hopefully doesn’t play with breakable household items instead!

, While you may still want to get your chihuahua a collar to put tags on, don’t use his collar for his leash. Instead, buy your chihuahua a small harness to use with his leash. Harnesses go around his chest and mid-section rather than his neck. Being as chihuahuas are so small, it can be easy to accidentally pull too hard on the leash and hurt his neck if his leash is only attached to a collar.It might take a couple tries for your chihuahua to get use to wearing a harness. If required, leave the harness on your chihuahua for slightly longer periods of time each day until he’s use to it.
It’s also good to be careful about the size and weight of the leash you use with your chihuahua. Buy the lightest leash you can as the extra weight of a heavy leash can also cause your chihuahua trouble when you’re taking him for a walk.
 Chihuahuas don’t often get along with other dogs or animals, unless it’s another chihuahua. If you don’t have enough time to keep your chihuahua entertained, or you don’t like leaving him alone while you’re at work, one option is to get another chihuahua. Two or more chihuahuas will keep each other company and will play with each other when you aren’t able to.Getting a second chihuahua isn’t an excuse for ignoring your dogs. You still need to make time in your schedule to play and walk both dogs on a regular basis.

