 Place 10 tablespoons (140 g) of unsalted butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. While the butter melts, you can crush 1 10.6 ounce (300 g) package of digestive biscuits in a food processor until they're crumbs. Pour the melted butter into the crumbs and put the lid on the food processor. Blitz the mixture until the butter is incorporated.If you can't find digestive biscuits, you can use graham crackers. You may need to break up the sheets of graham crackers, so they fit in the food processor.
 Get out a 9-inch (23 cm) springform pan with a removable bottom. Dump the buttery crumbs into the pan and spread them evenly. Use your fingers to press the crust firmly into the bottom of the pan. Put the pan in the fridge to chill.If you don't want to use your hands to press the crust, you can use the bottom of a glass or measuring cup.
 Let 18 ounces (500 g) of cream cheese come to room temperature. It should be completely soft. Place it into a large mixing bowl along with 2/3 cup (85 g) of powdered sugar. Use a hand or stand mixer to beat the cream cheese and powdered sugar on low speed. Once the sugar is incorporated, you can turn the speed to high and beat the mixture, so the cream cheese becomes fluffy.If you try to beat the cream cheese while it's still cold, the cheesecake filling will be lumpy.
 Pour 1 1/4 cup (300 ml) of heavy whipping cream cream into a large mixing bowl along with 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract. Use electric mixer to whisk the cream on high speed for a few minutes, so soft peaks form in the cream.If you can, chill the mixing bowl and whisk attachments for about 15 minutes before you want to whip the cream. This will help the cream whip up faster.
 Use a rubber spatula to spoon the whipped cream into the cream cheese mixture. Gently fold the whipped cream into the mixture, so it's completely incorporated. Avoid stirring in the whipped cream or you'll lose the volume.To fold, hold the spatula and use a twisting motion with your wrist, so the whipped cream is gently combined with the cream cheese.
 Unwrap 15 hazelnut chocolates and use a sharp knife to carefully chop them into rough pieces. Set aside about two-thirds of the chopped chocolates to use for the garnish. Scoop the remaining third into the bowl with the cream cheese filling and gently stir the chocolates in.You can use hazelnut chocolates like Ferrero Rocher or even just chocolate covered hazelnuts.
 Use the rubber spatula to pour and spread the filling over the crust in your springform pan. Spread the top, so the filling is even. Cover the cheesecake with plastic wrap and put it in the refrigerator to chill for at least 6 hours.If you want to make the cheesecake ahead of time, you can make it a day in advance and chill it overnight.
 Measure 4 tablespoons of chocolate hazelnut spread into a small saucepan. Turn the heat on low so the spread melts within a few minutes. It should become runny. Turn the heat off and let the chocolate cool a little. Drizzle it over the cheesecake and chill the cheesecake until you're ready to serve it.You can also sprinkle the remaining chopped hazelnut chocolates over the cheesecake as a garnish.

