 Look for an aerosol spray formulated for indoor use and apply it to areas where you have seen Collembola and areas you suspect the Collembola might be passing through.Most indoor insecticides used against Collembola contain bifenthrin, carbaryl, or diazinon.
Some insecticides may also contain chlorpyrifos, cyfluthrin, deltamethrin, or prallethrin.
 If the majority of the concentration is outside, purchase a pesticide specifically formulated for outdoor use and apply it to mulch, soil, or other areas housing the Collembola.Most outdoor insecticides used against Collembola contain bifenthrin, carbaryl, chlorpyrifos, deltamethrin, or diazinon. Some may also contain fluvalinate, malathion, prallethrin, or pyrethrins.
You can apply outdoor pesticides as barrier treatments so that the animals will die as they try to enter your house, or you can apply the pesticide as a broadcast treatment to kill the Collembola living in a known source of infestation.
Apply outdoor pesticides in the afternoon and early evenings, when Collembola are the most active.
 For a more natural pesticide, simply mix some liquid soap and water in a spray bottle and get to work. Spray any area where you spot collembola crawling around, as well as any area where you've spotted them in the past. Bear in mind- all the Collembola you will see are harmless and only annoying as a snow flea, when they can appear in their millions. Collembola are so small that you will not have much luck sweeping them away with a broom. Spraying water at these pests is the only way to physically remove them.
If you still want to remove and kill these beautiful animals, you will need to mix in about 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of dish soap for every 2 cups (500 ml) of water. The soap coats the animals, causing them to suffocate.
 While it is rare, major collembola infestations may require the help of a professional exterminator who can legally handle stronger chemicals.Be aware that even a professional pest control service won't be able to get rid of your collembola infestation quickly. You'll likely see continue to see signs of the springtails emerging from underground, below concrete slabs, beneath foundations, etc.
Complete eradication may require 2-3 treatments.

