 You can register for a Netflix account in the Netflix website (www.netflix.com) using your favorite web browser on your tablet.;
, Click on the blue “Start Your Free Month” icon then select a plan by tapping on either Silver, Gold, or Platinum.
 Near the bottom of the screen, you should see an email address and password field under “Create your account.” Enter your email address and the password for your Netflix account then tap on “Register” to proceed to the next requirements.


Enter the rest of the needed details, such as credit card info, to complete your registration.
 Open the Google Play Store app by tapping its icon on your home screen. The icon looks like a white shopping bag with a play icon in the middle.


You can also launch it from your app drawer.
 Tap on the search icon at the top right of the screen, enter “Netflix” in the search field, then tap the magnifying glass to begin your search. Tap on the app’s name that appears in the results.


Netflix is only available in selected countries, so you may not see it in the results after searching if you are not in one of those countries.
 You should be taken to the Netflix app description page. Tap on the “Install” button on the bottom right of the app name, and then tap on “Accept” when the permissions window comes up.


The app will begin downloading and installing Netflix on your tablet.
 If you’re still on the app’s Google Play page, tap on the “Open” button, which replaced the “Install” button, to launch the app.


If you’ve left Google Play, locate the app in your app drawer or home screen, and tap on it there.
 Use your registered email address and password to enter Netflix. Tap on the “Login” or “Continue” button to access your Netflix account.
 Tap on the search icon (magnifying glass) in the upper right corner of the main Netflix screen, and then type in the name of the movie you would like to stream in the search bar that appears.


In the results, tap on the movie to access the menu for that particular movie.
 Some movies will be divided into chapters, which you can select from the list in the right. Once you tap one, the video player will load up and take you directly to the chapter that you’ve selected.
 If you want to have subtitles for your movie, you can enable it. Tap anywhere on the screen during playback, which will make the dialogue button (speech bubble icon) in the upper right corner appear. Tap on it, and select the subtitle option you want.


Tap on Done, and playback should resume with your selected subtitle option.
 Should you need to pause the movie, do so simply by tapping anywhere on the screen to make the HUD (heads-up display, or status bar) appear. Then tap on the Pause button that appears in the lower left corner.

