 If your child has special needs, they should have an IEP (Individual Education Program). Make an appointment with your child's teacher to discuss creating your child's IEP. If your child does not yet have an IEP, make an appointment to create one.


Prepare for the IEP. If you have any documents that support your case, bring them. This could include medical records, notes from previous teachers, etc.
Schedule a conference with your child's teacher and the principal.
Ask the school to have your child assessed by specialists in the school system. This will not cost you any money.
Based on the findings of the evaluation, an IEP will be created.;
, To arrange the IEP, the principal might want to hold a meeting that includes you and any professionals with information to contribute. This might include special education teachers, previous teachers of your child, and home-aides or social workers who work with your child). If your child is over 16, they may also be included.


Invite anyone you think can help contribute, such as after-school educators or coaches.
If you don't feel your school is treating the situation fairly, you may hire an attorney to accompany you to the meeting.
If you can't afford an attorney, the school system may provide you with one for a discount or for free., While you participate in the planning of the IEP, make sure you state very specific requirements for the individual who will be helping your child. Advocate that the IEP specify hiring someone with a specific degree, certificate, or a certain number of years of experience in the needs of children like yours.


It is frequently a challenge for schools to afford properly qualified individuals, but they must make every attempt to hire someone who fits the requirements of the IEP.
 If your child's evaluation does not say they need an assistant, but you believe they do, you can have your child independently evaluated. Visit a specialist in your child's condition and ask them for an evaluation.


Under FAPE, the school board must consider all independent evaluations.In some cases, the school will conduct their own IEE. This happens when the school system does not have anyone qualified to evaluate your child.
 One-to-one aide's can make all the difference for your child. In many cases, however, a one-to-one aide restricts a child's developing independence.Look around for schools with integrated classrooms, or other schools that emphasize peer support.


If it is developmentally feasible, the goal should be to reduce the presence of the aide until they are no longer needed.

