 You eliminate the naturally produced oils when you rub shampoo through your hair.These oils protect your hair shafts and moisturize your scalp.


When you send processed chemicals through your hair, you break it down and prevent it from growing out in a healthy fashion. Think of it like obsessively washing your hands. The more you wash, the drier and more cracked they become.
You don't need to stop washing your hair entirely. Start by washing every other day. Once you get used to this, you can wash every three days. This schedule is recommended in solidifying good hair health.;
, When you wash your hair, make sure that you aren't damaging it. Overuse of shampoo can crack your hair and make your split ends worse.








Shampoo your scalp only, being careful not to scrub the ends of your hair. The soap will slide down your ends when you rinse, cleaning them without excessive force. Harshly scrubbing the ends themselves will deteriorate your hair.
Some people think that you have to change your shampoo often. According to experts, it's better to stick with a product that works for you.
If you have oily hair or use product, you might want to break up your routine with a clarifying shampoo. Stronger shampoos wash away extra residue left behind from oil or overuse of products.
 While shampooing too often will damage your hair, most conditioners replenish lost lipids and proteins.Whenever your hair is wet, you'll want to condition it.









Any dye or heat application strips your hair of these essential lipids and proteins. The strands toward the base of your hair grow weaker over time. You want to bolster them again.
You'll also seal the cuticle at the end of hair. This prevents future damage from occurring. If you can fight these issues, your hair will stay healthy and strong for a longer period of time.
 Studies show that any irritation or inflammation to the scalp can greatly damage the health of your hair.Some people don't notice their hair damage until it begins to fall out. You want to avoid this fate by taking care of your scalp now.









It's dangerous to aggressively comb or brush your hair at any point. When it's wet, however, your hair is even more vulnerable. Pulling on it will put physical stress on your hair fiber, as well as leading to flaking in the protective cuticle.
Use a wide-tooth comb and begin brushing from the bottom, rather than the top. This prevents breakage.
 Rushing to dry your hair quickly can be very problematic, and it's a major way to damage its health. Blow drying, like any "flash drying" method, will fry the surface moisture on your hair.Unfortunately, it will also dry out the water bound to your hair, otherwise known as the "water of hydration."









Sucking out this water will make your cuticles dry, rigid, and brittle. This causes your cuticles to crack, leading to more significant breakage.
You also want to avoid putting your hair in a towel. Any time you wrap wet hair up tightly, you damage it. Even rubbing your hair dry with a towel can cause your hair to deteriorate.
If you do need to dry your hair quickly, wrap it in a soft microfiber towel or a cotton tee-shirt.

