 Mynah birds are omnivorous and, in the wild, eat a variety of fruits, nuts, insects and small animals. In captivity, you may find that it is expensive and difficult to provide your bird with a regular supply of these foods. Instead, you will likely want to feed your animal a steady diet of pellets designed specifically for mynah birds. Also, because mynah birds do not bite and chew their food, it is important that the food is presented in bite-sized pieces.Because mynah birds suffer from hemochromatosis, or an inability to store iron, you should feed them low iron (150 parts per million) mynah bird pellets. These pellets should be roughly 60% of your bird’s diet.
Unless you are breeding birds, insects should not be more than 5% of your bird’s diet.
If your mynah bird’s diet is less than 60% pellets, you may want to consider various supplements., If your mynah bird has been socialized since birth, you can let it out of its cage to fly around your home. However, before you let your bird out of its cage, make sure that you have closed all of the windows and doors, turned off any fans, covered any water, and ensured that there are not any predators around, such as house cats. Also, remember that mynah birds are not a hands-on bird and will not perch on your hand like a parrot.You may want to clip your birds wings. Without a clipping, mynah birds can lose their balance and have a difficult time landing. This can result in injury or death.
 Mynah birds are fastidious creatures and bathe multiple times a day. The easiest way to meet their bathing needs is to place a shallow dish of water in your bird’s habitat. Make sure to change the dish water on a regular basis, as the bird’s droppings will likely fall in it throughout the day.Because of their sensitivity to chemicals and pathogens, be sure to fill your bird’s bowl with distilled water and avoid using tap water.
 Purchase toys and other playful things for your bird. Mirrors, bells, bottle caps, and other small items can serve as toys for your mynah bird. These products will help keep your bird happy and engaged.Avoid rope toys because they can get caught in your bird’s tongue or toenails.

