 Be sure to find out what they need to live, such as tank size, food, and compatible species. If you don't know these basics, you're not yet ready to own fish.;
, For example, common mistakes include putting goldfish and bettas in bowls, adding fish before cycling your tank, and placing incompatible fish together.
 This includes the food, the tank, the filter, substrate, lighting, a heater, and a test kit to measure ammonia, nitrite, nitrate, and pH. You also need water conditioner to remove the chlorine and chloramine in tap water. Spend some time reading the instructions accompanying all of the products you've purchased, as this is a really good way of quickly improving your knowledge and helps you to understand how to set everything up and proper care for that product.
 Fill up the chosen container with water. Then, turn on all equipment and check that it's all working. It is better to find out the things that don't work and fix them before adding the fish.
, These can have the benefit of offering shelter, filtering the water, and even serving as food. However, be sure to match the types of plants to the fish you're going to keep.
 Fish appreciate things to do and places to chill, just like all living beings. Give them things to hide under, rest on, swim through, look at and even be challenged by. This can include beautifully colored gravel, interesting water tank decorations, large pebbles/rocks, and water cascades.
 It is always best to add only one to three fish at a time. Float the bag in the water for 10 or more minutes so the fish can adjust to the water temperature. Then, add some of your water in the tank into the bag and float it again for 10 or more minutes. If necessary, do it again. Then, gently net the fish out and place it into the tank. This will prevent the transfer of diseases and waste from the pet store.
, Be sure to vacuum the gravel. Don't replace the filter media if it looks dirty, just rinse it gently in used tank water so you won't kill off the beneficial bacteria that live in the filter.
 The plant life should support the fish, not take over the tank. You will need to cull overgrowth when it occurs and remove diseased or dead plants. You will also need to pay attention to getting rid of algal growth, even if you have fish that feed off it.
