 In the tips section I will add a link to a list of mill cards, a few deck ideas, and a few more helpful hints.;
, Find cards that mill your opponents deck, and find the best way to turn that into a deck. Or you can make a combo that mills cards, and then build your deck around getting that combo on the field, and keeping it there.
 But before you continue, consider how you will deal with decks that play into being milled, like Primordial Sun decks, or Lightsworn decks. or direct damage decks, which will thrive on a lack of offence on your part. So unless you get clever with the way you choose to mill the other player, you will most likely counter these decks using your support cards, which i will talk about later

, The way you do this is up to you, but for best results you should have 3 copies of about 10 different cards, but depending on your strategy, you might need 1 copy of 30 different cards, or 1 copy of some and multiple copies of others. If you plan on using an extra deck, now would be a good time to find the cards that will go into it, and at any point when you change your main deck you can change the cards that are in here too.
 These last 10 cards will be support cards. Support cards are anything that will keep you live long enough to win the game, and depending on the type of deck you have, the cards picked in step 4 might be support cards themselves, for example if you are making a stall deck all or most of the cards will be support already. If this is the case, you can add another 10 cards to that list and call it good. If that is not the case, add 10 support cards that fit the type of deck you are making. For example, if your deck is monster heavy put cards that add conditions to attacking, like having to mill cards to attack. If your deck is monster light put cards that will wipe the field of all monsters, and or stop attacks altogether.
 If you are using one of the other methods, you can test play by seeing how many cards you can mill in a certain number of terns.
,(by now you should be able to survive 15-20 terns, or mill 20+ cards by tern 7)

, a side deck is not needed, but if you plan on playing in tournaments its best to have one, so you can customize your deck to better fit who you are playing. What goes in the side deck is largely up to you, but its best to have about 5 support cards, and about 10 cards that didn't quite make to cut for your main deck.
,,