 A man who is interested will find any excuse to touch you. This could be anything from simply touching your arm when you say something funny to reaching over and brushing an eyelash off your face.



Where he touches you is also important. If your date is trying to flirt with you, he'll make a point to touch your back, upper thigh/arm, or your sides.He also may try to grab your elbow to guide you through a crowd, showing you and everyone else that he's with you. , When you hug, is the duration of the hug longer than 5-10 seconds? Platonic hugs are usually about that, but if he's holding on longer than that, it probably means he doesn't want it to be a 'just friends' hug. If he lingers and holds on a little when you pull away, you know he doesn't want to let go.


This may change based on the two people's comfort level, but if he gently strokes your back or sways a little while you hug, he probably really cares about you. He may also try to hug you so that your arms go around his neck and his arms around your waist. Waists are fascinating to guys because they don't have them, so he'll want to hug you around the waist.
 As a man begins to flirt more, he'll start to use his hands more, too. He'll get more animated and use more gestures when he speaks. He'll also start to fidget more and use his hands to fix his hair, clothing, etc. Here are some examples of behavior to watch for:


He fixes his hair. Watch him when you get up to leave a room. Do his hands immediately fly up to fix his hair? Smoothing or ruffling his hair is a sign he's trying to look good for you. He touches his face. When humans are attracted to someone, their skin (especially on their face) becomes more sensitive. Therefore, look for him to continuously rub his chin, cheek, or lips. He may also lick his lips or take frequent sips from his drink.
He rubs his stomach. While this can be a sign of insecurity, there's a good chance that it also means your man is trying to get you to notice him. He smooths his shirt or pants. This form of preening can mean both that he's nervous and that he's trying to look his best for you.
He offers you his hand palm-up. If you're at the hand-holding stage, pay attention to the way he offers you his hand. If his palm is facing up, he's hoping to connect on more than just a physical level., This is a tricky one, but if your man usually has good posture, look for slight slouching around you. This indicates not only that he feels comfortable around you, but also that he wants to take you into his arms. , Does he laugh easily around you? A man who is attracted to and comfortable around you will laugh more easily than a man who couldn't care less. In addition, he may try harder to make you laugh or get you to notice him. If your date is exceptionally silly around you or exceptionally loud when you're in the same room, you can bet he's hoping you find him as funny as he finds you.
 He may try to move in closer when you don't seem to be watching to test if you feel comfortable around him. In normal conversation, a man will be 1.5–2 feet (0.5–0.6 m) away from another person. If he is closer, you can take that as a sign that he's attracted to you.
 If your calves are pressed against one another, if he leans in very close pressed against your shoulder to whisper to you, if he leans his head on yours or on your shoulder, if he nudges you or lightly pushes you, these are all signs he's interested in you.
 It may sound creepy, but does he hold out his hand to compare how much smaller your hands are to his? Is he fascinated by the difference in your leg-torso proportions and his? Does he look at your feet when they are next to his? If he is interested in you as a person, he'll be interested in your body as well as it is one component of who you are. Depending on the guy this might come off as either an almost child-like curiosity about your body to the other extreme of a more 'checking-you-out' kind of sexual vibe. This should hopefully be a clue to if he likes you as a person or just your body.
 Does he blink frequently? Do his pupils dilate around you? These are both indications that he's interested in you. In addition, he may return your long stare. Long lasting, comfortable (not piercing) eye contact is a sign that he wants to get to know you.


Notice the pattern in which he looks at you. If he moves his eyes in a triangular pattern (eye to eye to nose/mouth), he likes the way you look. . This is also true if he lets you notice him checking you out.

