 Many credit cards will provide collision and theft/loss insurance in foreign countries—with no deductible—free of charge. As long as you use that card to rent the car, you’ll be covered. Just call your card company to get a detailed description of the coverage they provide.Make sure you find out where the coverage applies (Italy and Ireland usually aren’t covered), what parts of the car are covered, the coverage limits, and how long the coverage lasts., If you rent a car that’s worth more than your coverage limits, you might be in for a rude awakening at the rental counter. That’s because the rental company will require you to purchase one of their CDWs to make up the loss.


On top of everything, buying a CDW from a rental company might invalidate the coverage from your card company altogether. That means you’ll need to purchase even more coverage (CDW and super-CDW and loss/theft) to get the same protection you would have had through your credit card.Just ask the rental company for the insured value of each car you’re considering before you reserve it.
 A letter of coverage is a statement explaining the limits and nuances of the coverage you get from your card company. Although you should be covered with or without the letter, the letter of coverage will prove it to your rental company.Your card company will typically cover any drivers listed on the rental agreement, but they have to be listed. Any increase in price from the rental company for extra drivers is probably worth the savings from not buying the insurance. Make sure the letter of coverage mentions this specifically, as a rental company could use its omission as a pretext to make you purchase coverage from them.
 If you use the insurance provided by your credit card company, the rental company may very well put a hold on your card for the value of the deductible, the value of the card, or up to your credit limit if that is lower. That means you might be maxed out on the card you use for the rental—hence the backup card for other purchases.Some rental companies will decline to rent you a car if your credit limit is lower than the value of the car. If you get in this situation, look at cheaper cars or different rental companies before you use the rental car company’s coverage.
 If you do get into an accident, the rental company will charge your card for the full value of the damage—which is likely to be liberally estimated. You will then have to get reimbursement from the card company.Make sure you get a copy of the police report from the local police and the rental company’s report of the accident. You’ll need them in order to document your claim.

