 Although a single vote is unlikely to affect the outcome of an election, voting is still important.It gives you the opportunity to take part in democracy and make your choices known. If you are old enough to vote, then make sure that you participate in your local, state, and national elections.


If you want to have a bigger impact on elections, then you might consider starting a grassroots campaign to educate people about a new law or candidate.
 If you are good at utilizing social media sites like Twitter, Snapchat, or Instagram, you can always post relevant information about your cause and how people can get involved. For example, you can use Facebook to promote your local dog shelter, or use Twitter to voice your opinion on the current presidential race.


You can also try starting a blog to raise awareness about issues and causes. For example, if you are a talented writer who cares about the environment, you can use Blog Spot to write about endangered species and how people can help. Or if your talent lies in art or photography, you can use Instagram to promote your cause.
 Many religions and faiths are built on the principle that rehabilitation of mankind can be achieved through pure and holy deeds. This is not to say that your act has to be a religious one, it simply means that it should come from the most wholesome and moral place in your heart. Be kind, just for the sake of being kind, without expectation of anything in return. One single act can result in many more.For instance, leave a bouquet of flowers at the hospital and allow the nurses to give them to a patient who could really use them. Or leave random sticky notes on the bathroom mirror offering kind words (like “you matter”) to strangers.Or you can try allowing someone to cut in front of you at the grocery store, or paying for someone’s morning coffee to demonstrate selflessness., Donate items in your home that you no longer use, but that may be of use to others. This can be anything from furniture, shoes, clothing, electronics, and more. Make sure items are in working condition, contain all pieces, or are free of rips and stains.You can donate through your local church, agencies like the Salvation Army, or even through online donation groups through Facebook or Yahoo.

