 A regular pet carrier (available at pet supply stores) is just fine. Look for one that is big enough for your cat to turn around in, but small enough to feel cozy.You can line the bottom of the carrier with a towel, blanket, or even an old t-shirt to make it more comfortable for your cat.
 If you are try to catch your cat indoors, corralling it into a room can make it easier to get it in its carrier. Make sure beforehand that all doors and windows are shut, and that there are no easy places for the cat to run to or hide in.


If you are trying to catch a cat outdoors, you can try to get the cat into a mostly enclosed area first, and keep any exits blocked. For example, if there is a hole in a fence, cover it with a board first so that the cat cannot escape through it.
 Set the carrier near your cat, leaving its door open. See if the cat will enter the carrier on its own, or if you call its name first.Once the cat is fully inside, close the carrier door quickly but gently.
 If the cat will not enter the carrier on its own, you may have to motivate it with food.Your cat’s favorite treats will do fine, or try a smelly, wet food such as tuna, sardines, canned cat food, and moist pieces of chicken.You can also try catnip or valerian, if your cat is attracted to these herbs.
 Once you have the carrier and bait ready, try the following technique:


Set the carrier near some treats with its door open.
Wait for your cat to eat some.
Place food nearer and nearer the carrier, if the cat will move closer to it.
Place food inside the carrier and wait for the cat to step in and begin eating it.
Once the cat is fully inside, close the door quickly but gently.
Don’t try to force the cat into the carrier—it may run away, and you will have to start the whole process of catching it all over again.
Once your cat is in its carrier, you can put a blanket or towel over it to help calm it.
 A laser pointer or other toy can also be used to coax your cat into the carrier.Simply make the cat chase the laser pointer into the opened carrier, then quickly shut it.