 Gently rinse the foot under lukewarm water, or fill a bucket with clean warm water and submerge the paw. Submerging the paw is helpful for washing out any debris that may be in the area. If necessary, you can use tweezers to remove any debris., If your dog’s paw continues to bleed after you have removed any debris and washed the wound, use a clean bandage or cloth to apply light pressure to the area until the bleeding stops.If you cannot control the bleeding after 5 minutes of continuous pressure, seek veterinary care.Lying the dog down and elevating the injured paw will help slow the bleeding.
 You will need to apply an antiseptic like povidone-iodine (e.g., Betadine, Pyodine, and Wokadine) to kill any germs near the wound. Applying the antiseptic at full strength, however, can burn your dog’s paw. Diluting to a solution of one part povidone-iodine to 10 parts warm water is suggested. It will appear to be the color of weak tea., Once any blood and debris are removed and the wound has been cleaned, swab the area with a cotton ball saturated in the diluted povidone-iodine solution and allow the area to air dry.
 You can either use a salve designed for humans, such as bacitracin (e.g., Neosporin) or one developed specifically for dogs (Vetericyn). The antibacterial ointment will help prevent infection and is safe if your dog happens to lick it., The first layer on the wound should be sterilized and nonstick. It should be large enough to cover the entire injury. Some good brands for non-adhering dressing pads include Telfa and Medtronic. You can find them at most pharmacies and some grocery stores or convenience stores.
 Lightly wrap the absorbent pad and the foot pad with a self-adhering bandage designed for animals (such as Vertrap, Pet-Flex, or Pet Wrap). Leave the front toes out, and wrap the paw up to the wrist joint. The claws of the paw should be nearly touching. If the claws are separated or if the foot feels cold, you have tied the bandage too tight. Remove and try again.This will not only protect the injury from being infected, it will also offer additional cushioning for the foot pad.
Be sure the pressure is appropriate for your dog; you don’t want to cut off his circulation. The wrapping should be snug enough that it stays on their foot but loose enough that you can place two fingers under the bandaging. Tying the bandage too tight can cut off the blood supply to the paw and may even cause limb death. Call your vet if you are worried about tying the bandage too tightly.

