 While you can't predict everything, there are steps you can take to maximize the likelihood of avoiding nasty storms or other wet weather. Have an idea of the typical climate your destination experiences, and what times of year the area is most prone to certain kinds of weather.


Hurricane season in the United States and the Caribbean lasts from June 1st through November 30th, with late summer and early fall presenting the highest risk. If traveling to tropical regions such as South Florida, the Bahamas, Eastern Mexico, etc. bear in mind that hurricanes can form quickly and are likely to strike these areas first, causing the most damage and biggest difficulties returning home before the storm makes landfall.
Vacationers traveling to the northern United States or regions in Europe or Russia during the winter season should use extra caution. Snowstorms, blizzards, and ice storms can cause serious travel impairments that can limit outdoor excursions and cancel flights by the hundreds.
While not as severely problematic as hurricanes or winter storms, thunderstorms, flooding, monsoons, etc. all plague different regions of the world throughout the year, some more frequently or regularly than others. Check online or with a travel agent who can offer more detailed information personalized for your destination.;
, Try selecting a place to travel that has suitable or stable weather conditions during your stay.



Book nonrefundable tickets only if your budget does not allow for a slightly more expensive refundable ticket. In the event that inclement weather cancels your flight, you will be both out of luck and out of the cost of your plane ticket.
Airline insurance typically covers the cost of lost tickets due to flights cancelled for "Act of God" events such as hurricanes and blizzards. Despite this, it isn't always the best option - insurance can be very expensive, depending on the coverage policy you choose, and not always necessarily worth it for travel to most destinations.
Don't get stuck at the airport. As soon as you get the news your flight is cancelled due to inclement weather, head immediately to the nearest ticket agent for your airline and try to reschedule on the next flight out. If this isn't possible, call the reservations number, but only as a last resort.
 This will help protect you in case of bad weather. Carefully read and understand the inclement weather clause of the policy before purchasing it.
 Do this before you leave when you have time to plan ahead. If rain or the like does start to impact your vacation, you'll already have activities to do and therefore minimize frustration and disappointment as much as possible.

