 If you'd like to sort, delete, or to archive your emails, you'll need to click on it first. Then, a list of options will pop up above the email. You can also just click on the little box to the left of the email to check it.
 Archiving the email will still store it under the "All Mail" option to the left side of your emails, but it won't be visible in your main inbox anymore. This is a good option if you like to keep your inbox tidy. To archive the email, just click on the button that looks like a file with a downward-pointing arrow on the top left of the email.

To undo an archive, drag the archived message into the trash. If not deleted manually, the message will be deleted automatically within thirty days.
 To mark the selected email as spam, just click on the stop sign with an exclamation mark in the task bar above the email. This will send it to your Spam folder.
 To delete your email, simply click on the trashcan above it.
 Just click on the folder to the right of the trashcan and select the folder where you'd like to send the email.
 Click on the "More" option all the way on the top right of the email, and decide whether you'd like to mark the email as unread, mark the email as important, add it to your tasks, or do a variety of other things to the email.
 If you'd like to retrieve an old email but don't remember exactly where it is or when it was sent, just type into the search bar on the top of your email account and click "Enter" or the search icon to the right of the search bar.
 Folders will allow you to have different locations to sort your emails, such as separating work emails from personal emails, or placing emails from a certain friend or family member in one folder. To do this, simply click on an email, then select "More" and click on "Create new folder." Then, type in the name of the folder and decide where on the left side of the screen the folder will go. Then, click "Create."

, Click on "More" to the left of your emails and select "Spam." Then, search through the emails there to see if there are any you'd like to save. If not, just click on the check box on the top right of the screen, above the individual checkboxes next to the emails, and click "Delete forever."


If you've found an email that has been marked as spam by mistake, then click on the box next to it and click on the "Not spam" button above the email. This will send the email to your inbox.

