 For many people learning a standing back tuck on a trampoline, and then transitioning to the floor is the best way to proceed. Since many people struggle with getting enough height to complete a standing back tuck, using a trampoline helps.You absolutely must have a spotter for any work you are doing on the trampoline.;
, Make sure you give yourself plenty of room -- it takes 6–8 feet (1.8–2.4 m) of space to complete the move. If you have not mastered this, go no further. You cannot learn how to do a standing back tuck until you have a good back handspring technique. This move has you essentially throwing yourself backward, catching yourself on your hands and then hurling yourself back onto your feet. It takes a lot of flexibility, strength, and timing to master., One way to help get you higher is to do a bounce or two before you launch into the handspring. This will give you more bounce and start to mimic the height you are going to need for a back tuck.
 This will mean both jumping high and pulling your legs close to, if not actually on your chest. Between the high tucks and the back handsprings, these two drills will give you the components you need to complete a successful back tuck on the trampoline.
 To help you on a back tuck, a spotter needs be standing one one side of you. Whichever side feels more natural to your spotter. He or she needs to stand with legs shoulder width apart, and bent knees. He or she needs to place one hand behind your thigh and the other in the middle of your back. They will help you throw your legs over and keep your back supported. They are there to help you not crash and get through the back tuck. Once you are more confident, he or she will take a less-active role and be there to help if something goes wrong., Make sure your spotter is close in case you need help. Keep your feet together. Bend your knees. Keep your chest up and don’t bend your back., You need to be mentally ready and all in to do the back tuck. Know that you can do it. Have your spotter there if something goes wrong, but fully commit to the move both mentally and physically.
 This is the way that you generate power in the back tuck, so the jump is the most important part. By pushing off your toes, you can extend the jump. The higher your set is the better. When you jump up for your set, never look at the ground!

, It helps your momentum on the jump and also helps to protect your neck. With your arms up and a straight body, you will start a slight rotation as your body flies upward., Don’t throw your head back. You might even want to try with something under you chin to keep it in place -- like a pair of rolled-up socks. Most of the time, you need to be looking at your feet as they are moving through the air. Throwing your head back can throw off the timing and physics of the move., Once you think that you've reached the highest point on your set, drive your knees up. Grab the bottom of your knees. Keep in mind that grabbing the knees is not the most important part of the jump -- you can even do a back tuck without getting your arms involved. Even when you are driving up your knees you should still be looking up so that you don't throw your head back., At first it might be hard to land your back tuck, but as you continue it will get easier to stick the landing. Some of the first times, you might land on your knees. But keep practicing. When you land try not to step out too early that may cause injury to your ankles.
 Have your coach watch your standing back tuck and offer suggestions. He or she will undoubtedly have some tips for you to incorporate. You need to have really good technique before you move to the floor., Think about putting a mat on the trampoline to make it somewhere between a trampoline and a floor. Put a tumbling mat on top of the trampoline and attempt a standing back tuck. Practice this way until you master it and are ready to move to the floor., Take time to adjust from the trampoline. Ask your coach or spotter to help you make sure your handsprings look good. As you practice, work on making some of them high so that you can begin moving toward the back tuck.
 Be aware of how different it feels compared to your work on the trampoline. Keep your jumps high and bring your knees up.
 Using the techniques you learned on the trampoline, set yourself, jump high, pull in those knees, and get both feet down. Have your coach offer suggestions. Doing a good standing back tuck can take hundreds of repetitions before you master it -- 400-500 times at a minimum., Keep him or her in place until you feel very confident. He or she is there to help keep you from getting hurt.