 If negative comments are getting to you, shift your focus to why your field is important, or what drew you to it in the first place. Remind yourself of your own values and that they may differ from the values of others. Some people judge certain jobs to be less respected or needed based on their own values and worldview. Recenter on your own values as a way to remind yourself why you chose this path.Consider posting an inspirational quote where you work that reminds you why you chose this path.
For instance, if you’re a teacher, remember that your job is the most fundamental and necessary of all jobs in the world. You might post: “Without teachers, there would be no other jobs.”
If you are a musician, remember that your job is as old as mankind. You bring joy and rhythm to the world. You might post: “Where words fail, music speaks,” by Hans Christian Anderson.
 The best way to tune out criticism is to stay focused on your goals. What dreams do you have for your career future? What advances do you still wish to make? When you make these dreams and goals your primary focus, the negative comments will fade into the background.Chances are, there is still some promotion, award, or career advance that you've had your eye on.
Let the heat of negative criticism light a fire in you to succeed! Make a plan and get to work.
You can use this famous quote as your mantra: “Ignore the boos. They usually come from the cheap seats.”

, Studies have shown that we are way more likely to remember negative comments than positive ones. (In fact, they say it takes about five positive events to make up for one negative one.) Is it possible that a handful of negative comments are eclipsing all of the positive ones?Perhaps your co-workers often tell you they appreciate your work.
Maybe your boss has given you a raise, or asked you to take on more responsibility.
Often these instances of positive praise can be inadvertently ignored.
Try writing it down every time you get positive feedback or have a positive experience at work.
Return to this list of “positives” anytime someone tries to put you down.

