 Consuming adequate levels of protein is essential for hair health.While the amount of protein you need depends on several factors, including how physically active you are, a good rule of thumb is to eat a minimum of 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight, or about 2.8 grams per pound. Sources of protein include: seafood, lean meats, eggs, beans, nuts, milk, cheese, and yogurt., Iron-deficiency anemia can be a cause of unhealthy hair (as well as other health issues), so it is important to ensure your iron levels are adequate. B vitamins and biotin encourage hair and scalp health.Likewise, low stores of Vitamin C can result in poor hair growth. If your levels are low, consider taking a multivitamin with iron.Never take more than the recommended daily dose of a vitamin, as some can be toxic in high quantities.
 Polyunsaturated fats have a range of benefits for your hair. They help skin and hair retain moisture and stay supple, and can also help reduce dandruff. Omega 6 fatty acids are found in leafy vegetables, seeds, nuts, grains, and vegetable oils (corn, safflower, soybean, cottonseed, sesame, sunflower), while walnuts, flax seeds, mung beans, and fatty fish are packed with Omega 3 fatty acids., While this may not sound like a nutrition change, smoking actually limits the delivery of nutrients to your hair by restricting blood vessels. The result is dull, brittle locks. Your hair will look (and smell) better if you quit., When you're stressed, your body may produce more cortisol (a steroid hormone), which results in increased hair shedding. Learn ways to minimize stress, such as meditation, regular exercise, and adequate sleep., The market is full of products that claim to speed up hair growth. However, there is no scientific way to make your hair grow faster, so think twice about spending a fortune on such items, whether pills, shampoos, or oils. What you can do is to support scalp health and hair growth with proper care, styling, and nutrition, as described in this article., It takes at least three months to notice the benefits of dietary changes you make.Know that you've made good choices for yourself and your hair and that you'll soon reap the rewards.

