 These shapes can be anything you want, but it's best if they are simple.Great examples include: squares, semi-circles, hearts, and kitty heads.
 The strip needs to be about 3½ inches (8.89 centimeters) wide.If your shape has curved edges, like a semi-circle or kitty head, the strip needs to wrap around just the curved part.


If your felt strip is not long enough, cut several strips, and hot glue the ends together, overlapping them by ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters).
The strip can be the same color as your purse, or a different one.
 Keep the outer edges of the strip aligned with the outer edges of your shape. You will have a seam that is about ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) wide. Hot glue sets fast, so only squeeze out 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) at a time.


If your shape is curved, cut slits into the edges of the felt strip before gluing it down.
 Flip your purse over so that the front is facing you. Place it on top of the second shape, and make sure that the edges are aligned. Hot glue the other side of the strip to the second shape using the same method as before.
 The body of your purse is almost complete. You can leave the body as it is, with the seams on the outside, for an interesting touch. You can also turn the purse inside out to hide the seams on the inside.


If you choose to flip your purse inside out, you will need to cut notches into the seams if it's curved. If it's square, clip the bottom corners.
If you choose not to flip your bag inside out, consider going over the seam with a blanket stitch using embroidery floss. This will give your purse a nice design.
 This will make the strap for the purse. You can make it as long or as short as you'd like. You will be folding the strap in half lengthwise, so it will end up narrower than your purse. If you want the strap to be the same width as your purse, cut it 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) wide instead.


Make the strap about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) longer than you want it to be. You need this extra length to attach it.
 Once again, squeeze out the glue 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) at a time, or it will set too quickly. You can draw the glue just along the edges of the strap, or you can make little squiggles before folding it down. This will make the strap sturdier.
 Press it against the top edge of one of the side panels. Repeat this step for the other end of the strap and the other side panel. Make sure that they are centered.


You can attach the straps to the inside or outside of your purse.
If you choose to attach the straps to the outside, consider gluing or sewing a cute button over it.
 Cut out more shapes from colored felt. Hot glue them to the front of your bag. You can also stitch on some designs using embroidery thread instead. You can get as creative as you want here. It's best not to get too carried away, however; sometimes, less is more! Here are some ideas to get you started:


Try stripes, zigzags, or other geometric shapes for a square bag. Your initial would also work well.
Turn a red semi-circle into a watermelon by adding black seeds.
Hot glue smaller hearts inside of a heart-shaped pursed.
A kitty purse might need some eyes and nose. A set of whiskers might look cute too.

