 Not all dyeable shoes will come with a care label, but many do. It is important to read the care label before attempting to clean the shoes. If the care label instructs you to take them to a professional, it is best to do so if possible., This is not necessary if you haven’t dyed the shoes yet. If you have dyed the shoes, you will need to use a fabric protectant spray on them before cleaning them. This will keep the dye from fading or spotting.Scotchgard is an example of a fabric protectant spray.
 You should remove any dust and dirt that may have built up on the shoes before cleaning them. Use a nylon stocking and put it over your hand. Rub the shoes in a circular motion until you have removed as much buildup as possible.You can also use a soft bristled brush or dry cloth if you don’t have a nylon stocking.
 Dampen a clean, colorless cloth with cold water. Begin to blot the dyeable shoes in a downward motion so that you follow the grain of the fabric. Gently blot any stains or visible dirt that hasn’t been removed with the nylon stocking. Make sure to dab the shoes and not rub., If the water alone has done the job, you can move on to the drying stage. If not, you can use a gentle hand soap. Pour a pea-size amount of hand soap onto a clean, damp cloth. Rub the cloth together until the soap begins to lather. Then, test the soap on a small portion of your shoe. If it doesn’t seem to damage the shoe, dab the shoe with the cloth until the stains begin to lift., If dabbing with mild soap doesn’t work, you can try a deeper cleaning by soaking the shoes. Fill a large mixing bowl with cold water and a few tablespoons of mild dish soap. Submerge one shoe, allow it to soak for five minutes, and remove. Then, repeat the process with the other shoe., After you’ve removed the shoes from the bowl, use a soft bristled brush to scrub them. Look for the softest brush that you can find. Scrub the shoes as gently as possible, targeting any visible stains that may be leftover., You will need to remove soap residue so that it doesn’t stain the shoe. Wet a clean cloth with cold water. Dab the shoes with the cloth until all of the soap has been removed., The shoes could lose their shape if they dry while wet. To prevent that, stuff the shoes with paper towels, white tissues, or blank newsprint. Make sure to stuff the shoes with enough paper so that it’s as if they have been filled with a foot.Do not use regular newspaper or colored paper. The color may come off on the shoes.
 Air drying the shoes could cause water marks. Do not rub the shoes, as this could also cause water marks. Use the hand towel to blot off as much of the water as possible.If blotting doesn’t remove all of the water, you can use a blow dryer turned to the lowest setting to gently dry the shoes.

