 Everyone loves to grill in the backyard. However, grills are hazards because they are controlled fires. This means you should place your grill in a location that is a safe distance from combustible or flammable items. Place it 10 feet from anything that can catch fire.Make sure your grill is far enough away from your house. Your grill poses a fire threat to your home, so you want to set your grill away from your house.
Make certain the grill is at least 10 feet away from any plants or trees. If the grill is too close to the plants, they may catch fire.
Before you discard any coals, make certain the fire is totally out by dumping a bucket of water on the coals.;
, Make sure the grill is stable when you set it up. The grill should not be uneven or wobbly, which may occur if you place it on uneven ground or don’t remove debris beneath it. If the grill is uneven, it may tip over, which can cause a fire or cause injury to those around it.Make sure that the grill is not near the edge of a deck. If it’s too close to the edge, it could fall off and cause a fire or injury.
You should place the grill in a location where children will not be near it without adult supervision. Children should never play near a grill, and they should not run around in an area near a grill.
Watch any pets near the grill. Ensure that your dog or cat won’t accidentally hop on top of a hot grill surface and burn themselves. You should also keep rambunctious dogs away from the grill, or place it in a location where the dog won’t knock it over.
 Small holes in your yard can cause an array of problems. Small holes can cause hazards for children or pets who run around the yard. They may not see the hole and then step in the hole and fall, twist their ankle, or even break a leg. Try to fill in small and large holes with dirt.Small holes can also collect water. This provides a perfect environment for mosquitoes.
Holes filled with water may also attract vermin, which can spread disease through stagnant water. If your pet or child plays in this water, they may spread the disease in the water.
 Nothing can quite match the relief of the pool on a hot day. However, backyard pools are a common cause of drowning. Your pool should be enclosed within a fence at least 5 feet high. This helps prevent children and neighborhood pets from getting into the pool when no one is there.Don’t leave any patio furniture around the pool that can be used to climb into the pool.
Make sure that the pool area is lit at night to prevent someone from accidentally falling into the pool in the dark.
 You may have a wooden deck that you love to sit on, but it may be a potential hazard. If you have not waterproofed the wooden slats of your deck, they could begin rotting after a few years. If they start rotting, they pose potential risk for breaking or caving in, which can lead to injury. Warped wood may also pose a tripping risk.Look for any splits or cracks in the wooden slats. You should also check the edge of the deck, where it connects to the house. This is probably where you will see damage first.
You should waterproof your deck every two or three years.

