 A complete breakfast, as fast as it is nutritious, includes a slice of whole grain toast and tablespoon or two of peanut butter. Warm toast, English muffins, or pancakes make peanut butter warm, gooey, and totally delicious, as well as healthy. Starting the day with protein can help you stay focused and energetic throughout the morning, kickstarting your metabolism and giving you the fuel to get going. It's a great snack.


A serving of peanut butter is usually two tablespoons, which contains between 180 and 190 calories, and just under 8 grams of protein, as well as 7-10 percent of necessary daily dietary fiber. Peanut butter is good for building strong tissues and boosting immunity.
 Starting your day with a serving of fruit like apples or bananas is a great way to get your metabolism going, but adding a serving of peanut butter–or dipping that serving right out of the jar–is a great way of taking that breakfast from good to great. By supplementing the protein from the peanut butter, those fruits become a complete breakfast, rather than just a quick snack. Full of fiber, vitamins, and protein, it's hard to think of a quicker, tastier, or more simple way to breakfast.
 Other breakfast items are perfectly amenable to the addition of peanut butter for thickening and adding a salty-sweet flavor underneath. Add a spoonful to cooked oatmeal to liven up the flavor without adding sugar, or use it to thicken a breakfast smoothie.


For a simple nutritious smoothie, add a half cup of plain greek yoghurt to your blender, one banana, a cup of fresh or frozen berries, and a tablespoon of peanut butter. Pulse the blender to mix thoroughly. If you like it a bit sweeter, you can add some honey to taste, as well as supplements like whey powder or spirulina. If it's too dense, a little orange juice or milk thins it out nicely.
 Line a tablespoon or two of peanut butter along the groove of a celery stick, then top with raisins. This fun treat makes for a surprising texture combo that almost everyone loves. This is a great and healthy way to get kids to eat fresh vegetables, if they're unwilling.
 Why waste time putting peanut butter on something? Or dishes? College students everywhere know one thing for sure: spoonfuls of peanut butter are perfect substitutes to actual meals. There are a lot worse things you could eat in a pinch than a couple spoonfuls of peanut butter, alternated with jelly.

