 The play rules are still the same like the first version, with only a few added twists. Fans won’t have any trouble adapting, but first-time players need to go through the tutorial mode first to get to know the game better while the enemies are still easy to beat.;
, Zombies appear on a map in a pattern. If you’re having trouble clearing a stage, observe how zombies appear on a map. Knowing the pattern means you’ll be able to deploy the right plants on the right spots and at the perfect time.
 It’s necessary to complete every mission to beat the game. Some players tend to exit the map once they get its rewards—Do NOT do this. Battle through the entire game time of the map and acquire the stars as much as you can.
 Sunflower plants give off sunlight, which you need to buy other plants. Plant as many Sunflower as the map allows to quickly raise your sunlight and buy heavy-hitter plants like Repeaters.


On the other hand, don’t plant too much Sunflower that there’s no more room for other plants.
 If your sunlight is limited, buy plants that do the most damage.


Snapdragons can cover three lanes when they attack and costs only 150 suns.
 Jalapenos and Cherry Bombs do major damage and can take down several zombies at once—but only when used at the right moment. Time it perfectly, and deploy these angry plants on congested spots to clear out massive hordes instantly.
 Plant food will give your plants special powers.


Potato Mines will instantly deploy and Coconut Cannons will reload immediately once you put plant food on them. When these plants are about to be eaten by zombies, place plant food on them to save them and have them fight back right away.
 Power-Ups are a new addition to the Plant vs. Zombies game play that will let you wipe out massive numbers of zombies in an instant. These are perfect for getting through tight spots. Take advantage of these items whenever you get your hands on it, but only use it when absolutely needed.


Power-Ups, however, aren’t cheap and can only be bought using coins.
 You should already know by now that zombies don’t just walk, they fly too. When zombies carried by balloons or birds show up, plants that can only attack horizontally will just be sitting ducks. To avoid getting caught unexpectedly by these zombies, place plants that can attack both air and ground units.


Cabbage and Kernel Pult plants work best in fending off zombies flying above head.
 When it all comes down to the basics, Plant vs. Zombies 2 is still a video game meant to be played and enjoyed. So have fun playing the game. Beating the game won’t be as rewarding if you’re not having a great time.