 Manipulating your friends can be a bit tricky since they’ll know you well enough to call your bluff if your manipulation skills aren’t up to par. But don’t worry – you can still get your friends to do anything you want. First, you have to butter up your friend. The week before you need a big favor, be nice, do small favors for her, and try to mention what a great friend she is. Do whatever you have to do to be a model friend without going overboard.


Use your emotions. Your friends care for you, and they won’t want to see you upset. Use those acting skills to look much more upset than you really are.
Remind your friend of what a great friend you are. Be prepared with examples of times when you’ve done amazing things for the sake of friendship.
Lay on the guilt. You don’t have to play the “bad friend” card, but you can casually mention some other times that the friend has let you down. Make it sound like you’re used to this kind of uncaring behavior from your friend without being too accusatory.
 Manipulating your significant other to get what you want doesn’t have to be hard. The most obvious way to do it is to turn him on and then ask for the favor, implying that he won’t be able to get it on if he doesn’t give you what you want. But if you don’t want to take this extreme route, there are a number of more subtle ways to manipulate your significant other.


Whatever your approach, make sure that you look sexy when you make your request. You’ll be more likely to get what you want if your significant other is reminded of how cute or hot you are.



Use your emotions. Does your significant other want to see you crying or being very visibly upset? Of course not.
If you really want to get what you want, use the waterworks approach in public. Just as a parent is more likely to give in to a child who is throwing a public tantrum, your man will be more likely to give in if you’re crying in public. Use this technique sparingly though.
Use small bribes. If you really want your man to take you out on a romantic picnic, offer to go to the baseball game with him the next day. Then this becomes less like manipulation and more like ordinary compromise.
 Using the rational and logical approach with your boss will work best. If you show up at your boss’s desk crying or talking about your personal problems, you’ll be more likely to get fired than to get what you’re after. Instead, be logical and firm with your boss, providing concrete reasons for why you need to get what you want.


Try to be a model worker on the week before you make your request. Work a little late, keep a big smile on your face, and even bring in bagels or pastries in the morning “just because.”
Ask in an offhand way. Ask your boss like it’s no big deal, and just casually make the request instead of saying, “There’s something really important I wanted to ask you.” This will alert him that what you’re asking really is a big deal.
Try to ask at the end of the day or during a break. Don’t talk to your boss at the beginning of the day, when he’s stressed out by all the work he has to do. Instead, ask him when he’s about to leave for lunch or go home at the end of the day—then he’ll be more likely to grant you the request than wasting his free time arguing with you.
 To manipulate your teacher, you have to mix professionalism with a bit of emotion. On the day you make your request, you should try to be a model student. Arrive to class early, show that you’ve done the reading, and be active and engaged in the classroom.


Tell your teacher how great he is without sucking up. Just casually mention how inspiring he is or how much you love the subject matter.
Mention that “a lot of stuff is going on at home.” This will make things awkward and your teacher will feel sorry for you without wanting to know more.
As you continue to talk about your personal life, wait for your teacher to get uncomfortable and offer to give you an extension or to let you rewrite your paper. If this doesn’t happen, start in the negative. Say, “I know you don’t normally give extensions…” and let your voice trail off as your eyes get misty and you look out the window longingly.
If this still doesn’t work, go for the heartstrings. Start crying while being mysterious about the stuff “going on at home” and wait for your teacher to get so uncomfortable that he has no choice but to give you what you want.
 Your parents are supposed to love you unconditionally and are therefore already a lot more susceptible to manipulation. If you have a baseline of love and support, then all you have to do is be a model offspring for a while before you make your request. Don’t miss your curfew, spend time studying, and help out around the house as much as you can. Then, go in for the kill.


State your request like it’s perfectly reasonable. If you want to go to a concert on a school night, casually ask in an offhand way instead of sitting down to have a big talk about it. Make it look like you couldn’t possibly see why your parents would say no.
You can even try asking while you’re folding laundry or doing the dishes. This will remind your parents of what a great son or daughter you really are.
Talk about how all of your friends are doing this thing, and how their parents are okay with it. Don’t make this a big deal.
Make your parents feel guilty. If you wanted to go to a concert, just say, “It’s no big deal. I’ll just get my friends to get me a t-shirt or something after the show.” Make them feel like they’re really making you miss out on a major social or another type of experience. Don’t say, “You’re ruining my life!” If you play your cards right, they’ll reach that conclusion on their own.

