 If you can, get a list of things to put in the pack.;
, You wouldn't want to get a ton of Elmo supplies for a sixth grader or a graphing calculator for a kindergartener!

, If you are getting supplies for a younger child, it might be nice to pick out a backpack with a popular cartoon character/toy on it, like Thomas the Tank Engine or Barbie.
 Use your list or this guidelines:


A young elementary school student (grades K-2) will probably need:

A pack of crayons and/or markers.
Ten or more pencils. Look for wider pencils.
One or two large erasers and a pack of pencil-top erasers.
Training pencil grips. These aren't necessary but can help kids who are learning to write.
One or two composition books.


An older elementary school student (grades 3 and up) will probably need:

At least 12 pencils.
Two or three big erasers and/or one or two packs of pencil top erasers.
Two or three packs of loose-leaf paper.
Three or four journals.
A one-inch binder
A pack of index cards
One or two pens, black or blue ink


A middle school student will probably need:

One or two binders, two inches or more.
Dividers.
Folders; one for each divider tab plus a couple extras.
Five or six journals.
At least three packs of loose-leaf paper.
At least twelve pencils.
Three or four big erasers.
Five or six black or blue ink pens.
One or two red pens.


A high school student will probably need:

Two or three two-inch or larger binders.
One pack of dividers per binder.
One folder per binder section plus a few more.
Ten or more journals.
A calculator.
At least twelve pencils.
Three or four big erasers.
Four or more packs of loose-leaf paper.
At least five pens with black or blue ink.
Three or four red pens.



If you are making a pack for a girl, throw in a headband or some jewelry.
If it is for a young boy, give him some action figures.
If it is for a teenager, they might appreciate a pair of earbuds.
Children and teens also might enjoy pencil grips, mechanical pencils (make sure you also have some extra lead) and additional school supplies with cool designs.
, Smile! You just helped a student prepare for a successful school year!

