 If so, you already have a friend at that school! If not, don't worry, keep reading.;
, They may have crucial information on it, perhaps regarding rules, the equipment needed, etc.
 If your school has a uniform, make sure it is washed, ironed, and by your bed. If not, make sure you choose clothing that is not too revealing, not too dressy, but make sure it doesn't look too casual either. Pack your bag. If you have a list of the things you need, triple check you have everything. You will need these sort of things:


Pencil case with suitable, useful stationery inside it.
A book
A notepad
Lunch/money
Your phone (Do not take it to class!)
A water bottle
Homework diary/schedule

,


If you want to put on some make-up, first check that the school allows it. There's nothing worse then being told off on your first day! If you are allowed make-up, only put on a little bit. Maybe some mascara and lipgloss. But don't overdo it. You don't want to come caked up in make-up on your first day!

, You won't be able to concentrate, and you'll be grumpy if you don't eat something. Even if you just grab a cereal bar, or some sort of fruit, eat something!

, Then you have plenty of time to walk to the station, and wait for the bus.


If you are being taken to school in a car, make sure you leave fairly early, to avoid being late on your first day. Again, leave early if you are walking to school.
 The first day is usually hectic, so don't be put off if you see students and teachers stressfully running around.
 No matter how friendly they seem to be, you don't know them well enough yet to trust them to that level. On the other hand, when getting your stuff from your locker, try your best to make friends who have lockers beside/above/below you. You will be seeing them a lot, so there's no point making mortal enemies out of each other!

, If this is the case, don't be shy. They will not take interest in you. However don't be overly confident either. They might label you as cocky. Just be friendly and polite, and remember to ask questions. People love to talk about themselves, and it makes you seem interested.

