 When you are working, go through and silence and turn off as many of your electronic devices as you can. You might even go so far as to put a “do not disturb” sign on your door. This minimizes the temptation to take small social media or email breaks, which eventually add up to huge time wastes.It’s a good idea to let your family and friends know that you are really swamped at work. Tell them that you will not be taking personal calls during business hours until you get caught up.
If you must check your email or voicemail for work, set specific times to do so. For example, fifteen minutes into every hour you will spend a maximum of five minutes looking at your emails and messages.
 If it is not feasible to shut off your email or phone long term, guarantee a chunk of work time by pushing a “no interruptions” rule. Set a timer for 30 minutes (or the maximum time that you are comfortable with) and then work at a fast pace until the time runs out. When the timer dings, that is the signal to your coworkers that you are available again for conversation.If you are in a loud or very busy environment, you could try putting on headphones and listening to some non-distracting music or no music at all.
 Keep an eye on your breaks and limit them to 10 minute intervals, aside from lunch. Set a timer on your phone to keep you on track. Squeeze out every bit of enjoyment from these few minutes. Take a quick walk outside. Close your eyes and just relax. Read a few pages of your favorite book. Do a few fast runs up and down the office stairs., This may not be the most popular suggestion, but it can work wonders for your productivity. Make a decision to arrive at work 30 minutes earlier and leave 30 minutes later, or something similar. Keep up this pace until your backlog begins to disappear. Or, devote one weekend day just to tackling your to-do projects.Make sure to keep a proper work-life balance when extending hours. If you work too much, you run the risk of working slower and even suffering burn-out.

