 The attacks include:


Broken String: A fret on your opponent's guitar will not work until fixed by rapidly pressing the broken fret.
Amp Overload: The scrolling notes on your opponent's fret board will shake and flash, making the incoming notes hard to read. It will lose its effect after an amount of time.
Difficulty Up: The difficulty of your opponent's song will increase one notch. For example: Medium turns to hard. This attack does not appear when playing against someone who is on Expert. Effect vanishes after an amount of time.
Whammy Bar: None of your opponent's frets on the guitar will work until fixed by rapidly using the whammy bar.
Power-Up Steal: This attack steals your opponent's next weapon. If they have no weapons when you use this the attack will have no effect and be lost.
Double: Your opponent must play two-button chords instead of single notes and three-button chords instead of natural two-button chords. Effect wears off after an amount of time.
Left/Righty Flip: Switches righty players to a lefty setting and lefty players to a righty setting. Effect wears off after an amount of time.
Death Drain: Only available in sudden death (explained below). This attack makes your opponent's rock meter slowly drain. Their fretboard will also be covered by an animation. It is not fixable and does not go away until the victim fails.;
, Once an attack is gained, it is stored in an attack bank. Up to three attacks may be stored here.
 You can also throw attacks by using SELECT. It will make lot easier for multiple attacks at same time.


If using multiple attacks at the same time does not work, try releasing the second attack immediately when the first attack ends, and so on. This will increase the time the opponent is a victim to an attack.
Try to attack when your opponent is hitting battle gems. This will make him/her miss one and miss the opportunity to get a weapon. Whammy Bar is effective for this tactic.
Try to use two or more attacks at one time. An effective combination is Difficulty Up, Double, and Whammy or Lefty Flip.



If neither player fails by the end of the song, the players replay the song in Sudden Death mode. This does not occur in Career Boss Battles. Every attack will be the Death Drain.
In Boss Battles, you must defeat the boss before the song ends. Otherwise, the boss is victorious.

