 When you meet with her, it's important not to overstep your bounds. This includes keeping a cap on physical affection or romantic gestures unless you think she's in the mood for it. In many cases, a girl who is furious over something isn't going to be receptive to cuddling. When you meet her, come close but respect her personal space at the start. If she wants something, chances are she will let you know.


Depending on how long you have been with your girlfriend, you should be able to predict her behaviour in certain situations. If you've comforted her in the past and she was receptive to certain actions, repeating them again is a good trick.
 While you're talking to her, the best thing you can do initially is to let her know she has your complete attention. Although you'll be getting this impression across through your words as well, attentive body language shows her that you're listening with your body as much as your brain. Steady eye contact, leaning and pointing your body in her direction, smiling, and nodding your head when appropriate all will show the girl that you care.
 Gift-giving is surprisingly well-suited for times of stress. Although a bouquet of flowers obviously isn't going to make the problem itself go away, it is a physical sign of love and affection. The symbolic nature of a gift can go a long ways towards making your girlfriend feel better.


Giving her a present can be effective, but only if it's backed up with honest talk and warmth.
Try to consider whether the reason your girlfriend needs comforting is really appropriate for whatever gift you're getting her. Flowers are suitable for just about any situation, but getting her favourite video game after her parents have died probably isn't going to get the reaction you're looking for.
 Crying can be an embarrassing thing, even in the midst of someone you're deeply involved with. A tissue doesn't make it any less embarrassing, but it does help clear up the evidence. Offering your girlfriend a tissue to wipe away tears is especially helpful if she wears any eye makeup. She will probably thank you for it later on.
 Provided your girlfriend didn't rush into your arms for comfort from the get-go, giving her a hug is recommended at some point. The positive effects of hugs are well-known.It's a quick way to feel better, as everything from the stress level to one's blood pressure become regulated during a hug.
 Cuddling is a bona fide remedy to most emotional troubles. If your girlfriend has been feeling upset about something, there's usually nothing better than to cuddle up once things have been relatively resolved. Even if she's not feeling totally fine by the time you get down to cuddling, the act of cuddling itself comes with an impressive range of benefits, including boosts to feelings of well-being and happiness.Once you're cuddling up, you might think about watching her favourite movie together. Something light-hearted and fun is usually best, and the entertainment is a great way to keep her mind off the issue at hand until she's calm and rested enough to properly deal with it.