 Pumice stones are inexpensive (usually between $3-$10) and can be found in drug stores, natural grocery stores, and online. You can identify pumice by its porous surface. It is lightweight and usually grey or black.You can find pumice stones with rubber grips attached or as part of a brush (usually with a nail brush or other buffering tools). Use whatever you're comfortable with.;
, Though it is possible to use pumice anywhere on your body, that doesn't mean you should. Areas with delicate skin and coarse hair (like your bikini area or face) should be avoided if possible. Removing the coarse hair would require too much pressure and damage your skin.Maybe you'd get the hair off your upper lip with time, but you'd have a very red, irritated, possibly cut upper lip instead. Not a great trade-off.


The pumice method works best on legs, arms, scalps (if you're bald and looking to get that shine), and shoulders.
The pumice method is a good way to perform upkeep between waxing sessions.
If you do plan to use the pumice on your face or bikini area, be extremely gentle. Consider other methods first, like waxing, tweezing, hair removal creams, or shaving.
Do not use the pumice on skin that is already irritated, red, sunburned, broken, or peeling., This method of hair removal will work best if the hair is softened. A warm shower or bath will give the hair time to soften up before you begin., Any time you use an abrasive on your skin (pumice, hair removal mitts, sandpaper), you risk scratching the skin, which makes you susceptible to infection. Cleaning the skin beforehand will minimize the chance of contaminating a scratch with bacteria.
 This can help prevent chaffing and irritation when you begin using the pumice stone., Alternate between clockwise and counter-clockwise. Your strokes should be brisk, but you should apply very little pressure to the skin.If your skin begins to feel irritated, or the process is painful in any way, stop immediately.
Do not use an up-and-down or sawing motion, as this is more likely to cut your skin.
Start at the edge of the area where you are removing hair. If you are using it on your arm, begin at your wrist. That way, if you stop partway through, you won't have random patches of missing hair.,, Your skin may be red and slightly irritated from the process. Moisturizer will keep your skin from drying out and may soothe any irritation.


Do not use a perfumed moisturizer, as this may further irritate the skin.
 Remove all the hair and dead skin from the pores of the stone so it will be ready for your next use.


The pumice will exfoliate your skin, so you shouldn't have to worry about ingrown hairs. Your skin should also be very soft, since the stone removed the top layer of dead skin.
 You may not see results immediately. Removing hair by this method is gradual, and it may be days or weeks before you see a difference, depending on your skin and the type of hair you are removing.Wait 1-3 days before using the pumice stone again. Using this method too often can cause severe irritation or over-exfoliate your skin.