 You might already have a child support order in place. In this situation, the court case is closed and you can’t ask the judge verbally at a hearing for an updated affidavit. In this situation, you will need to file a Petition to Modify Child Support.


Most states allow you to request modification only if there has been a significant change.For example, in many states, you can only seek modification if there would be a 15% difference between the current child support order and the new order taking into account the correct financial information. If the current order is $2,000 a month, then the change would have to result in the order going down to at least $1,700 or up to $2,300 before a judge would modify.
For this reason, you shouldn’t ask to modify child support if you think the change is minor. For example, your ex might have gotten a raise at work. The raise is probably too small to change the monthly child support payment.
 Many states have printed forms you can use to ask the court to modify the child support. This makes completing your request easy. You should check on your court’s website or stop in and ask the clerk.


Many forms can be downloaded as a PDF. You can then enter the information directly into the document., If no printed form is available, then you will need to draft your own. Open a blank word processing document and set the font to Times New Roman 14 point. Also make sure that the document is double-spaced and that the margins are one inch.


Your court might have its own “local rules.” You can get these from the judge’s chambers or look on the court’s website. You must always follow the local rules.
 The caption goes at the top of the first page. Look at the documents from earlier in your case and plug this information into your new petition. A caption consists of the following:the court’s name
the names of you and your ex
the case number

, You should insert the title right beneath the caption. Title the document “Petition to Modify Child Support” or something similar.It should be in all caps and bold. You can center the title between the left- and right-hand margins.
 Here you need to tell the judge that you think the original affidavit is inaccurate and why the support payments would increase or decrease if the correct information was reported on an updated affidavit.


You could write, “Based on information, I believe that Mr. Smith has received a new job. When the initial child support order was entered, Mr. Smith was unemployed and drawing $400 a week in unemployment benefits. I believe he now has a new construction job which pays him much more than $400 a week.”

, You should sign the petition under penalty of perjury. Your petition should contain the following language just above the signature line: “I understand that I am swearing and affirming under oath to the truthfulness of the allegations made in the petition and that knowingly making false statements could result in fines or jail time.”You probably also have to sign in front of a notary public. You can generally find a notary at the courthouse. You can also find one at large banks.
You need to show the notary sufficient personal identification, such as a valid state-issued ID or a federal passport.
 You also probably have to submit a new financial affidavit for yourself and maybe other forms. Ask the clerk for everything you need to file and complete these forms. Always remember to keep a copy for your records., You can file the petition (and other forms) with the court clerk. Go to the county courthouse where the original child support order was entered. Ask the clerk to file your petition.The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date.


You also have to send your ex a copy of your papers. You should have it either hand delivered or mailed certified mail, return receipt requested.
If you have someone hand deliver the papers, then ask him or her to fill out a Proof of Service (also called an Affidavit of Service) form. You can typically get this form from the court clerk. After the server makes service, they complete the form and return it to you. You then file the original with the court.
 After receiving your petition, your ex will have to respond. He or she will have to fill out a new financial affidavit. You should receive a copy. If you have a lawyer, then your lawyer will receive the copy.


Look at the affidavit closely to see that your ex is reporting updated financial information accurately or whether they are hiding assets.
 At the hearing, you can tell the judge that you don’t think the affidavit is accurate. Explain what your ex is not reporting. If necessary, ask the judge for “discovery,” which is described in the second method.

