 After centuries of breeding, the modern dog is one of the most varied species of animal on earth. While there’s probably a dog to suit every lifestyle, not all dogs will fit your specific needs. For example, if you like to relax, you should not get a Jack Russell Terrier, known for its constant barking and high energy.Instead, you might want a bulldog that would much prefer to cuddle on the couch all day.Research the personalities and care requirements of various breeds. Ask dog owners about their breed’s personality.


Since most dogs live for 10 – 15 years, getting a dog is a long-term commitment. Make sure the breed's temperament is a good match for your lifestyle.
If you haven't yet started a family, consider whether you'll have young children around the house in the next decade. Some breeds are not recommended for households with children.;
, Be honest with yourself about the compatibility of the dog you want with your lifestyle. Don't get a dog that needs a lot of activity just because you want a reason to jumpstart a healthier lifestyle yourself. If you can’t follow through on exercising your high-energy dog, you and the dog will both end up frustrated.


Write down the needs and temperament of the breed, as well as how you will meet those needs.
If it's going to take significant effort to change your lifestyle, you need to choose a different dog.
 He needs to be able to learn his name easily, so you can hold his attention during training. The name should also have clear, hard sounds the dog can recognize. Names such as “Buddy” or “Rover” or “Bee Bee” have distinct sounds that stand out from the regular flood of human speech your dog hears.


Use your dog's name often when you are playing, petting him, training him, or need to get his attention.
If your dog looks at you when you say his name, you know he’s learned it.
Create a positive association with his name so he’ll continue to focus on you when you say it. Praise him when he responds to his name, and give him treats.
 You’ll need to set aside 15 – 20 minutes a couple of times each day for formal training sessions. Puppies have a short attention span and get bored easily, just like a toddler would.


Those sessions are not the only time you’ll train your dog, though. Training actually happens throughout the day when interacting with your pet. He’s learning from you every time you interact.
Bad dog habits develop when owners let dogs get away with bad behavior outside of dedicated training sessions. So, always keep an eye on your dog outside of training sessions. If he knows it during training sessions, then make sure he remembers it outside of training.
 When you’re working with your dog, be calm and neutral. Any form of agitation and excitement on your part will negatively affect the outcome of training. You should be mindful of the fact that the goal of training is to be able to reinforce good dog behavior and to ignore or not reinforce bad ones. It may sound strict but producing a well trained dog requires the determination and conviction to see it through.
 A 6-foot leash and flat collar or martingale collar may be all the you need to start, besides your treats. Consult a trainer for advice on other equipment like a “Promise Leader” head halter, a “No Pull” harness, a metal training collar, or other device. Puppies or small dogs generally do not need harsh equipment. Larger dogs may temporarily need specialized equipment (like the “Promise Leader”) to keep their focus.