 There are a variety of different herbicides on the market. Make sure you select one specifically designed to get rid of kudzu plants. You want something with the active ingredients glyphosate and triclopyr, as these chemicals are effective at killing kudzu. The following commercial products have been proven effective for the treatment of kudzu:Bayer Advanced Brush Killer Plus Concentrate
Ortho Max Poison Ivy and Tough Brush Killer Concentrate
Roundup Concentrate Poison Ivy Plus Tough Brush Killer
Roundup Pro
Roundup Pro Concentrate;
, Herbicides can be dangerous to the bare skin. Make sure to wear protective gear, like safety goggles and gloves, before treating kudzu with herbicide.


You should also read the instruction manual on any herbicide you purchase. Some herbicides must be diluted in water before use. The instruction manual will also provide you with useful information on how to safely apply your chosen herbicide.
 You may have a small kudzu outbreak. A tiny amount of kudzu may be creeping up on a fence, for example. As you want to limit the use of herbicide as much as you can, do not aggressively treat small outbreaks. Instead, spot spray with a backpack sprayer. Spray towards the ground from which the kudzu spreads.Spot treatment is also sometimes used as a follow up treatment after you've targeted large patches of kudzu.
 In the event you have large patches of kudzu growing on the ground, you'll want to spray in a crosshatch pattern. A crosshatch pattern is marked by a series of intersecting parallel lines.Spray roughly half the solution in one direction in straight lines. Then, spray and half the solution in the other direction in lines perpendicular to the first.
 Kudzu is rarely eradicated with a single treatment. In order to completely destroy kudzu, you need to do several treatments. There is no herbicide available that will successfully remove kudzu in a single treatment. For younger, smaller roots, a few rounds of treatment may be enough to eliminate kudzu. For larger, older plants, you may need to treat kudzu several times a year for a few years to eliminate the plant., Kudzu often creeps up trees or individual plants. You should limit herbicide treatments to kudzu growing on level ground, or creeping up a manmade object like a fence. If you spray herbicide on a plant like a tree, the herbicide will end up harming this plant as well as the kudzu.