 Don't look at your time with your woman as the reiteration of your previous relationship. Instead, think about it as starting over and starting to enjoy spending time with each as if it's the first time. Though you can definitely talk about the good times you shared in your previous relationship, you shouldn't dwell on the past or rehash old arguments. Work on building a solid -- and new -- foundation to your newfound relationship and take it from there.


If you spend all of your time obsessing over the past, you won't be able to enjoy the present with your woman again.
Though you can go back to doing the things you loved together, you should also take pleasure in pursuing new interests, checking out new restaurants, and going on trips to new places together.
 Though you should enjoy your relationship as a new one, you should still remember the thing that led to the downfall of your relationship. If you find yourself fighting again, disappointing your girlfriend for the same reasons, or finding yourself feeling the same negative emotions you felt the first time around, remember to check yourself and to work on overcoming those troubling situations.


Find a way to get out of those same bad feelings. If you're feeling irrationally jealous again, tell yourself that you're more likely to lose your girlfriend if you keep feeling that way.
 It's important to avoid falling back into old habits, but don't spend all of your time obsessing about making the same mistakes again, either. Find a balance between enjoying your new and (hopefully) improved relationship and being wary of repeating the same mistakes. If you spend all of your time worrying about all of the things that can go wrong, whether it's in a new relationship or during your second go-around, you'll quickly sabotage your chance at happiness.


Focus on living in the moment while learning to catch yourself if you're falling back into your old bad habits.
Your girlfriend and you can work together. She'll take part in keeping the relationship feeling new while avoiding negative patterns. You shouldn't be the only one who wants to make it work again.
 Though it's important to make the changes that are necessary for improving yourself as well as your relationship, don't go so far as to change yourself completely so that you -- or your girlfriend -- don't even recognize the person you've become. Your girlfriend must have liked many things about you to be in the relationship in the first place, so don't forget to maintain the positive qualities that made you a great guy in the first place.


If you try to change yourself too much, then your girlfriend will be able to tell. She should already know you pretty well and will know when you're not being yourself.
It's okay to address your flaws, as long as you're also emphasizing your positive attributes.

