 Great public speakers come and go, but few have left such a lasting impression on the Western world as Aristotle, the ancient Greek philosopher. His approach to rhetoric, recorded over 2000 years ago, is still one of the most useful frameworks available for figuring out how to maximize the persuasiveness of anything you want to say. Aristotle divides the elements of any persuasive argument into three vital parts. By combining all of them harmoniously, you can craft an appeal or argument that is very difficult to resist.


Create a strong backbone with logos. Logos is the clarity, organization, and internal consistency of what it is you want to say. Speech that's imbued with logos can't be twisted around to mean anything other than what you want it to mean. Any attempts to do so by a naysayer will only result in him or her seeming foolish.
Add credibility and believability by employing ethos. Ethos is the ethical foundation of your argument, which usually is reflected in your tone and style of delivery, as well as your personal presence of character (and reputation, if you're lucky enough to have a good one). Speech that employs ethos never leaves your personal convictions in doubt, and supports the notion that you know what you're talking about and can be trusted.
Appeal to your listeners with pathos. Pathos is the part of your argument that helps it connect to the listener's personal life, experience, feelings, and imagination. By sparking sympathetic emotions in your listener, speech with a lot of pathos makes your topic as much about them as it is about you, encouraging them to feel personally invested in whatever you say.
 Nothing makes people like you faster than being a good listener, but there's more to it than just sitting quietly and watching the other person's lips move. Being an active listener means utilizing certain techniques that demonstrate your attention to the speaker. With practice, all of these techniques will become a natural part of your communication repertoire.


When there's an appropriate pause, even mid-sentence, prompt the speaker with a small noise, such as “yeah” or “mm hmm.” Don't overdo it or you'll seem impatient. Once every few sentences is enough.
Whenever you think of a question to ask that will prompt the speaker to go into greater detail, ask it. Don't interrupt the speaker in mid-sentence, but otherwise, the sooner the better. This shows that you're so interested in the speaker's words, you want even more details.
Use neutral affirmation. If you're not quite sure what to think of a story, or whether you agree with it, riff on the speaker's emotional state to craft a response instead. If the speaker is looking at you as though he or she can't believe the story, agree with them by saying “wow, that's crazy” or something else that allows you to bond with the speaker without having to pick a specific side just yet.
When the story is finished, ask the speaker what they thought of it or how they felt about it. People love to summarize their thoughts after a longer anecdote.
After the story has been summarized, re-summarize it and throw it back at the speaker. This shows the speaker that you listened and understood what they were saying, and he or she will love you for it. You can follow through with your opinion afterward to drive the conversation. For instance, suppose someone tells you a story about their cat having to go to the vet for a sudden emergency. When the story is done, say “so your cat really did have (medical issue)? But at least you got him to the vet in time. Man, that's just (your opinion here).”
Use personal anecdotes, but don't overuse them. You're probably trying to show sympathy and understanding, but the listener will eventually begin to suspect you'd rather talk about yourself than listen to anyone else. Be moderate in your use of personal stories and anecdotes.
 Most people tend to think their voices are more or less set in stone, but this isn't the case. Although it's not possible to go from a soprano to a baritone, it is possible to exert a surprising amount of control over the overall tone of your voice, and over the clarity of the words that you speak.


Sing to learn voice control. One of the best ways to train your voice is simply to sing out loud. You don't have to have an ear for singing, or sing to anyone else. Try singing in your car or at home when you're doing chores. Over time, you'll gain greater control over the sounds your throat makes through sheer repetition.
Speak in smooth, round, low-register tones. This doesn't mean you should try to deepen your voice; it just means you should imagine a larger space at the back of your mouth and throat when you speak, and speak to fill it. Don't drive your words through your nose or a small, tightly-clenched throat passage. Speaking in full, clear tones makes you sound more knowledgeable, and makes your voice much more pleasant to listen to.
Give yourself plenty of volume. There's no need to yell when you speak, but don't speak meekly, either. Don't muffle your voice. It only makes you harder to understand, and it can also make you seem less sure of yourself.
 Just because people understand your words doesn't mean they'll grasp your intent properly. As anyone who has argued with a relative or lover over a miscommunication knows, there are good ways and bad ways to say what you have to say. By learning a few psycholinguistic tricks, you can learn to speak your mind in a way that not only keeps the listener from feeling upset or intimidated, but actually endears him or her to you.


Using “I” language is all about putting the burden of responsibility on yourself. During an argument, instead of accusing the other person of “making” you feel or act a certain way, phrase it like this: “When you (said/did/ whatever), I felt...” It seems silly in writing, but it works very well in a real argument because it keeps extra blame from being heaped onto the other person.

For example, instead of saying “When you said that, it made me mad,” say “when you said that, I felt mad.” You can use this phrasing for just about any kind of disagreement: “I felt like you were...,” “I feel (emotion) when you...,” and so on.


Using “we” language is all about making the other person feel included and relevant. When discussing opportunities, events, or group work, rely on “we” and “us” phrasing to cement the loyalty of your peers and suggest loyalty to those above you on the social or career ladder. For example, instead of asking someone “do you want to hang out with me this weekend?” say, “we should get together this weekend!” This puts the other person on equal footing with you and grants them power over the chance that's being offered.

Giving people power is a surefire way to gain power in return, because people will be much more inclined to bend and flex for you when the time comes to return the favor if they remember their past interactions with you in a positive and empowering light.
 Stage and street hypnotists alike use this powerful technique to dramatic effect every time they seem to “charm” someone into changing their mind or bending the rules a little bit. In principle, there isn't much to this technique, but it takes practice to become adept at using it.


Start with a short “in” to the conversation and use simple questions to get the other person talking. As you use your active listening skills, pay special attention to accents, verbal tics (such as “like” and “uh”), and general phrasing.
As you respond and continue to ask for what you want, speak more, but match the other person's verbal tics and patterns. Feel free to lean towards their accent a little too, but don't make a caricature of it. Speaking the way others speak puts them at ease and subtly suggests to them that they can trust you because you're like them in some indefinable way.
Whenever you notice something about the other person's body language, match it. Does he shift his weight from foot to foot? Is she tapping one finger as she waits for the computer to load, or all of them? You can match these little things to create an even more powerful sympathetic bond.
 Supportiveness, kindness, enthusiasm, boldness, and reliability are the key traits you should try to exhibit. These are the traits everyone looks for in others, the traits that make you a person people want to trust in and listen to. They start with personal sincerity and dedication, and are hard to fake. However, if you focus on them, you can train yourself to exhibit them more often and more freely than you did before.


Affirm yourself every day. It sounds silly, but self-affirmation works. Just think about the positive traits you want to embody, and say them aloud to yourself a few times. Tell yourself you are a person who has them: “I am a kind person;” “I am an enthusiastic person;” and so on.
Look for opportunities to demonstrate your better qualities. Many times, due to personal discomfort with a situation, we pass up the bolder choice in favor of the one that will attract less attention. Fight against that by reminding yourself to keep your eyes open for times when you're about to act dismissively or rudely. When you realize you're about to be that unhappy, jaded person, force yourself to be the person people want to be around instead. Even if it doesn't make any difference to the situation, it's excellent training for your mind. Eventually, you'll internalize it.

