 If you don't, the movie won't make sense and the people who have read the book will be very angry with the filmmaker. If you read the book, put tabs on it and make notes, so you will be less likely to bomb the movie. Read it over and over, regardless of it's length. You really need to be familiar with the story's plot and its characters.;
, If you can condense an entire book into a few pages then you are ready to make a movie. Try to keep the main things in it without having the film drag on.
 Put only the best quotes into your script. Try not to include everything in the book, as that would get boring very quickly.
 The actors are very essential. They have to deliver their lines or else no one will take them seriously. Hold auditions somewhere with enough space.
 While the budget and schedule will change constantly throughout prep, into production, even up to delivery, you have to start somewhere. The initial budget and schedule will be source of much discussion and compromise, but it gives all the departments a common ground from which to plan.
 Storyboards are drawings of the sequence of shots for a script. It helps to pre-visualize how the director wants the screenplay to be shot and it communicates the director's ideas to the crew and the producers. Storyboarding is mainly there to get a first idea of what the film will look like. It is rarely followed exactly but it is a helpful guideline during the shooting of a film.
 Keep the book with you at all times. The main cast members should read the book as well.


Independent filmmaking: Filmmaking also takes place outside of the studio system and is commonly called independent filmmaking. Filmmakers can conceivably shoot and edit a movie, create and edit the sound and music, and mix the final cut on a home computer.






Most independent filmmakers rely on film festivals to get their films noticed and sold for distribution.






The Internet has allowed for relatively inexpensive distribution of independent films; many filmmakers post their films online for critique and recognition. Although there is little profitability in this, a filmmaker can still gain exposure via the web.
 If you don't have the time to become a Production Assistant, take the tours of movie studios. Some tours can be very interesting. Hollywood Studio Tours While the Universal Studio Tour is more entertainment than actual examples of filming, you can pick up tickets to filming as you leave Universal Studio Tour area. Most are for Sitcoms which are filmed totally different from a motion picture. Yet they are very educational and entertaining to watch.
 Your first day of filming on a low budget movie with a new crew and inexperience actors will look more like a disaster movie than a motion picture set.
 Give the cast and crew as much information as possible, especially when things are going wrong. If you can then print and distribute the schedule to every crew member at the start of each day, if not far earlier. If you're going run over schedule then first explain the situation to your crew, then ask very nicely if they mind working longer and then tell your crew the new estimate wrap time.

