 There are two situations in which disputes show up on your credit report.

In the first situation you dispute something with a creditor such as a notation that you made late payments or were in default. By law, when you contact a creditor to dispute an item reported on your credit report, the creditor is required to update your account by showing it “in dispute." However, once the disputed item has been investigated, the dispute notation should be removed from your credit report.



 


In the second situation you "close" (take out) a loan. The loan, however, is mistakenly reported as “Consumer Disputes this Account” instead of "closed." In either situation you have to reach out to the credit reporting agency (CRA) whose report contains the dispute and ask that it be removed.;
, If you were denied a loan because your report shows a dispute, you should first check with the lender to find out which report it used. It would be from one of the three main credit-reporting agencies in the U.S.: Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian.
 You are entitled to one free report from each of the three CRAs each year.Check each report for any disputes.


To request a report online, visit annualcreditreport.com. This is the only site that offers truly free reports.
To request over the phone, call 1-877-322-8228.
To request by mail, send a letter to Annual Credit Report Request Service, P.O. Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281. Instead of writing a letter, you may complete the Federal Trade Commission’s “Annual Credit Report Request Form,” which is available for download at http://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/pdf-0093-annual-report-request-form.pdf., You should closely scrutinize each of the three credit reports. Look for any accounts that are listed as “disputed.” You will want to request that each dispute notation be removed.


If an account is listed as "disputed" on more than one credit report, you should contact each credit reporting agency whose report contains that notation.
 Getting a dispute removed should be fairly easy. However, you might need proof that the dispute has been resolved. Look through your papers and find any communication from a credit reporting agency informing you of the results of their investigation. You might need to remind the CRA of their own findings by showing them this document.
 To have TransUnion remove a dispute, you should call 800-916-8800 and ask that the dispute be removed. There should be no need to follow up with a letter.


Nevertheless, you should take note of whom you talk to. Write down the person’s name, and note the day and time of the conversation.
 To have a dispute removed from Equifax, you should send a letter to Equifax Consumer Services LLC, P.O. Box 740256, Atlanta, GA 30374-0256. Send the letter first class, and request a return receipt. In the letter you should include your name and address as well as a request to remove the notation of dispute. Also share with the CRA the proof that the investigation into the dispute was completed. Send copies of supporting documents. , Experian likes to remove disputes from their reports as soon as they are resolved. If you need to contact them directly, use the phone number provided with their credit report. To contact Experian online, visit www.experian.com.
 A CRA has 30 days to investigate a dispute and take action. If you have not heard back from the agency after this period, follow up with a phone call, and ask if there is anything else that you need to do.
 If you run into problems with the CRA, and the dispute is not removed, you may want to reach out to the creditor directly. The creditor can request that the information be removed from your credit report.
 You should call the creditor which reported the dispute and ask to have it taken off your report. Also ask for an address where you can send a confirming letter.
 You should follow up your phone call with a letter which will serve as physical evidence that you requested removal. A letter to the creditor should have the following information:


The name of the credit reporting agency whose report shows the dispute.
A request to remove the dispute notation on the report.
A copy of any communication you have already had with the CRA about this issue.
 You should mail your letter first class, return receipt requested. Hold onto the receipt, and keep a copy of the letter for your records. Send any supporting documentation as well as a photocopy of the credit report with the dispute highlighted.

