 The terimayo hot dog is a Japanese twist on the humble hot dog. To get started, just grill a hot dog in the way you typically prefer to. The terimayo hot dog can be made from lightly or heavily grilled hot dogs.Put the hot dog in a whole wheat bun and drizzle a tablespoon of mayo and a teaspoon of teriyaki sauce over it.
Crumble a nori sheet over the hot dog by pulling off small flakes one at a time. Coat the mayo and sauce-covered dog in nori flakes. You might not want to use the whole sheet – or maybe you’ll want to use two!

, Seaweed chips are a crispy snack you can enjoy any time of day. To get started, mix 1/2 teaspoon brown sugar, 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger, 1/4 teaspoon paprika, 1/4 teaspoon oriental mustard, and 1/4 teaspoon salt in a small bowl.Brush sesame oil in an even layer onto one side of a roasted seaweed sheet. Sprinkle the spice mixture in a generous layer across the oiled surface of the seaweed.
Heat a nonstick pan over medium heat. Toast the sheets of seaweed for 10-15 seconds per side.
Pull the seaweed sheets apart along their separation lines to make discrete chips. Alternately, use scissors to cut the seaweed into triangular chips. The amount of spice mixture available will allow you to make five or six sheets of seaweed chips.
 All you have to do is grind three toasted nori sheets in a spice mill or blender. Then, mix the nori powder into one cup of mayo and two teaspoons of lime juice. Enjoy your tasty nori mayo. Seaweed mayo is a great dip for crackers, carrot chips, or cucumber slices. You can also spread it on sandwiches and wraps., Seaweed can be added to almost any smoothie in the form of kelp powder and dulse flakes. You can add half a teaspoon or more, to taste. Don’t add too much, though, as seaweed tends to have a relatively salty flavor.For instance, mix one banana, one mango, four strawberries, one packed cup of kale, one cup (240 milliliters) of milk, three ice cubes, and one teaspoon of dulse flakes in your blender. Blend on high until everything is well mixed. Add more water in one-teaspoon increments if you find it is too thick.
 Seaweed tea is easy to make. Boil 120 milliliters (½ cup) of water. Place ½ teaspoon of powdered kombu in a mug. Pour the boiling water over the kombu and mix it gently for a few seconds. Allow tea to stand about five minutes. Drink and enjoy., Seaweed supplements have all the benefits that direct seaweed consumption has, but allow you to obtain them without actually adding seaweed foods to your diet. There are many brands of seaweed supplements available. Ask your doctor for a recommendation of a reputable seaweed supplement at a concentration that is compatible with your age, sex, and overall health.Claims that iodine in seaweed can protect against radioactive iodine should not be taken seriously.