 Place the wheat-based bread flour in a large bowl, using your hands or a spoon to form a well in the center.


While not strictly necessary, it's a good idea to sift the flour into the bowl to remove any lumps and make it less dense.
If necessary, you could use all-purpose flour instead of bread flour, but the resulting wrappers might be slightly less durable.;
, Add the beaten egg and cold water to the center of the flour well. Gradually beat these ingredients into the flour until well-combined.


The resulting dough should be very smooth.
Start by adding only 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of cold water, then gradually add more water as needed to achieve the desired texture. Use cold water only; warm water may make the dough too sticky to work with.
 Turn the dough out onto a well-floured surface. Knead it for several minutes, or until it becomes notably more elastic.


If there's enough room in the bowl, you could knead the dough in the bowl during this step.
You should handle the dough with well-floured hands either way.
 Return the dough to the bowl. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap, then place the dough into your refrigerator. Let it remain there overnight.


While it chills, the dough should become firmer and easier to handle. You need to give it at least 4 hours, but 8 to 12 hours will be best.
 Turn the chilled dough out onto a well-floured surface. Roll the batch into a rectangle measuring roughly 12 inches (30.5 cm) wide and 16 inches (40.6 cm) long.


You also need to apply generous amounts of flour to the rolling pin used for this step.
Avoid sprinkling too much flour directly over the dough since adding too much excess flour may result in denser, less crispy wrappers. If the dough seems too sticky as you work with it, try refrigerating it for a longer period of time.
 Use a smooth knife to cut the dough into 12 squares, each measuring 4 inches (10 cm) on all sides.


You'll need to make four columns across the top and three rows along the side to produce 12 evenly sized squares.
 Using a floured rolling pin, flatten each square until it measures roughly 6 inches (15 cm) on all sides.
 Stack the wrappers, layering plastic wrap or parchment paper in between each one. Tightly wrap the entire stack with additional plastic wrap and refrigerate the wrappers until you're ready to use them.


These wrappers will dry out if stored for prolonged periods, so you should try to use them within several days.

