 This greeting can be used for most Hebrew festivals and holidays. It is particularly appropriate for Sukkot, Shavu’ot and Passover since they are technically the only festivals. If you are unsure on what to say, what for the other person to speak and repeat what they say.
 Although “chag sameach” may work as a catchall holiday greeting, there are Hebrew sayings that are more specific and appropriate depending on the holiday. Be sure to learn these alternative sayings as well. You can often place the holiday name in between “chag” and “sameach” to create a more specific greeting.
 In Hebrew, word order is not as important as it is in English and whether an adjective comes before or after a noun is less relevant. Because of this, adjectives can come before or after a noun and still have the same meaning.Although “holiday happy” may sound strange to English ears, “Chag Sameach” makes perfect sense to Hebrew speakers.
Try not to say “Sameach Chag” since that is not the saying and you might get laughed at.
 Hebrew uses a different alphabet than English and is read from right to left. Hebrew characters look different and have different accompanying sounds than their English counterparts. Knowing this alphabet, and the accompanying pronunciations, will help you better understand Hebrew and communicate it to others. Hebrew is a combination of an early Semitic alphabet with some Greek characters.
There are no vowels in Hebrew. However, there is a system of dots and dashes known as nikkuds that indicate vowels.
 One of the best ways to learn a language is to hear it spoken by native speakers. Find recordings online of people speaking in Hebrew. You can also immerse yourself by watching Israeli television and movies.


Begin by learning the pronunciations of the individual letters in the Hebrew alphabet.
 If you have the time and resources, try living in Israel for an extended period of time. The experience will force you to develop an ear for Hebrew and pick up much of the language. Although it may be difficult at first, immersion is the best way to learn another language quickly.Many people in Israel speak English, so be sure to use Hebrew at every opportunity.

