 Approach your mother and simply state, "I started my period." This will open the door to an honest conversation. Reactions will vary from mother to mother, and include happy, excited, or flat. Regardless, your mom will never be angry or disappointed. Once the subject has been broached, your mom will likely take over the conversation and help you with all you need to know.


Choose an appropriate time. If it needs to be done immediately, feel free to do so. Otherwise, choose a time that allows for a lengthy conversation.
Sometimes it helps to write out a script ahead of time so you can approach the subject with confidence.
The hardest part is gathering the bravery to get started. Just remember that you'll feel less stress when the conversation is over.;
, Remember, your mom has gone through this too.In fact, she may still be getting her period monthly. The important thing to keep in mind is that she understands, and she is there to help.


Your mom has the "hands-on" experience to answer any questions you may have.
More than likely, your mom will be prepared with pads or tampons and will be more than happy to explain their differences and demonstrate the proper use.
 Write a simple note stating something like "Mom, I started my period" or "Can you buy me some tampons/pads?" Place the note in a place where only she will find it, such as in her purse, her makeup kit, or her underwear drawer.


Make sure the note is short and to the point so that there is no confusion.
Be prepared for the response. Once you let your mom know about your period, she'll want to have a face-to-face discussion regarding it.
 Change your underwear but don't wash them. Instead, call your mom to your room and show her the underwear. Having had a period before, she'll immediately recognize it initiate the conversation about what happens next.


You should be looking for discharge that is slightly pink, brown, or red.
Don't be embarrassed to show your mom your underwear. She won't be grossed out--she's been there before.
Blood will stain your underwear so immediately wash or soak your underwear to avoid staining.
 If you only have brown discharge then wait for your period. By the time your period comes, you may already have a plan for how to tell your parents. It's also possible that it was a false alarm and your body is just preparing itself for your period.


Brown discharge before a period is normal. This could be a layer of nutrients being discharged before the actual menstruation., Again, feeling nervous is a perfectly normal feeling. Just imagine how nervous your mom must have been when she had the conversation with her mom years ago.Try deep breathing and positive thoughts to help you cope with your nerves.


Breathe in slowly through your nose and out through your mouth. Focus on taking 30 slow, deep, breaths and you should feel more relaxed afterwards.Ask yourself, "what's the worst that can happen?" Remind yourself that many people have gone through this and survived. Gaining this perspective can help you to relax., In some situations, parents aren't as supportive or understanding as one would hope. If this is the case, try talking to someone with which you feel comfortable. For example, a school nurse, a teacher, or a friend's parent.

