 In times of emotional distress it is common to turn to food for comfort. Food seems a readily available and momentarily satisfying way to fill emotional needs. Using food in this way usually just provides a distraction to avoid what you are feeling. Try not to turn to food to fill your needs, rather ask yourself some questions about what would really benefit you before heading to the pantry or refrigerator.


What do I really need? Am I physically hungry or emotionally hungry?
Is this really the solution to my problem?
What do I need more, a short term fix, or a long term fix?
Will this really help me?

, In addition to turning to food for comfort, overeating is another problem area to focus on. When you try and eat to change your emotions overeating and eating rapidly are easy traps to fall into. You may unconsciously be trying to fill a need that cannot be filled with food. It's important to find a balance and to practice portion control. During times of emotional distress, pay attention to what and how much you are eating by keeping a food journal. In your food journal note days, times, events, your emotions, what you ate, and how much.
Review your journal entries to see if there are any patterns in what you eat and how you are feeling at the time. This may help you figure out what emotions trigger what habits.
 When you are in a “down” mood or emotionally distressed, cooking may be the last thing you want to do. However, while fast foods, eating out, or pre-made meals are more convenient, they are almost always less healthy. Additionally, eating poorly can leave you feeling a sense of regret which will only further a negative mood state. Benefits to cooking your own meals can include:


You can get more connection to what you are putting in your body and a potentially improved mood. In general, cooking your own meals helps you make healthier decisions. Positive emotions such as a sense of self-gratification and accomplishment.
Encourages creativity and flexibility.
Cooking promotes happiness, and can be something that you can engage in with friends, family, or loved ones and “nurture others” while nurturing yourself.
Can be beneficial for depression, anxiety, eating disorders, ADHD, and addiction., Under times of stress or poor emotional health, another common default is to turn to alcohol, especially for depression, anxiety, or trauma sufferers. Much like the choice of foods, alcohol will not improve your mood but will only act as a temporary band-aid and can be incredibly damaging in the long term. If you enjoy the taste, you can use alcohol in the cooking process allowing you to taste the flavor triggering a satisfaction response in your body.


Use beer in chili or stews.
Adding wine to sauteing vegetables (especially red wines) preserves the taste and adds flavor to vegetables.
Adding alcohol into gravies or sauces.
Using spirits such as brandy or rum into custards, cakes, or icings.

