 This may sound easier said than done, but when you are at work, try to put off your worry. You should be focusing on your work while you are there, not worrying about things.


This helps break the habit of worrying at work by saving it for a later time instead of trying to ignore it. If you ignore it, your worries may build up. However, if you simply save it for later, your mind should be able to focus on your job.
If you find yourself returning to the worry, tell yourself that you will come back to it later and that you need to focus on the tasks at hand.Worrying can decrease your productivity and cause problems with your overall workflow.;
, One way to help you stop focusing on your worries at work is to write them down.Whenever a worry pops into your head, write it down on your worry list. Once it is written down, put it out of your mind to worry about later.


This list can be very cathartic and help you move past the worry by seeing it written out.You can write the list out by hand, create a document on your computer, or write them in a note on your phone or tablet. Just choose whatever way is most effective for you.
 When you are worried about a presentation or other situation at work, approach it with a positive attitude. Often, when you are worried about situations, you end up approaching them with negative, worried thoughts. Combat this with positive ones instead.For example, the morning of your big presentation, tell yourself “You have worked hard on this. You are prepared. You are going to do extremely well.” This will help you feel better and more confident about the situation instead of worry about it.
 Many people worry about things that can be solved if you apply a little problem solving. Think about your worry in a larger context of your job and your place of employment. Ask yourself questions such as:


Is this a problem I am currently dealing with, or is it just a ‘what if’ problem?
If it is a ‘what if’ problem, is it likely to happen?
Can I do something to solve this problem?
If not, do I know someone who can?
Is it my place to worry about it?, In some situations, there may be a coworker that that causes you to worry more. If you notice that there is a certain person at work that makes you more anxious or worry more frequently, try to spend as little time with them as possible. This way, this coworker will not be able to make you worry.


If you are unable to get away from this person, try having an honest discussion with your coworker about your worries. Keep the language about you and don’t blame your coworker for the worries.
For example, if your office-mate constantly reminds you of your worries, tell your coworker “I am trying to be more positive in my life and worry less, so I am trying not to talk about these things that worry me.” This way, you focus the change on you and don’t call your coworker out specifically for causing you to worry., You can try to combat workplace worries by making your work atmosphere more comfortable for you. This will make you feel at home while at the office and help you focus less on your worries. The happier you are by the things around you, the less likely you will be to focus on the worries.


Bring pictures of friends or family, your favorite cup, or a favorite action figure or knick knack. You can also post inspirational quotes or jokes to help you feel better throughout the day., Although there are always things to worry about at work, you should be thankful for the job you have. There are always worse situations you could be in or you could not have a job at all.


Take time to remind yourself of this whenever your worries take over.