 Ask yourself why you think these things are awesome. Is it something you can attain yourself? If not, is there something different you could do?

, Remember that there is no standard set of things that everyone wants to be in life. For some, this may mean getting in shape. For others, it may be growing musical talent or reading more books.


Whatever aspect you decide to develop, create a plan and stick to it. If you want to learn to play guitar, sign up for guitar lessons and practice every day. If you want to read more books, create a TBR (to be read) list and set a monthly goal for the amount of books you will read.
Keep at it! Quitters are never awesome, and you don’t want to have a reputation of being someone who abandons a project. Others will see and admire your determination.
 When you are down, find the silver lining, but also find ways to make the situation better next time. Maybe you earned a poor grade on your math test. Instead of moaning about it, do your homework and find someone to tutor you before the next exam.
 Watch stand-up comedy or listen to comedy podcasts. Listening to comedy will help you see life in a more humorous manner and not take yourself too seriously.


If you are naturally a negative person, finding the humor in situations you would normally be upset about is very important. Others don’t really want to hang out with negative people., Work to try to create the awesome things you love. People will know instinctively that someone who creates things is awesome.
 You shouldn’t need to tell everyone that you are totally awesome. Let your actions speak for you.
 Make sure the people in your life know they matter by showing gratitude and kindness.


For instance, if your teammate set you up for a great score in soccer practice, tell them how awesome they are and return the favor next time.
Be generous with your time by helping others. If you see someone in your class struggling with the math homework and you are really great at math, offer to work with them after school. You might just make a new friend!
Speak up when you see someone being bullied at school. No one thinks bullies are awesome. By standing up for yourself and others, you will be seen as a hero—just don’t wear a cape!

