 If the item you're removing has a different or uneven background, you can still replace it. Imagine an image where someone is standing by a fence. You want to remove him, but you also need the fence to be intact and straight "behind" him when you replace him -- not some random assortment of pixels. This is where the Patch Tool comes in., You can use any tool you want here. In general, the closer you can get the selection to the item the better, as you want to minimize the background surrounding your item.
 Don't un-click yet. For now, find an area in the photo that resembles the photo you're looking for.
 The patch tool will analyze the area you let go of the mouse, then copy it over where your removed item used to be. Try to find an area where all of the major lines match up to seamlessly.You can use other layers as well, as long as you select "Sample All Layers" from the top bar.
You can click and select on other open Photoshop windows as well to pull background from another image.
 These tools are seventh from the top of the toolbar. You can also press J to cycle through your "Patch Kit." As you hit J, watch the tool change in the upper left-hand corner. You have a variety of options, all of which are meant to help you seamlessly remove items from the image. While this method is concerned mostly with the Patch Tool, the rest are great for fine-tuning your image after removing the item:Spot Healing Brush Tool: Touches up the center of where you clicked with the pixels from the outside. For example, you could drag the brush along an power line in a shot and the brush will replace it with the blue sky surrounding it.

Healing Brush Tool: Replaces the area you're clicking with another area of the shot. To select the area you want to replace, Alt/Opt-click with the Healing Brush Tool on. Now, anywhere you click will be replaced by pixels from where you Alt-clicked.

Patch Tool: Fills in the area around your removed item with pixels from any area of the photo that you choose, or even other layers or photos.

Content Aware Move Tool: Allows you to copy and paste an item into an area with a similar background (like moving a pic of a bird from one side of the sky to the other), filling in both spots automatically.

Red Eye Remover: Works just as advertised. Zoom in for the best results.