 The key to having great sex is to be open and honest with your partner. This is especially true after you have a baby. You have both experienced a major life change. This warrants a discussion about how your sex life will change.Share your feelings. If you are nervous about having sex, talk to your partner.
Try saying something like, "I'm still experiencing a lot of tenderness. I am a little anxious about having sex."
If your partner is the one who gave birth, you may have your own concerns. Try sharing by saying, "I'm worried that I will hurt you or cause you pain during sex."
Validate one another's emotions by listening. By talking to each other, you can connect and exhibit trust.
 If you are not ready to start having intercourse yet,that's ok. There are other ways that you can reestablish an intimate connection with your partner. Talk to one other about ways that appeal to you both.Give each other massages. Light some candles, get some scented oils, and help each other relax. You'll feel physically connected without the anxiety.
Take a shower together. Let the steam and scented soaps help you feel sexual with each other. You could also try a bubble bath.
Touch each other. Hold hands, cuddle during a movie, and kiss each other multiple times throughout the day.
 You may not be able to immediately resume your normal sexual preferences. For example, missionary position can feel uncomfortable to women who have recently given birth. Consider trying alternate positions so that you can both enjoy sex.During postpartum sex, it can be helpful to let the woman control the pace and pressure.
Try a woman on top position. This way, the female can set the tone during sex.
Side-by-side can also be a great way to make sex feel good to both of you. This position typically causes penetration to be less deep, which can be helpful for someone who is healing.
Communicate during sex. Tell your partner what feels good and what doesn't.
 Life after having a baby can be very hectic. You are likely both sleeping much less and a bit stressed from additional responsibility. Try to make time for your relationship, despite the challenges.Go on a date night. Ask a family member to come over. Take some time for an adult dinner and movie out of the house.
If a sitter isn't feasible, have a date night at home. When the baby is sleeping, take some time to cuddle on the couch and catch up on your Netflix shows.
Take time to focus on your relationship outside of parenthood. On your dates, make sure to talk about something other than the baby.
Talk to each other about outside interests. When you're a new parent, it's natural to focus on sleep schedules and breastfeeding, but don't forget that you and your partner are attracted to each other for other reasons.
 Sex is an important part of a healthy relationship. Sometimes you need to put in some extra effort to make sure that you devote enough time to that component of your relationship. If you find that you're not having enough sex, try scheduling it.Make a sex date. You can work this into your schedule the same way that you plan things like doctors appointments and paying the bills.
This may not seem totally romantic, but it is worth it. Once you get in the habit of having regular sex again, you will no longer need to plan it in advance.
You may schedule the act itself, but that doesn't mean that your lovemaking has to be routine. Surprise each other by trying some new moves.
It's okay to be flexible. You'll have to work around your baby's schedule. But make sure to keep your sex date, even if it has to be pushed back or moved forward. If necessary, skip the housework for once.
 The most important thing you can do to encourage great sex is to be emotionally supportive of one another. Being a new parent is an amazing experience, but it definitely comes with challenges. Make sure that you and your partner help each other out.Encourage one another. Say things like, "You're a great mom. And that makes me love you even more."
You will likely find that parenthood deepens your connection. Which is an excellent way to help your sex life be fantastic.

