 Usually, most doctors treat co-occurring conditions in psychiatry. In fact, it would be hard to find a specific center that only treated OCD. However, if you have a dual diagnosis, such as OCD and alcoholism, then you may need to seek out a special facility that helps people with dual diagnoses. Treating your conditions together may produce better results than treating them separately. Talk to your doctor about finding a clinic that can treat people with a dual diagnosis.Treating one condition without addressing the other may make one worse. For example, if you try to treat an eating disorder, the stress of changing negative eating habits may trigger anxiety and increased OCD symptoms.In a facility where they treat dual diagnosis patients, they approach the treatment together instead of treating each illness separately.
Talk to your doctor or psychiatrist about treating your conditions together if there is no facility in your area that specializes in dual diagnosis treatments.
 If you have a substance abuse problem along with OCD, you may have to go through a medical detox. This may be done at an addiction clinic or integrated treatment center. It may be difficult for you to get off the drugs or alcohol alone, so a medical detox may be the best treatment option.A medical detox helps reduce or ease the withdrawal symptoms as you detox. For someone with OCD, the detox period may be especially difficult.
Undergoing detox through a clinic gives you access to immediate medical care in case you need it.
 Eating disorders are common co-occurring conditions alongside OCD. If you also have an eating disorder, part of your treatment may center around nutrition. Part of treatment is aimed at addressing the nutritional beliefs along with the OCD behaviors.For example, those with OCD and an eating disorder may have obsessive thoughts about food and calories. They may only eat food of a certain type, shape, or color.
Exposure therapy, food ritual prevention, and CBT thought and behavior therapy may be used.
You may also work with a medical team to help with any medical problems due to nutritional deficiencies. A nutritionist may be brought in to help you learn about food and healthy eating habits.

