 They need to be about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) thick. Focus on the thicker areas so that the chicken breasts are all the same thickness by the time you are done.Do not rinse the chicken beforehand; you can, however, trim away any excess fat.


If you don't have a meat mallet, you can use a rolling pin or a jar instead.
If you don't have a large, plastic, zippered bag, you can use two sheets of plastic wrap. The plastic bags will do a better job at keeping the juices from splattering everywhere, however.
You can use bone-in chicken breasts for this recipe, but they will take longer to cook. If you are using bone-in chicken breasts, you do not need to pound them.;
, Fill a large bowl with 1 quart (1 liter) of water. Stir in 1/4 cup (cc grams) of salt, then add 4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts. Leave the chicken in the brine for 15 minutes, then take them out. Rinse the brine off with cold water, and pat the chicken breasts dry with paper towels.For a more intense brine, cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and leave it in the fridge for up to 6 hours.
Brining chicken breasts is not completely necessary, but it will make the chicken breasts more juicy and flavorful.
 Make sure that the baking rack is in the middle of the oven.
 Leave some space between each breast. If they are too close together, they won't cook evenly. They will also steam, and you won't get that nice, crispy layer on top.
 You can use the seasonings listed in the recipe, of you can use your own. If you are using a mix of seasonings, like the one in the recipe, mix them together in a small bowl first.
 Unlike beef, chicken cannot be pink inside or under-cooked. After 15 to 18 minutes, open the oven, and stick a cooking thermometer into the thickest part of the chicken. If it reads 170°F (77°C), it is ready.Bone-in chicken breasts will take about 15 minutes longer to bake.Be careful not to touch the bone when inserting the thermometer.
If the temperature does not read 170°F (77°C), even after 18 minutes of baking, then keep cooking the chicken until it does.
If you want the chicken to be browned and crispy, turn the broiler onto high during the last 3 to 5 minutes of cooking., This will allow all the juices to settle, and make your chicken tender and moist. Keep the pan covered with aluminum foil while the meat is resting so that it doesn't cool or dry off.