 You will need different amounts of carbohydrates, depending on when and why you will be consuming the sports drink. A pre-workout drink may have more carbohydrates than a drink needed during a workout, or, a pre-workout drink may have fewer carbohydrates and only serve to keep you hydrated and help with water retention.

Understand isotonic sports drinks. Isotonic sports drinks have 6 to 8% carbohydrates, water and electrolytes. An isotonic sports drink is an optimum beverage for during a workout. It has the best amount of carbohydrates to help maintain energy. If you are unsure which drink you need, an isotonic beverage is the best way to go because it is versatile and beneficial.
Understand hypotonic sports drinks. This type has less than 6% carbohydrates and electrolytes. It doesn’t contain enough carbohydrates to replenish muscle glycogen. These types of sports drinks are best for hydration only. They can be consumed during a workout lasting less than 60 minutes, before a workout or after a workout. The electrolytes will help with fluid retention.



 


Understand hypertonic sports drinks. These contain electrolytes and more than 8% carbohydrates. Hypertonic fluids are not good for during a workout or after a workout because of the high carbohydrate load. They can cause digestion to slow and rehydration to slow because of the amount of carbohydrates the body is trying to digest. Hypertonic fluids are best consumed when carbohydrate loading at least an hour before a workout. They will help with pre-workout muscle glycogen stores.





;
, Sports drinks do not usually label the percentage of carbohydrates in the drinks so you will need to calculate it for yourself.


Convert serving size from fluid ounces (oz) or mL to grams (g). For fluid oz, divide the amount of oz by 0.03527 to get the amount in g. To convert mL to g, divide the amount in mL by 1.
Calculate the percentage of carbohydrates in a serving size by dividing the amount of carbohydrate in the drink by the serving size in grams and multiplying by 100.
 Different carbohydrates absorb at different rates. For sports drinks, you will want rapidly digestible carbohydrates with a high glycemic index.


Choose sports drinks with glucose, maltodextrin, dextrose, high glucose corn syrup and glucose and fructose mix. These have a higher glycemic load and will digest more rapidly.
Avoid sports drinks with high fructose corn syrup or fructose as the main ingredient for energy. Alone, fructose slows digestion and will not absorb as quickly as needed to restore muscle glycogen. Most sports drinks use high fructose corn syrup for flavor so it is important to read the ingredient statement to determine what other carbohydrates are being used.

