 The AussieRescue & Placement Helpline is an Australian Shepherd specific rescue organization. They only rescue and put up for adoption full breed Australian Shepherds. If you are interested in owning this breed, consider starting here to rescue an Aussie in need of a home.To adopt a dog through this rescue, you must fill out an application. The application must include references. After reviewing the application, a representative will contact you.
You will probably be required to allow the rescue representative to visit your home to ensure that the dog will be adopted into an appropriate home.
The rescue generally only accepts people who have owned dogs before.;
, The American Kennel Club and the Kennel Club UK have lists of dogs and litters that are available for sale. The list breeders with recent litters with puppies available and classified ads of puppies for sale.For each website, go to their “Find a Puppy” section. Type “Australian Shepherd” into the search box, and the results will list all available puppies for sale.
 Another way to find an Australian Shepherd is to contact breeders and buy a puppy from their litters. Breed parent organizations, like the United States Australian Shepherd Association, have a breeder directory of reputable breeders. This is a good place to start.You also may ask around in your area for reputable breeders. You may consider asking other Australian Shepherd owners online which breeders they bought their dogs from.
 You may decide to browse through the pet finder websites that list dogs for sale. These websites have classified ads listing puppies and dogs that people are selling. These sites include PetFinder, AdoptAPet, and even Pets at Overstock.com.


Be careful buying puppies from these kinds of websites. You never know if you are dealing with a reputable breeder or an irresponsible breeder and puppy mill. Always research the people you are dealing with, ask questions about their dogs and breeding practices, and insist on seeing the puppies in their home with their litter prior to buying.
 You may also consider looking in local shelters for Australian Shepherds or Aussie mixes. Shelters, Humane Societies, and other local animal fosters and rescues have many dogs that need good homes. You may find an Australian Shepherd ready to be adopted at one of these places.

