 Goodwill accepts a broad range of business and household items at its stores and donation centers. The organization asks that items meet certain requirements. They include:


Clothing: Make sure articles are clean and not worn out.
E-Waste: Goodwill recycles computer components, so they can be in any condition.
Small appliances: Specify whether the appliance is functioning or not. Damaged appliances are accepted for recycling.
Vehicles: You can donate any vehicle, whether it's in operating condition or not, to Goodwill. The group handles all DMV paperwork for the transaction and provides complimentary towing.
Hazardous materials: Goodwill does not accept dangerous or hazardous materials, like depleted batteries, cleaning supplies or ammunition.
Recalled items: Do not donate items that have been banned or recalled.;
, Go online to the Goodwill website to find local Goodwill stores and donation sites. Make sure the center accepts the items you plan to donate.


Donation centers: Remote donation centers usually take smaller items. Don't leave items at an unattended location.
Goodwill stores: Store locations accept the full-range of donated items, such as major appliances and larger items, including sporting goods.
Pick-up service: You also can make a Goodwill donation by arranging to have Goodwill pick up items at your home. Drivers will remove any items from your property, including those Goodwill does not accept. You will get a receipt and can apply it as a charitable tax deduction. You have to pay a small fee for the pick-up service, which is usually done within 48 hours of making an appointment.
 Goodwill accepts financial contributions and allows you to target your funds. Some of the most popular programs include:


Area of Greatest Need: This option allows you, with the help of a Goodwill representative, to channel your contribution to the program that will serve the most people as they struggle to clear employment barriers.
Assistive Technology Exchange Center: The center helps people by providing specialized services and technologies.
Goodwill Fitness Center: The fitness center provides adaptive equipment for people with physical disabilities and chronic illnesses.
Circle of Independence: This program allows you to make a monthly contribution that directly puts your contribution to work in Goodwill programs and services.
 Donations to Goodwill can be tax deductible. The organization offers an items calculator on its website to help you get an idea on the deductions your donation can provide. You will get a receipt for your donation and can claim it as a charitable tax deduction on your 1040 form, Schedule A. Check the Internal Revenue website or with your tax advisor for complete details.

