 For any type of infection (viral, bacterial or fungal), true prevention depends on a healthy and strong immune response. Your immune system consists of specialized white blood cells that search for and attempt to destroy potential pathogens such as EBV, but when the system is weakened, harmful microorganisms grow and spread virtually unchecked.As such, focusing on ways to keep your immune system strong and functioning properly is a logical and natural approach to preventing EBV and virtually all other infectious diseases.


Getting more sleep (or better quality sleep), eating more fresh fruit and veggies, practicing good hygiene, drinking lots of purified water, and regular cardiovascular exercise are all proven ways to keep your immune system function the way it was designed to.Your immune system will also benefit from cutting down on refined sugars (soda pop, candy, ice cream, most baked goods), reducing your alcohol consumption, and refraining from smoking tobacco products.
In addition to poor lifestyle choices, people's immune systems can be compromised by severe stress, debilitating diseases (cancer, diabetes, other infections), and certain medical procedures or prescriptions (surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, steroids, over-medicating).;
, Recommended daily intake of vitamin C ranges from 75 mg to 125 mg (depending on gender and whether or not you smoke), but there's growing concern within healthcare circles that amount may not always be enough for optimum health and immune function.To combat infections, consider taking at least 1,000 mg daily in two divided doses.
Excellent natural sources of vitamin C include citrus fruits, kiwis, strawberries, tomatoes, and broccoli.
 In addition to vitamin C, there are many other vitamins, minerals, and herbal preparations that display antiviral and immune boosting properties. Unfortunately, none of them have been rigorously studied in relation to preventing or combating EBV. High-quality scientific research is expensive and natural or "alternative" therapies for diseases and conditions are typically not high on the list of mainstream medicine to investigate. Furthermore, EBV is unusual in that it likes to hide inside B cells – a type of white blood cell that is part of the immune response.As such, EBV is difficult to eradicate simply by boosting immunity, but it's certainly worth a try.


Other immune boosting supplements include vitamins A and D, zinc, selenium, echinacea, olive leaf extract, and astragalus root.Vitamin D3 is produced in your skin in response to intense summer sunshine and a necessary part of a healthy immune system — consider supplementing with D3 during winter months or year-round if you are not exposed to at least 15 minutes of direct sunshine every day.
Olive leaf extract is a strong antiviral made from olive trees and it may work synergistically with vitamin C., The vast majority of teenagers and adults (not just in the U.S., but other countries too) have been infected with EBV at some stage. Some fight it off effectively with no symptoms, some contract it and have mild symptoms, and some are ill for weeks or months. As such, not kissing or having sexual contact with anyone is a great way to prevent EBV and other viral infections, but it's not very realistic or practical advice. Instead, avoid romantically kissing people who appear to be ill, especially if they have a sore throat, swollen lymph nodes, and are always tired or fatigued. However, keep in mind that EBV can spread without the presence of any obvious symptoms.Although nicknamed the "kissing disease," EBV infection can also spread via saliva from sharing beverages and utensils, as well as via other body fluids during sexual relations.
While most Americans have been infected with EBV, mononucleosis appears more common in Caucasian than in African-American populations.Other risk factors for EBV infection include being female, living in tropical climates, and being sexually active.
 There is no standard medical treatment for EBV because it often doesn't cause symptoms, and even mononucleosis is self-limiting and tends to go away within a few months.However, if your symptoms are causing significant discomfort, then acetaminophen (Tylenol) and anti-inflammatories (ibuprofen, naproxen) can be used to treat high fevers, inflamed lymph nodes and throat pain. For severe throat swelling, your doctor may prescribe a short course of steroidal-type drugs. Bed rest isn't often recommended, although some people with mononucleosis often feel exhausted.


EBV leads to mononucleosis in about 1/3 to 1/2 of teenagers and adults infected with the virus — common symptoms include fever, sore throat, swollen lymph glands and severe fatigue.Keep in mind that many over-the-counter medications for adults should not be given to children (aspirin in particular).
In up to 1/2 of mononucleosis cases the spleen becomes swollen due to filtering all the abnormal blood cells out of the blood.Avoid excessive activity and any trauma to the abdomen if your spleen is inflamed (the area below your heart).
Rare complications related to EBV include brain inflammation (encephalitis or meningitis), lymphoma, and some other cancers.
 Colloidal silver is a liquid preparation containing small atomic clusters of electrically charged silver. The medical literature shows numerous viruses successfully treated with silver solutions, but efficacy depends on size (particles should be less than 10nm in diameter) and purity (no salts or protein in the solution).Subnanometer-sized silver particles become highly electrically charged and can destroy the most rapidly mutating viral pathogens. However, it's unknown if and how silver particles specifically destroy EBV, so more research is currently needed before any definitive recommendations can be made.


Silver solutions are generally considered non-toxic even in high concentrations, but protein-based solutions increase risk of argyria — discoloration due to the silver compounds getting trapped within the skin.
Colloidal silver products are widely available in health and supplements stores.
 If your EBV infection or mononucleosis persists for many months, then ask your doctor about the effectiveness of antivirals or other potent medications. Chronic EBV infection is not common, but when it persists for many months it has a significantly negative impact on the immune system and quality of life. Anecdotal reports suggest that antiviral therapy (acyclovir, ganciclovir, vidarabine, foscarnet) might be effective in some cases of chronic EBV infection.However, keep in mind that antiviral therapy is generally ineffective for less serious cases of the disease. In addition, immunosuppressive agents (corticosteroids, cyclosporine) can be used to temporarily reduce symptoms in patients with chronic EBV infection.Drugs that suppress immunity can also inhibit the immune response to EBV and may allow virus-infected cells to proliferate further, so ask your doctor if the risk is worth it.
Common side effects from taking antivirals include skin rash, stomach upset, diarrhea, fatigue, joint pain, headache, and dizziness.
There have been substantial efforts to develop vaccines against EBV, but none are currently effective.

