 Start with fabric that has been pre-washed and ironed so it is easy to work with. It will also absorb dyes better if it has been pre-washed. Select fabric that is white or very light in color.Use fabrics made with natural fibers like cotton, muslin, hemp, or rayon. Avoid fabrics like wool or silk, as they can be difficult to print on with the wax method.
 To make the resist printing process easier, put newspaper or wax paper down on a flat surface, like a table. Then, secure the fabric over the table with tape, pins, or staples. Make sure the fabric is taut over the table so it does not move around when you apply the wax.If you do not want to get wax or dye on your hands, you can put on medical gloves at this point.
 Batik wax is made especially for resist printing. You can find Batik wax online or in craft stores. Regular wax should work fine too as long as it contains no dyes. Melt the wax in the metal pot until it is a liquid.Stir the wax as it melts so it does not get too hot or burn. Leave the wax on low so it does not come to room temperature and get hard again while you are resist printing.
 Once the wax has melted, take the paintbrush and dip it into the wax. Then, apply it to the fabric in whatever designs you would like. Make dots, circles, lines, spirals, or shapes on the fabric to create a pattern. Do not put too much wax onto the fabric. Apply one to two layers of wax at a time.You can also make fun shapes or patterns on the wax with tools like a potato masher, a chopstick, or any other object with an interesting texture.
Make sure the wax appears clear on the fabric and has penetrated the other side of the fabric. If the wax appears yellow and sits at the top of the fabric or spreads out on the fabric, the wax is not the right temperature. It should not be too hot or too cool.
 Once you have made as many patterns and designs on the fabric as you’d like, let the wax dry overnight on the fabric. Put the fabric is a safe spot so the wax can set., When the wax has dried, dye the fabric in the colors of your choice. You can use a bucket or your sink to dye the fabric using natural dyes. You can also use the washing machine to dye the fabric.Start with the lightest or brightest color first for the pattern. Then, choose a darker color that will mix well with the first color. The lightest color will show up on the waxed areas and the darker color will be the main color on the fabric.
For example, you may start with yellow dye as the first dye bath. Then, you may use turquoise as the next dye bath. This will mix with the yellow to make a green background color on the fabric.
 After you have dyed the fabric, rinse out the fabric and hand wash it in lukewarm water. The lukewarm water will ensure the wax does not melt. Then, air dry the fabric.
 To remove the wax, fill a large pot with water and a few drops of liquid detergent. Bring the water to a simmer and put in the fabric. Weigh the fabric down with something heavy, such as a rock or a kitchen tool. Then, let the water come to a boil.The wax will then slide off the fabric and float to the top of the water. When all the wax floats to the surface, remove the fabric from the pot.
 Wash the fabric one more time in the washing machine to remove any residual dye. Dry the fabric in the dryer or hang it to air dry.