 This may sound like a needless point, but in the event you get caught, what you're wearing can be a huge tip-off. It's best to have getaway clothes and then something to change into once your escape is successful. You have two options:


Wear your going-out clothes under your bedclothes. If you're sneaking around the house and the 'rents wake up, you can say you were grabbing a CD or some water or simply couldn't sleep so you were killing time till you got tired.
Hide your going-out clothes outside. This can be in a grill (a clean one!) or in some area that won't be seen or discovered -- by humans or animals. An area of the garage may be your best bet.

Keep your clothes in a bag. That way, when you change, the clothes you're forced to take with you (unless you hide those in turn, too) are easily transportable.
 Now that you know what you're doing and when you'll be doing it, what stands in your way? Make sure there's nothing that can go wrong between point A and point B -- your exit needs to be as swift as possible.


Where will the family dog be? If necessary get him out of your trajectory the night before. He could cause a ruckus you aren't otherwise expecting.
If you'll be wandering around in the dark, remove any objects that you think could pose a problem. Tripping over anything, breaking something, or running into your mother's beloved wind chimes can all blow your cover.
 If/when your parents come into your room to see if you're actually in bed, they may be fooled by the decoy. If a doll has hair like yours, take advantage of it!


You may want to put a note to your parents telling them where you are under the blanket with the items. That way, if your parents actually look and see you're not there, they can at least know where you are. This strategy can help alleviate any penalty, because you were considerate of your parents' worries.
 Find a place where you can pretend you are sleeping that's nearer your desired exit. If you are caught "sleeping" on the couch, say that you felt uncomfortable, you dozed off watching TV, or that you simply wanted to sleep downstairs tonight.


Depending on your parents, this may only work once (twice if you're lucky). Use this method sparingly as it may rouse suspicion if used often. On the other hand, if you do sleep there frequently, your parents may get into the mindset that falling asleep on the couch is a normal occurrence and it will arouse less suspicion. In that case, it would be to your benefit to sleep on the couch some nights even when you aren't sneaking out.
If you'll be wandering around outside, consider camouflage. Not the army kind -- just simply blending into your environment. That doesn't mean wearing a black ski mask, a black sweatshirt, and black pants. Think about the colors of where you're going. How would you fit in?
Navy, dark green, brown, and dark gray generally mix in well with nighttime. Stay away from black (few things are actually black) and bright colors to avoid attracting attention to yourself needlessly.
If the streets you're going to be on are poorly lit, wear light colors anyway. You don't want to be hit by a car.

