 When you are tolerant towards other people, it creates a positive atmosphere, even in difficult situations.Try to stay positive and remember that other people may think differently than you, but that it doesn’t make them bad people.


If you don’t like someone’s customs, but it doesn’t affect you or harm anyone, keep your opinion to yourself.
If you really can’t get along with someone, just walk away and reflect on your interaction. Revisit it later with a different person.
 While customs, traditions, and important religious figures might differ, many religions share the same moral standards, tenets, and even sacred texts and holy sites. Find common ground and appreciate things that are similar, like the virtues of nonviolence, treating others with respect, and tolerance.


Judaism and Christianity use some of the same religious texts and both share the laws of the 10 Commandments.Islam, Judaism, and Christianity share holy sites in Israel and Palestine.Hinduism and Buddhism both share origins from India and have some similar beliefs, like the belief in reincarnation., Interrupting another religion’s customs or rituals is a huge sign of disrespect, and could make people very mad. Even if you don’t understand what’s going on, or don’t believe in the custom, let the people complete it without interruption.


If you’re curious about a custom or ritual, wait until it is complete before asking any questions.
Remember to remain respectful and inquisitive and not judgmental.
 The media creates different depictions of different religions, and many of them may not be accurate. Many reports from the media are stereotypes, and not indicative to the faith as a whole.Before passing judgement on someone from a different faith, ask questions about that faith.


Make sure to not incorporate negative things you’ve heard from the media or entertainment industry when talking to the person.
You can respectfully ask questions about a religion’s clothing, customs, laws, or beliefs without offending most people.

