 Drinking more than three servings in a single sitting will raise your blood pressure temporarily, but binge drinking regularly can cause serious long-term effects on your cardiovascular system. Alcohol may also interact with any medications you take and adds calories to your diet that could contribute to weight gain or inability to lose weight.Men under 65 should have two or less drinks per day and those over 65 should limit themselves to just one drink daily.Women should not have more than one drink per day.If you are a heavy drinker, taper down over a period of one to two weeks to avoid a severe rise in blood pressure often associated with sudden avoidance of alcohol.
One drink is 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces of liquor.
 Nicotine raises your blood pressure, lowers HDL cholesterol, reduces oxygen levels in the body, and can cause blood clots. All of these factors can lead to serious heart disease, but quitting now can reduce your risk of heart disease by half after a year.Using a nicotine replacement product in addition to joining a smoking cessation program doubles your chances of quitting, according to the American Lung Association.
E-cigarettes help some people quit over time. Use them to taper off your consumption or to take a puff when you feel you can’t resist it, instead of buying a whole pack of smokes. Note that they are not a safer version of cigarettes, however.
Make notecards listing all the reasons you want to quit and keep them with you at all times. When the urge is strong, use them to remind you why quitting is worth the effort.
Keep your hands busy at times you used to have a cigarette. For example, you can still join your friends or co-workers on a “smoke break,” but take an apple to eat so you aren’t tempted.
 Regular exercise will help reduce overall stress, as will getting adequate sleep every night (seven to nine hours for most people). Consider adding another activity specifically to address stress management, like meditation, yoga, progressive muscle relaxation, or a low-stress hobby.Practice deep breathing exercises daily so that when you are in a high stress situation you can use these exercises to calm yourself down.
Meditation is a method for practicing mindfulness, which helps you focus on the moment and not think about everything that is stressing you out. If you aren’t comfortable with the idea of meditation, simply add mindfulness to your regular activities, like washing dishes or cooking dinner. Pay attention to what you are doing and the sights, sounds and smells you notice.
Pick up a fun hobby, like coloring in an adult coloring book, for a quick activity you can stop and do whenever you start to feel stressed. Try not to make it a competitive or difficult activity where you have to learn new skills, to avoid causing more stress.

