 If you are traveling overseas, you should contact your health insurance provider about your policy. Medicare and many major carriers will not cover medical expenses outside of the United States. Because of this, you should try to figure out if your plan has you covered. If you are traveling domestically, you will be covered by your current health insurance policy.Determine what your insurance company covers. Ask questions like “How much of my medical expenses do you cover?” and “What things will be covered during my trip?”
Be sure to ask about medical evacuations. If you are traveling somewhere that has a poor health care system or if you are engaging in dangerous activities, you should make sure you have medical evacuation coverage.;
, When you are thinking about getting medical insurance for your trip, consider your general health. Are you someone who gets ill easily or often? Do you have a chronic medical condition? If you answered yes to either of those questions, you should have some form of medical coverage.If you have a preexisting condition, plan to do a lot of traveling, or have not had a physical in a long time, you should visit your doctor for a basic physical before you leave.
If you are traveling to a place where there is an increased risk of getting ill, you should get medical coverage.
 The longer you are away, the more likely you are to have some kind of medical problem. Travel, jet lag, and exposure to new food can all impact your immune system and digestive health. If you will be gone for an extended period, you should get some form of medical coverage while you are overseas.Before you leave, find medical facilities in the location that you are planning to travel to that are in your medical network and carry that information with you. This may save you a lot of money if you are in an accident and need emergency attention.
 If you are planning to take an overseas trip where there is the potential for a medical emergency, you should probably get travelers health insurance. Travel medical insurance is a good idea if you will be engaging in any remotely dangerous activities like snorkeling, riding motorcycles, parasailing, or rock climbing. If you are going to engage in an activity where you might get hurt, be sure to get traveler’s health insurance.This is particularly important if you are going somewhere remote or that has poor healthcare facilities.
If you are doing anything remotely dangerous, you should buy a policy that covers emergency evacuations. If you get seriously injured and do not have medical evacuation coverage, you may be out $40,000 to $50,000 dollars.

