 Figs are not a significant part of many Western diets, particularly in North America. If you want to get more fiber at breakfast, consider looking towards the Mediterranean and adding figs to your breakfast cereal or oatmeal.For example, just a couple of figs sliced on your oatmeal can provide you up to 15 grams of fiber per serving, as well as giving you an antioxidant, calcium, and potassium boost.
 Particularly if you pre-slice your fruit, a parfait can be made in just a few minutes so it won't interrupt your busy schedule but will still fill you up and give you an extra boost of fiber.Use berries or slices of unpeeled apple or pear. Bananas also are high in fiber.
To increase the fiber boost further, mix in ground flaxseed or chia seeds.
 Avocado is a high-fiber fruit, and avocado toast is a simple recipe that has found its way to the brunch menu of many trendy restaurants. To make your own at home, spread avocado on whole-grain toast.You can experiment with spices or add roasted chickpeas or lentils on top for even more fiber.
 Berries are high in fiber, particularly because you usually eat them whole with the peel intact. Just a handful of berries with your normal breakfast can drastically increase the fiber you have at breakfast.Fresh blueberries and strawberries also work well on top of your cereal or oatmeal, or mixed into yogurt.
You also might blend berries into a morning smoothie.
 If you regularly have potatoes, such as hash browns, with your breakfast, you can get more fiber if you don't peel your potatoes before you slice and dice them. Just make sure you wash them carefully.Like fruits, the peel of a potato contains more fiber than the potato itself.
 The juice of a fruit doesn't have the fiber that the whole fruit does. You'll get more fiber at breakfast if you eat the whole fruit, including the peel if it is edible, such as on an apple or a pear.Fruit peels contain the bulk of the fiber in most fruits. You can add unpeeled slices of apple or pear to your breakfast cereal, oatmeal, or yogurt for a fiber boost.

