 First, watch/see/read the whole of your source material. If there is a big plot twist, test to see if you remember anything. When you see it (the plot twist), does it feel all too familiar? Does it feel like you already know this? If you do, it is probable that you are kin. Watch all your source material and look at all of the character's details. Which one calls out to you the most? If you question two, follow the steps below.;
, Some people only have one kin type from the same canon, some have multiple. To make it simple, you should narrow it down to one kintype to figure it out. Find which one you identify with the most and make it in an order. Let's do Steven Universe as an example. First you would do Ruby, Steven then Sugilite. You do not have to do this, but to make it simple, it is easier to do this.
 A canon is basically the source material, with some differences. Look through yourself and your source material. Does anything seem like it fits in, yet it isn’t in the show/book/audio? Don’t forget to question the other kin types that we mentioned earlier, it might fit in there. Find the people you were close to romantically, friendship wise or otherwise and look to see if you share those relationships that you used to. Do you feel like you have a crush on them or want to be friends with them?

, When you look at them, do you feel like “That's me!”? If you go on Tumblr and people draw pictures of your kin and the description says “don’t tag as kin/me/id” do you feel as if it's silly, because it’s a picture of you? These are things that happen to you, and your feel /very/ kin with the said character. Dress up in clothes similar to them, and see if it feels all too familiar.
, Many people say that it is bad to be kin, you're delusional or you need to be locked up, and so forth and it’s not true. Being kin is not a delusion, due to it being a spiritual or coping mechanism. You might want to even find people from your cannon to connect with. There are also kin networks that you can find people who share the same source material that you are from.

