 While activity may feel like what your body is craving, healthy activity cannot be completed unless your body is fully rested.


The birth process places a lot of strain on your body. Tissue that is torn must be allowed to heal, and the body needs to be rejuvenated to increase energy stores. Exercising without rest can actually do more harm than good. In any exercise routine, experts recommend periods of rest after a particularly strenuous exercise session.
The birth process can be considered an especially strenuous period of exercise that uses a variety of muscles. Rest is necessary after such an exhausting experience. New parents may find it difficult to rest sufficiently because of the added stress of caring for a newborn. This is why it is doubly important to rest as often as possible, whenever you get the chance.;
, By starting your stretching routine immediately after delivery, you can prevent muscles from stiffening. Stiff muscles are more difficult to stretch than muscles that are simply fatigued. Don't overstretch or overexert yourself: slow consistent stretches that extend just until tightness is felt are the best exercises to do in the first few days after a delivery.


Lie on the floor with feet close to your buttocks and your back pressed firmly into the ground. With your arms relaxed lightly at your sides and your muscles relaxed, use your abdomen to raise your head and chin slightly off the ground. Perform this exercise 5 to 10 times, twice daily. Work slowly up to 20 times. When this exercise is comfortably mastered, progress to upper body curls.
Lie on the floor in the same position you used with the head curl ups. With your arms relaxed and your head aligned with your spine, lift your shoulders and head off the ground for 3 seconds. Exhale slowly as you lower your shoulders and head to the floor. Do not use your neck muscles to lift your head: the lift should come from your abdominal muscles. Perform this exercise 5 to 10 times, twice daily.
Exercise the pelvic region by standing or sitting with your legs spread apart. Contract your pelvic muscles by squeezing the internal organs upward. The motion is similar to stopping a stream of urine. Squeeze these muscles 3 or 4 times in succession and repeat as many times as is comfortable throughout the day.
Stretch the legs by lying with your back flat on the floor and your knees bent. Stretch one leg out, hold it, and pull it back in slowly. Repeat this action with the other leg. Continue stretching your legs with this exercise until you can stretch both legs simultaneously.
 Breathing exercises help to remove the buildup of mucus that may be caused by the anesthesia. This mucus accumulates in the lungs and is a side effect of both the medication and the slowed breathing that is caused by anesthesia. When breathing slows, the lungs do not fill and empty completely, causing moisture and mucus to accumulate.


Begin slowly, performing 5 deep breaths every hour you’re awake. Breathe deeply through the nose and mouth. You will feel oxygen-rich air filling your lungs, and you may notice a point when your breath feels wet or raspy. This sound and feeling means that air is reaching the mucus-covered portions of the lungs. After the deep breathing, perform several huffing breaths. A huff is a forceful expulsion of air similar to a loud, abrupt laugh. Spit out any mucus that is dislodged from your lungs. Performing this step regularly will ensure that your lungs return to their healthy, normal potential.
Continue with similar stretching exercises for a cesarean section as were listed for a vaginal delivery. Be careful not to stretch the stomach too soon or place any unmerited stress on the cesarean section scar tissue.
 Start with short, brisk walks until you feel comfortable enough to progress further without becoming exhausted. Slowly build your aerobic exercise routine up until you are keeping your heart rate elevated for 30 minutes or more. Perform aerobic activity at least 4 times a week in order to remove the accumulated body fat caused by pregnancy or breast feeding.


Begin your aerobic workout at a 50 percent exertion level. Gradually work up to a 75 percent exertion level. After 8 to 12 weeks, you can work up to a 100 percent exertion level.

