 Though many people share their first kiss in middle school, many people are also not ready to kiss when they're at this young age. If you're still in middle school, you have to make sure that you're ready and that the girl you're with is also ready to kiss you. If you've started dating and she's hinted that she wants to kiss you or has responded well to your affection, then you're on the right track, but you should try to be as sure as you can before you make a move.


Ideally, you should have kissed your girl before the movies to make your movie kiss less awkward. It can be kind of hard to kiss someone for the first time in the dark.;
, You should pick a movie that is suitable for kissing. Pick a romantic movie or something lighthearted, so she wouldn't feel weird about kissing you in the middle of the movie. Just make sure you don't pick something that she's been dying to see or she'll be too interested in the movie to take a kissing break. You should also try to pick a movie that won't be too crowded; pick something that's been out for at least a month, so the theatre won't be packed. If you're surrounded by families or other kids, it'll be harder to make a move.


Let the girl pick the movie to make her feel special. Ask her if there's something she's really wanted to see. But if she says she really doesn't care, then you can take charge.
 Shower before you go. Brush your teeth well. Use deodorant and dress nicely. You can also carry mints for later. You don't have to dress to the nines, but let the girl see that you've made an effort to go on a date with her. She'll appreciate that you made the effort and will be more likely to respond favorably. If you dress to see her like you dress for school, then she won't feel very special.
 Though you can get some popcorn or M&Ms if that's what you both really want, remember that this will make it a little harder to make a move. You'll be less likely to steal a kiss if your fingers are covered in nacho cheese or popcorn butter. If she wants popcorn, of course, then you should order it without being cagey, but if she says she doesn't care, then you can skip out on the treats and focus on the main attraction.
 Though the movie theatre is a public place, you should try to find somewhere to sit where you won't be surrounded by too many people. Though it's hard to get true privacy in the movies, you should do the best you can to sit away from large or noisy groups of people. Try to get a seat on one of the sides of the theatre, near the wall, so that you are less likely to disturb people if you try to steal a kiss.


Try not to be obvious about it. If your girl asks why you're so picky, just say that you like sitting on the sides of the theatre.
 Just be relaxed and confident. You don't have to do the corny thing where you pretend to yawn and then spread your arm over her shoulder. Just be cool about it. You can be bold and drape your arm around the seat before she sits down, or ease into it after the movie starts. You don't want to assume too much and make the girl uncomfortable by making a move too soon. Feel her out. If she responds well to your touch and affection in general and you've put your arm around her before, then doing so at the movies won't be a big deal.


You can even ask her if she's cold; chances are that she will be, because movie theaters are always freezing. This gives you an excuse to put your arm around her.
 As the movie progresses, you should lean in closer to the girl. Do this slowly when the time is right, or during a scary or romantic scene in the movie. After you put your arm around her, move closer to her so that your heads are almost touching. You can stroke her upper arm with the arm that is draped around her, or you can put a hand on her knee. Just find a way to make her feel comfortable and closer to you.


This is where those concessions can become a bit of a pain. Make sure you don't accidentally knock over a drink or a box of Milk Duds. If she seems really into her snack, then you may want to wait a bit until she eats her food so she doesn't feel intruded upon when you try to get close to her.
 If she's constantly glancing at you or looking at your lips, then she probably wants to kiss you. If she seems a little nervous but responds well to your touch, then she may also want to kiss you. If she keeps pulling away when you try to get close, then she may not be ready for kissing. Remember that you're only in middle school, and many girls have not kissed and are not comfortable with doing so at that age. Ease off on the pressure or she'll feel uncomfortable.


If she turns to you to make little comments or just when she laughs, then it's another sign that she wants your faces to be closer together.
 When the time is right, go in for a kiss. You can make eye contact, touch her cheek, and then tilt her face toward yours and lean toward her until you lock lips. Your lips should touch each other firmly, but not too firmly. You can kiss her for just a second or two before you pull away. Most middle school girls are not ready for French kissing, so you shouldn't use your tongue unless you are very, very sure that the girl is ready for this, or you both will be in for an unpleasant surprise. After a few seconds, you can try to kiss her again, or sit back and enjoy the movie until you have another opportunity to give her a kiss.


Even after you pull away, remain affectionate. Keep an arm around her shoulder or on her knee so she still feels like you're paying attention to her.
 When the movie is over, squeeze her hand and let her know you had a great time and that you can't wait to see her again. Make sure the girl knows that you like her company more than you like kissing her. Though you're at an age where kissing is one of the most new and exciting things you can do, so is getting to know a girl you really like. If you kiss her just enough without coming on too strong, you'll be buying your movie tickets again before you know it.

