 Don’t try to pull mutual friends into your disagreement and try to get them to take your side. Be the bigger person.


If your friends ask you what happened, you could say, “I don’t want to talk about it right now,” or “That’s between Kate and me.” Don’t unload on mutual friends about your frustrations; you may end up pressuring them to take sides. While it may be tempting to feel like you have allies in your fight with your friend, think about how it would feel if the roles were reversed., Don’t talk about your friend behind their back. Gossip usually has a way of getting back to its subject matter. You may make your fight even bigger and more painful.If someone gossips to you about the friend you are fighting with, you could say, “I don’t want to gossip about her right now. I don’t want to make our fight worse.”

, If you need to vent about the situation, talk to someone who is not in your social circle. Better yet, take it outside your everyday social setting. Find someone who goes to a different school or a friend who lives far away to chat with.


You could say, “Do you mind listening to me vent about something I’m dealing with at my school right now? I know you don’t know these people, but I could use an outside perspective.”

, Even if you’re not getting along, you can still be nice toward your friend. Treat your friend like you would treat someone you don’t know very well: distant, but respectful.


You may be forced to interact with your friend at some point, whether it is working together on a project or attending the same party. Stick to the business at hand. If you want to talk about your disagreement, find another time to do it. If your friend tries to bring up your fight, you could say something like, “We’re here to celebrate Jesse’s birthday. Let’s talk about this later.”

, While it may feel good to get under your friend’s skin, it’s not a very mature way to respond. Just act normal and do your best to prevent causing more drama.


Trying to make someone jealous makes you appear insecure. It also makes you place unnecessary importance on what someone else thinks of you.Avoid showing off around the friend you are fighting with, like you are having so much more fun without them.
 Don’t let the fight with your friend get in the way of your relationships with other friends. Try to get on with your social life as best you can.


Hang out with your friends even if the friend you’re fighting with is there. You can think of some ways to avoid the friend you’re fighting with, like standing away from them or striking up a separate conversation with another friend. It can feel awkward, but you don’t have to put your whole social life on hold because one person is upset with you.
If your friend has turned others against you, you may be feeling isolated. Stand up for yourself without trying to turn others against your friend. You could find a friend you are close with and say, “I know Laura has told you about our fight and now you’re mad at me, too. I didn’t want to talk about it because I didn’t want people to feel like they had to choose sides. But if you want to hear my side of the story, I will tell you.” In this situation, it might be best to start building a new circle of friends.
 If it’s been difficult to hang out in your normal group of friends because of your fight, you may want to look outside your usual circle for other social opportunities. You might choose to make new friends or grow closer to acquaintances.Make plans with friends in other circles, perhaps others you don’t hang out with as much. For example, maybe you’re friends with people on your athletic team, but don’t hang out with them much outside of practice. Try to get together with them off the field.

Make some new friends by participating in new activities and meeting new people. If your friends have turned against you and are unwilling to hear your side of the story, you might want to start hanging out with other people instead., Spend some time thinking about the fight and your role in it. Could you have done anything differently to prevent the fight from happening? Did you exhibit behavior that routinely causes you problems?If you see a pattern of behavior in your life that contributed to the fight with your friend, consider examining that behavior more closely and taking steps to change it. For example, perhaps you contributed to the fight by blurting out some hurtful words before you really thought them through. If you have a history of speaking before thinking, you might want to look into ways you could address that problem and prevent future, similar situations from happening.
You could spend some time writing in a journal about your thoughts and feelings.
Talk to another friend or someone you trust about how you are feeling. Maybe that person can offer their own perspective on your situation.