 Some friends may clearly express how they like to communicate, while others may not. Some people enjoy emailing whereas others prefer more personal communication. Ask your friends about the best way to stay in touch and use that mode as your basis for ongoing communication.Reach out to your friends on a regular basis. Everyone gets busy, which may be why Facebook has taken off like wildfire. However, you can still remain connected––it just takes a little more effort. Carve out time to discuss the important things that are going on in your lives.;
, Book a slot with one friend at a time, especially if you’d like to discuss personal matters. Visit an art museum, meet at a cafe, or go to a movie. Find an activity that allows you to have time to communicate. If you go to a movie, have lunch or dinner so you have time to talk.You may see your friend regularly (at school or at work). If so, remember that one-on-one interactions allow you to get up to date on things you may have missed. Quality time together can be more personal and rewarding than time on Facebook!
If you don’t see your friend regularly, remind them that you care about your friendship, and that you would like to catch up in person.
 Have a party or go to an event with a group of friends. Ponder the group dynamics and how everyone will interact before assembling your groups. Some folks like to keep work friends and college friends separate, whereas others find that people from different worlds can mesh. Remember that many people use Facebook to schedule events. You may want to extend an invitation and later send out a written reminder to those you invite to your event.
 A call with a friend can bring you up-to-date pretty quickly. Be courteous and find out the best contact times in advance.Sometimes the only way you can ensure that you two connect is to schedule a date. Whether it’s scheduling a video call or a phone call, make sure you put forth the effort.
 If you live far from your friend, written communication can be satisfying, especially if you include a thorough update on your life. Letters and care packages add a personal touch to written communication.
Email has the advantage of instantaneous communication.
 Texting can be used to check in or to have a long chat. Most people use their cell phones regularly, so messaging can often become a real-time conversation via text.


With group chats, voice messaging, and the ability to send pictures, text messages can be similar to some of the features of Facebook. While not as personal as phoning, texting is a common alternative to social media.
 Reach out to friends who live in other cities if you happen to be in town. Ask for hotel recommendations and allow your friend to show you around his or her town while you are there.