 An adequate brooder with a heat lamp, hiding hut and dry bedding will make do for a secure environment for your quail chicks. If the environment isn't safe or comfortable for your chicks they will not feel secure and therefore taming them will be a lot harder to achieve.


Keep pets away from the brooder. Even smaller animals such as birds can be seen as a threat to baby quail. Dogs and cats should definitely be kept away out of the same room as they are predators to small quail chicks.
Reduce noise in the room. Talk in hushed tones and remove anything that creates a racket such as the TV, radio or perhaps a noisy budgerigar.
Optionally keep your quail in a busy (but still safe) room where they can get use to you and you only. Avoid a room with other pets, noises and children however.;
, You should begin to handle your chicks as soon as they have dried and are mobile after hatching. The sooner you begin to handle your chicks the quicker they will learn to trust you. They will imprint onto you as long as you show them trust and care.
 Quails are birds of prey. They are ground dwelling birds, so anything from above is seen as a threat from them. Do not stoop above them or reach to grab them in any way from above. They prefer movements at their eye level and it makes a much safer environment for them.
 If you're going to be taming your quails it takes time and patience so find yourself a seat or pillow to sit on while you're there. Stay at the quails eye-level instead of leaning over the bird because they will see you as a threat otherwise. If your quail are located on the floor restrain from a high-up seat. Instead, place a cushion on the ground for your comfort.


It's easier to have your quails brooder above-ground at a certain height so that you can pull a seat forward and view them in a comfortable position.
 This ensures that they will get use to you much quicker. You should visit them at least once a day but three times a day is ideal for eat least 30 minutes each visit. Your quail chicks need to get to know you as a person and your presence.
 Make small talk with your little pet, they will appreciate it. Your quail will need to get use to the sound of your voice so it won't receive a fright when it hears you talking by it's cage. Talk to the quail in a quiet, calm, soothing tone.Avoid jumpy and shouty remarks.


Make a vocal sound each time you enter the brooder. This will help the baby quail recognise who you are before you reach in.
 This can be as simple as placing your hand in their brooder. Once your chicks are comfortable with your hand they will begin to walk beside it or even walk over your hand. This will help prep you up for hand-feeding them.
 The main task is to encourage your quail chicks to come to you using food - the most effective trick to taming animals. This won't work if they have food available to them in their cage. Choose a time where your chicks are most hungry.
 Chick crumbles work best and they are easier for baby quails to digest. You can additionally use a mash feed or other treats suitable for quail chicks to digest. Do not chase your chicks around with the treats; you should keep your hand still inside of the cage.
 Quail chicks don't magically become tame over one taming process. Taming is a long process that requires a regular routine to get the baby quail use to you. A schedule will benefit both you and your baby quail chicks in getting use to each other. You should handle/tame your chicks at the minimum of once a day. The more the better!

, Instead, just rub them lightly under their beak and above their belly. They will eventually want to climb into your hand on their own. If you do pick up the chick you will make the situation a lot more difficult and scare the little quail!

