 A massive amount of research has been done and is still being done into employee motivation strategies. Search online to identify scientific studies, articles, and books that deal with motivational techniques. Then, take the time to study them carefully and take notes. Throughout your research, you will see many different techniques and behaviors that can be used to drive employees to action.


Some of these may conflict with each other, requiring you to decide which will be better for your organization.
Make a list of possible techniques so that you can evaluate them with your own thoughts and those of your management and employees.For example, you might look at Maslow's hierarchy of needs, Herzberg's hygiene theory, and McGregor's X and Y theories as a start.;
, Use what you have learned from your research to identify employee motivational techniques already in use in your organization. Think about which strategies have been most effective for you and your employees. Not all researched techniques will be effective for your organization, so think back to those you have used and identify those that have worked or have not worked for you in the past.


Write down a list of effective and ineffective strategies. Remember to note any strategies that you have not used and those that were met with indeterminate success., Speak to your peers in management or your management team if you are in charge of one. They will have thoughts on the best strategies for motivating employees as well. Ask them to provide support for their theories and talk about times where each strategy was successful. In some cases, they may believe to have used successful strategies, but employees found them less so.


Talk to your boss or mentor if you have one. This can be another useful source of motivation advice., Provide an opportunity for them to share ideas as you build your strategy. If employees have a way to provide anonymous feedback, you may get some helpful honest input about what would motivate them. They will also be more likely to participate in the motivational programs enthusiastically if they have some control over their creation.


Consider using one-on-one meetings, surveys, or performance appraisals to get employee input.
Try simply asking what your employees want. For example, they may want more respect, recognition, pay, benefits, or opportunities for growth. Or they may wish their work were more interesting, challenging, or meaningful.Think about inviting a counselor/ psychologist to the workplace. This can give employees a chance to discuss their issues related to work or behavior that demotivates them or make them less productive. Psychologists can also give them suggestions to cope with calm and positive behavior and move on.
 Realize the impact that a supportive and productive work environment has on motivation. Employees seem to feel most dedicated to their jobs when they feel heard in the workplace and are supported in doing their jobs productively.


Try to eliminate red tape and issues or processes that make your employees less productive. Being able to make an impact on their projects in the most effective and efficient ways possible is motivating in itself to many people.
Avoid punishing employees for mistakes and errors. Instead, support them by providing a remedy for the error and using the experience to teach them.This can also include the physical working environment. Consider improving the visual attractiveness of the office with more color, additional open space, and artwork., While cash incentives or raises can sometimes be somewhat effective, other recognitions of success can motivate employees more strongly. Some of these include:


Simply celebrating or congratulating an employee on their achievement.
Providing extra perks for employee's extraordinary work (flexible scheduling, extra time off, gifts and products, etc).
Giving awards for high achievers. For example, creating a program that recognizes the Employee of the Month.
Offering bonuses and incentives (monetary bonuses, stock options, retirement contributions, etc).
Offering advancement opportunities.
Giving top-performing employees a chance to attend a workshop or conference to improve their skills., Employees can sometimes lose hope when it seems like management isn't listening to them or that their contributions are not important. To remedy this, make an effort to improve your transparency and communication with them. Share the business's goals, progress, and success with them, showing how their contributions have added up to get you to that point.


If possible, relate positive customer feedback to your employees. Hearing what customers have to say will reinforce positive behaviors and lead to even better customer service., What do you have to offer employees that might motivate them? Is there extra money around for bonuses, or the opportunity to provide employees with other perks like stock options or promotional products?


If your business or company doesn't have a lot of extra revenue, there are still other ways to motivate people fairly cheaply, like offering group/social events for the team, or using awards and small rewards to help keep people focused.
 After considering the preceding strategies and incorporating employee, manager, and outside feedback, choose the strategies that you think will work best for your organization. Check through your list to make sure that no strategy conflicts with any other. Compile your strategies into an overall employee motivation strategy. This strategy should explain the different changes that need to be made and what resources to allocate to making them., Hold a meeting with your managers to present the new motivation strategy. They must be taught the strategy and associated behaviors before they can begin to use them. You and your management team will also need to lead by setting an example for them to follow. This means displaying the work ethic, values, and attitude required in the motivational strategy.


This helps to create a more motivational culture that adds to and improves your strategy. An effective workplace culture can lead to a self-sustaining source of employee motivation., In the interest of transparency, present the changes being made to all of your employees. Note any office, managerial, or procedural changes being made. Bring up new opportunities for advancement, professional development, or employee involvement. Educate employees on how to take advantage of these new opportunities.


Involving employees in these changes will help them to accept the new strategy and commit to improvement., Even if you write up a plan and think it's ideal, in reality it may or may not prove to be motivating to your employees. If you find it doesn't work in the long run, or if you employees have suggestions for change, go with the flow; there's no point in a motivation strategy that doesn't motivate people, so be open to changing the strategy in the future.


Provide managers and employees with feedback on how the changes have affected productivity, output, or another metric.
Allow for feedback about what is working and what isn't. You can use this knowledge to improve your strategy over time.