 Be sure of your own relationship before beginning one with his child. If either one of you still feels more casual than committed toward the other, forego any involvement with the kid. Avoid disrupting the child’s life prematurely or unnecessarily., If you and the father both feel ready for you to meet his child, give yourself some extra time before actually doing it.Allow yourself more time to get cold feet. If you do have second thoughts, ask yourself whether it’s just jitters or a sign that you’re really not quite ready for this.
 Take a baby-step approach to entering their life. For your first introduction, plan no more than an opportunity to say hi to the child and then introduce yourself as a friend of their dad’s.Choose a low-key setting to meet.Keep it casual as opposed to a formal setting where you would be clearly identified as the father’s “date.”
Pick a time and place that are both clearly part of the father and child’s time together, rather than a date between yourselves with the child in tow.
Plan to make a brief appearance and then exit by yourself, leaving them alone together, so that your presence comes across as incidental. Avoid leaving the child with the impression that you’re “taking Daddy away.”

, Increase the time you spend together very gradually. Pop up here and there to say hi and establish that you’re a presence in Dad’s life, but limit your exposure in the beginning so that the majority of the kid’s time with Dad is spent one-on-one with him., As you spend more time with them, remain conscious of what impressions the child might take away from your encounters. Prioritize the father-child relationship. Be careful not to come across as competition for Dad’s attention., Once you and the father have made the child aware of your relationship, assume your role as the father’s new partner. Make it clear to the child that you’re not here to be the new “Mom” or another “Dad.” Equate yourself with the role of aunt, uncle, or a similarly respected adult figure with an invested interest in their well-being, like a teacher., Allow the child time to accept your new role in their life. Understand that even once they do accept it, their acceptance may not develop into an emotional bond. Accept this as a reality. Avoid trying to force a bond between you.In the meantime, be present and consistent in their lives, offering yourself as an added resource for them should they ever choose to make use of it.
 No matter how well-adjusted or behaved the child is, expect them to act out at times as all children do.Be prepared for a delicate balancing act. When confronting the child, expect to hear that you are not their mom or dad. Accept the truth of that statement.At the same time, assert yourself as an adult figure to whom they must show some respect.Demand support from the father. Remind him that while your role is to support him as a parent, his role is to be the parent. Don’t allow yourself to be backed into the position of being the disciplinarian by default., Remember that they will most likely continue to feel more loyalty toward their mother than toward you.Regardless of your personal feelings toward her, be careful what you utter within earshot of their child. Don’t lose the child’s respect by disrespecting their mother in front of them.
 Accept the fact that your new role in the child’s life will test them continually. Expect them to take a while to accept your presence. Also expect their progress to be upset by each milestone that you and their father achieve; for instance, while they may have grown to accept your role as Dad’s new partner, they may be knocked back a couple steps once you and Dad announce that you’ll be moving in together or getting married.