 Many people will tell you to take art lessons if you want to learn how to draw but that can be a little intimidating if you’re a complete beginner. So why not learn at home? If you browse on the Internet, you’ll see that there are lots of great websites offering free and paid lessons, and also YouTube has thousands of terrific videos on the subject.Have patience with yourself. Even for skilled artists, the beginning of a drawing can look frightening. But it almost always can be corrected. You’ll be surprised, too, at how well a drawing will turn out to be when you’re finished with it.Practice drawing a pet or roommate. Draw Charlie, your pit-bull dog, when he’s sleeping or when he’s playing in the backyard with a ball. Or, if you have a roommate, start sketching the person while they’re making dinner. Once they leave the room, then finish the drawing from a photo that you have of them. Consider enlarging it so that you can see the person or animal’s features better.Experts say that it takes about 10,000 hours of doing something before you become expert at it. If that amount of time overwhelms you, don’t let it because you have to start somewhere., One of the best things you can do is buy a good beginner’s book. Look for one that has clear, step-by-step instructions. You also want it to have simple patterns for some basic garments and home decoration items as well. Look for real pattern paper in the book, too. You will also need a good machine. There isn’t anything more discouraging when learning to sew than on a temperamental sewing machine. Vintage machines are actually some of the best but zig-zaggers work well, too.Start with small sewing projects. It’s a lot more fun to sew something simple and do it well then tackling something too advanced and being disappointed with the results. You’ll learn either way, but it’s easy to get discouraged when the results don’t match what your expectations were.Like any other skill, you’ll need lots of practice. After a while, sewing tasks that seemed difficult at first become second nature.
 It’s best to begin learning how to do yoga under the guidance of a qualified teacher; however that can either be by taking classes in your community or by watching videos from teachers who you know are highly qualified, along with being certified. The reason you want them to be qualified is to avoid possible injuries. Be sure that the teacher or video that you find provides gentle, warm-up exercises first. This is very important, as it helps to loosen up the body and prepare for the actual yoga set.


Even if you’re someone who can’t touch their toes, it doesn’t mean yoga is not for you. Actually yoga is for everyone regardless of how tight their body may be. In fact, yoga is even more for people who feel tight in their bodies. Yoga is a process of uniting with oneself, using breath, body and mind. With some practice, you’ll find that you become a lot more limber, too.

