 You do not have to be of the Christian faith to reap meaning from the Christmas season. Learn about the other traditions and their deeper messages.
 So much focus is put on presents, that you can easily lose the true meaning of giving, specifically of yourself and your time, rather than money. Studies have shown that people who volunteer or give to charity during the holidays are happier and more positive, so perhaps the act of doing something will shed more light on the phrase "goodwill toward men."


Encourage your children to give time or goods to a charity. Many local charities pick up old toys, winter coats and more to give to children who are in need. Ask them to choose some things to share with someone who may need it more.
 Make note of a lack of traditions or time spent with family. Revise your schedule so that you do something that brings your family closer together every few days, whether it is caroling, driving to look at Christmas lights, baking together or volunteering.
 Decide if the regular traditions, such as giving presents or watching a popular Christmas movie, are your favorite, heart warming experiences, or if you do them just because they are easy. Creating your own recipes for traditions will give deeper meanings to your holiday season.
 Ask your family to make lists of what they love about Christmas, other than the material goods. Read them aloud to give everyone a chance to express their own thankfulness and significance.
 If your schedule is focused on quality time spent with people, you are more likely to feel a deep connection to the holidays, than whether you are short on money and gift ideas. If your family is too involved in materialism at Christmas, suggest a change of gift-giving tradition.


When money is short, psychologists believe that experiences create a more lasting feeling of happiness than buying material goods. Instead of buying each other presents, decide to put holiday money toward a vacation, visit back home or weekend adventure or caroling from door to door, and such. The memories are likely to live longer than the shelf-life of most goods.

