 Children who are being victimized may not speak about the problem at first. It is important that they know that they are safe and loved at home so that they feel comfortable discussing these problems. They should also feel like they can go to the teacher or another trusted adult with any concerns about bullying.


Give your child lots of hugs and let him know that it is not his fault that he was bullied.
 Parents should be having these conversations about bullying frequently during relaxed, non-stressful times of the day, whether the child is a suspected bully or a victim. It is important that the child understands both sides of the equation.


Talking to your child when he is relaxed may help him to feel comfortable about opening up about his experience with being bullied.
 Really listen when your child tries to explain to you how being bullied made him feel. Learning how to empathize with your child’s feelings will not only help you understand his issues from his perspective, which will help you find a solution to his behavior, but will also help you gain his confidence.
 If your child is willing to tell you who bullied him, it may be a good idea to contact the bully’s parents. Tell the parents about the incident, and work with them to figure out a time where their child could apologize to your child.
 If your child has been the victim of a bully and has told you about the incident, set up a time to meet with your child’s teacher. Discuss the school’s policies regarding bullying, and what can be done to keep this from happening in the future.


Once the teacher is made aware of the situation, he or she will be able to keep an eye out for any future occurrences.
 If your child refuses to go to school because of the bullying he has faced, you could consider bringing him to a child psychologist who can help him to overcome his fears and give him suggestions for what he could do if bullying occurs in the future, such as bringing a teacher’s attention to the situation.


Ask your child’s pediatrician for a recommendation for a child psychologist in your area.

