 Since most wireless presenters can only move forward and back, they are not suitable for a presentation where the presenter needs to be close to the computer, for example to toggle between files such as the presentation file, a spreadsheet, and a video. In this case, you need a wireless device that will replace the video cable between the computer and projector. This device is called a Wireless Presentation Gateway, or WPG, and it connects to a computer through WiFi.
 You can do this through Wi-Fi Direct or any available Wi-Fi network.
 Then connect it to a projector using a video cable (VGA or HDMI).
, Find all the necessary software on the installation cd supplied in the WPG box. Follow the installation instructions included here.
 Find the WPG on the list of available wireless network connections on your computer. Select this network and connect your computer to it.
 Let it finish the connection process so that your computer will be fully connected to the WPG.
 On your computer, start any PowerPoint presentation and put it on presentation mode. With some delays, you should be able to see it show up on the projector. Make sure you can switch between slides and screens on your computer. Open all files you'll need for your presentation, and make sure you can quickly switch back and forth between them.
 Then connect it to the network using LAN cable and to a projector using video cable (VGA or HDMI).
 Consult the network admin for this, if necessary.
 At this stage the WPG should display an address (in the form of xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx) through the projector.
 Turn on Wi-Fi on your computer and choose the available network. Connect to that network, not to the WPG.
 To do this, open a web browser on your computer, and type the address from above into the address bar. Press Enter to make the connection. Once connected, it may start installing the necessary driver and software. If this does not happen, install them using the installation cd supplied in the WPG box. Follow all installation instructions.
 Let it finish up the connection process with the WPG.
 On your computer, start any PowerPoint presentation and put it on presentation mode. With some delays, you should be able to see it through the projector. Try switching back and forth between slides and screens to make sure everything works properly.

