 Go the cheapest route and use fine, dry sand that has been washed and sifted to remove salt, soil, and other coarse material. Or speed up sand’s slow-acting properties by mixing it with borax. Or make the drying process that much faster by eliminating the sand and using a borax/cornmeal mixture.Sand/borax mixture: 1 part sand to 2 parts borax, with 1 tablespoon of salt added to every quart.
Borax/cornmeal mixture: 1 part borax to 1 part cornmeal for fastest results, or 1 part borax to 3 parts cornmeal to reduce the risk of the borax burning your petals.
 Pick a container that is large enough to fit your flower. Fill the bottom with the drying agent so that it is a half-inch to an inch deep. Set the flower on top of the mixture with the blossoms facing up. If you are drying more than one, allow plenty of room in between each flower so they do not touch., Spread the drying agent in the container over the stem and flowers. Grab a handful and very gently pour it over the petals so some of it ends up between them, reducing the risk of them being crushed when you cover them momentarily. Be careful not to pour too much at once, which may damage the petals., Add another half-inch to an inch of drying agent to the container. Be careful not to pour the drying agent directly on top of the flower, since the weight might crush it. Spread the drying agent until the flower is completely covered. If you are drying multiple flowers at once, and if your container is deep enough, you can repeat the whole process and lay more flowers on top of this layer., Seal the container once you have buried the flower. Depending on how thick your flower it is, allow anywhere from four days to two weeks for it to dry. Unseal the container every four or five days. Use a fine paint brush to wipe away the drying agent and uncover the flower. Feel the petals and and the base of the stems for signs of moisture. Rebury the flower and reseal the container if you find any.If you don’t feel any moisture, remove the flower by its stem and gently shake the remaining sand or borax from its petals, using your brush as needed if some crystals are too stubborn to shake loose.
If the weight of the drying agent has crushed your petals, use steam to refresh and reshape them.

