 LPN program requirements will vary, with some states having different legal requirements for entry. Expect most programs to require that you be at least 18 years old and have a high school diploma or the equivalent, such as a GED.Take high school classes in English, biology, algebra, chemistry and other math and science courses in high school. These classes will prepare you for nursing school by providing you with a necessary base of knowledge.
Further, the completion of high school courses and the understanding of the material they cover will prepare you for the entrance exam that some programs will ask you to take.;
, The atmosphere you will be working in as a nurse is dependent on a environment that is unique to the world of medicine. Try to gain some exposure to the medical environment by getting an entry-level job or volunteer position at a hospital, nursing home, or doctor’s office. Not only will this help you become comfortable with these environments, it will strengthen your application to whatever training program you wish to enroll in., Ask one of your teachers that you get along with well to write you a letter of recommendation, as some programs will ask for one. Tell whoever is writing your letter about your experiences and interests that have relevance to the medical field, let them know what types of programs you’ll be applying for, and let them know you may use their letter in more than one application., There are several different options in terms of types of LVN programs. That said, each will address certain common criteria to ensure you’re adequately prepared for the profession. Specifically, know you’ll be required to take courses covering basic nursing practice, the ethics and legality of nursing, pharmacology, geriatric nursing, nutrition, microbiology, physiology, psychology, and anatomy.Be aware that many programs will offer further elective coursework on specializations including surgical nursing and other specific types of nursing. You'll want to take some of these courses to increase your exposure to the topics you’re interested in and increase your chances of being hired.
Look for programs that offers the most opportunities for practical training outside the classroom.
 While not all programs are accredited, make sure to choose one that is. This applies to all programs — whether awarding a certificate, diploma, or degree. Namely, make sure the program you’re considering has been reviewed and approved by The Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing. Completing an accredited program ensures you will be prepared adequately for the licensing process, and will increase your hireability.Accredited programs demonstrate that they stay up to date with state and national requirements, and ensures you have the necessary training to be a successful LPN in the state in which a program is accredited.
 If you intend to work in other states, or to progress into higher ranks of the nursing profession, non-accredited programs will make it much less feasible to do so. Accreditation increases the probably that your program will prepare you to become licensed in other states, and will ensure that your program will be recognized by other accredited schools if you decide to earn further degrees.Your state’s nursing board will also approve programs, which allows students who complete them to proceed with the licensing process. Know that a state’s nursing board approval does not necessarily indicate national accreditation.
 One of these options will likely be sufficient if you do not intend to pursue a higher level of education in the future. Coursework still covers everything needed to be a successful LVN, and you’ll still get clinical experience and instruction. Many of these programs will offer some of the coursework via online courses.Credits earned in these programs will usually not be transferable to programs that offer more advanced degrees.
Expect these program to last anywhere from nine to 18 months, but most commonly about one year. They will likely cost a few thousand dollars to complete.
Completion of these programs allows you to proceed with the national licensing process by taking the National Council Licensure Examination.
 Obtaining a degree, including an associate's degree from a community college, will offer you much more career flexibility as you gain experience and knowledge in the nursing field. Degree programs will likely offer more in-depth coverage of specific topics, additional elective courses, and even more opportunities for hands-on experience.

If you intend to become an RN later in your career, consider choosing a degree program specifically designed to train people on an LVN-to-RN career path.
While associate degrees at community colleges can still be quite affordable and will often offer online coursework, know that on-campus degree programs will cost considerably more.
 Most importantly, you’ll need to take the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-PN). This exam is administered by individual states, and the requirements and application process varies. To find out what the state in which you hope to work requires, contact the state’s Board of Nursing, which will also need to grant you a nursing license that will allow you to take the NCLEX-PN.Get a state-specific study guide and plan a study schedule to help you prepare the the exam.
Be prepared for testing in four broad categories, including questions on managing patients’ safety and preventing infection, coping and adapting to the medical environment, familiarity with human growth and development, as well as disease prevention and detection, and familiarity with basic care, therapies, risk reduction, and and other physiological concepts.
 Before you take the national licensing exam, you need to apply for a nursing license from your state’s board of nursing. Your state’s board of nursing will also provide the eligibility criteria required to the take the exam in your state. Begin this application process before you graduate your LVN program — which will likely help facilitate the process.Be aware that you may need to have your fingerprints taken, as well as acquire a notary signature in order to be granted access to the exam.
 Register for the exam in advance, and pay the examination fee of about $200. The test will include anywhere from 85 to 205 multiple choice questions and requires completion in under 5 hours. If you fail the exam the first time you attempt it, you can take it again after 45 days for an additional fee.Know that some states allow you work as an LPN after completion of your program while waiting to complete the test to be fully licensed .
 If you have partially completed a bachelor’s degree program in nursing, you may qualify to take the exam and apply for nursing in certain states. Similarly, some states consider certain levels of military training to be equivalent to an LVN training. If you have received military medical training, you may also be eligible to take the exam and apply for licensing. Check with a specific state’s board of nursing to more., You’ll be tasked with basic, but meaningful medical responsibilities as an LVN, and other people’s health will depend on your ability to complete them effectively. Specifically, you’ll need to accurately compile patients’ health information, take and record vital signs, administer medication and monitor dosages, provide hygiene assistance, take blood pressure readings, supervise nursing aides, and set up and maintain equipment used to treat people from infancy to old-age., Stated most directly, to be a successful LVN, you’ll need to be compassionate about working with sick and injured people and their loved ones, highly organized, and reasonably physically fit. Further, you need excellent communication skills, high stress tolerance, a strong stomach, extreme attention to detail, effective time management and problem-solving skills, and the ability to work as part of a team.The positions you apply to will be looking for evidence of these characteristics, and some will even require a background check to ensure you do not have a history of criminal behavior.
 The most likely employers of newly licensed LPNs include nursing homes, hospitals, private medical clinics of various sorts, and individuals in need of home health care. Apply for positions at any of these places, or choose a particular type of place you'd like to work and submit your applications accordingly. The expectations of LVNs in each of these environments will vary slightly, and may help inform your decision about where to apply for a job.As an LPN in a nursing home, expect to assist physicians, monitor resident care, supervise other nursing staff, perform assessments of residents' health, and explain potential treatment options to residents and family members.
At a hospital or clinic, LPNs are usually expected to interview patients and assemble medical histories, record vital signs, administer injections and medications, verify charts, and more.
As a home health LPN, you would be expected to work in a patient's home, with specific job duties depending on the individual you would be caring for.
 Applications for a position as an LPN require certain specific information to ensure a potential employer has everything they may need. Make sure to include all of the following information in your application.Your personal information. Just like any job application, include all of your personal and contact information. Since you're applying for a job in the highly regulated medical profession, be sure to include legal information as well, such as any arrest or conviction history.
Any education you've completed or are in the process of completing. This should include everything from the high school you attended through the specific LPN programs you completed.
A resume with employment history and references.
Certification and license specifics. Include all professional certifications and licenses you've obtained, as well as license numbers, dates issued, and expiration dates.
 You should write and submit a position-specific cover letter for each job that you apply for. In each letter, express the reasons for your interest in the position you're applying for, and the experience and qualifications that indicate your ability to fulfill the position's requirements.