 Know when your behavior goes from being within the norm to something to be concerned about.People with BDD suffer from an obsession about their appearance, with a wide range of negative complaints about their bodies. While many people may have a single feature they aren’t thrilled with, someone with BDD literally sees nothing but flaws.
People with BDD may feel so overwhelmed by their negative appearance that they start to withdraw and self-isolate. They can isolate to the point where they refuse to leave their home.
Taking extreme measures to cover up their bodies, extreme grooming, face picking, seeking multiple plastic surgeries and over-exercising are all physical signs of BDD.
Obsessing about clothing, comparing themselves to others and talking about their body issues in an obsessive way are also symptoms of BDD.;
, While it may be hard to share your highly personal feelings, being honest with your doctor will mean getting the best treatment possible. Keeping a journal you can share with the doctor is a great way to give the medical staff a snapshot about your changing perceptions and feelings.Establishing a pattern of long term issues and obsessive thoughts will aid in the diagnostic process. While it is normal, on occasion, for people to feel bad about parts of their body, this is not normally a daily focus.
BDD can present with symptoms similar to other disorders including eating disorders or social anxiety. Make clear notes about your obsessive thoughts and even actions you take to avoid or correct the negative issues with your body. Such notes can help you get the correct diagnosis.
 An appointment with your PCP is a good place to start. Explain your symptoms and share your concerns with this professional.Make it clear that you are asking for help and that you are truly concerned about the symptoms. Tell your doctor something like “I’m really worried because I have been having trouble in school lately.” This establishes that the symptoms are interfering with your life and should be addressed with seriousness.
 Some people with BDD also suffer from other mental health issues. The only way you can access help is by being honest about your needs. Writing down a list of complications can be useful so you do not forget anything once you are at the doctor’s office., While treatment often means different things for different people, an evaluation with a person who can adequately diagnose BDD is usually the first step in getting treatment. , This therapy is a way to refocus your thoughts and move beyond the impulse to obsess over your appearance. During cognitive behavioral therapy you will be asked to explore activities that make you happy and feel good, without comparing your body to others. It is a long process to train your mind to not view your body negatively.This is also a time to learn alternative coping skills to address ritual activities and the urge to take extreme measures to correct a perceived bodily problem.
 Many people find taking an SRI helps to curb the obsessive thoughts, but this does take time to build up in your system. It can take up to three months to see a desired outcome.If you go the medication route, talk with your doctor about other supports you can use to support the medication and to also fill in the gap between when you start meds and when you see the best results.Be aware that it may take a bit of a trial and error to find a medication that works for you. Keep journaling and report any major mood changes or side effects immediately.
 Support groups often serve as mirrors to your own behavior as you listen to others tell their stories and also verbalize your own story. Pay special attention to things that really hit home during support groups and follow up with your individual therapist afterwards., Developing BDD did not happen overnight, and it probably is not going to change overnight. Whether you go to therapy, support groups, try medications or any combination of treatments, give yourself time to really try things out. New medications can take a few months to kick in while trying a new therapy may provide results within 6 months.You will start to see small changes over time but it may take years to fully address the issue. Celebrate each small step towards a better, healthier life., When you treat your body good, nourishing yourself with healthy food and water, exercising, and getting sleep, you may start to feel a little better.Act on your basic needs instead of focusing on what you want. Learn to listen to your body and embrace the way it changes as you get closer to being healthy.
Set boundaries you can maintain to support those basic needs. This can include setting a workout schedule with your doctor that is appropriate without it becoming an obsession. In this way, you are working out for health not to change a body you hate.
 Reimagine yourself into a person you like. Are you happy with your smile? Your ears? Your sense of humor? Celebrate the aspects about yourself that you do love rather than focusing only on what you don’t. On your list of things you like about yourself, include talents and activities you excel in. Make a commitment to make time to enjoy those talents.


Clean out your closet and only keep clothing you feel good in. Find clothing that focuses on the things you like about yourself and shows off your best features.Commit to taking time each day to focus on the positive. This can mean unplugging from everything to just enjoy time alone and think about the gifts in your life.
 Create a positive environment free of comparisons for yourself. Learn to accept self-love from those positive people. Compliment others and take compliments as heartfelt moments of love and appreciation from your friends., Always thinking that you must achieve perfection in your appearance or your abilities can be problematic when it comes to recovering from BDD. Your desire to achieve unattainable standards could be contributing to your illness. Learn to embrace your flaws and be okay with “good enough”. Stop perfectionistic thinking by:Being realistic. Come up with a mantra or slogan to overcome negative self-talk. Say things like “Nobody is perfect” or “My best is all I can give.”
Changing your perspective. Look at your situation from the point-of-view of a friend. Your friend probably wouldn’t be so harsh about your imperfect appearance or abilities. Treat yourself as you would a close friend, only saying things that uplift you.
Practicing being “good enough”. Do some exposure exercises where you purposely aim for less than perfection. For example, wear some clothing that is wrinkled. Show up late for an appointment. Leave a part of your house messy.

