 One of the ways the body cools off is by letting heat transfer from the skin into the air around it. If the air is moving quicker, more heat can transfer and the body can cool off quicker. You can't control how hot it is outside or whether there's a breeze, but if you have a fan, you can keep things cooler in your house. The faster the air moves, the cooler you'll feel, so higher speeds have more of a cooling effect.


Ceiling fans are great for circulating the air in an entire room. You'll want most fans to run counter-clockwise in the summer. This pushes the air downward onto you, creating a minor "windchill" effect.If you don't have a ceiling fan, smaller desktop fans work well. Point them at your face for constant comfort or set them on a rotating cycle to circulate the air in the room.
 Warm air tends to rise.This means that when it's hot, the highest part of your house will tend to have the hottest air. If your house has more than one story, you can use this fact to your advantage by creating a cooling air current in your house. See below for directions:


When you leave the house during the day, keep the windows closed and curtains drawn. Warm air will naturally rise to the top floors of your house and get trapped.
When you get home in the evening, open a window on the top floor. Point a fan (large box fans are best) so that it blows air out of this window.
Open a few windows on the bottom floor of your house. Keep the doors inside your house open.
The fan will blow the hot air out of the top floor, sending it outside. Cool evening air will flow through the lower windows and rush upward to replace it, creating a pleasant breeze.
 A cool, moist breeze can feel fantastic when it's hot out. If you live in an area with dry weather, try putting a little moisture in the air by soaking a towel and hanging it in front of an open window. Open all the windows on the same floor to start a draft that will carry moisture in and cool you.


You can also get the same effect by hanging a wet towel across a fan.
 When it's too humid, sweat doesn't evaporate very easily, which makes it harder for your body to cool you naturally.Luckily, a device called a dehumidifier can pull the moisture out of the air, making it easier for your body to cool itself. Dehumidifiers are available from hardware stores in a wide variety of sizes and prices.


Most commercial air conditioners also remove humidity from the air.

