 “NSAIDs” are widely used in cases of menorrhagia due to their strong effect as painkillers and anti-inflammatories. NSAIDs target the skeletal and the uterus muscles which make them the perfect choice for abdominal cramps and lower back pain.


Examples of NSAIDs include Voltaren (Declofenac Sodium) and Ponstan 250 mg or Ponstan forte 500 mg (Mefenamic acid). Voltaren comes in tablet, injection and effervescent sachet form, for the rapid relief of strong pain. The tablets and sachets are taken when needed at a maximum dose of three times daily, after meals.
Caution should be taken while using NSAIDs as they can cause gastric upset such as nausea, vomiting, peptic or gastric ulcers. Women suffering from renal or hepatic disorders or women who are currently taking blood thinners as Warfarin should consult with their doctor before using NSAIDs.;
, Iron supplements are given to women to prevent symptoms of anemia caused by menorrhagia or to treat the anemia if it is already present. Iron is an essential element in the production of healthy RBCs and for raising hemoglobin levels. RBCs are responsible for carrying oxygen to all the body's tissues.


Iron supplements are available in the form of tablets or injections that can be used in chronic states. Examples include Hydroferrin and Ferosac injections, or Sandoz iron chewable tablets.
Tablets are taken once daily after meals to avoid constipation.
 Tranexamic acid is widely used to treat any hemorrhage disorders, including menorrhagia. Tranexamic acid stimulates the formation of blood clots, thereby reducing the excessive bleeding caused by menorrhagia.


Tranexamic acid is available as Kapron in tablet or injection form. It should be taken twice daily or according to the doctor’s prescription, Oral contraceptive pills are also used for treating menorrhagia because they help to regulate the menstruation cycle by inhibiting the follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) released from the pituitary gland, which suppresses ovulation.


Examples of oral contraceptive pills include Ovestin tablets or Fem-7 patches. They should only be used according to the doctor’s instructions.
 Oral progesterone therapy is helpful to reduce excessive bleeding by correcting hormonal imbalances, and by inhibiting the production of the luteinizing hormone. This reduces the proliferation stage of the endometrium, and can help to limit bleeding.


Progesterone is taken during days 15 to 26 of each menstruation cycle with a dose of 2.5 to 10 mg daily for five or ten days.
Side effects have been reported in women using this medication, including headache, weight gain and depression.
 This is a procedure in which the doctor dilates the cervix in order to scrape some of the tissues from the inner lining of the endometrial layer.


This helps to reduce the amount of blood loss during a woman's period, by controlling the heavy bleeding and limiting the duration of the period.
 This is a procedure performed during a surgery for any female suffering from fibroid formation, in which a catheter is introduced to the large femoral artery in the woman's thigh until it reaches the uterine artery.


At this point, plastic microspheres are injected into the tiny blood vessels supplying the fibroids. This blocks off the blood vessel, thereby decreasing blood flow to the fibroids.
Without blood flow, the fibroids shrink, detach themselves, and pass out through the vagina.
 Ultrasound ablation is another procedure used in case of fibroid formation. The advantage of this procedure over the uterine artery embolization is that it requires no cutting of the thigh. Instead, it uses ultrasound waves that are able to shrink the fibroids directly.
 This procedure can be performed with two methods.


The first method is done laparoscopically, which requires abdominal surgery to remove the fibroids. The other method is done hysteroscopically, which is performed through the cervix.
The preferred type of surgery can be determined depending on the size of the fibroids, their exact numbers and their location.
 After these two procedures are performed, the woman will not be able to carry a child again. Therefore, they may be considered only as a last resort in treating menorrhagia in women of child-bearing age.


In these procedures, the endometrial layer (the inner lining of the uterus) is removed or destroyed using an electrosurgical loop.
After performing these procedures; the surgeon will advise the patient to use any contraceptive pills to avoid getting pregnant in the future, as the pregnancy cannot be successful.
 In this procedure, the surgeon totally removes the uterus of the patient, leaving her completely sterile. This procedure requires complete hospitalization and general anesthesia.


With this technique, the woman will have no further menstruation cycles (and therefore no menorrhagia), and no chance of becoming pregnant in the future., There are several possible reasons why a woman might develop excessive or heavy periods, these reasons include:


Hormonal imbalance
Fibroid formation
Endometrium irritation
Adenomyosis
Other blood disorders that reduce the platelet count, Symptoms of menorrhagia will resemble normal period symptoms, except the bleeding will be heavier and/or last for longer. Some other signs include:


Excessive bleeding
Presence of large blood clots within the period blood
Anemia symptoms, such as fatigue, dizziness, drowsiness, paleness, muscle weakness, and shortness of breath.
 Tests will be necessary to diagnose this condition and determine the adequate treatment. The following tests may be ordered by a doctor to diagnose menorrhagia:


CBC (Complete Blood Count) tests
Pap tests
Endometrial biopsy
Ultrasound scans
Sonohysterograms
Hysteroscopy

