 You need to have a relaxed mood overall if you want your partner to open up. If someone feels constantly scrutinized or stressed, they're unlikely to feel comfortable being open. Try to keep the mood light most of the time so your partner feels safe opening up.Plan activities you both enjoy throughout the day. You can, for example, see a movie together or play a board game. This will foster a sense of calm that can lead to open communication.
Make jokes. It's always great to make a joke now and again. Laughter can put people at ease.
 If you want your partner to open up, tell them. It's a good idea to let your partner know when you want to talk things over. Do so in a gentle manner so your partner feels comfortable and not threatened or pressured.State your intentions clearly. If you're open, your partner will be more likely to be more open as well. For example, say something like, "I'd like to have a talk so we can both understand one another better." Avoid saying “We need to talk” because this can put your partner on the defensive.
Choose a time when your partner is not busy to bring something up. For example, you could wait until they're relaxing after work in front of the TV to try to have a meaningful conversation.
 Communication is not always pleasant. Your partner may be open about something you did that hurt or upset them. In any relationship, there are two sides to a story. If your partner is open about something that hurt them, do not explain or justify.For example, your partner says, "It hurt my feelings you didn't invite me out with your friends last week."
You may have had reasons for going out alone that are valid. However, you do not want to dismiss your partner's concerns as this will make them feel they can't be open.
Don't start with, "I just wanted some friend time alone. That's reasonable." Instead say, "I'm sorry that hurt your feelings. That was not my intention at all." After apologizing, you can have a longer conversation about alone time with your friends if necessary.
 Oftentimes, in a relationship, you assume you know everything about someone. You may assume you know all the information about your partner simply because you're close. Such assumptions can make your partner feel distant, preventing openness.When your partner is talking, leave your assumptions behind. There may be something about them you don't know yet, or there may be new circumstances your partner has not yet told you. If you approach the situation with an open mind, you may end up learning something new.
Listen without judgment and allow your partner to talk. It can help to pretend you're interacting with a stranger who you know nothing about.
 Making your relationship stronger overall can help make your partner feel comfortable being open with you. New experiences help strengthen existing relationships, leading to stronger, better bonds.Take a class together. A cooking class or horseback riding class can allow you to experience new things together.
Go on a trip together. Shared experiences can be a great way to make your bond stronger.
Simply strive to spend more time together at home. Small things, like doing chores together or eating dinner together, can gradually strengthen a bond.

