 Learning to put socks on her feet is a major milestone for your child. Children are usually ready to begin the process when they are about two years old. In order to help her reach this goal, you'll want to be as organized as possible. Choose a time of day when your child is wide awake and has plenty of energy. Make sure to have an appropriate pair of socks ready to help her learn.Try teaching with a pair of socks that have different colors for the socks and the toes. This will make it easier for your child to position the sock correctly as she tries to put it on.
Use a pair of socks that are a little bigger than necessary. The larger sock will help her maneuver it onto her foot.
Consider having a reward handy for once your child successfully puts socks on her feet. Congratulate her with a piece of her favorite fruit, for example.;
, One of the most effective ways to teach a child a new skill is to model the action for them. Show her how you put your own socks on your feet. Narrate your actions as you go through each step.Keep your tone of voice light and enthusiastic as you narrate. Try saying something like, "Look! It's fun to put socks on our feet!"

, Putting socks on may seem pretty simple to adults. But for a child, this is something new. It is much more complicated from a child's point of view. Use small steps to help her put the process together.Narrate and demonstrate each step. For example, "First we get our socks."
Point out the colored heel of the sock, and then touch the heel of your child's foot. Say, "See? This heel of the sock will go on your heel."
Have her scrunch up the sock and put it on her toes. Next, have her pull the sock up towards her ankle.
If necessary, have her adjust the sock so that the heel and foot are in the right place.
 During this learning process, you want your child to feel supported. Try sitting on the floor next to her. As she is putting on the socks, use verbal cues to encourage her.Try saying, "Great start! Your toes are covered!"
You can also offer encouragement by smiling and clapping.
 It may be tempting to jump in and help your child at the first sign of struggle. But remember, this is a learning process. Help her by offering verbal cues and encouragement. Only offer physical help if absolutely necessary.When you are helping, make sure your child is still involved in the process. Say, "Ooops! That's twisted. Let's straighten it out!"
Use your hands to guide her hands.

