 The primary trigger for GAD in adults is uncertainty and, since nearly everything in life is uncertain, this trigger makes it possible for you to worry about just about anything.Anxiety is a normal system that does, in fact, serve a purpose: it notifies us when we are in danger and helps keep us safe. However, with GAD, a person worries that he is in danger when there is no danger, and his body reacts with unnecessary anxiety. By identifying and recognizing your worry, you can begin to manage it.Keep a worry diary. This means you record your worries each day at a set time, two to three times a day. Write down the worry, what triggered your worry, and your anxiety level.Writing down your worries will not make them worse, as many with GAD believe. The worry diary requires you to examine worries that already exist

, Split your worries into two groups: hypothetical and current. These worries must be managed differently, so separating them out will help you learn the best way to cope with each worry as it arises.Hypothetical worries concern situations over which you have little or no control, such as whether or not you will get a serious disease when you are older, if a car will blow a red light and hit you, and so on.Current worries concern problems over which you have some direct control. Paying bills, finishing school work, or a painful toothache are all things you can take action to fix.Record whether your worry is hypothetical or current in your worry diary., Though you probably recognize that you are worrying too much, chances are you feel you are still accomplishing something by worrying. Many people with GAD believe worrying shows that they are caring, is motivating, prevents bad things from happening, and makes them prepared and protected. Start challenging whether your anxiety is actually doing what you think it is doing.Try asking yourself these questions:



Worrying shows that I am caring: Do I know other caring people who worry less? What are other ways I can show that I care?Worrying motivates me: Has worrying ever kept me from doing the things I want to do?Worrying prevents bad things from happening: Have bad things happened even though I worried about them? Has my excessive worrying actually led to bad things happening, such as negatively affecting my health?Worrying makes me prepared: Do I know other people who are prepared who worry less? Am I confusing worrying with my actions (i.e. worrying in your head versus taking active steps to solve the problem)?Worrying keeps me safe: When something bad actually has happened, did I truly feel I was better equipped to deal with it because I worried about it?Other questions: How much time and energy have I spent worrying? Has worrying affected my friendships or relationships? Am I often tired because my worrying keeps me awake? Is it possible to to get the perceived benefits of worrying by some other means?, You may feel you are actively doing something when you worry, since it can be draining and exhausting, but to actually solve a problem you need to get out of your head and take action.Each time you address a problem instead of avoiding it, you will have one less thing to feel anxious about.


Problem-solving involves a level of uncertainty ("What if my solution fails?") and will help you become acclimated to experiencing uncertainty., Problem-solving is not an efficient way to manage hypothetical worries, as you can't use those skills to calm your fears of your plane crashing (unless you are the pilot). A worry script will allow you to face your anxiety head-on instead of trying to avoid it. This will be uncomfortable at first, but the only way to get over your fears is to face them.To make a worry script, write down your worry and what you are afraid of.If you are afraid of your plane crashing, write specifically about your fear of dying, of missing out on the rest of your life, of leaving your family behind, and so on.
The worry script gives you a specific image of what you are afraid of instead of thinking about in a general or "fuzzy" way.You will likely feel an increase in anxiety when you first begin this exercise, but research shows that your anxiety will decrease over time when you face your worries head-on.Write a worry script every day for one to two weeks to address hypothetical worries., It is common for a person suffering from GAD to worry about uncertain outcomes.This is a struggle because most situations do not involve 100% certainty. Therefore, you must learn to become more comfortable with it. Uncertainty is an unavoidable part of your day-to-day life. How you respond to it is where you can make a change.


One method would be to act “as if” you are comfortable with uncertainty.First, examine the things you do to avoid uncertainty and feel more certain. Write down your answers to the following questions:
Do you double and triple-check most of the things you do?
Do you avoid events or procrastinate a lot?
Do you need excessive amounts of reassurance from others?
Do you need an abundance of information before making even small decisions?
Next, identify the situations in which you feel anxious about uncertainty, and what you do to feel less anxious. Rank the situations on a scale of 1-10 with 10 being the highest level of anxiety, and 1 being the lowest.
Next, start with the least anxiety provoking activity and practice acting “as if” you were tolerant of uncertainty. For example, you could go to a movie without first reading a review, completing a written school assignment and don’t ask someone to review it and give an opinion, or delegate a work assignment to a trusted co-worker and don’t check that it was done correctly.
Finally, keep a written record of your results. Ask yourself what you did, whether it was harder or easier than anticipated, whether everything turned out well, and how did you adapt if it didn’t turn out as you had planned. Writing these things down will help you see the improvements you make and the way to change your behavior.

