 Knowing what you need to be certified in will ensure that you take the correct examinations. Bilingual teachers must have a bilingual certification achieved through the Bilingual Target Language Proficiency Test. In addition, they may have a bilingual generalist certification, or they may have certification in a specific subject area. Certificates you may apply for include:


Bilingual Generalist Early Childhood through Grade Six
Bilingual Generalist Grades Four through Eight
Elementary School Certification with Bilingual Endorsement
Grades Pre-K to Grade Six with Bilingual/ESL
Grades Pre-K to Grade Twelve with Bilingual/ESL
You may also take the content test for any subject at the appropriate grade level as long as you also receive a bilingual certification or endorsement. This may be a better option for secondary school teachers looking to teach a specific subject., The first exam you will take is a test in the subject area you wish to teach (Math, English literature, social studies, etc.) Texas has over 60 different types of content tests, and you should sign up for the one that is best suited for the grade and discipline you want to teach.Your EPP must recommend you before you will be able to sign up for these tests.


Testing is done through the Educational Testing Service (ETS).If you wish to certify as a bilingual generalist for elementary or middle school, you must still take the appropriate generalist examination. You may find practice tests online at the ETS website.If you are already a teacher in Texas and hold certification in a subject, you may consider applying for a bilingual generalist certification. Or you may instead choose to only take the Bilingual Target Language Proficiency Test. You may not need to retest in your subject.
 This is the test that will determine if you are fluent in the second language you want to teach in. Texas offers many different bilingual courses in English and foreign languages, such as Spanish, Vietnamese, or Mandarin.This test includes both written and oral components.This test is administered through the ETS. You may find practice exams for the Spanish test online through their website., This is the last test you will take. You only need to take this test once, and you will take it after you have started teaching on the probationary certificate. If you are already working as a teacher in Texas, you will not have to retake this test.You will register for this exam with the ETS and take it at a local testing center. The ETS offers a manual online to help prepare for the exam.