 Use a gentle cleanser and warm water. Try one with acne medication if you have oily skin or frequent breakouts. Gently pat your face dry. Never rub your face to dry it., Find a toner that is Ph-balanced and lightly swipe it over your face and neck with a cotton ball. Using toner will make your moisturizer more effective. Choose a toner with cucumber and vitamin B5 if you have any redness or your skin is sensitive. Avoid toners that list alcohol or fragrance as one of the first ingredients to avoid allergies.
Don’t use toner with menthol, peppermint, or citrus oils because they can irritate your skin.
Stop using a toner if it stings when you apply it.
 Find a lightweight moisturizer, preferably one that doubles as a sunscreen. Get one with benzoyl peroxide if you have acne. Be sure to moisturize even if you have oily skin or breakout often., Try using a lightweight concealer in a tone that matches your foundation. Apply it under your eyes to get rid of circles. Use it lightly over your eyelids to get a smooth look and create an effective eye-shadow base. Apply it around your eyes with a sponge and use a small, pointy makeup brush to apply it to pimples or blemishes., Use a lightweight foundation while you’re still in school. Choose a BB cream instead of foundation if you want something that is lighter and easier to use. Find a color that matches your skin tone. Start by applying with a sponge or foundation brush from the center of your face, then blend it outward. Also blend the foundation below your chin, so you don’t look like you’re wearing a mask.Use foundations that reduce shine, or apply powder (loose or pressed) with a sponge or brush if you have oily skin.
Try a tinted moisturizer if you have dry skin.
Get a foundation with SPF. BB creams have SPF., Choose a lighter shade than your skin tone or a translucent powder if you have oily skin. The oils in your skin will make the powder appear darker. Try a powder with talc that will absorb the oil., Suck in your cheeks to find your cheekbones. Sweep the blush along your cheekbones to your temples if you have a round face. Apply a light layer of blush from under the biggest part of your cheekbones (the apples) up to your hairline if you have a heart-shaped face. Make a soft, horizontal line across the top of your cheekbones if you have a long face.Choose a light pink shade. Light pink will complement any skin tone.
 Try a simple line of kohl liner in dark brown or soft black if you’re allowed. Close your eye and wiggle some liner in your eyelashes. Next, draw a thin line from the inner to the outer corner of your eye.Use a beige liner under your lower lashes to open up your eyes.
Apply a line of bright color to your lower lashes. Make short strokes from the inner to the outer corners. Pair colored eyeliner with matching eyeshadow for a pop of color.
 Pick a light color for school. Brush a taupe color along the bottom half of your lid. Try a shimmery beige or pink near your brow bone to lighten up your eyes.Make your eyes look bigger by applying a very light-colored shimmery eyeshadow in the inner corners of your eyes., Twist the wand in your mascara tube to get the mascara on the wand. Wipe off extra mascara on a tissue before you put it on your eyes. This will keep it from looking clumpy. Brush some mascara on your bottom lashes. You might want to tilt your head down for a good angle. Then, look straight at the mirror and brush the mascara across your top lashes once or twice.Choose a waterproof mascara if you play sports. It won’t run when you sweat or swim.
Use an eyelash curler for better definition and to make your eyes look bigger.
If your mascara wand is clumpy, simply dip it in hot water. It gets rid of lumps!

, Apply powder throughout the day to keep your face looking soft and fresh. Blot at any oily spots you see during the day with blotting papers. Reduce your sweat shine after PE class with blotting papers and then a layer of powder.Also bring lip balm or lip gloss with you to keep your lips moist and looking soft.
 Keep your hands away from your face so you don’t muss up your makeup. Touching your face will also transfer the oils and germs on your hands to your face, and those can cause your face to breakout. Practice doing something else with your hands, like folding them on your desk or putting them in your lap., Take off your makeup before you wash your face. Use some petroleum jelly, an oil-based cream, or cleansing oil. Be very gentle, especially around your eyes. Keeping your face clean morning and night will help you maintain a great look everyday.Get into the habit of treating your face gently to avoid wrinkles and acne later in life.

