 Your family and friends will want to see you lead a happy and healthy life. They are likely to be willing to help you through your recovery, especially if you show them that you are serious about ending the addiction. Reach out to siblings, parents, aunts and uncles for help. Try to line up several family members so that you will not be relying on just person. This can help you by providing you with more support and help your family by not overburdening one person. Asking family for a place to stay or a ride to appointments is often easier than asking friends or acquaintances.Avoid leaning on any family members that have the same addiction as you. This could lead you into a relapse.
For example, you could call your parents and say, “I have been feeling pretty stressed out lately, and I’m afraid I’m going to relapse. I made an appointment for next week, but it would be great if I could be around support until then. Would it be okay if I come and stay with you for a couple of nights?”
If a family member is reluctant to help you, try to be willing to listen to their reasons why and find out if there is a way for you to regain their trust.;
, Recovery is a long process. The risk of relapse never completely goes away. To keep yourself on the right track, you should see a mental health professional regularly. They can help you learn to cope with stress and cravings, they will listen to your thoughts and feelings, and they can diagnose any underlying mental health issues that may contribute to a relapse.Ask your doctor for a recommendation to a mental health professional. Most doctors have a few facilities that they trust and work with often.
You may have to see a therapist frequently at first, and then over time your visits will likely be reduced as you get healthier. Even if you are not seeing a therapist regularly, it is important to develop a relationship with one in case trouble develops.
 Support groups bring together people who have gone through a similar experience. In the case of your addiction, a support group will offer you a chance to share your story with other people who have battled the same addiction. You will also get a chance to hear their stories and encourage them.These groups provide bonding and accountability for people who have suffered addictions of a similar nature (e.g. alcoholic’s groups, drug addict’s groups, sex addict’s groups, etc.). This is an important part of your support system since most people will not understand what your addiction is like.
There are also support groups for friends and family members of addicts, such as ALANON.
Finding a support group has gotten much easier with the internet. Look for groups in your area that are specific to your addiction. You could also ask your mental health professional or doctor to refer a group to you.
 Many support groups offer a sponsor. The sponsor is a recovered addict that you have access to all day every day to help walk you through tough times. If you don’t have a sponsor, have a family member or friend fill the role. Explain to them that you need someone that you can call if you feel like you are slipping back into your addiction.Sponsors greatly increase the success of a recovery program.
You can also authorize someone to place you in a rehabilitation program should you relapse.

