 If your wife is one of the many women who loves to dance, she may really be impressed if you take the initiative to improve your moves. Take a class to brush up on your dance skills, and then show off everything you've learned by taking her out on the town.If you think your wife would like to improve her dancing skills or learn a new style of dance, consider taking a class together.
 If you want to show your wife your intellectual side, consider taking an academic course together or starting your own two-person book club. This will give you the opportunity to have scholarly conversations and show her just how smart you are.Make sure she will enjoy the topic or the book. She may not find your intelligence that impressive if she finds the subject boring.
Avoid showing off your intelligence too much. It's important to give her the opportunity to contribute to the discussion as well, or else she won't find it enjoyable.
 Your wife will always appreciate a delicious home-cooked meal. Whether you're a seasoned chef or a culinary newbie, get into the kitchen and try your best at preparing her a meal she will love.If you've never cooked before, your wife will be impressed that you are trying, so don't feel like you need to start with something complicated.
If you're already a good cook, try something new to show her how versatile you can be.
Be sure not to leave your wife a huge mess to clean up in the kitchen.
 If you are handy or artistic even in the slightest, put your talents to work to make something special for your wife. Try to make her something that she has been asking for or that she will use regularly, as this will show her that you were really thinking about her needs.


She will find it extra impressive if you learn an entirely new skill.
 Ambition can be very attractive. Show your wife how talented and driven you are by going after what you want in life and achieving your goals. This may mean starting a business, applying for a promotion, or sending that novel you've been working on out to publishers.


Be careful not to neglect your wife in the pursuit of your dreams. Your marriage should always be a priority.
Don't put your ambitions above hers. It's important to support your wife in pursuing her own dreams as well.

