 Your body generally needs more protein when you are psychologically stressed. Stress can cause the death of cells and tissues, so your body needs an increased amount of protein to repair this damage. In addition to this, tryptophan, another protein, is needed to make serotonin, which is a chemical your body releases that makes you feel happy.


Protein-rich foods include poultry, fish, meats like beef and pork, nuts, eggs, beans, peas, and soy products like tofu.The amount of protein you should eat is roughly 0.8 to 1.0 gram (0.03 to 0.04 oz) per kilogram of healthy body weight per day.
 Serotonin is a chemical that acts as a neurotransmitter and is a hormone that can help you to feel relaxed. Carbohydrates prompt your brain to produce serotonin. There are two types of carbohydrates—the simple and the complex. Simple carbohydrates are digested quickly and contain refined sugars and few vitamins and minerals. Complex carbs and help you to feel full for longer, which means you will feel less inclined to snack (which many people do when they are stressed).


Sources of complex carbohydrates include whole grain breads and pasta, beans and legumes, and starchy vegetables like sweet potatoes., Stress may weaken the immune system and increases the body’s antioxidant requirement. The commonly known antioxidants are Vitamin C, E and beta carotene. These antioxidants fight free radicals that can form in your body when you are stressed.


Good sources of vitamin C are citrus fruits, kiwi, papaya, green peppers, cabbage, spinach, broccoli, kale, cantaloupe and strawberries.
Vitamin E on the other hand is found mainly in germ oils of wheat, corn, cottonseed and soybean and fish oils, nuts and apricots.
Beta carotene, which is a precursor of vitamin A, is present in milk, butter, egg yolk, liver, spinach, grains and yellow and orange fruits and vegetables.
 Caffeine has a half life of four to six hours which means that it will take its full effect after six hours have passed. Because of this, it is important to avoid drinking caffeine after 2 PM, or else you could have a hard time falling asleep, which in turn could make you more stressed the next day. Caffeine can also take an effect on the following hormones, which in turn can make you feel stressed:


Adenosine: Caffeine can inhibit your body’s absorption of adenosine, which calms the body. While this may make you feel alert in the short run, it can cause problems with your sleep cycle later.
Adrenaline: Caffeine pumps adrenaline into your system, giving you a temporary boost, but making you fatigued and depressed later. If you take more caffeine to counteract these effects, you end up spending the day in an agitated state, and might find yourself jumpy and edgy by the time night comes around.
Cortisol: Caffeine can increase the body’s levels of cortisol. Cortisol is the “stress hormone”, which, as the name suggests, can make you feel very stressed.
Dopamine: Caffeine increases dopamine levels in your system, acting in a way similar to amphetamines, which can make you feel good for a short period of time. However, after the caffeine wears off, you may feel “low”.

