 The goal of treatment is to slow down the progression of the disease, stop the behavioral abnormalities of the immune system, and prevent any complication associated with autoimmune hepatitis.;
, Glucocorticoid, or corticosteroid, therapy such as the use of prednisone is generally used as one of the first ways to begin managing this condition. Corticosteroids are medications that reduce inflammation and lessen the activity of an overactive immune system.


Usually, doctors give an initial dose of 20 to 30 mg of prednisone to those who have autoimmune hepatitis.The maintenance therapy dose ranges from 5 to 15 mg for at least 18 to 24 months of monitored drug intake. Keep in mind that people may experience remission or temporary recovery from the symptoms of autoimmune hepatitis, but after the drug has been stopped, symptoms usually do appear again.
 Prednisone can either be a tablet or given as a solution (liquid form). The drug is usually taken with food 1 to 4 times a day, though your doctor may give you specific instructions.Always talk to your doctor before you decide to stop taking a medication like prednisone. Abrupt withdrawal from the drug can lead to extreme fatigue, bodily weakness, upset stomach, weight loss, and mouth sores due to the inability of your body to produce its natural steroids.
 Inform your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms. Prednisone has a wide range of side effects which include:


Headaches, dizziness, acne, having diabetes, cataract (clouding of the lens of the eyes), glaucoma (elevated pressure on the eyes), high blood pressure, and the possibility for osteoporosis (weakening of the bones).
 Azathioprine is an immunosuppressant medication that lessens the activity of the immune system. It is often prescribed in combination with prednisone to lessen the side effects caused by prednisone, while also managing your condition.


Side effects of taking azathioprine include: nausea, vomiting, skin rash, low white blood cell count, and liver damage.
When taking this drug, you will most likely have your white blood cell levels routinely checked, as this medication can affect your white blood cell levels.
 An initial treatment for this type of therapy includes 10 to 20 mg of prednisone and 50 to 100 mg of azathioprine.Your doctor may prescribe different dosages depending upon your specific condition.
 A liver transplant is a procedure that removes the damaged liver cells by replacing your liver with a healthier donated liver. Talk to your doctor about your options when it comes to getting on the list for a liver transplant., Evaluation is needed to determine if you can undergo such a procedure. Certain diagnostic tests include:


A laboratory test to determine the health status of your organs, and primarily your liver; imaging tests such as an ultrasound of the liver; and a heart evaluation to determine your cardiovascular status.
 During the surgery, the surgeon will use general anesthesia. An incision will be made along your abdomen in order to access the liver.Blood supply and ducts are then detached from the damaged liver, and the new liver takes it place. The surgeon will then close the incision using stitches and staples and you’ll be delivered to the intensive care unit to evaluate your after-surgery status. The surgery may take 10 to 12 hours.
You may be asked to stay in the hospital for one to two weeks. You will be given immunosuppressant medications. Your recovery period may last anywhere from six months to one year.

