 Go to wartune.com and register or login your account. Pick a server and then pick the mage as your class choice. Follow the beginner's instruction to level up your toon. You can get equipment from beginner's quests that you can use.


First off, its always best to NOT upgrade your equipment to its max when you're a low level. This is because levels increase rapidly at the beginning and low level equipments will be thrown right away along with the gold you spent for the upgrade. Start upgrading to max stats when you reach level 30 and up.;
, Gather synthetic materials from multi-player dungeons. Click the blacksmith icon and click "synthesize" in the blacksmith options located above the window. Choose the item and then finally synthesize. The whole set will give you extra stat boosts that will increase your BR dramatically.


A complete set will also build your rage twice faster than an incomplete or mixed equipments. Thus, giving you more chance to use better skills that requires a lot of rage.
 It is a good source of extra exp, gems, luck stones, and most especially, crypt tokens. All of these are essential in upgrading your equipments. You need a lot of crypt tokens to get rings and jewels and synthetic materials for legendary equipments so make sure to complete its max level as early and as often as you can to get the most out of it.


Go to your city and click "forgotten catacombs". You have one attempt each day to enter and complete each level as high as you can. If you have completed several levels previously, you may do blitz to save your effort. And then continue to higher levels.
 Once you reach level 13, it is best if you join a guild so that you can join Guild Battles to get Insignias and Honour.

Click the guild icon in the lower part of your screen or simply press "G". This will give you a list of existing guilds in your server. It will give you an option whether to apply in an existing guild or create a new one. If you are a beginner, it is best to just join an existing guild. Building a guild is never an easy job and you need to learn the game first before you can succeed in running a guild.
 Ask help from your guild or any friends in your server and create a party. Nightmare mode is a best option for daily dungeons since you can loot synthetic materials both for rare and legendary equipments.
 The must have gems for a mage are MAtk, MDef and PDef. Then add up either a crit or hp gem for a legendary.


Socket higher level gems as possible.
If you have gems that are useless, synthesize them first and then convert it to a gem that you can use. Synthesis before conversion will save you 50% of gold than conversion before synthesis.
 Maximum enchantments mostly give the primary stat of an item an additional value that's incredibly higher than the original.


Ex. A lorekeeper staff that initially gives +239 MAtk will get and additional +346 MAtk when fully enchanted which gives you a total 585 MAtk (Special and bonus stats not included).
 Try your best to acquire as much gold as you can and use them to capture astrals. Main astrals for mages are MAtk, MAtk + penetration, PDef, MDef, will destroyer, goddess blessing, HP, and crit accordingly.
 Contribute your gold to your guild more often and buy first the skills that will help you immensely. Start off with the gold boost to raise your gold production. Followed by intellect boost, defense boost, endurance and charisma. If you have extra gold to spare, you can buy strength boost to get a little amount of PDef that can help you survive a little longer.
 The Brutality and Healing rune are helpful in BG, GB and Arenas to deal more damage and instantly restore a percentage of your hp. If you think you are lucky all the time, Amnesia and Chaos runes are quite amazing when brought to higher level for its chances to make your opponents loose turns and attack their own team mates!

, Gather mount training whips and train your mount in bulk (advanced training) as this will give you more chance to get a higher (+) exp buff. Remember that the mount skills that you train will add up to your own stats so take the mounts intellect higher before upgrading other mount skills.


It is best to to train your mount during mount training events for the amazing rewards that you can get.
 Passive mage skills helps in boosting magic attack and rage build up that will allow you to use AOE skills. Since mages have more AOE skills than knights and archers who have low magical defense, they are more useful in PVP party., Bring up your academy level, research technology skills and bring them to a higher level using kyanites. Plunder other players' cities for kyanites or finish quests that gives kyanite as a reward. There are also event boxes that randomly gives kyanites.
 As you may have noticed, in almost all attempt in upgrading your battle rating requires gold. Check the regular world boss event schedules and be online 5 minutes earlier. It is best to use high potions and/or scrolls to enhance your MAtk. The higher your damage dealt to the boss, the higher the gold and daru you get.