 Many people who suffer from gout will have a supply of NSAID tablets ready at home in case an attack occurs. The painkillers will ease most gout attacks and soothe your symptoms within 12-24 hours. There are several types and brands your doctor may prescribe, including diclofenac, indomethacin , and naproxen.Most people can take these drugs without any complications, but some side-effects may occur, including:


Bleeding from the stomach. This is more of a risk if you are over 65 years old or have a stomach ulcer. If you have either of these risks, you avoid taking these tablets and talk to your doctor about other possible medications.
Some people with asthma, high blood pressure, certain kidney problems, and heart failure may not be able to take anti-inflammatory painkillers.
If you are taking medication for other conditions, they could interact negatively with anti-inflammatory painkillers. Talk to your doctor if you are on other medications before taking the painkillers.
 Follow the dosage prescribed by your doctor and don’t take too many painkillers at once. Continue to take this medication throughout the attack and for 48 hours after the attack has finished., NSAIDs should be prescribed together with PPIs, which reduces the risk of the NSAID causing indigestion, stomach ulcers, and bleeding from the stomach.These medications will also protect your stomach if you have already taken aspirin and then experience a gout attack. Aspirin plus an anti-inflammatory medication will increase the risk of stomach bleeding. PPIs will help to counteract this risk.
Your doctor may also try interleukin-1 inhibitors (IL-1) to control pain. IL-1 may rapidly reduce pain for those who do not respond to NSAIDs., Colchicine is a medication that is derived from the Autumn crocus plant. It is not a painkiller, but it works to reduce the ability of the urate crystals that inflame your joint lining, thereby reducing some of the inflammation and pain during a gout attack.Colchicine will be prescribed by your doctor and can be an effective treatment for gout if taken in the first 12 hours of the attack. But it should only be used at low doses as it can cause side effects like nausea, abdominal pain, and diarrhea.Always follow the recommended dosage. For most people, this means no more than 2-4 colchicine tablets a day.
 These are a type of steroids for people that do not respond to other treatments and are unable to take an NSAID or a colchicine. A short course of steroid tablets provides relief but can’t be used long-term in high doses as they can cause side effects such as:Weight gain
Osteoporosis, or thinning of your bones
Bruising and thinning of your skin
Muscle weakness
Increased vulnerability to infection
Corticosteroids can also exacerbate diabetes and glaucoma, an eye condition that can cause blindness if left untreated.
Do not use corticosteroids if you have impaired kidney function, impaired liver function, or a risk of heart failure.

