 Summer is the perfect time to let your hair grow another couple of inches. This will give you a lot of flexibility to try new styles, and a good excuse to try different hair products such as shampoos and conditioning treatments. Keep searching until you find some that work perfectly for you.


At the end of the summer, about a week before your style debut, go to a trusted hairdresser and get your hair cut or trimmed so that it's just how you want it. This is also the perfect opportunity to retouch highlights or add color.
 Get a good friend and schedule some regular trips to clothing stores, just to try things on. Make it a point to go to stores that sell niche or specialty clothing, as well as mainstream retailers. While you're there, have fun trying on everything that seems interesting, even if it doesn't seem like your style at all. Critique each others' ensembles and take plenty of photos. After a few weeks, you'll have a great style portfolio to help you find your new look.


If you find something you absolutely have to have, don't hesitate! Often, the next time you come back, it'll be gone, usually for good. Try to keep such impulse purchases down to only the very best pieces, to keep your costs reasonable. If you're buying something every time you go out, you're probably not being picky enough.
Don't neglect secondhand and thrift shops on your adventures. Despite the fact that most of what they sell is ugly, they can occasionally provide a beautiful, unique item for your outfits. Thrift stores are great for retro-style looks in particular.
 Using your photo portfolio and images from magazines and the Internet, put together some ensemble ideas you think would look especially good on you. Focus on clothing first, and worry about accessories after that. If an item of clothing wouldn't look good without a specific accessory, it's probably best to skip it.


Keep a notebook or list on your phone and write down ensembles as you come up with them. Note the price and location of each piece, if you know it or have a general idea. Feel free to erase or reorder parts as you work. When one piece will work with multiple ensembles, mark it so it stands out – that one's a definite keeper.
 Start with the key pieces that you marked as being useful for multiple outfits, and then work from there. With your basic pieces purchased, it's easy to work around the problem of other specific pieces not being available anymore – just find something else that goes with your core piece. Again, start with clothes and shoes. Other accessories can come later.


If you've been adjusting your weight over the summer, buy as close to fall as you can, and be sure to try everything on to make sure it fits properly – after all, your body's a different size and shape than it was a few months ago.
You shouldn't need more than a few new pairs of shoes to complete most of your outfits. Be creative and think about how to repurpose one pair for several different looks.
Keep all your receipts. If you have second thoughts later, you can usually just return the item.
 Now is the time to purchase costume jewelry, belts, handbags, and other items that help complete your look. Search high and low for good deals – accessories can end up costing a lot of money very quickly, but with some patience and determination, you can also snag some incredible deals.


If you have some extra money, invest in a nice perfume. Perfume clerks at stores like Macy's and Nordstrom's can help you find a nice scent, or you can look up perfume discussion communities on the Internet.
Remember, jewelry in particular doesn't have to be high-quality to look good. High-quality jewelry is nice, of course, but carefully picked costume jewelry can also make a bold, smart fashion statement.
 The perfect time to experiment with new makeup is right after you've acquired a nice new wardrobe for yourself. Of course, if you don't usually wear makeup, you certainly don't have to start right now, but there are few better ways to cheaply and dramatically change your physical look to make your clothes and hair really “pop.”


Use good quality makeup, if you can afford it. Over time, most makeup is pretty cheap, but some of it costs a pretty penny up front. As long as you're able, invest in some of the nicer stuff, especially foundation, powder, and concealer. Those three elements give you perfect control over your complexion, making them the most important.
Experiment with feature-defining makeup. Lipstick, lip liner, eyeliner, and eyeshadow are the primary tools in your artist's kit for making your makeup a personal expression of style. Break open your supplies and try out new colors and combinations to come up with some great bold looks that will turn heads in the best sense of the phrase.

As with your clothes, it helps to have a friend over and try new makeup combinations together. You'll get great feedback and have more fun than you would alone.
 Finish your last sessions for tanning, tooth whitening, or anything else you scheduled. Clean and style your newly-cut hair, and put on your favorite new ensemble, starting with clean undergarments and building up through clothes, then shoes, then accessories. Apply whatever makeup style you want (don't forget to paint your nails a bit earlier, if you want to), and add any final touches like color contacts or nice perfume. Grab the right purse or bag, and step out with confidence to show off the new you!


If you can afford it, having a salon day the day before your debut will ensure you look and feel your absolute best.
Smile and be outgoing with everybody. Your confident glow will accentuate your new look, and people will be truly impressed with the change.
Don't stop taking good care of yourself just because the summer's over. By this point, good dietary and fitness practices should have become habits. Just stay in those habits and continue to look and feel your best.

