 Otherwise broken hearts will be the result of casual dating.;
, Build dating standards that can work through that kind of restraint


Sex can include a lot of things besides just intercourse. Some know that sex before marriage should be off limits, but others do not. You have to work on getting agreement on waiting until marriage.
If you did have sex with multiple people before marriage, it would kind of deaden pieces of your heart. Every time you have sex with someone you are cleaving to the other like sealing your situation in an envelope. The Bible describes this as the two becoming one. When you split up with the person it is like ripping that envelope open, which represents breaking your heart.
Eventually, your heart becomes so scarred from love that was lost that it is hard to feel anymore. If you want your someday marriage to be full of life and beauty, don't have sex, or do anything else that arouses passion, with anyone until you are married. Then sex will be a bonding experience made special by marriage.
 The longer you are together, the harder it will be to break up. Also, the longer you stay together, the more of an imprint this can have on your heart, which will make it harder to forget and heal later.


Keep your relationships before marriage short. For most people, it takes about two months to be able to tell whether someone is the one or not. If you really don't think so after that time, end the relationship.



Go out to dinner or to the movies, but never be alone with that person. In general, meeting at the restaurant or movies rather than driving together there would head off getting physically attracted. This will greatly save you from temptation.
 You never know, there might be only one thing of interest, and not marriage. Don't let a date into your heart until there is proof of worthiness. Don't wear your heart on your sleeve, so to speak. Don't be easily affected by your date too soon, keep your heart on reserve for the right one.
 Say what is okay and what is not. And don't let yourself fantasize or think longingly too much when you are not with him or her. Guard your thought life.
 Those may cause you to get "swept away" by infatuation or charms of life.


Always keep both feet on the ground. Romantic movies have a way of painting love in a very unrealistic way. In the movies, it always works out and it is almost always wonderful. In life, dating is not always wonderful and most of the time it does not work out. Stay in reality, not in fantasy.
 Have your date over for a family dinner. Invite your date to come to church with you and your parents, to measure how that fits.


Ask for advice from people in your church or mentors on what you should do in regards to the relationship. If your parents don't like the person, listen to their reasoning.
One of the greatest commandments is "honor your mother and father, that it may go well with you and that you may live long on the earth." Your parents have been around the block a few more times than you and they know what they are talking about. Listen to them. They aren't trying to spoil your fun, they are really trying to protect you.
 It is too difficult to date too long.


Don't be overly concerned about wedding plans, etc. The longer you stretch out the engagement, the harder it is to guard your heart and live in a pure way.
Also, many times long engagements are broken off. Get married as quickly as possible, if you have both decided that is for sure what you want and thus avoid the pressure of time.

