 Instead of three square meals a day, eat three small meals and three healthy snacks. Choose:


Lean chicken and turkey.
Fish that contain omega-3 fatty acids, including mackerel, tuna, sardines, salmon and shellfish.
Soy protein found in soy nuts, soy milk and tofu.
Low-fat yogurt, milk and cheese.
Whole-grain breads, pastas and cereals.
Fresh fruits and vegetables.;
, Although 30 minutes at least three times a week is best, even 10 minutes a day can improve a lot of menopause symptoms.
 Menopause often occurs during life's transition periods, as children leave the home or you take over the care of elderly parents. Hormonal changes make it even more difficult to deal with life's stress. Try:


Yoga, relaxation or meditation techniques.
Pursue a hobby or other activity you enjoy.
Spend time with friends, family or those people in your life who help you to feel good about yourself.
Allow yourself time to rest and relax without feeling guilty about taking a break.
Set realistic expectations and goals for yourself and accept the fact that you have limitations and can not do it all.
 Getting enough good, quality sleep is important for good health in all stages of life. Studies indicate that more than half of all women in menopause do not get enough sleep because of problems with hot flashes, depression, anxiety and insomnia.


Stick to your normal sleep schedule during menopause or establish one if you haven't already. Going to bed and getting up at the same time every day is the best way to get good healthy sleep. Do not stay up late and sleep in on the weekends, which can throw your schedule off.
Take a hot bath before going to bed. Soaking in a bath before going to bed is beneficial for several reasons. The hot bath relaxes your body and helps your mind to unwind before going to bed. After getting out of the hot water, your body temperature drops, which is helpful if you suffer from hot flashes and night sweats.
Keep your bedroom cooler than the rest of the house or lower the temperature in the room before going to bed. Not only do lower room temperatures make hot flashes more bearable, but they also signal to your body that it's time to sleep.
Buy t-shirts and gym shorts or pants made from a material designed to wick moisture away from your body, such as CoolMax . Wear them as pajamas to help keep you dry during night sweats.
Have sex before bed if the urge hits. Having an orgasm is one of the best ways to induce sleep.

