 This app is blue with a white "f" on it. If you're already logged in, tapping this app will open your Facebook News Feed.


If you aren't already logged into Facebook, type in your email address (or phone number) and password and tap Log In.;
, It's either in the bottom-right (iPhone) or in the top-right (Android) corner of the screen.
 If you're using an Android drive, you'll tap Account settings here instead.
 It's an option in the pop-up menu at the bottom of the screen.


If you're on Android, skip this step.
 This option is toward the bottom of the screen.


If you're using a phone with a 4.7 inch screen, you'll first need to scroll down.
 The categories you see here will vary based on your own Facebook use, but some common ones include the following:



Close Friends activity - Covers notifications for activity from close friends like new posts, likes, and uploads.

Birthdays - Displays notifications on friends' birthdays.

Group posts - Entails individual settings for each of the groups to which you belong. You won't see this option if you don't belong to any groups.
 As mentioned previously, the categories you see here will vary, so just tap one for which you'd like to change the settings.


For example, if you'd like to disable notifications for activity from your close friends, you'd tap Close Friends activity.
 This process will vary depending on the category you choose:


If you're editing the "Close Friends activity" category, simply check or un-check the box to the right of "Get notifications."
If you're editing the "Group posts" category, tap a group name on the "Group posts" page and then tap an option under the "In-App Notifications" heading at the top of the page.
If you're editing the "Notifications from apps" category, tap the checkmark next to each app from which you wish to remove notifications. Tapping an app's name again will enable notifications for it.
 It's in the top-left corner of the screen. Doing so will save your changes; if you wish to change more notifications settings, you can do so by tapping their appropriate categories and then tailoring the options based on the kind of notifications you would like to see (or not see).

