 What will it help you achieve? Mentally reframe the unpleasant task as a necessary stepping stone to a better future. By focusing on the benefits you’ll get from completing the task, you might find that it’s easier to motivate yourself.For instance, maybe you don’t feel like working on an essay due for your college English course. Reframing the task could help you acknowledge that doing it will get you one step closer to finishing the course. Plus, practicing your writing skills will be beneficial in your aspirations to be a journalist.;
, Intrinsic motivation – the way an accomplishment makes you feel – can often be a more powerful motivator than external rewards or praise. Imagine how relieved, satisfied, or proud you’ll feel after completing the task. Visualization can give you the burst of energy you need to conquer the job.Intrinsic motivation comes from feelings of autonomy, mastery, and purpose. Look for ways your task is linked to these three factors. Can you complete the task on your own terms? Will it help you master a skill? Will it help you make purposeful progress towards an end goal you care about?
Harnessing the power of intrinsic motivation is an especially powerful way to get creative work done.
 Repeating a mantra to yourself can be an effective way to stay in a positive state of mind. When you tell yourself something over and over, eventually you start to believe it, so a good mantra can help you get in the habit of thinking positively. Start your day off right by repeating your mantra to yourself as soon as you wake up.If you need ideas for a mantra, try one of the following:


“I’ve finished tough projects before, and I can do it again.”
“I’m not afraid to make mistakes. Making mistakes is part of making progress.”
“I value my time, so I make getting things done a priority.”

, Sometimes when you feel reluctant to do a task, it’s a sign that your time would be better spent on something else. Is this task really necessary to your project? Could somebody else do it, or could you find a more efficient way to get it done? Dropping work you don’t like from your to-do list can give you more time to accomplish other things.For example, maybe you loathe having to do the laundry, but your partner actually enjoys it. You can request to swap chores with them and complete an undesirable chore that this person has to do. That way, both of you get your chores done, but you don't have to do one that you particularly hate doing.
 Taking a moment to count your blessing may help to motivate you to do something unpleasant. Try thinking about the task at hand as something that shows how you are blessed and write down or say what make you feel grateful about the task.For example, if you are dreading cleaning your room, you might say to yourself, “I am grateful that I have a room to clean. Many people are not as lucky.”
Or, if you are dreading writing a big paper for a college English class, then you might write out something like, “I am grateful that I have the chance to attend college. There are millions of people around the world who would love to be able to do this.”

