 Ordinary conditioner is worth trying if you haven't already, but if your hair is severely matted, you may need to resort to another option. Deep conditioners are great at restoring moisture to your hair and making them easier to untangle, while detangling conditioners are meant specifically to add more slip to your hair. Coconut oil, olive oil, or Moroccan argan oil can be used instead, and may be especially useful for afro-textured hair. If you dislike the feel of oil in your hair, you can try a hair detangling spray.


While some people use mayonnaise, this may cause an unpleasant smell and is unlikely to be more effective than other options.;
, Dampen your hair with a spray bottle of water, or briefly holding it under a shower or sink at low water pressure. Most hair treatments are meant to be applied to damp hair, but if you let the hair become dripping wet, it may be more susceptible to breakage., Take a handful of the chosen treatment, or use up to two handfuls if you have hair that grows past your shoulders. Apply the treatment thoroughly to all parts of your hair, including the ends. Rub it in to each section of your hair separately, rather than across your entire scalp at once, to avoid tangling your hair further.
 If using ordinary conditioner, it will finish moisturizing your hair within a few minutes. Coconut oil and similar oils should be left in for at least 30 minutes for maximum effect, but no longer than 2 hours. Deep conditioners vary as shown on the packaging instructions, but are typically left in for at least an hour, and may be left in overnight for extreme cases.


To keep your hair tidy and out of way, wear a plastic shower cap, or a plastic bag fastened with a hairband. Optionally, a tight-fitting hat over the plastic may help hasten the process.
 Once the hair treatment has had time to take effect, attempt to gently pull apart the tangled sections of your hair. Small knots or loose mats can sometimes be pulled into smaller, separate tangles from the root side of the knot, nearer to your scalp.


Don't expect to fully untangle your hair during this step. If you feel tension, stop and try a different tangled area.
 A comb with sturdy, widely spaced teeth is essential for combing out severe tangles. Fine combs and brushes are likely to meet too much resistance, forcing you to either pull out clumps of hair, or stop brushing.


Be sure to pick a comb that doesn't have teeth so wide that smaller tangles slip through.
 Always comb tangled hair starting near the ends. Place the comb a few inches (several centimeters) from the end of the tangled hair, and brush downward. Repeat until that section of hair is free of tangles, then move the comb slightly higher up. Repeat until the entire length of your hair is combed. For long or thick, severely matted hair, this may take an hour or more.
 If you have a sensitive scalp, hold a section of your hair as you brush it. Grasp a portion of hair about the thickness of a marker or glue stick between your fingers, and give it a half-twist to keep the comb from pulling directly on your scalp. Comb this portion of hair beneath your hand, moving your grip higher once the hair below it is successfully untangled.
 Apply a drop of conditioner or oil to a tough knot and rub it in with your finger. This will help lubricate those hair strands further, reducing the amount they cling to each other.
 If a mat of hair refuses to come apart despite all your efforts, you may need to thin it out. Open a pair of scissors and hold your hair tight with your other hand. Run the bottom blade of the scissors along the underside of the mat, then gently tug at your hair to remove loose strands.


If it has been weeks or months since the last time you combed your hair, cutting mats out may be your best option, as you can spend hours detangling with no results.
 Use a wide-toothed comb until the severe mats and tangles have been straightened out. Switch to a fine-toothed comb or a brush to remove any small knots that may remain.
 Rinse out any hair treatments completely once your hair is untangled. If you have tightly coiled hair, and the severe mats have separated enough to allow you to part your hair, clip each section of hair to keep them separate, and rinse one at a time.
 Leave-in conditioners can be left in your hair for many hours at a time. They keep your hair moisturized, minimizing fraying and frizzling that can occur when your hair dries out.
 Too dry, and hair becomes brittle and hard to brush. Too wet, and it becomes weak and easy to pull out accidentally. Find the middle ground, brushing or combing when your hair is damp after a shower, but not dripping wet.
 If you wake up with your hair in a tangle, braid it before you go to bed to minimize the amount of tangling that can happen. Alternatively, you could put your hair in a bun.
 If you have afro-textured hair, or another easily tangled hair type, part it into several sections, and clip them to keep them apart. Unclip these sections one at a time when washing your hair, and clip them back together before unclipping the next section. This reduces the chance of larger mats forming.


A mild, low-sudsing shampoo without sodium lauryl sulfate is recommended for this type of hair.

