 You don't have to be extra modest, just because you're in yoga class. However, you should pick something that covers you up, even when you're moving around. If you constantly need to pull on your shirt to keep yourself covered, that's a big distraction., One option for a top is a simple tank top. It should probably be stretchy, though it doesn't have to be as long as you can move in it. Make sure it's form-fitting enough that it doesn't move much when you change positions, and pick one that provides a little support.Pick a longer tank top, so it will have less of a tendency to flip over your head when you bend., You want to buy a sports bra specifically for yoga. It should have some separation between your breasts, to provide air circulation. However, a sports bra for yoga doesn't have to be as heavy as one for, say, running. It can be lightweight, as long as it provides you with the support you need.Some women wear sports bras exclusively to do yoga in. They skip the top altogether, particularly when doing hot yoga.
Consider buying a top that has a built-in bra. That way, you only need to deal with one item of clothing on top instead of two.
Another option is sleeveless vests with incorporated sports bras, as they give you the comfort of a fitness top and sports bra in one.
 You may want to layer tops in places where it can get cool. You might want a zip-up hoodie, for instance, or a light shawl on top of your shirt. Plus, you can use it as shawl to cover yourself when practicing laying-down poses, so you're not as cold., You can wear a variety of pants when doing yoga. Leggings are a good choice, since they both stretch and hug the body. You can also choose more straight-legged varieties, as long as they aren't too loose. Try to go for something lightweight, so the fabric won't get in your way., Pants aren't a necessity when you're doing yoga. You can also wear shorts. Pick a pair that is comfortable, relatively short, and fairly form-fitting. If the shorts aren't form-fitting, they can flop around and get in the way., Another option is tights that come just past the knee. The tights should be breathable. They should also be thick enough so that you feel comfortable wearing just the tights. Make sure they aren't so tight that they cut off circulation as you hold poses., One feature that some yoga pants have is a gusset. A gusset is a diamond-shape piece of fabric added to the crotch area. The point is to take some of the pressure off of that area, making it more comfortable to do yoga., A relatively high waistband is a good thing. It helps your pants stay in place, and it covers you up as you move. However, if it's too high, it will just get in the way as you try to bend. Try to pick one that sits at your natural waist., Your clothing doesn't need to be so tight you can't move. However, if it's too loose, it's going to move around too much, distracting you while you try to practice. Make it loose enough so that you can move, but not so loose that it will float up or ride down.When you're trying on yoga clothes, try bending over and moving around to see how they stay in place.
 When looking at yoga clothes, make sure to pick a material that both breathes and keeps moisture away from your body. You can try a synthetic, moisture-wicking fabric, though some people prefer cotton. It's up to you. Just remember you're going to sweat in these clothes, so you want a fabric that will keep you comfortable.Also, you may want to choose a stretchy fabric that has a bit of spandex in it so it's easier to move around.
 That is, make sure you pick items that provide the most comfort, such as tagless shirts and pants or shorts with a smooth waistband.Also, think about the collar. It should be form-fitting without getting in the way of your movement., Jeans are restrictive, as they don't have much give. You can't move like you need to in jeans, so it's best to skip them when practicing yoga. That also holds for other restrictive materials, such as leather or corduroy. Stretchy is best., Yoga is about being comfortable and finding your center. If you already have clothes that you can move about in easily and that don't make a lot of noise (you don't want your crinkling to distract others), don't be afraid to wear those to class.In fact, most people in India wear comfortable everyday clothes to class, not special "yoga" clothes., Whether you prefer neutrals and dark colors or you tend to go for bright patterns, pick clothes that you feel happy and comfortable in. Forget about everyone else. If you like the color, it's right for you.

