 Getting enough rest during pregnancy is important to have more energy during pregnancy. Proper rest means getting 8-9 uninterrupted hours of sleep every night. However, 78% of pregnant women report that they have trouble sleeping.To lower your chances of waking up in the night to urinate, stop drinking fluids 2-3 hours before bed.Don't eat before bed to help reduce heartburn.
Stretch before bedtime to help with leg cramps., Because your body will be expending more energy, and you will feel more tired during your first and last trimester, you should start going to bed earlier than normal. Getting these few extra hours of sleep every night will help you not feel so tired during the day., When you feel tired during the day, take a short nap. Naps should only last 20 to 30 minutes to reap the full effects, but a 60-minute power nap can refresh you. Even if you are at work, take a 10 to 15 minute break, turn out the light, close your eyes, and rest your head.A daily nap can be especially helpful during the first trimester because you are likely to be fatigued on most days.
 One way to help you sleep is to shift your body so the baby moves away from your bladder. Try raising yourself up on all fours for a few minutes. This can help move the baby, and hopefully, lessen the urge to urinate., If you are experiencing pain when you sleep on your side, then try placing a pillow between your knees. This can help with lower back and hip pain. You can also place a pillow behind your back for added support.You can also purchase a body pillow to help support your body while sleeping on your side.
 When you are feeling overly tired, you may need to let some things go to focus on yourself. This may mean reducing your social commitments, or adjusting them. Let the housework go. See if you can work from home. Your rest and sleep is more important than dinner with friends, a PTA meeting, or a load of laundry., Some stress is normal during pregnancy, but too much stress can make it hard to sleep at night. It can also cause headaches and changes in your appetite.Take time for yourself during your pregnancy. Do whatever it is you need to do to reduce stress. Read a book, listen to your favorite song, do yoga, or sit outside in the sunshine.


Try meditation. Close your eyes and clear your mind of all other thoughts. Focus just on a single image or thought for a few minutes a day.
Practice deep breathing. Take deep breaths for 2 minutes. This can help calm you and restore your energy.
Talk to your doctor if you are having a hard time managing your stress.