 In a small bowl, mix together 2 tablespoons of brown sugar, 1 tablespoon of ground allspice, 1 tablespoon of ground ginger, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 teaspoon of ground cumin, 1 teaspoon of ground red pepper, and 1 teaspoon of ground black pepper. Rub the mixture over the chicken before you grill it.


The mixture can be stored in an airtight container for up to 6 months.;
, In a small bowl, combine 1 teaspoon of Hungarian sweet paprika, ½ teaspoon of ground cumin, and ½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon. Add ¼ teaspoon of the following: salt, ground ginger, ground red pepper, and freshly ground black pepper. Grill the chicken as desired., In a small bowl, combine ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of olive oil, 3 minced garlic cloves, 2 tablespoons of chopped, fresh rosemary, 2 tablespoons of chopped, fresh thyme, the zest and juice of 1 lemon, and a dash of salt and pepper. Pour the marinade into a plastic, resealable bag and add the chicken. Leave the bag in the fridge for 2 to 8 hours, then grill over medium-high heat.This is enough to season 2 pounds (0.91 kilograms) of chicken.
If you don't like rosemary, you can also use basil or oregano.
 In a small bowl, combine: ½ cup (120 milliliters) of orange juice, ½ cup (120 milliliters) of lemon juice, ¼ teaspoon of chopped sage, a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) section of minced ginger, 1 tablespoon of soy sauce, 3 cloves of minced garlic, and ¼ teaspoon hot sauce. Pour the mixture into a resealable bag and add the chicken. Let it marinate for several hours to overnight in the fridge. Grill or broil the chicken until it is fully cooked.
 In a small cup, combine the juice from 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon of honey, 1 tablespoon of olive oil, and a dash of salt and pepper. Pour the marinade into resealable bag and add the chicken. Leave it in the fridge for 15 to 60 minutes, then grill.
 In a small cup, mix together 1 tablespoon of vinegar, 2 to 3 tablespoons of dried herbs, 1 to 2 tablespoons of garlic or onion powder, ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of extra-virgin olive oil, and 1 to 2 tablespoons of mustard. Pour the marinade into a resealable bag and add the chicken breasts. Seal the bag and allow the chicken to marinate for a few hours in the fridge. Once the chicken has marinated, you can either grill or bake it.For the vinegar, try one of the following: apple cider, balsamic, or red wine.
For the dried herbs, try one of the following: crumbled bay leaf, oregano, rosemary, or thyme.
You can freeze the chicken and marinate for up to 2 weeks.
 In a small bowl, mix together: 1 cup (240 milliliters) of soy sauce, 1 cup (240 milliliters) of water, ¾ cup (180 milliliters) of white sugar, ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of Worcestershire sauce, 3 tablespoons of distilled white vinegar, 3 tablespoons of vegetable oil, 2 teaspoons of garlic powder, and 1 teaspoon of grated fresh ginger. Once the sugar dissolves, pour everything into a resealable bag and add the chicken. Let it sit for a few hours to overnight in the fridge. Grill or bake the chicken once it is done marinating.
 Barbecue sauce is the perfect compliment to chicken, but when you add it can make a huge difference in how the chicken tastes. If you add the barbecue sauce too early, your chicken may end up over-flavored. If you add it too late, your chicken may not be flavored enough. Here are some guidelines:


If you are baking or grilling the chicken, apply the barbecue sauce at the very end, just as the chicken finishes cooking.
If you are cooking your chicken on a slow roaster or in a crock pot, add the barbecue sauce when the chicken is halfway done.
Consider adding a little bit of honey mustard to your barbecue sauce for an added kick.
Consider using barbecue sauce as a marinade if you are planning on grilling the chicken.

