 You should put your candle on a surface that's heat resistant, such as stone. That way, you won't risk catching the surface on fire. In addition, make sure the candle is in an area without drafts, as drafts can push the flame out from the candle, causing a fire.It's also a good idea to remove anything flammable near the candle, such as papers, fabric, or dried floral decorations.
Make sure the candle is at least a foot from curtains.;
, You can use regular-sized matches if the candle isn't too deep. If it is, you may need a fireplace match. Hold the end of the match between your finger-tips, so it has plenty of room to burn.If the candle is too big, you can also use a piece of spaghetti or fettuccine.If you don't have matches, you can use a toothpick, as well, but you'll need to move more quickly as the flame can move faster.
 If the wick is too long, it presents a potential hazard. The wick should be about 1/8th of an inch long before burning. You can use scissors or a wick trimmer to cut it., Strike the match on the side of the box to light it. If you're using a piece of spaghetti, you can light it from the match.If you don't have a match or lighter, you can use a gas stove to light it from the flame. You can also light a toothpick this way.You also press the end of the spaghetti against the heating element in a toaster or even the oven to light it. Just be sure to be extra careful not to touch any of the hot parts yourself.
 Turning the candle sideways helps keep you from getting burned. Since flames burn upwards, if you try to put your hand down in the candle, the flame is coming up towards your hand.When the candle is sideways, you can stick the match in sideways, and the flame will go up towards the side of the candle instead of your hand.While you don't want to move too slowly, as a flame goes down a match quickly, you also don't want to jerk too quickly and drop the match. Move in at a steady pace.
 Once you've got the match or spaghetti in the candle, hold the flame up to the wick sticking out. Watch to see when the wick ignites. When it does, remove your hand, and blow out the spaghetti or match. Set the candle back upright. For extra safety, run some water on the match or spaghetti before throwing it in the trash., While the candle is lit, it's important to stay with it. If you leave it unattended, you run the risk of catching something on fire.