 Being healthy overall will help you feel better about yourself. To maintain a healthy body weight, eat well and exercise every day. Cut out sweets and overly processed foods, increase your fruit and vegetable consumption, and get at least 25-30 minutes of exercise a day.
 You may have to have your clothing tailored to fit your shorter stature. You may also be able to buy clothes specifically made for petite statures, but this is more common for women’s clothing. Having clothing that is too long will serve as a reminder that you are on the shorter side, and it will emphasize your height to others. Clothing that fits your perfectly will not draw attention to your height.
 Wearing clothing styles that compliments your body type can make you appear longer and leaner and draw attention away from your height. Here are a few tips:


Wear dark, solid colors; avoid overly flowy materials and big prints.Wear tops and bottoms from the same color family that do not overly contrast and break the body into two distinct halves.Avoid horizontal stripes; vertical stripes or patterns, however, will make you appear taller.Avoid baggy or oversized clothing, even if it is in style.Avoid oversized accessories and handbags.Men should wear clothing that draws attention up, rather than down, by selecting jackets with peak lapels and shirts that have straight-point collars and avoiding double-breasted jackets., Be sure when you are buying furniture that your feet do not dangle. Buy a vehicle that adjusts enough for you to comfortably see out of the window and reach all of the appropriate pedals. Even getting a bed frame that doesn’t require a box spring underneath your mattress will lower your bed, making you feel like everything in your life is more proportional.
 If you still feel uncomfortable with your height, try actually making yourself taller. This is much easier with women’s shoe styles, which offer a wide variety of heel height options. Men can place lifts in their shoes, which raise their heels slightly from the inside to increase their height. Men can also look for shoes that have slightly thicker soles or even a slightly elevated heel (common with dress shoes and boots).


Don’t overdo the height on the heels, however. If you wear heels that are too tall, you will look disproportionate.