 An email flier is in other words a beautifully designed advertisement sent out over the email chain. Hence, you must know for sure what you want to convey to your customers - whether you want to inform them about recent launches in your product line or promote a particular product or services or announce a special promotional offer and so on.;
, Prepare a demographic profile of your customer base identifying their age group, location, preferences, gender, education level, etc. Having knowledge of who you are writing for would help you to meet the requirements of your clients.
, There are email directories such as iStorez.com that show professional email campaigns from the Internet's top retailers. Retailers spend a lot of money on graphic designers, marketing professionals and testing various approaches. You will quickly notice there are some common "best practices" used throughout the industry.
 Decide where you want to place the images, whether on top of the flier or in the centre.
 Project the main benefit of your product or service in the headline so that the reader instantly knows what he/she stands to gain. Make it attractive and eye-catching. Remember that the headline should act like a magnet to draw the attention of the readers.
 Don’t use long paragraphs and long winding sentences. Keep the content short and crispy so that the readers can understand what you want to say at first go.
 Directly address the reader and tell him/her about the benefits he/she can get from the products or the services.
 Don’t slap in too many different kinds of fonts in the mistaken belief that it looks creative. It doesn’t. The use of different types of fonts in one fliers creates confusion and makes the flier look amateurish.
 For a profound effect, put one large picture instead of a number of smaller pictures.
 Proper usage of white space makes the copy look interesting and attracts the reader.
 It makes the copy look too clumsy.
 Include the link of the appropriate webpage which you want your customers to visit.
 Encourage the reader to email back or call back. Include information of your website URL, email and the contact number.

