 If you’re installing wall-to-wall carpeting, clear the area of all furniture, plus the floor covering to be replaced (if you have any). Then cover the subfloor from wall to wall with carpet padding. Staple the padding to the subfloor to secure it in place., These are generally an inch (2.5 cm) wide, but may be as long as four feet (1.2 m), so saw or cut them to length as needed. Place each strip end-to-end on the floor, leaving about a half-inch (1.25 cm) of space between the strips and the wall. Nail them into place through the padding until you’ve lined all of the room’s edges.For heavier carpets, you may wish to add a second row of tack strips. If you do, place these on the first row’s farthest side from the wall.
Always leave a half-inch gap in between the wall and the nearest strip. You’ll need to keep this space clear in order to worm the carpet’s edges underneath the baseboards.
 Unroll it over the carpet padding. If the carpet is one solid color, simply line up its corners with the room’s. If it’s patterned, double-check its orientation to make sure it’s lined up the way you want it. For instance:Say you’re using the same carpeting in this room and the hallway outside. For a more seamless look, orient it the same way in both areas. So if the pattern incorporates, say, pine trees, arrange the carpet so the treetops all point in the same direction.
 Choose a wall to start working along. Once you do, start in the middle of that wall. Set the head of a knee kicker on the carpet, roughly four to five inches (10 to 13 cm) from the baseboard, at a 90 degree angle to the wall. Then:Hold the kicker firmly in place by its handle with your dominant hand. Kneel on your opposite leg’s knee and support yourself with your other hand.
Drive your dominant side’s knee into the base of the knee kicker to drive the carpet toward the wall. Repeat until the edge of the carpet slightly overlaps the baseboard.
Press the carpet in that area into the tack strip below to secure it into place.
 Once you’ve secured the middle of your first edge to the floor, move a couple feet to either side. Set the knee kicker’s head on the carpet, about four to five inches from the wall. This time, however, set it so it’s at a 45 degree angle with the wall, with the base pointing toward the center of the room. Except for that one difference, drive and secure the rug into place in the same fashion as before.Depending on the length of your wall, repeat every couple of feet until you reach the corner. Then switch to the other side from where you started and continue until you reach the other corner.
Setting the kicker at a 45 degree angle to the wall as you work toward the corners will help stretch out any creases toward the center of the carpet.
 Start with the opposite wall to keep the carpeting aligned with the others as you work. Secure its edge along that wall as you did with the first. Then do the same with the other walls. Check your carpeting for creases as you go along. If the knee kicker isn’t doing the job of stretching them out on its own:


Detach the carpet from the tack strips so you can do it over with the extra aid of a lever-activated stretcher., If you have to do the job over, repeat the knee-kicker steps along one wall. Only this time, don’t press the carpet down into the tack strip once you finish with that. Instead, use a lever-activated stretcher to pull the carpet even tauter toward the wall before securing it in place.


The principle of a lever stretcher is the same. The only difference is in its operation. With these, you pump a lever up and down instead of using your knee.These are also a good alternative if you have a very large project or prior knee injuries. The repeated force of impact when using a knee kicker extensively can lead to physical trauma.

