 Certain hair products, shampoos, and conditioners, are believed to help keep hair looking full and healthy. You may have to try a few different products before you find one that works best for your hair and hairstyle. Try looking for some of the following qualities:Look for products labeled “volumizing shampoo.”
Avoid “conditioning shampoos,” as these can make the hair appear less full or heavy.
Avoid “intensive conditioners.” These may be too heavy and cause your hair to look less full.
Try to find conditioners that are designed for fine hair.
Products that contain biotin or silica may help as well., Being under stress can increase hair loss. Stress may cause your hair follicles to go into a resting phase, resulting in thinner hair coverage. Hair loss caused by stress can be reversed by reducing that stress.This, of course, may be difficult to do with a new baby. Make sure you are asking for help when you need it and your partner is helping you as much as possible.
 Ask your hairstylist to cut your hair in a new style, that makes it look fuller.Remember that hair loss caused during post-pregnancy is temporary,and that you can always restyle your hair once it starts recovering.


Longer hairstyles can make hair loss more noticeable., Your diet can have an effect on the health of your hair. By eating certain foods you can help ensure that you have healthy hair. Try monitoring your diet for the following vitamins and minerals:Protein. Hair is made up of protein. Getting enough protein in your diet will help keep your hair strong.
Iron. If you eat meat, try consuming lean meat for a healthy source of iron. Vegetarian sources of iron include soybeans, lentils, and spinach.
Flavonoids and antioxidants. Vegetables and fruits can contain flavonoids and antioxidants, which can help with the maintenance of hair follicles., Some supplements are recommended to keep hair healthy and strong. While you wait for your hormone levels and hair growth to return to normal, you can treat your hair with certain supplements.Try vitamins B, C, E and zinc.
There is some evidence that taking biotin in oral form, zinc, and topical application of a cream containing clobetasol propionate, can help with hair loss.Applying lavender oil mixed with thyme, rosemary and cedar wood oils, may help treat some forms of hair loss., After pregnancy, your estrogen levels will be lower than normal. Hormonal birth-control can help boost estrogen levels, which in turn, may help with hair loss after pregnancy.You must wait at least four weeks after giving birth before starting any hormonal birth-control. Starting too soon can increase the risk of blood clots.
If you are nursing, you should wait until your supply of milk is established, as birth-control can disrupt milk production.

