 Work experience is important to gaining a good job in biomechanical engineering. Start looking for internships while you’re still in college.]


Talk to your advisors about potential summer internships. You may be able to work as either a paid or unpaid intern learning more about your future career.
Go to career fairs at your college. Some career fairs may focus on engineering, so you can start talking to some companies you’d be interested in working for. Make contacts early so you can talk to them later about potential jobs.
Take the Fundamentals of Engineering examination. This exam is offered by the National Society of Professional Engineers and can help you to get a job as an engineering intern before graduating. Passing this exam makes you look more qualified for internships., When you are preparing to graduate, it’s important to make use of your professional contacts to find a job in your field. Talk to places where you’ve interned. Even if they do not have a job for you, they may know someone who is hiring.


Visit career fairs in the fall before graduating. Many employers will be looking to hire new graduates that are finishing up by the spring.
Talk to places where you’ve interned. They may be able to offer you a job. If nothing else, they can give you a good recommendation for places to contact.
Ask your advisor. Engineering professors may have projects they know of or are working on themselves.
 Biomechanical engineers can go on to qualify as a Professional Engineer and gain state licensure. However, you need additional work experience in the field to do so.


Find an entry level job in engineering. You need to work at these jobs before qualifying to take the Professional Engineer. Most of the time, you need at least four year’s work experience in your field.
Take the Professional Engineer exam. The credential enhances job opportunities in the biomechanical engineering field.The PE credential shows potential employers you have the skills and knowledge to work as a biomechanical engineer in a specific state. It can be particularly useful in advancing to different jobs.
With a PE credential, you can start a business offering engineering services to the public.
 If you have a PE license, you may have to take education courses to maintain your state licensure. Regardless, it’s important to stay current on research in your field.


Know if you have to take additional courses for the PE license in your state. Most states require engineers to continue their education after achieving the credential.
Note the date by which the courses have to be completed. For many states, you’ll have a certain number of years before your PE expires and your courses must be completed.
Enjoy the continuing education classes. They help you to keep up-to-date with the advances in the latest technology. Even if you’re not working toward a state licensure, it’s valuable to keep up with advancements in your field.

