 The cold water will close off the pores, preventing them from getting clogged and will wake you up a little;
, Try jeans and a T-shirt or if you're going to a warm place throw on a dress. Make sure that the colour matches you, that the clothes aren't too clingy and are comfortable but make you look good.
 Leaving it down might be a bad idea because on a long flight it could get tangled and oily. Try braiding it or putting it up in a ponytail or bun, anything that suits you.
 Don't wear heels as they are not allowed anyway, try runners or slip ons, anything that is comfortable.
 There are some things that are handy to have. A small tube of moisturizer might be useful but remember if you are taking it in your hand bag you must put it in a bag and it can only be a certain size. A hairbrush and possibly something to freshen up your breath might come in handy.
 This his will help you wake up refreshed and feel better.
, Most people do tend to sweat during flights.
 Try drinking coconut water, as it will give you energy.
 Eating is very important but don't overdo it. Try munching in some nuts as they are low in fat and the Omega 3 acids will keep your skin a glow.
 Put the ice cube to your eye and the swelling will go down.
 You can use them to clean your skin and avoid getting oily.
 This will let you stretch your legs a little and will get your blood flowing.
 Just don't overdo it as you don't want to get sweaty.
, Brush it out and tie it back again as this will help you avoid the flat hair effect. A ponytail or a messy bun are good for this because they are easy to re-do

, Then apply moisturizer to look fresh. If you come in with dead skin that might make you look tired.
 If that's not possible then exchange your rumpled cardigan for a new clean one. This will give you a fresher look. Try smoothing out the wrinkles in your clothes as much as possible, clean of stray crumbs and try to look good.
 Maybe some BB cream or a light dab of concealer or maybe something for those bags. But don't go over the top as make-up can make you look tired. For the lips just moisturize them and add a little bit of lip gloss if you want.
 Get the blood flowing again to make you look less like a zombie and more human.
 The smile will make you look happy and awake, even without make-up.

