 The amount of caffeine you can safely consume depends on a lot of factors, including how hydrated you are; however, even as little as 500 milligrams of caffeine can potentially cause an overdose.Symptoms of caffeine intoxication include feelings of restlessness, nervousness, or agitation. You also may have gastrointestinal problems, twitching, or heart palpitations. At least five overdose symptoms must be present for an official diagnosis of caffeine intoxication.
Even if you haven't reached overdose levels, you should stop eating or drinking anything caffeinated for the day if you have trouble breathing, get dizzy, feel "wired" or twitchy, or if your heartbeat is rapid or irregular.
Keep in mind that caffeine can stay in your system for four to six hours after consumption.
 Energy drinks contain massive amounts of caffeine, and also include other sugars and preservatives that can wreak havoc on your body and ultimately cause you to fatigue more quickly, as well as have difficulty recovering after an athletic event.For example, a 10-hour energy shot contains 422 milligrams of caffeine. To put this in perspective, about 360 milligrams of caffeine is considered a safe amount for a healthy adult to consume in one day.
Energy drinks also include other substances that are supposed to enhance your energy. However, there is little valid scientific evidence to back up the energy-enhancing claims of these substances.
 To avoid caffeine overdose as an athlete, you must monitor your caffeine intake closely and be aware of the caffeine content in foods and drinks you regularly consume on a daily basis.A 16-ounce cup of coffee (the size of a grande at most popular coffee chains) has about 360 milligrams of coffee. This amount is considered safe for most adults to consume.
While coffee itself provides many health benefits, those benefits only apply to up to 500 milligrams of caffeine – about five cups of coffee at home. Any more than that, and the risks of caffeine overdose negate any benefit derived from the coffee.
Keep a food and drink diary and write down everything you consume that has caffeine in it. Then you can estimate the amount of caffeine you're consuming each day.
Check the nutrition labels of foods or drinks you consume that have caffeine to find out how much caffeine is in each serving. Remember that some packages may contain more than one individual serving.
 If you want the performance-enhancing effects of caffeine without risking caffeine overdose, it's generally best to consume your last caffeinated beverage no more than three or four hours before an athletic event.The caffeine in your bloodstream typically will already have peaked, but you will still see some performance enhancement because of your consumption.
If you've never done intense physical activity after ingesting caffeine, you may want to experiment before attempting to use it for performance enhancement. Pay attention to how your body reacts and adjust accordingly if you find yourself becoming jittery or unable to focus.
 This will allow your tolerance to decrease, ensuring you get the maximum benefit from caffeine on the day of the event. Be aware of signs of caffeine withdrawal, however, if you normally drink large amounts of caffeine.

