 While checking, also look for the ratings level, to be sure whatever you do choose to go and see is age appropriate for everyone in your party.


Read the reviews to see what others have said. Read both what the professional critics say, and what the movie-going public has said. You can decide for yourself whether or not the movie is going to be worth the effort.;
, If going alone, this should be easy but if going with others, confer first and get agreement. If you've gone to the trouble of reading the reviews, give a precis of the reviews so that you can be persuasive about your choice of movie.


Consider booking tickets for the movie online. This can save time in having to line up and it can also save money sometimes.
 Make a meeting place there and a time too. Make sure it's a few minutes before it's time to go in, or longer if you need to buy tickets and treats.
 Cinema treats are often quite pricey, so if you want to save money, take your own. You could even stop at a supermarket or convenience store on the way and purchase chips, candies and drinks before you arrive. Place them in a shopping bag that is opaque––there is no need to advertise you're being budget savvy!


Buying on premises has the advantage of letting you get fresh popcorn or ice creams.
If you want to have water, it can be helpful to take along your water bottle and refill if needed; buying bottled water can be a pricey thing at the cinema.
If you don't want food, a few peppermints or chewing gum might be a nice stand-by in case you do get the munchies during the movie. Just seeing and hearing others eating around you can make you feel hungry too.
 If you know the cinema is air-conditioned, it can be helpful to have a jacket, hoodie or cardigan in case you get too cold.
 It can be useful for the light if the cinema is too dark to find your seat, and it can be used to play games or listen to music while waiting for the movie to play. Remember to turn it off when the movie starts.
 Needing to go in the middle of the movie will

,