 Being able to adjust and swivel the wheels can be a back saver; look for a stroller that has wheels which can be adjusted for more difficult terrain or for tight spaces. Swivel front wheels can make it easier to move around and the ability to lock the wheels straight ahead is useful for rough terrain or for high speeds (such as jogging)., You will be able to tell the difference between a well-padded seat area and a flimsy one. Soft, cushy seats can encourage a restless toddler to stay seated during a longer shopping trip. Many times, seat liners can be purchased separately. , An adjustable backrest that allows the stroller to fully recline is necessary for young infants who have not yet learned to sit up. Plus, the ability to fully recline is great for when your child falls asleep., A stroller should have decent shelter options to protect your baby from the sun and inclement weather. Some strollers have a wide brim, some have bug netting, and others even have a plastic waterproof feature that can be rolled down during rain.


Avoid lightweight fabric covers. Fully covering your stroller may unintentionally lead to a greenhouse effect, so instead go for options like umbrellas that create shade but do not restrict air circulation. , Most strollers come with the traditional foot-activated brakes, but many strollers also come with a second set of brakes on the handlebars. These are particularly useful if you intend to be traveling at high speeds, such as when you are jogging. , Five-point harnesses attach to the seat at five different points—at each shoulder, at each hip, and between the legs where the harness buckles. These are safer than the alternative three-point harnesses, which lack the additional attachment at the hips. If your child is in a rear-facing seat, the shoulder straps should be at or below the shoulder. In a front-facing seat, straps should be at or above the shoulder.
 Strollers can include features such as drink holders, consoles that can hold your keys or diaper bags, and even speakers that connect to your smartphone to play music for you child.Strollers with larger wheels (e.g., joggers) will need their tires pumped up from time to time; look for a mini tire pump that is portable so that you don't put off pumping the tires up.
 For truly unique additions, consider checking Etsy or local craft shows.


Take measurements. Be sure that accessories will fit your model before you purchase that large canopy or snap-on cup holder.