 Having enough balanced and routine sleep is of the utmost importance.Getting adequate sleep levels may have an effect on your social life, but remember the objective. This does not imply that you should not have social events, it only means that social events should not interfere with your well-needed rest. Remember, little rest equals little concentration.


Lack of sleep can compound stress through reduced energy, impaired cognitive functions, mood changes and much lowered concentration ability.Any worry about interrupted sleep can increase your stress levels. Sleeping well when it is possible to do so will help you cope better with unavoidable periods of interrupted sleep (such as for emergency call-outs, a sudden need to do shift work, etc.).
 People with high stress levels are more vulnerable to illnesses such as colds and flu.It is important to keep your immune system as strong as possible. Bad health could really impact you when you need to be at your best.


Vitamins and the occasional flu shot will help minimize the risk of becoming ill.






Visit a doctor regularly for check-ups to ensure that you're in good health. Things like high or low blood pressure and/or sugar levels impact the ability of your body to cope with stressful job situations.
 Eating the right foods and drinking enough water will not only boost your health, immune system and help you feel great, but will also help you manage fatigue allowing you to concentrate better and for longer on the important things at hand.Substances like drugs, alcohol and even strong medication could affect your decision making ability, both short- and long-term.


Keep a water bottle with you at all times. Drink water regularly through each work session to improve concentration and to relieve minor fatigue., Regular exercise is great as it improves overall health, but equally importantly it reduces stress.If you feel that you do not have the energy for exercise because of the high stress levels that drain you or that you do not have the time, think again! If you follow the steps outlined above, then you will have more energy––and if you are serious about controlling your stress levels––you will have to make time. The benefits of being moderately to highly active (outside of work) will become apparent to you after a couple of weeks.This is a very important step and will improve all the benefits listed above. (It is also recommended that you consult a doctor for a check-up before starting an exercise program.)


Pick exercise that you enjoy and that works for your body type. This may take trial and error but don't assume that because you hate one type, that all exercise won't work. While some love the gym, others love the outdoor run, the cycle, the ice rink or the spin class.






Physical work isn't just about regulated exercise forms. Doing up your garden, house or some other physically involved activities can help to reduce stress in between work.
 Family, friends, pets and the environment (nature) are sacred and valuable contributions to your overall health and well-being.People tend to get trapped in the stress that they're exposed to at work and, as a result, tend to forget the fun and relaxation of spending time with others. Time spent with friends, family, a friendly house pet or even just spending time with all the wonderful things that nature provides, will rejuvenate you and help you to realize that there is a positive balance to the hard and less positive things that you're dealing with each day.


Changing negative behaviour and/or feelings for positive can be as simple as changing the usual environment that you are in.







