 Surgery is the treatment of choice for some endocrine disorders. For Cushing’s disease caused by an adrenal gland tumor, surgery is the preferred treatment method.Surgery is also recommended for primary hyperparathyroidism (overactive parathyroid glands).The parathyroid glands are located next to the thyroid glands and release parathyroid hormone. Primary hyperparathyroidism, which is fairly rare in dogs, is usually caused a parathyroid tumor.Your vet will consider different factors (age, overall health status, spread of the tumor) to determine if surgery is right for your dog.
 Surgical treatment for endocrine disorders involves removal of the tumor and the diseased endocrine gland. If surgery is right for your dog, allow your vet to perform surgery. Soon after the surgery, your dog’s symptoms should start to improve.

Adrenal gland removal can be challenging, especially since the right adrenal gland is located close to a major vein called the vena cava.Your vet may refer you to a veterinary surgeon if your dog’s right adrenal gland has a tumor., Proper at-home care is always important after surgery to help a dog recover. When you pick up your dog after surgery, your vet will give you instructions for at-home care. They will also give you a few days’ worth of pain medication to relieve your dog's pain. Proper at-home care includes:Putting an Elizabethan collar around your dog’s neck to keep it from licking or bothering the incision site. Your vet will probably give you an E-collar.
Making sure the incision looks healthy (clean, pink skin, incision edges are touching each other). Contact your vet if the incision doesn’t look healthy (discharge, swelling, blood seepage for more than one day).
Limiting your dog’s physical activity for up to two weeks to allow the incision to heal.
Not bathing your dog.
 After surgery, your vet will want to see your dog again to take a blood sample and see how its symptoms are improving. Also, if your dog has stitches, your vet may need to remove them one to two weeks after surgery.

Primary hyperparathyroidism causes calcium levels to increase in a dog’s body. After surgery, your vet will measure your dog’s calcium levels. If they are too low, your vet will prescribe a calcium supplement for your dog.