 Whenever your child resists medication, be clear that it is a part of their treatment and they have to take it in order to get well.


You can help the child understand the importance of their medication.
Be firm and consistent if your child cries, throws tantrums, or misbehaves.
Avoid backing down from your position, as this can lead the child to believe that you can be manipulated by his/her behaviors.
However, do not shout or show aggression or anger while insisting that your child take their medication.
Showing aggression can further entrench and irritate the child, so stay very calm to help build trust with your child.;
, According to the age of your child, give him/her guidance about their disorder and how they can relieve their symptoms with medication. Giving your child guidance will help them understand:


Why taking the medication is important, and the consequences of skipping a dose.
That you, the parents, are being strict and assertive for the benefit of the child.
For example, if you have a young child, you can tell them that their mood will be improved if they take their medication. If you have a teenager, you can explain the whole disorder, along with the health consequences of rejecting medication.
 Help your child understand that with the help of medication, he or she can lead a normal life.


Do not exaggerate the illness, not minimize the effect of the symptoms.
Depending on the age of your child, tell him/her about the symptoms and how the medication will help control those symptoms.
Always give hope to the child about the positive effects of the medication to motivate him/her regarding their treatment and medication.
 If your child refuses to listen to your advice, get a counselor to provide unbiased advice about the medication, the child's apprehensions, and the child's refusal to take their medication.


Often, counseling can help children who are unable to talk openly with their parents about their disorder. Counseling can provide help in the following areas:

The child’s non-compliance and its reasons.
Family issues and their relationship with non-compliance with medication.
Behavioral issues leading to issues with medication compliance.
The child’s apprehensions about medications.
The benefits of taking medication.
 After some counseling sessions, you will have an idea about your child's thoughts and worries regarding their medication.


Address these apprehensions one by one.
Some of the common apprehensions your child might have are:

Your child, especially if they are preteen or teenaged, might be worried about the side effects of medications.
Some children do not like the taste of the medicine, which is usually lithium.
Irritation due to constant use of medications.
No clear indication about the duration of medication.
 Try to build a positive association with the medication.


For example, after a meal, ask your child to take their medication before getting his or her favorite dessert.
This will help the child associate positive feelings with taking their medication.
It can be easy to handle young children this way.
If you have a teenager, you could allow your child to go out with a friend or buy something nice.
 With your child, track their symptoms' improvement as a result of their medication with a symptom monitoring kit.


This is very important, as it helps your child gain insight about how their medication helps them.
It will also motivate the child about his/her progress and enhance their desire to take their medication.
You can use a mood symptoms chart, where the child rates his mood each day on a 1-10 rating scale.
You can write down the symptoms the child is having and then help the child monitor his or her progress as the symptoms decrease during usage of medication.
The daily chart can also be used to track improvements to the child's daily routine, highlighting tasks that they were unable to accomplish at first, but can now accomplish.
 A cost benefit analysis can help your child see if the benefits of taking the medication outweigh the costs.


You can do it by making two columns.
Write costs in one column and benefits in the other column, then help the child identify them both to understand why and how the medication is beneficial.
 A schedule will help the child take medication as a routine part of life, similar to eating and drinking.


Following the same time and routine for taking medication often helps the child take their medication regularly.
This can also help monitor the the results of taking medication and motivate the child to take their medication.
 Different children respond to medicines differently.


When your child starts taking medication, the side effects can be severe and disturbing.
Your child may experience tremors, seizures, muscle stiffness, abdominal distress, diarrhea, blurred vision, fatigue, heart problems, nausea.
Assure your child that these side effects are temporary and will naturally decrease as their body adapts to taking the medication.
In case of severe and intolerable side effects, talk to your child's doctor.
 Introducing your child to another person with bipolar disorder can make them feel less isolated.


When they find someone who has the same problem as them, they might feel a sense of relief knowing that they are not all alone.
They may feel an increased sense support and empathy.

