 When you race, your clothes should not weigh you down or restrict your movement. Technical running clothes are the most lightweight and least restrictive. Technical clothing will also wick sweat away from your body, so it stays light and dry.You can get shorts, long and short sleeve t-shirts, pants, tights, running skirts, bras, jackets, socks, hats, and gloves in these materials.
Avoid running races in cotton clothes. These can get heavy and damp with sweat and rain.;
, A supportive bra will limit the movement of your breasts. This will help you run more comfortably. It will also prevent stretching of the Cooper’s ligament, which causes your breasts to droop.Your bra should cover your entire breast and hold it firmly in place.Sports bras come with a shelf that holds both breasts or with cups that hold each breast separately. Cups are more supportive.
Racerback bras provide strong support because they pull the bra close to your body.
Find a smaller bra if the band pulls away from your body or if it rides up when you lift your arms.
If the band rides up in the back, the bra is too small.
 Running socks are a good choice for racing. These socks do not have seams, which can cause blisters. Some running socks have double layers that can also prevent blisters. Others have padding on the soles for comfort.Socks with double layers might shrink significantly in the wash.
Padded socks can get very warm.
You can find very thin running socks in technical materials to help you avoid sweaty feet.
 You should weather minimal clothing in hot weather. Shorts and a short sleeve t-shirt or tank top are the basic clothes for hotter temperatures. Men can wear light-weight shorts that have a built-in brief. For women who want to cover more, there are running skirts and capri-length tights.You may chafe more in hotter weather. Wear longer shorts or a sports bra with wider sides to prevent chafing.
 Dress in layers for races in cold weather. Thin layers are better than one heavy layer because heat will stay trapped between layers. You will warm up as you run, so dress for slightly warmer weather. You can also remove layers as your body heats up.Start with a warm base of tight-fitting tights and a tight long sleeve t-shirt.
The next most basic layer is a shell or jacket.
If it is windy, add a layer of wind-resistant pants.
In freezing temperatures, wear a hat or thick headband, gloves, and neck warmer or balaclava.Cover exposed areas with vaseline to avoid frostbite.
Layer your socks.
 You can race comfortably in the rain with a few good wardrobe choices. Choose lightweight technical clothes that will not get heavy from sweat and rainwater. Wearing tighter clothes will help prevent your wet skin from chafing.Wear a wide-brimmed hat or racing goggles to keep water out of your eyes.
A rain poncho will keep you drier.
Wear your thinnest technical socks so they don’t become heavy with rainwater.

