 Choose the option to create an account if you don’t already have a username and password. Confirm your account through your email address.;
, Once you are signed in to your normal eBay account. Go to http://cgi4.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?SellerSignIn, which will ask you to confirm payment details for your seller account.
 Pay special attention to the “Listing Conditions” sections, because they will tell you how to list an item in a legal way. Make sure you are able to print shipping labels and ship items in order to successfully sell on eBay.
,, This will take you to the advanced search. Although once you begin creating your listing there will be a tool to do this, it is easier to accomplish using the search bar.
 This shows only any listings that ended in the last 15 days.
 It's often best to filter by item condition, since new and used items do not sell the same. Click 'Search.'

, This is the default sorting style. Sorting items by price may be exciting, but it's unrealistic. You are probably not going to get the highest price.
 If the price is green, the listing sold. If the price is red, the item did not sell. Only pay attention to listings that sold.
 Determine what your item is worth. Figure out what was successful and unsuccessful about other user's listing. Use caution in how you use this information: Use it as a learning tool, do not to copy.
 You will need to do a new search without checking for completed listings only. If there are currently many of whatever you want to sell listed, you may want to wait. The competition will drive your price down. However, if you see many listings, but also see that a lot sold in your advanced search, you have no problems, since demand is high.
 Read through the “tips and hints” section.
 This could be considered the most important part of the listing since it is the first and often the only impression a buyer will have. Use as many searchable keywords to describe your item as possible (avoid using words people aren’t likely to search for like “WOW” and “L@@K”)


Include: Brand name, manufacturer, artist, specific attributes, short description of the item

,,, Depending on what you did in previous steps, the category may already be there. If so, verify that it is accurate. This will help people find the item based on the type of media, clothing or other product they want to buy.There are two methods of finding the category.


Keyword Search: Type in a brief description of the item and eBay will search for the category that item is most likely to be found in.
Browse for Categories: Select the best category from a list.
 Include a photo, or up to 12 photos for a slightly higher fee, as well as the dimensions, color and shipping info. Use as many specifics as possible. Using proper grammar and format will give the buyer added confidence in the seller.


In order to get more photos on the account without paying, you can create a double photo on Photoshop or other photo-editing software and upload a single photo of several angles.
Choose template inserts. eBay suggests several standard sentences in each section to help you sell your item.When you become an advanced seller, you can create HTML templates to reuse for similar listings., This will allow you to see competing listings and choose your price accordingly., Choose your selling period if you plan to have the item on auction or in a classified ad. Don’t make the sell period too long for most products, since people usually make more bids in the last day.
 Then, list the cost of shipping or several shipping options the buyer can choose. Offering free shipping or free pick up can also be a good marketing tool for your product.
 Ship flat rate or have fee calculated based on the buyer's address. Offering to ship internationally yields more potential customers.
 Specify whether returns will be accepted. Specifying a policy, even a no-return policy can increase sales if it is listed.
 Previewing it will allow you to catch errors. Edit the information to perfect the listing before you publish it.
 You will be charged a listing fee to your pre-set account or billed on a monthly basis., There are plenty downloadable html templates for ebay seller.,,, Edit your listing if it doesn’t have any buyers or bidders in order to make it more attractive.
 Communicate with the seller once the item is sold and shipped.
