 If you think your teacher treats you worse than other students, go to your teacher directly. There might be a simple miscommunication you can clear up, or an unhelpful behavior that one of you can change.Choose a time when neither of you is under pressure. Don't speak to him if there is a line of kids waiting to discuss their grade on a test, for example, or when the teacher is in a rush to prepare for a meeting.
If you are too intimidated to speak to your teacher alone, see if the school guidance counselor will join the conversation.
 If your teacher is doing something that you know the school or your parents would not approve of, you may need to ask your parents to intervene. For example, your teacher punishes the entire class with weekend detention for something only a few students (not you!) are doing.
Any time your teacher makes nasty comments to you or the class that involve race, gender, nationality, or anything of this nature.
 If you feel your teacher is truly out of hand, and not treating you fairly, you might try keeping a record of incidents as they happen. Write down any hurtful comments, along with the date, your side of the conversation. After you have a long list of complaints, you can go to a parent or the principal about it., It's natural to vent to your friends, and they will most likely agree with you. But if you stir things up, it is sure to get back to your teacher. This make things worse for you, and cause trouble for your friends, as well., Scowling, rolling your eyes, talking back, or walking off in the middle of a conversation will only make the situation worse – a lot worse. And you don't want to give your teacher anything they can complain about to your parents or the principal., Teachers are people, too. Sometimes personalities simply clash with each other – just as there are kids you get along with, and others you can't stand to be around. The best teachers are careful to treat all their students alike, but not all of them do.Be sure your parents are aware of the problem, in case your teacher complains to them about you.
Be as polite as possible, and try to get through each class without incident.
 You probably won't have to deal with this teacher next year. If you're in high school, this is just one hour out of your day. Although it is extremely annoying to deal with an annoying teacher, don't let it take over your life. When you're not in their class, try not to let it get you down.