 Remember to say things like "please" and "thank you." Always help out your friends, and keep a cool head, even when someone annoys you. Fluttershy has a temper, but it takes a lot to get her mad. Most important of all, be kind; Fluttershy is the Element of Kindness, after all.


Fluttershy sees beauty in everyone and everything. She gives "everypony" a chance, even Discord.
Fluttershy gives nice opinions, especially she thinks the truth will hurt her friends' feelings. However, when pressed hard enough, she will be honest.;
, This is Fluttershy's most notable trait. When Twilight Sparkle first meets her, she had trouble hearing what Fluttershy is saying. When you talk, speak softly, as though you are talking to a cute forest critter you would not want to scare away.


Fluttershy speaks very softly to people she does not know. Her voice is more normal around those she trusts or is close to.
Fluttershy also has a very soft giggle and sneeze.
 Fluttershy is uncomfortable when she gets too much attention. She would be the last to put herself out there and volunteer. Try holding yourself back, and not talking unless called upon. Here are some other ideas for coming off as shy:


Keep your hands close to you, either clasped in front of your lap or cupped by her collar. These are common Fluttershy stances in the Equestria Girls movies.
Play with your hair, as though you are nervous. Fluttershy often does this in Equestria Girls.

Skip on the scary things, such as haunted houses and scary movies. Fluttershy does not like them either!

, In "Green Isn't Your Color," from season 1, Rarity points out that she is fond of Fluttershy's grace and beauty. If you trip over your feet once or twice, that's okay, but for the most part, try to have some grace. Keep your movements smooth (like a dancer's) and not sharp or jagged (like a martial artist's).


If you have troubles being graceful, try taking some dance classes.
 Help out at animal shelters and have some pets of your own if you can. Animals are Fluttershy's main priority, as she likes to take care of them.


Try volunteering at your local pet shelter.
Consider getting some notebooks, folders, and pencil cases with cute animals on them.
If you have a pet, hang a picture of him or her in your locker or bedroom.
 Despite her love for animals and nature, Fluttershy actually knows a fair amount about fashion—or at least the sewing part of it—as is evident in several episodes, including "Suited for Success" in season 1. She is also Rarity's spa buddy, and enjoys treating herself, as seen in "Green Isn't Your Color," from season 1. Unlike Rarity, however, Fluttershy goes for the simple options.When going for a manicure or pedicure, go for the basics. Let your fashion-loving friend spoil herself with the mud wrap and rose-petal foot bath.
Teach yourself how to sew.
 Fluttershy loves to sing, but she hates showing off—which is a shame, because she has a beautiful voice. She is very shy, so she only sings when she's by herself or with her animal friends. Try singing something soft and sweet—nothing too loud or fast or energetic.
 Fluttershy often has troubles standing up for herself. This is one of Fluttershy's flaws, and it's not one you should try to replicate. The other ponies often bully Fluttershy and force her into doing things she does not want to do. Many of her episodes end with Fluttershy learning how to stand up for herself. They also end with her friends learning that it's not okay to force others into doing things they don't want to do.


Learn from the mistakes Fluttershy and her friends make. It's okay to be shy and timid like Fluttershy, but it's also okay to stand up for yourself and say "No."
As the series has progressed, Fluttershy has gotten better at standing up for herself.
 Fluttershy is associated with all things airy, fluttery, and natural. You can give off the Fluttershy vibe by wearing anything that is flowing, billowy, and loose fitting. This does not mean that all your clothes have to be loose-fitting. For example, you could pair a fluttery skirt with a girlish shirt. Here are some clothing styles that work well for Fluttershy:


Peasant blouses and shirts with loose sleeves
Long, flowing skirts
Skirts with petal-like hems
Other boho/bohemian styles

, Yellow and pink are Fluttershy's colors. But the shy, animal-loving pony also likes to wear green when she dresses up for special occasions, such as the Grand Galloping Gala. Her Equestria Girls counterpart also wears green.
 Fluttershy can be girly, and her Equestria Girls counterpart is one of the few girls who does wear eyeshadow. Go for a soft look with pastel colors, such as: pink, light green, or baby blue. Fluttershy also has long lashes, giving her almost a doll-like look. Consider wearing lengthening mascara.


If you are a child, be sure to ask your parents for permission first.
 This is Fluttershy's mane and tail color. You don't have to dye your hair pink if you don't want to. Even some pink ribbons or highlights will do.


Avoid bright or dark pinks. Aim for something soft, like baby pink, pastel pink, or even bubblegum pink.
Try some hair chalk. It washes out easily, and doesn't clump your hair like colored hairspray.
Try pink clip-in extensions.
 If you have straight hair, try adding a soft wave to it. This will help make your hair look more "fluttery." If you want, you can try adding a simple, pink butterfly clip or a delicate flower wreath.
 Fluttershy has three pink butterflies as her cutie mark. If you want to give off the Fluttershy vibe, add a pink butterfly patch or two to your jeans, skirt, or backpack. Many of Fluttershy's styles also feature yellow or blue flowers. These are usually in her hair, or sewn as embellishments along the hem or collar of her dress.

