 Fish are one of the best sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Certain fish in particular make up one of the most powerful anti-inflammatory food groups. These include mackerel, trout, and herring. Eat a 3 – 4-ounce serving of one of these fish two to four times a week.Sardines and anchovies also contain good fatty acids, and have even less mercury, which can be dangerous when consumed in high quantities.
Tuna and sablefish have good fatty acids, but contain more mercury than the other fatty fish.;
, Even within species, nutrient levels will vary according to individual fish. As a rule of thumb, the best sources of anti-inflammatory fatty acids are wild-caught, cold water fish. Meanwhile, larger fish accumulate more mercury in their flesh, which you should try to avoid.When choosing a cut of salmon, lean towards pieces from smaller fish that were wild caught in the Atlantic. Similarly, choose pieces of trout from smaller fish raised in cold water sources.
If farm-raised fish are your personal preference, these are still good sources of anti-inflammatory fatty acids. Similarly, canned tuna is also a great way to get healthy fish at a low cost.
 Fish oil supplements can provide you with plenty of omega-3 fatty acids; however, your body will not process these supplements as well as it will process fish. Further, eating fish provides additional health benefits as well. Even if you’re not accustomed to eating fish, try a few different types and find one you enjoy., Nuts are another great source of healthy, inflammation-fighting fatty acids. Several nuts also provide magnesium, l-arginine and vitamin E, which may also help your body fight the inflammation that can worsen your arthritis symptoms. Default to walnuts, peanuts, almonds, and pistachios.Just one 1-ounce serving of walnuts per day (about one handful) can help reduce symptoms!
Peanuts are a great high-protein, low cost snack option that can help you lose weight. Similarly, snack on peanut butter that contains only peanuts or peanuts and salt.
Opt for raw, unsalted nuts. Go for lightly salted or otherwise seasoned nuts if it means you’ll be eating more of them and less of other, relatively unhealthy snacks like chips.
 Nuts can provide texture, flavor, and protein to dishes. They can even be used as a healthier alternative to meat. For instance, make a veggie stir fry with walnuts, garlic, and lemon juice. Or, make a creamy, nutty sauce for your favorite steamed veggies with peanut butter, water, lime juice, soy sauce, and cayenne.Finally, crush up almonds or pistachios to season a slab of fish.
 Flaxseed contains very high amounts of omega-3 fatty acids too. Get crushed or milled flaxseed, as this will be easier for your body to digest. Chia seeds are good sources too, and provide plenty of filling fiber as well.Try to eat 1 – 2 tablespoons of one of these types of seeds every day.
Flaxseed can be sprinkled on or added to just about anything. Try some with Greek yogurt for an especially healthy breakfast.
Chia seeds are often added to beverages, as they absorb liquid well. Try them in almond milk!

, Eating healthy will have many positive effects beyond a likely reduction in your arthritis symptoms. You have the best chance of minimizing the symptoms of arthritis, however, by working with your doctor. They will be able to advise you about things like diet, as well as physical therapy and medical treatment.