 This crucial step will make the biggest difference in your cake's final appearance. If it's still warm or room temperature when you try to take it out of the pan, you'll end up with cracks and gouges in your cheesecake. If you're concerned about making sure your cheesecake looks perfect, don't skip this step. Make sure that the cake is at least room temperature or your fridge/freezer will overheat.;
, When you're ready to serve the cake, the knife and hot water trick is the best way to remove the sides of the pan. Take a butter knife and run it under hot water, or dip it in a cup of hot water nearby. Run the knife along the edges of the cake against the sides of the pan. This loosens the cake while keeping the sides smooth.You'll need to wet the knife every few inches to keep it from drying and dragging against the side of the cheesecake.
Don't use cold water, as it isn't as effective as hot water. Using cold increases the chances that the cake will crack or break.
 Removing a cake from the springform pan base is more difficult than taking off the sides. It can help to use a source of heat to slightly heat the bottom of the cake, so that the butter in the crust softens and the cake is easier to move. Use one of the following techniques:



A cook's blowtorch. If you're lucky enough to have one in your kitchen, this is a great tool for warming up the base of a cheesecake. Hold the pan with a potholder. Turn on the torch and with extreme care pass the lit blowtorch under the base. This will heat the butter and soften the cheese just enough to slide the cake out of the pan. Take care not to overheat it!

A gas burner. Hold the pan with a potholder. Turn on your gas burner and carefully hold the cheesecake over the burner to heat up the bottom of the cake. If you don't have a gas burner, you can try a lighter. Again, be careful not to overheat the pan. It will get very hot.

A knife wet with hot water. This is the least preferable method, since wetting the crust of the cake will affect its texture. If you don't have tools to directly heat the bottom of the pan, this is a good option.
 Unlatch the pan and gently lift away the sides. A chilled cake will remain upright, rather than slumping to one side of the other. If you see any small cracks or spots that need correcting, run a knife under hot water and gently smooth out the rough parts.
 Right after heating the bottom, very gently slide the cake onto a platter that you have waiting right next to it. If you have trouble removing the cake from the base, gently push it with the flat side of a large knife to encourage it to move off the base. Push the crush, not the soft cheese filling, which is easily dented.


Many cooks simply leave the cake on its base instead of attempting to slide it off. Feel free to place the entire cake base on the serving platter. You can hide its edges by decorating around the cake with sliced strawberries or raspberries.

