 If the vet prescribed you a medication, you should have it filled at their animal hospital or at a local pharmacy. Follow the vet’s instructions for administering the medication to the dog.If the vet gave you a pill, ask if the pill can be given with food. If it can be, put a little peanut butter or cream cheese on the pill to encourage the dog to swallow it.
If the pill can't be given with food, place your hand on the top of the dog’s muzzle and gently squeeze near the canines until the dog opens their mouth. Place the pill on the back of their tongue, and close their mouth., Dehydration is a serious side effect of digestive problems. If untreated, it can lead to organ failure. If your dog is not drinking or if they continue vomiting for over twenty-four hours, you may need to have a vet give them fluids using an IV. You can tell if a dog is dehydrated using a few simple methods. If the dog fails any of these tests, return to the vet.


Check the dog’s gums to see if they are wet. If the gums appear dry, they may be dehydrated.
Press down on the gums with your finger until you notice a change in color. If the dog is hydrated, the original color will return as soon as you remove your finger. If it takes a few seconds to regain color, the dog may be dehydrated. Be careful with this method if the dog is still unfamiliar with you as they may bite.
Gently grasp the scruff of their neck, and tug it upwards. If the skin retracts immediately, they are fine. If the skin sticks and or does not snap into place, the dog may be dehydrated., Make sure that the dog has plenty of opportunities to go outside, especially if they are vomiting or having diarrhea. Not only will this allow them to eliminate safely, they may also start to eat grass. While the reasons that dogs eat grass are largely unclear, many nauseous dogs will eat grass to settle their stomachs or to induce vomiting. This may be a natural way to help your dog feel better.Do not worry if the dog vomits after eating grass. This is normal. Some dogs may even eat grass to help them empty their stomachs.
 If the dog is dehydrated or if vomiting and diarrhea continue, contact the vet. The vet may decide to run more tests. They may also try to deliver fluids and food via IV or syringe.

