 Pencil grips are often used to help young children develop good writing habits, but they can also cushion your grip. Look for soft, foam or rubber grips. Try shopping for grips at a school or office supply store, where you’ll be able to try them out. Also, if you use mechanical pencils or ballpoint pens, consider switching to a brand with a built-in soft grip., If you find that you press the pencil too hard into the paper, look for a writing utensil that creates smoother lines. With a smoother writing utensil, you won’t have to apply as much pressure to make dark, legible lines. Less friction may help reduce the size of your callus.


Try out different pencils. While most pencils come with standard #2 lead, some write smooth lines better than others. Shop around and try out different brands of wood-case pencils or mechanical pencils to see which leads you prefer. If none improve the pressure you need to apply, consider buying artist pencils with even softer lead than a #2: just remember you won’t be able to use them on standardized tests.Switch from pencils to pens. The choice between pencils and pens comes down to preference and the requirements of your school or office. However, pens often write with smoother, more legible lines, so you’ll be able to lighten up your grip.
Buy gel pens. While brightly colored gel pens may be frowned upon at school, black or navy blue gel pens may help heal your callus. Gel pens come in a variety of types, and many art stores will let you test out pens before you buy. Try some out and pick one that improves your grip the most., Different brands of notebooks use different kinds of paper, and they all have different textures. Some papers are soft and slick, while others are coarse and create a lot of friction. The more friction between your pen/pencil and the paper, the more pressure you use to hold your pencil, and the bigger your callus gets. Look at different types of notebooks at an office or hobby store, then choose one with slick, smooth paper.