 If you have goals to meet, not only do you have something to strive for, but you have something to measure against. When setting your objectives for your company, don't set yourself up to fail. Be realistic about what you can achieve so that you can be successful at achieving it. In the same way, don't lower your expectations so that you can easily accomplish your objectives. Set objectives that are both realistic and challenging.


Goals may include objectives like increasing market share or retaining more clients.Consider splitting your goals into short term and long term goals, which refer to goals achievable in under a year and those achievable in over one year, respectively.
A good way to check your goals is to make them conform to the acronym SMART (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, Time-Bound).;
, Your business plan should reflect the objectives that you have for your company, as well as the methods you plan to apply in trying to achieve them. When measuring company growth, you will consult your business plan to not only see if you have managed to achieve objectives, but also confirm that you have successfully followed the plan that you set out for your business.


If necessary, put together additional methods to measure the growth variables that you have selected. These so-called key performance indicators (KPIs) can be measurements taken from financial statements, sales figures, or other sources that you think are necessary to assess the company's growth., This external service will come in and evaluate your current business. Having an outside consultant look at your organization can provide you with a fresh perspective that can identify problems you might have missed. Consultants are particularly useful for using accounting or statistical analysis to measure growth of specific business metrics. However, be aware that even the best statistical analysis sometimes overlooks basic managerial problems that can only be solved by the company's leadership., Growth is important within your company, but measuring growth in comparison to competing businesses determines your success in the industry. If you improve your reputation in the marketplace, you will ultimately attract more clients and increase growth within the company.


If your competitors are publicly-traded companies, you will be able to find the figures you need in their annual reports, which by law must be posted on their websites.
In any case, you may be able to find what you need in press reports, trade publications, or media coverage regarding your competitors.When calculating performance ratios, be sure to compare them to industry averages, provided you are able to find them. Try searching online for research in your industry.