 If you know where your grandparents or other relatives are buried, visit the cemetery and take a look around. You may find that they are buried in proximity to other relatives you didn’t know about.


If you can’t read the information on older stones, contact the cemetery to see if they have any records that could help you.
If you don’t know where to start with cemetery searching, there are grave index searches available online, such as findagrave.com and others available through most genealogy websites.
 Birth, marriage, and death certificates can provide details on on dates, parentage, place of birth or residence, and even occupation and other information sometimes.


Court records, anything from adoption requests to property transactions to criminal proceedings, can be a treasure trove of information as well. Some of this may also be information less likely to be gleaned from family interviews and photo albums.
The information available, request process, and record availability will vary by government authority, but generally you want to start by making a request to the vital records office in your ancestor(s) county of residence. Call or visit the county website(s) for information. You may need to visit in person to view certain records.
Again, if you don’t know where to start with this, look into websites that can provide digital copies of these records.
 Visit the library closest to where your ancestor(s) lived. You are likely to find useful information and librarians who are eager to help with genealogical searching.


See if they have local newspapers on microfilm or, if you are lucky, digitally scanned. If you have a narrow date range to search within -- you know roughly when your great-great grandmother died, for instance -- scanning through the local gazette for an obituary might help.
Look into local and county histories as well. Many American counties compiled local histories on or around the national centennial in 1876, and these can prove to be a treasure trove of information on early families (They are usually indexed as well.).Inquire whether the library has a genealogy or research librarian. Many local libraries practically double as genealogy libraries, so they are accustomed to helping people locate relevant information.
If your ancestor(s) lived near a college/university or a historical society, by all means visit those libraries as well.
See also How to Trace Family Genealogy at the Library.
 You may want to do all the work yourself but can’t, especially if it requires distant travel. Or, you may find that genealogical research is more time-consuming than you thought it would be. Sometimes the best option is to hire an expert to do at least some of the work for you.


Local libraries, historical societies, and genealogical libraries/societies should be able to provide leads on genealogists for hire and/or provide those services.
You may be hesitant to pay to fill out a family tree, but remember, any way you do it -- paying an expert, traveling and taking the time to do the work yourself, or subscribing to a website -- substantial genealogical research costs money.