
A driver would save you the trouble of driving after tasting a variety of wines and you won’t have to risk mixing driving with drinking.;
, To explore the vast and magnificent Napa Valley in ultimate luxury and comfort, browse the net and contact a reputed San Francisco limo service provider company to arrange a posh limo and a Napa Valley tour for you.
 Next choose the type and model of limo which would be most suitable for you and your group.
 Your driver or limo service may be able to suggest an itinerary, or you can always plan your own itinerary according to your preferences.
 You need to fix appointments in advance with the wineries you would like to visit to enjoy the wine tasting sessions there. When in Napa Valley, you can get to taste some of the world’s most renowned and exotic wines which you have never tasted before. At some wineries, cheese, lip-smacking chocolates and sometimes caviar too is also served along with amazing wines.
 You can have a great time with your family at the wineries. Apart from wine tasting, some wineries also allow families to have a picnic. Some wineries also take you on a walk through their gorgeous vineyards.
 After tasting wines, enjoy a leisurely lunch at one of the fine restaurants in the Valley. There are a number of expensive restaurants as well as casual eateries offering delicious food stuff.
 Hot air ballooning is another popular activity in the Napa Valley and the perfect way to start a romantic day. Soar in a hot air balloon and see the magnificence and beauty of the Napa Valley from a breathtaking aerial view.
 The panoramic view of the valley and the ride over lush vineyards is simply out of the world. Hot air balloon rides take place early in the morning. Hence get started on your tour early to reach the Valley in time for the rides.
 For art lovers, there are a number of art galleries such as Ca’toga Galleria d'Arte, Copia, Napa Valley Museum, the di Rosa Preserve, Jessel Gallery, Silverado Museum, Quent Cordair Fine Art and lots more.
 Check out the Copia - American Center for Wine Food and Art where apart from exhibitions and festivals, interactive programs and sessions on wine are conducted between the public and the wine aficionados.
 There are lots of golf courses in the beautiful region of Napa Valley. Tee off in style at Chardonnay Golf Club or Napa Valley Country Club.
 There are mud baths, steam baths, mud packs and lots more to rejuvenate you.

