 Don’t just talk to your friends or the people you know at the party. Introduce yourself to new people, and make yourself open to strangers and new conversations. Try to find something in common with each person you meet.When you're chatting people up, remember to try and make them feel comfortable. People are drawn to others who make them feel at ease by showing a nonjudgmental air and overall acceptance. If someone tells a joke that falls flat, acknowledge it with a little chuckle.
 People love to hear good things about themselves. It could also start an interesting conversation if you ask a question that stems from the compliment.For example, you could ask, “I really like your headband. Where did you get it?”
You could also try, “The host’s dog loves you! Do you have one at home?”

, You might be familiar with the Golden Rule, which is to treat others the way you want to be treated. The Platinum Rule, however, is to treat others the way that they want to be treated. In other words, be receptive to people when you have conversations with them.For example, if the person can’t hear what you’re saying, ask her if she wants to go stand outside for a few minutes, where it’s quieter.
Or, if you are talking to someone who can’t stop talking about her daughters, keep asking questions about her daughters. Don’t feel like you need to shift the conversation to a different topic every few minutes.
Or, if you are talking to someone who seems shy and reticent to talk about herself, talk about yourself more. Connecting with someone on an interpersonal level has a different path depending on the particular person involved.
 Sometimes you don’t connect with a particular person, and that’s okay. But if you want to keep the conversation going with someone, it can be helpful to have a list of backup questions for when the awkward silence happens. Here are some sample questions:How do you know the host?
What do you think of the food?
Have you tried any of the drinks here?
What do you do for a living?
What did you do last weekend?
What’s your favorite thing to do on a totally free Saturday?
Where did you grow up?

, People love to talk about themselves and will like you if you ask them about their hobbies, interests, careers, and family. Let the conversation flow naturally. If the person wants to talk about his cats for ten minutes but then talk about you, let it happen. Avoid topics you really don’t want to discuss, but be open to having new conversations.
 Eye contact lets people know that you’re focused only on them, not on the party surrounding them. Make eye contact for as long as you can with the person (without it seeming weird).If you are having trouble making eye contact, focus on the space between the person’s eyes.
 To convey the impression that you’re relaxed and comfortable, speak slowly and smile at the people you’re talking to. Smiling makes you appear friendly and open. Speaking slowly lets the person know that you’re not nervous about speaking to her. Both traits are important when you’re trying to socialize well and make new friends!, If you are interested in anyone at the party, make efforts to flirt with him. There are many different ways to flirt with people, so you should only do what you’re comfortable with. Here are some suggestions for ways to flirt:


Touch the other person. You don’t have to do this extensively, but a light touch on the arm or shoulder can convey flirtiness to the other person. Use a compliment as an excuse: “I love this shirt; this blue really brings out your eyes.”
Initiate the conversation with the other person. Being assertive and starting the conversation will signal to the other person that you sought him out and are interested in him. Say, “I don’t think we’ve met before, but I think we should.”
Tease the person a little bit. Light teasing can be flirty, but be careful of hurting the other person’s feelings. What’s light for one person can be hurtful to another. Try something along the lines of, “I hope you’re better at dancing than you are at beer pong!”
Leave the conversation early so that the person wants to see more of you. Maybe he will seek you out later in the night! Say something like, “I’m going to go get another drink, but you should find me later.”