 This is the simplest way for your child to make clear comparisons between colors. Because blocks are identical in shape, it allows your toddler to focus primarily on the differences in their colors.


You can start simply, by only using two blocks. “This block is red. This block is not red. Which one is red?” Once your child is able to consistently identify the red block, ask them to pick out the other red blocks from among the set.
 Get a simple box of crayons and a coloring book. Focus on coloring with one color at a time, repeating its name as your child uses the crayon to build up their association between the color and its name.


You can ask them, “which color do you want?” When they select one, be sure to say which they picked if they don’t already know: “That’s red. What would you like to make red? The dog? Now that dog is red.”

, Have your toddler make their own hands-on masterpieces with nontoxic paints. Give them a few colors to work with so that they can begin to intuit the differences between colors by mixing and matching them on paper. When they choose to work with various colors, they’re subconsciously noticing that there’s a difference between them.


Be sure to limit the mess by using large sheets of paper and putting newspaper or butcher paper underneath.
You can brew up your own kid-safe paint at home by boiling a half a cup of cornstarch in two cups water. When it reaches the desired consistency, divide it into dishes and add food coloring to make it the color(s) you’d like., This is another hands-on way to get your youngster interacting with colors. If you’re focusing on them learning a specific color, have them play with that color of playdough. When they’re ready for more challenging lessons, you can give them a few different colors and ask them to make specific things: “Can you make me a pancake that is blue?” or “Can you make a ball that is red with a bat that is blue?”

, Educational apps can be a wonderful, interactive way to teach your child lessons about colors. Simply download them to a tablet, teach your child the rules, and enjoy playing the games together.Try iPad’s Speak Colors app to help children learn how to say color names aloud and use them in full sentences.
Color Me Pete for the iPad is an excellent tool for helping kids visually recognize colors in their immediate environment. It uses the tablet’s camera by challenging children to locate a particular color in the space around them. When your child thinks they’ve found a match, they can snap a pic, and the app with tell them if they’ve correctly identified the color or not.

