 No matter where you live or how passionately you believe in recycling, the fact is that disposable diapers simply aren’t recyclable. Faced with a load of dirty diapers, recycling facilities have to sort out these contaminants in order to make sure they don’t damage other recyclable materials, such as paper and plastic. This makes their whole system less efficient and more expensive.If you’re worried about the ecological impact of your diaper waste—after all, normal disposable diapers can take up to 500 years to break down in a landfill—try buying diapers labeled as eco-friendly or biodegradable.;
, You need to keep diaper waste separate from other garbage and food waste, so keeping a discrete, washable container with a lid is essential. Purchase a bin with a foot pedal that opens the lid so that you don't have to touch the bin with your dirty hands. Also be sure that you line the bin with a plastic garbage bag so that waste doesn’t touch the sides of the bin.Even if you have a locked closet or maintenance room where you can store your diaper disposal bin, make sure your container is reasonably kid-proof. Purchase a tall, bottom-weighted bin so that your child can’t tip it over or reach into the bin.
Some people prefer to buy diaper genies, which seal each diaper into individual bags. If you go this route, just know that the plastic bagging system probably won’t eliminate odor or hygienic hazards entirely., Getting rid of the solid waste from your baby’s diaper before disposal will reduce odor and bacteria, as well as make it so that your diaper bin doesn’t fill up quite so quickly. Using gloves or a piece of toilet paper, remove the waste with your hand and drop it into the toilet.


Depending on where you live, you may not be required to take this step. In the U.S., for example, disposable diapers and their contents are considered municipal solid waste, meaning that they may be safely disposed without first emptying out the solid waste., In order to keep the diaper from smearing or dumping its contents once it’s in the disposal bin, roll it up into a tight coil. Use the adhesive strips on the side to help seal it closed.
 Storing your dirty diapers in a special, closable diaper pail will keep the bacteria-ridden human waste from contaminating other surfaces and items in your home. Just be sure that you place the diaper into the bin by using the foot pedal, as opening the lid with your hands can infect the lid and outer surface of the container.If you’re using latex gloves to protect your hands, put these into the diaper bin along with the soiled nappies.
 As soon as the volume of dirty diapers in your pail reaches the brim, you should transfer it to the outdoor trash bin. Just don’t wait until your diaper pail is overflowing or jammed-up, as this can increase the likelihood of contamination.


If you’re running out of space, either empty the pail and take it to an outdoor garbage bin, or purchase a second pail to store overflow from the first.
 While the container is still empty, clean out the inside with soap and water in order to get rid of dirt and grime. Then spray it with a household disinfectant or bleach to kill germs and bacteria.If you find that a lingering stench clings to your diaper pail even after frequent cleanings and disinfectants, try sprinkling some baking soda, cloves, or old coffee grounds in the bottom. Dryer sheets and coffee filters may also help mitigate stubborn smells.