 Preferably drums, guitar, mic, or even a keyboard.;
,, If it is a form of extreme metal, or isn't but includes some sort of growling, screaming, squealing, gargling, screeching, or inhaling, I will offer information on extreme vocals later in the guide. Also, visit darklyrics.com to get the lyrics laid out quickly and clearly to get the rhythmical sequencing of your syllables right. Don't be like the guy in Obituary who sang the vocals and then wrote the lyrics.
 You can also play by ear as the great Chuck Schuldiner did. To play by ear, simply turn your music on a stereo or computer, iHome etc, and play along. Make sure you know what tuning the group is in before following along. After enough repetition, you will learn patterns and techniques that many metal bands follow when composing songs. Soon you will be writing your own skull crushing riffs with a little blend of yourself and your influences.
 They're pretty cool, really! If you hang around with a lot of like minded people who have a passion for music, you yourself will feel more motivated to continue routine practices in all kinds of music.
 It is a lot of fun, and can also be a good workout if you're not in shape. Learn the different patterns and sequences that metal drummers use to fill the space in the guitar driven songs. A good way to find the beat in an unusual tempo, is by finding where the snare is played. If you can match this up right, you will have an easier time adding the other percussive elements to the drum pattern. Don't be mechanical, hit that splash often, use the ride, and buy a china!

, After a while, you're body will get used to the speed and effort and you will become much less fatigued during play.
 If you're passionate, you'll practice longer sessions without thinking about it. If you have no passion, don't play music, because you'll end up sounding mechanical and boring.
 If you get good enough, you could show them how to play and make them your student. Teaching others will also teach you much about proper technique and understanding the genre

