 Men are more likely to have sleep apnea than women. The risk for both sexes increases as you age.People over the age of 65 or women past menopause are more likely to have sleep apnea.Your risk of developing central sleep apnea, in which the brain fails to signal your breathing muscles to work, increases once you are in middle age.A family history of sleep apnea also increases your risk, especially of obstructive sleep apnea, the most common type.African American and Hispanic men may be more at risk of developing sleep apnea., Being overweight or obese can raise your risk of having sleep apnea. People who are obese are four times more likely to have obstructive sleep apnea -- about half of the people with obstructive sleep apnea are overweight.People with thicker necks are also at increased risk of obstructive sleep apnea. For men, having a neck circumference of 17 inches (43 cm) or more increases your risk. Risk increases for women with a neck circumference of 15 inches (38 cm) or more., The risk of sleep apnea is higher for people with certain other medical conditions. Risk of sleep apnea is linked to the following conditions:Diabetes
Metabolic syndrome
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
Stroke or heart disease
High blood pressure (hypertension)
Congestive heart failure
Pregnancy
Chronic nasal congestion
Pulmonary fibrosis
Acromegaly (high levels of growth hormone)Hypothyroidism (low levels of thyroid hormone)Small lower jaw or narrow airways
Use of narcotic pain medications

, Smokers are three times more likely than non-smokers to develop obstructive sleep apnea.Smoking negatively affects your entire body's health, so talk to your doctor about quitting as soon as you can.


Smoking e-cigarettes increases airway resistance, which makes it harder to breathe. Using e-cigarettes, or "vaping," will also increase your risk of sleep apnea., Children may also experience sleep apnea. Like adults, children who are overweight are at increased risk of sleep apnea.Children may also have enlarged tonsils, which raises the risk of children experiencing sleep apnea. Enlarged tonsils may result from infections. Tonsil enlargement may not produce any symptoms, or it may cause a sore throat, trouble breathing, snoring, or recurring ear or sinus infections.