 In order to start flirting with people on Tinder, you'll need to install the app and start matching up with other users. Matches are necessary in order to chat, so make sure you take the time to craft a quality profile and start sifting through your potential matches.


See this guide for detailed instructions for installing the app and creating a solid profile.
Tinder is available for free for both iOS and Android, and requires a Facebook profile.;
, You should be using all of the available photo slots for various pictures of yourself. Ensure that you aren't posting any pictures of you with a member of the opposite sex, that you aren't in a picture with a child, or that they aren't all group photos.Make sure you're smiling!

, You can chat with anyone that you've "Liked" who has also "Liked" you back. Open the Matches menu and tap on one of your matches to open a chat window.


Wait about a day after the match is made before you strike up a conversation.
Take the initiative with the conversation. It shows confidence and a willingness to take control.
Don't be discouraged if you don't get a reply. Not everyone will respond to your messages. Brush yourself off and try again with your next match.
 Avoid a simple "Hi" or "Hello", as this is sure to turn off the majority of people you're chatting with. Look closely at the other person's profile photos and bio to glean any interests. For example, if you see a guy with a surfboard, ask about his favorite surfing spots.


Make sure your grammar and spelling is correct all the time, especially in the beginning of your conversation. Remember, first impressions last!

, Ask simple questions to learn more about the person you're talking to. What are his/her hobbies, interests, etc.? Avoid asking questions that are too personal.


Keep your approach casual. Talk like you’re talking to a friend that you've known for a long time. Stay calm and keep your cool.
 Now that you have gotten your crush's attention and you know a thing or two about him/her, you should know how to keep the other person interested in you.


Don’t be afraid to give compliments. Even if you really don't know the other person that much yet, give out compliments based on your conversation. A simple “I LOVE talking with you” is a great start.
Be careful when you are giving compliments about his/her looks. Focus more on other features aside from your crush's body.
Tease each other. Teasing is a great way of flirting. You can try giving him/her a nickname or just tease them by the silly thing they did.
Remember to keep the teasing light, and always let the other person know that you are joking. A little “;)” emoticon at the end will help, but guys should avoid using emoticons.
 Tinder is supposed to be fun and casual. Coming on too strong or too sexual will turn the other person away, and ruin any chance at future flirting. Keep it light, and save the heavy stuff for if the relationship develops.
 The other person might lose his/her interest if you do. Instead, encourage the other person to talk about his/her self. You can occasionally then throw in some facts about yourself in your conversation.


Know if the topic you're talking about also interests the other person. You will know it by the way the other person replies. If it looks like the other person isn't interested, immediately change to another topic in a subtle way.
 If you started out strong, don't forget to end your conversations strong. Know when to stop texting. You can't keep conversations forever. There always comes a time when there is nothing left to say.


When you feel like both of you are struggling for something to say, end your conversations immediately.
Measure the response. Try to sense if the person likes you or not. If the person doesn't respond much, the person is probably not interested in flirting with you, and you should just end the conversation for good.
You should set up your next interaction before you go. Say something like “Message me again sometime”, or “Let’s talk again tomorrow?”
Don’t just say “Bye!” Tell the other person why you are leaving and what will you be doing.
If you are going to meet up with the person, don't be afraid to say that you can't wait to see him/her.
Avoid an awkward good-bye. Say that you had fun and it was great talking with him/her. Just keep it simple and casual.
 Many Tinder users don't want to keep chatting through the app, as it's fairly impersonal. If you're enjoying the flirt, get their number so your chats can become more relatable. Hearing the other person's voice can do a lot for your connection.


Instead of asking for a phone number, you might find more success in offering yours first, and letting the other person know that there's no pressure if they don't want to use it.
 Tinder is a dating service, and many people expect to be able to meet the user at the other end of the message. If you two are making a connection, you owe it to the other person to meet up at least once to see where it goes.


Pick a safe location where you and the other person will both feel comfortable.
Avoid the clichéd "dinner and a movie" first meeting. Instead, meet for lunch or for drinks and see where the conversation goes. See this guide for more first date tips.

