 Of course if you are reading this article the dog will most likely not have a collar, if the dog has a tag find the owner and it is all over.;
, Most likely the dog will not have a collar. If this is the case check the dogs age. It is easy determine if it is a puppy or an adult. There are many other stages of dog hood but these are the most important.



If the dog is a puppy head straight to the store. You will need loads of dog food. Puppies eat more food than you could imagine. You could also buy a bed but it isn't necessary. A fuzzy blanket and cardboard box is all you need. Lastly you will probably need a chew toy or two. Puppies will chew anything they can get to. I'm sure you rather have the puppy chew a chew toy than your favorite heels.
If the dog is an adult you will need to go to the store. Food is all you will need. Dogs are easier to care for than puppies. As with the puppies you can but a bed but it is not necessary. And a chew toy isn't a bad idea.
 These are a must for every dog and puppy. Make sure the puppy is old enough to take the medication. There is an age minimum of six weeks. But it could be longer so make sure to check the packaging.
 A couch is probably the best thing you can use. Lay many old towels across the couch. It is a good idea to make many layers. Next lay an old blanket over the towels. The blanket will comfort the dog and if it is a puppy the the blanket and towels will prevent your couch from getting soiled from the pup.
 Think about it that animal didn't just magically appear on your doorstep. It has been through a lot and needs someone to feel safe with.
 Keep fresh food and water available at all times. I know the experts say to feed at a certain time but that is not a good idea. The dog can't talk so you don't know when he's hungry, be humane and keep food available at all times.
 Do you want to give the pet away, do you want to find the owner, or do you want to keep it? If the dog is and adult or adolescent you should try to fin the owner. If it is a puppy keeping it or giving it away is a better idea.
 Make signs and flyers leave your number so the owner can call you.
 Posting adds in the newspaper is also a good idea to.
 Also take the dog to the vet and get its shots up to date and get a check up. Make sure to give the dog lots of love and always be a responsible pet owner.

