 Vulnerability can be terrifying, but it’s crucial to any kind of meaningful connection.If your significant other is honest and direct with you about their ideas, hopes, and needs, they trust and value you enough to accept being vulnerable with you.


Quantity is less important than quality. Some people are naturally more shy and reserved than others. However, if your significant other shares with you ideas or thoughts that are deeply personal and important to them, this is a sign that they want you to know the “real” them.
 Research has shown that couples who spend time reminiscing about the good times they’ve enjoyed together have stronger ties than those who don’t.If your significant other routinely brings up happy memories of times they spent with you, it’s a good sign that you and the experiences you’ve shared together are important and positive to them.
 One great sign that your significant other is totally in love with you is that they talk about your future together as though it’s a given. Perhaps they suggest a great vacation destination for the two of you to check out next year, or maybe they bring up things such as wondering what your children would look like. Talking like this means that the other person thinks of you together and expects to be around for awhile.


They may not immediately jump to talking about your plans for a wedding or children. Nevertheless, even making small plans for the two of you together suggests that the other person likes the idea of you being a couple and wants things to stay that way.
 Opposites may very well attract, but it’s still possible -- and important -- for partners to hold very different views and still respect each other.If you feel like your significant other expresses respect and understanding for your beliefs, even if they disagree with them, it’s a good sign that your significant other values you -- just as you are.Because miscommunications are bound to occur in relationships, your significant other may truly love you and still end up belittling your beliefs at times. However, this should be a rare mistake, not something that occurs every day. When you express that your feelings were hurt, your significant other should apologize and make an effort to avoid that behavior in the future.
 Someone who loves you will be interested in your life, your ideas, and even little stuff like how your day went. Whether it’s checking in with you to ask how that big meeting went or asking what your big life goals are, if your significant other routinely asks you about you, they’re probably head-over-heels for you.
 An excellent sign of whether the other person is really in love with you is how often they focus on your good qualities rather than the bad ones (and we’ve all got a few). If your significant other frequently talks about how attractive they think you are, how much they like your sense of humor, or how interesting they think your ideas are, it’s a good sign for the future. On the other hand, if you feel frequently blamed, criticized, or shamed by your significant other, there are probably issues in your relationship that need to be resolved -- even if the other person says they love you., This may seem obvious, but it can be scary to be the one to take the first plunge. However, if the other person really cares about you, they’ll appreciate your honesty even if they don’t feel the same way. You can get a good sense of how someone feels about you by observing how someone treats you and talks with you, but until you step up and declare how you really feel, you won’t have the chance to hear whether they return your love.


Be confident! Research shows that both men and women are more considered attractive when they’re confident and comfortable with themselves.Be yourself, be honest, and you may just find the love of your life.
Be direct. Research has shown that people, especially men, prefer direct approaches to hedging around what you want to say in relationships.If you try to drop a lot of hints but never say “I love you,” you may not signal the other person that it’s safe for them to say they love you.

