 To ensure that the oven is hot enough for the brownies when you’re ready to bake them, it’s important to preheat it. Set the oven temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s preheated. Most models flash an indicator light or beep to alert you.;
, To bake the brownies, you’ll need a 9-inch by 13-inch (23-cm by 33-cm) pan. Grease the pan by spraying it lightly with nonstick cooking spray so the brownies won’t stick.If you prefer, you can grease the pan with butter or margarine instead.
 Add 8 tablespoons (59 g) of cocoa powder and 1 cup (225 g) of margarine that’s been melted to a large bowl. Stir the mixture thoroughly to ensure that the ingredients are fully blended.You can substitute melted butter for the margarine if you prefer. However, keep in mind that your brownies may not be as fudgey.
 Once you’ve mixed the cocoa powder and margarine, stir in 2 cups (450 g) of sugar, 4 eggs, and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract. Mix well until all of the ingredients are fully incorporated.You may want to break the eggs into a separate bowl and beat them slightly before adding them to the cocoa powder mixture. That way, you won’t have to worry about ruining all of the batter with a bad egg and it will be easier to mix the eggs the other ingredients.
 After you’ve added the sugar, eggs, and vanilla to the cocoa mixture, add 2 ½ cups (360 g) of all-purpose flour and a pinch of salt to the bowl. Stir well to ensure that the flour is fully blended into the batter.It’s often better to add the flour to the batter a little at a time. That makes it easier to mix it in and prevent the flour from flying everywhere as you stir.
 When the flour and salt are fully incorporated into the batter, add 1 cup (125 g) of chopped nuts to the bowl. Use a spatula to carefully fold them into the batter.Adding nuts to the batter is optional. There will be nuts in the rocky road topping, so you may not necessarily want to add them to the brownies themselves too.
Walnuts are usually used in brownies, but you can use any nut that you like, including pecans and almonds.
 When the brownie batter is fully mixed, use a spatula to transfer it to the greased pan. Make sure to spread the batter through the pan in a smooth, even layer., Place the pan in the preheated heated oven. Allow the brownies to bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until they have a fudge-like consistency., While the brownies are baking, add 1 cup (175 g) of chocolate chips, 1 cup (125 g) of chopped nuts, and 1 10-ounce (284 g) bag of mini marshmallows to a medium size bowl. Mix briefly to combine the topping ingredients, and set aside.Use any type of chocolate chips that you like, including milk chocolate, semisweet chocolate, or dark chocolate. You can even do a combination of two or more types, as long as they add up to 1 cup (175 g).
Walnuts are the classic option for the nuts in the topping, but you can also use almonds or pecans.
 Once the brownies have baked for 20 to 25 minutes, take the pan out of the oven. Sprinkle the chocolate chip mixture over the entire pan as a topping.Spread the topping as evenly as you can over the brownies. That way, when you cut them, each square will have some topping on it.
 After you’ve covered the brownies with the topping, place the pan back in the oven. Let the brownies bake for another 5 minutes or until the marshmallows start to puff slightly.Keep an eye on the brownies to ensure that the marshmallows don’t burn at all.
 When the brownies are finished baking, take the pan out of the oven and place it on a wire rack. Leave the brownies in the pan, and allow them to cool for 15 to 20 minutes., Once the brownies have cooled fully, use a sharp knife to cut them into squares. Place the brownies on a platter, and serve.If you like, you can drizzle warm chocolate or hot fudge sauce over the brownies before serving.

