 The girl should stand about 2-3 feet away from her partner. The girl's body should be perpendicular to that of the guy's. The girl should hold the guys hand, in midair, gracefully. The partners should be looking at each other, so that they can maintain their presence, and concentration., The girl walks in front of the guy. First her left foot, and then her right. The girl's body should remain perpendicular to that of the guy's. Both partners should continue to hold each other's hands, and maintain eye contact., Both partners lock with each other's bodies. This first involves the girl moving her arm. She will unlock hands with the guy, and place her arm underneath the guy's shoulder, placing her hand on his back. The guy releases his hand from the girl, and places his arm around her back. Placing his hand underneath the girl's armpit., The guys arm should remain strong. The arm should remain straight as it rests on the girls back. Make sure it does not buckle. This arm is the pivot point of the ferris wheel. Try to tense your muscles so that you can create some extra strength. The girl's body will revolve around this arm., The guy should place his right arm behind the girl's right knee. The guy's right arm is what will create the momentum and the force that is used to swing the girl around. The guy will want to put almost his entire weight into the right arm, while keeping the left arm straight and locked., The girl swings up her left leg. The girl should keep both legs equidistant apart from one another. The kicking movement upwards should be smooth, and straight. This kick upwards is what will springboard the entire ferris wheel dance move., The guy maintains both his right and left hand positions. As the girl is swinging in the air, the guy holds his left arm straight and on her back. This will create a pivot point for the procedure. The guy will also maintain the right hand presence. This will keep your girl from falling as she is swinging in midair., Bend your knees as the girl comes down. When the girl comes down, the guy should bend his knees, as well as the girl. If you do not bend your knees, this could cause unforced pressure on your knees, and a potential injury.
 Once both dancers are safely on the ground, with their knees bent, the girl and guy should both lift up their knees. You can take a bow, or lift up your hands. You can also go straight back to dancing or into another specialized dance move., At first, if you are practicing, do the move at a moderate speed. Remember, you need enough momentum to get the girl in the air. When you are in the air, you can take the swinging motion pretty slow. If you are dancing on the dance floor do the move pretty fast, which will amaze your audience, and look more professional.

