 Most schools should have forms for athletic participation or other activities. However, if you are drafting a release for a different situation, then you should set the font to something readable—Times New Roman 12-point type works best.


You don’t have to type a business letter, though you can if you want. Instead, you can just type up a form so long as it includes all of the necessary information.
If you are creating a template for parents to use, then include this information as a header: “This form grants temporary authority to an adult to arrange for and provide medical care in the event of an emergency for an unaccompanied minor when it is not possible to contact the parents or legal guardians. Please give your signed form to the trip leader.”, At the start of the letter, you should identify who you are and your child. Include the child’s full legal name. Also identify the adult you are giving permission to seek medical treatment for your child.


Sample language could read: “We, Alice and Alexander Smith, hereby grant Melissa Jones of 5555 Southern Drive, Cityscape, NV 12345 the authority to obtain medical treatment for our child, Evan Kevin Smith.”, Provide essential information so that the adult in charge can identify your child. You should provide the following about your child, which you can list:home address
date of birth
gender

, Include the name of your child’s doctor, as well as the address of their practice. Also include the phone number, if you know it.You should also include medical insurance information, such as the name of the plan and the policy number.
 Include this information so that the doctor can provide appropriate treatment. List allergies to medications as well as any other allergies your child has.Also note all treatment your child is receiving. For example, if your child has asthma, then include that information.
If your child takes medicine, list the medicines and the dosages that they receive., You should specify what treatment you are authorizing the adult to seek for your child. You should be as detailed as possible. Start this section with the words, “I have legal custody of this child and I authorize and consent for Melissa Jones to do the following….” Consider giving the following:administer general first aid
summon emergency medical personnel if the injury is life threatening or requires immediate emergency treatment
X-rays
anesthetic
blood transfusions
medication
any other treatment deemed advisable by appropriate medical professionals

, State that you are giving this authorization in advance of any medical treatment and also include the date when it expires.


For example, you could write: “This authorization is given in advance of any medical treatment. However, it is given to provide the Designated Adult with the expectation that he/she will use their best judgment upon the advice of medical personnel. This authorization is effective through September 1, 2017.”, You should include your signature, printed name, and the date. You should also have a witness or notary public sign along with you as well.You can find a notary at most courthouses, town or city offices, and large banks. Make sure to bring sufficient personal identification, such as a valid passport or state-issued ID. You will probably have to pay a small fee to use a notary.

