 One of the best things you can do is help educate your teen about heat stroke signs and symptoms. That way, if they're away from you or other adults, they can identify the symptoms of heat stroke.Tell them about these signs:


Headache
Racing heart rate
Rapid breathing
Nausea and vomiting
Flushed or red skin
Mental confusion or altered state of mind
Body temperature above 104 F or 40 C
Impaired judgement or inappropriate behavior
Seizures
Delirium
Hallucinations
Ataxia (trouble balancing while walking)
Dysarthria (trouble speaking appropriately)
A doctor will diagnose heat stroke if your body is over 104 degrees Fahrenheit and if you have central nervous system abnormalities following environmental heat exposure.;
, To prevent heatstroke in teen athletes, encourage them to stay hydrated throughout the day, as well as in the days before athletic activity. This is one of the best prevention methods.


Adequate hydration is essential. If your body has enough fluids, it's able to sweat enough to help keep your body cool.Tell your teen to not only drink during their sports practice or event, but before and after as well. If they go into an activity already dehydrated from not drinking, they're at higher risk of heatstroke.
In general, they should be aiming for about 64 oz (about 2 liters) or about 8 glasses of hydrating fluids during the day. However, during the hot summer months when they're active, they may need 80 oz (2 1/2 liters) or more.
Also, remind them that only clear, hydrating fluids count towards this goal. Beverages like water, sparkling water, and flavored water are OK. Coffee and tea, which are diuretics, do not count towards fluid count.
 It's important to remind teens that there are better times during the day to exercise or practice. Although you may not have full control of when their practices or events are, you can advise them to stay out of the sun during mid day.There are certain times during the day when the sun and temperature is the highest and hottest. It's during this time that you have the highest risk for getting heat stroke.
It's typically recommended to stay indoors or stay in the shade between 11 am - 3 pm. This is when the sun is the strongest.
Remind your teen that if they need to be active, to aim for an early morning practice session or something later in the evening. This is when it's the coolest and safest time to be active.
 If you and your teen know that they will have practices or events coming up in the hot weather, plan to help your teen become acclimated before jumping straight into activities.If your teen hasn't been overly active or hasn't been active outdoors in warmer weather, they could be at risk for heatstroke. A sudden change to hot weather is difficult for your teen's body to adjust to.
Take note of your teen's activity calendar and plan to get them outdoors and active before the start of their sporting season.
It can take several weeks for your teen's body to get acclimated to the warmer weather. This is why it's important to plan in advance.
 Some teen sports encourage the practice of wearing heavier clothing during exercise and practice. Although this may be appropriate for inside athletics, this should be discouraged for hot weather activities.Some teen sports, like wrestling, encourage teens to wear heavier clothes like sweatpants, sweatshirts and even body suits to help them lose water weight and get in shape.
This should always be strongly discouraged in teens that are practicing outdoors in the summer heat. This is an extremely dangerous practice.
Tell your teen that they should be wearing light, loose fitting clothing, such as cotton, instead. This is safer for them.
 To help hit the point home, talk to your teen's athletic director or coach. They can help provide guidance to your teen, but also give you information about when practice is.


When your teen signs up for a sport, make sure to get to know the coach. Ask when practices are, what time the events or games are and where they're held.
Also ask the coach about emergency plans or medical treatments that are available to the teens.
If the practices and games are held outside during the hot points during the day, ask the coach what they do to help keep the teen's hydrated and safe.
Also ask the coach what type of advice is taught to the teens about staying safe and healthy during practice. You can piggy back off of some of this advice as well.
 If this is not already required of your teen, take them to their primary care or pediatrician before the start of their sports season. Make sure they get a clearance to participate in the sport during hot weather.


Many sports teams and extracurricular sports require that teens get a physical clearance from their doctor.
When you go, bring up the fact that many practices and events are held outdoors in the heat. Ask the doctor whether they have any concerns regarding your teen exercising outdoors.
In addition, review the signs of heat stroke or heat exhaustion so your teen can get some education by the doctor.

