 Hamsters do well in cages where they can move around, burrow, and run on a hamster wheel. You should opt for a cage that is at least 23 inches (60 cm) in length by 18 inches (45 cm) in width and at least 12-16 inches (30-40 cm) in height.This will ensure your hamster has enough space to be comfortable in the cage.


A larger cage will also require you to clean the cage less often, as there will be less ammonia build up in the cage from your hamster’s droppings and urine. Many hamsters are also less stressed and compulsive if they are housed in a large cage.If you have a baby hamster or a young hamster that is still growing, you should still opt for an adult hamster sized cage. This will ensure your hamster is comfortable in her cage once she is full grown.;
, If you own more than one hamster, you should opt for buying separate cages for each one. Hamsters are quite solitary and will often fight each other if they are caged together.You may decide to buy containers in bulk to save money and to ensure you have enough cages for each hamster that you own.
 When you are buying a hamster cage, you should also consider if the cage can fit all the necessary supplies you need to provide for your hamster. You should be able to fit a hamster wheel, a food bowl, and small tunnels or tubes in the cage, with room to spare.If you think the cage is going to be too crowded with the necessary supplies as well as the hamster, you may need to go for a larger cage.
 There are many different types of hamster cages on the market, including cages that have glass or plastic walls. You may opt for a cage that has plastic or glass walls and a wire top to ensure there is enough ventilation in the cage for your hamster.A cage that is made completely of plastic or a cage that is made of only glass, like an aquarium cage, can end up being too suffocating for your hamster. Going for a cage with a mix of materials can ensure it is more comfortable and safe for your hamster.
 If you decide to go for a more traditional wire cage, you should make sure the space between the wire is small enough to keep your hamster in her cage. The spacing should be a ½ inch or smaller if you have a Syrian hamster to ensure your hamster does not escape. Make sure there are no gaps in the cage that are larger than ½ inch and that all the bars are evenly spaced.You should avoid getting a cage made entirely of wire if you have a dwarf hamster, as they are very good at squeezing themselves through small spaces. Instead, opt for a cage that is made of plastic or glass.If you live in a colder climate, you may opt for a plastic or glass cage instead of a wire cage. Wire cages do not provide very much ventilation in cold weather so they may not be ideal if you live in a cold home or a cold climate.
 Avoid cages that have a wire floor, as this can be uncomfortable for your hamster to walk on and could lead to injuries from falling through the spaces. The base of the cage should be made of solid plastic so it is easy to clean, with a fairly deep bottom.You can always cover up a wire bottom with a solid piece of cardboard or cardstock. But this will make it more difficult to clean the floor and you will likely need to replace the cardboard or cardstock every time you clean the cage.
 Hamsters enjoy climbing but they often have a hard time getting down from vertical spaces. You can minimize injuries from climbing by going for a cage that has more horizontal space than vertical space. Make sure there is a lot of horizontal flat space for your hamster to run around in the cage.You should also look at the design of the cage door to make sure it is large enough for you reach your hand inside and touch any part of the cage. This will make it easier for you to clean the cage.
You should test the door of the cage to ensure it is secure. Tug on the door from the outside to check that it is hard to open, as you do not want your hamster to be able to escape out the front door of the cage.
 You should look at the design of the cage and the materials in the cage to ensure there are no materials that are going to be easy to chew on for your hamster. Go for a cage that has rounded corners and no sharp or jutting ends in the cage, as these will likely be chewed by your hamster.Avoid having any cardboard in the cage as this will be chewed up by your hamster in no time. You should also avoid plastic items in the cage, as these may be chewed by your hamster as well.
 To prepare the cage for your hamster, you should put down bedding that is clean, absorbent, and nontoxic. Avoid using cedar chips or fresh pine materials, as these can be toxic. Shredded paper and processed corn cobs are ideal bedding materials. You should lay down 1-2 inches of bedding at the bottom of the cage.You should also include nesting materials in the cage, such as plain white facial tissues or paper towels cut into strips. Avoid using cotton balls, as it can be dangerous for your hamster.
 You should set up a small food bowl in the cage and a water bottle that attaches to the outside of the cage. The water bottle should have a small feeding top that your hamster can reach easily and drink from.You should include a nesting box in the cage for your hamster to burrow in. Use a wood box, as cardboard can be chewed on by your hamster.
You may add old toilet paper tubes in the cage to give your hamster something to play with as well as tunnels or tubes made of paper. Avoid plastic tubing, as your hamster is at risk of getting stuck in these and suffocating.
Put in a plastic or metal hamster wheel for your hamster to run on at night. Providing a hamster wheel can ensure your hamster stays entertained and active.
 Bear in mind that hamsters are nocturnal and will make noise at night, so your bedroom may not be the best place for the cage. Instead, you may opt to place the cage in your living room or in a side room that is far from your bedroom. Look for a spot on a table or a solid ledge that will help to buffer any noises your hamster makes at night so you can get a good night’s sleep.Make sure the cage is placed in an area that cannot be easily accessed by other pets you may have, such as a cat or a dog. If you have small children, you should find a spot for the cage that is not accessible to your children without your supervision.
You should also keep the cage out of the sun, as hamsters are nocturnal and they will sleep through the day. Place the cage in an area away from direct sunlight, but not close to a window, as this can make the cage too cold.