 The water in your intestines should saturate the solid waste being produced, making it softer as a result. While water needs are different for everyone, the Institute of Medicine has determined that an adequate intake of water (AI) for men is about thirteen cups (three liters) per day, whereas AI for women is about nine cups (2.2 liters).A good way to measure whether you are drinking at is to look at your urine. If it is a pale yellow this is a good sign that you are well-hydrated. On the other hand, if it is a darker yellow, and in small amounts infrequently, you want to increase your water consumption.If you exercise a lot, you will need extra fluids (above the recommended amount of water) to compensate for fluid lost in sweat. Be sure to drink after a workout and to monitor the color of your urine.
If you are traveling, you may be extra prone to dehydration (particularly on flights). Be sure to bring water with you and to continue drinking throughout your travel day.;
, Even mild dehydration can harden stools, so you should avoid drinks that dehydrate you. This includes anything containing alcohol or caffeine.


Coffee can produced mixed results. A single cup of hot coffee consumed with plenty of water can act as an intestinal stimulant, but too much caffeinated coffee can cause stools to harden.Avoid iced coffees and soda that contain caffeine.You should also stay away from all wines, beers, and hard liquors.
 Fiber adds bulk to your stools, causing them to move faster down your GI tract. Stool retains more water by moving more quickly through your system, keeping it softer when you pass it. For best results, include approximately 25 grams for women and 38 grams for men of dietary fiber in your diet on a daily basis (most adults consume approximately half this amount so it is very important to increase it). Excellent sources of dietary fiber include:Whole grains, including whole grain bread, spaghetti, barley, bran flakes, oatmeal, and brown rice.
Legumes such as black beans, garbanzo beans, lima beans, baked beans, black-eyed peas, pinto beans, and kidney beans.
Vegetables such as green peas, broccoli, carrots, brussels sprouts, and corn.Fruits such as bananas, apples, oranges, strawberries, raspberries, pears, and raisins.Nuts like almonds, pistachios, and pecans are among your best options.
Edible seeds are another great source of fiber. Flax seeds are one of the best to try since they also contain omega-3 fatty acids. Mix one tablespoon (15 ml) of ground flax seeds with two cups (500 ml) of water and drink the mixture once per day. You can also snack on seeds that can be eaten whole, like sunflower seeds.
Note that there are two types of fiber: soluble and insoluble (the foods listed above fall into a mix of both categories). Soluble fiber adds moisture to your stools and insoluble fiber adds bulk to your stools, so both are helpful in relieving and preventing constipation., Select a brand of yogurt that contains probiotics, a type of healthy bacteria that regulates your digestive system. Probiotics have been found in some studies to help soften stools and assist with regularity.Try eating a single-serving cup of yogurt each day.
Another option is to add a daily probiotic supplement to your morning routine.
Other foods rich in probiotics include kefir, sauerkraut, and Kombucha tea. Naturally fermented foods such as these are actually more effective than the pill form of probiotics as they last much longer in your gut.
 Low-fiber foods can increase the risk of constipation, which leads to harder stool. Low-fiber foods to limit include:Cheese, ice cream, and other dairy products.Red meat.Processed foods, including fast food and microwave dinners, as well as fried foods.These foods can be difficult for your intestines to process. As a result, they pass more slowly through your gut and end up creating harder stools.
 Exercise and physical activity in general increase your body's metabolism, which makes it easier for your digestive system to process food and keep it moving.While you should aim to get thirty minutes of aerobic exercise every day, simply taking a ten- or twenty-minute walk after dinner each day can make a big difference.


Waste that sits in your colon is more likely to harden. By passing waste quickly, you can usually keep it softer.
Exercise also helps with weight loss, and people who are not overweight have been shown to have less troubles with their bowels.So this is an additional benefit of exercise.

