 If having this crush is affecting you too much or in a negative way, talk to your friends and family about it.Ask your friends to distract you and change the subject when you bring up your crush. Sometimes it helps to vent to someone you trust, like a parent or sibling.


If you feel too shy to talk to your parents or friends about your crush, consider talking to a guidance counselor or school therapist about your feelings.Sometimes it’s easier to talk openly with someone who you don’t have to see every day.
 Many people find that writing their feelings down in a journal helps them feel better about bad situations. If you don’t enjoy writing, there are lots of other ways to express your emotions. Try doing something creative, like art or music.If you respond better to physical activities, get involved with a sport or take frequent walks.
Try loading your favorite songs into your iPod and hitting the jogging trail.
Physical activity can help you focus on something else and it can have positive effects on your well-being.
 Being upset about a crush can have a lot of negative effects. You might have a hard time sleeping at night. Sometimes people lose their appetite and they start skipping meals. These are normal reactions to sad feelings. Even if you don’t feel like it, try to practice self-care during this time.


Drink plenty of water and eat well. Get as much sleep as you can.
Whenever your body gets run down, dealing with emotional issues is much harder. Keeping yourself physically healthy will help you move on faster., Not only will this keep you distracted, but it puts you in a good position to meet a new crush. For a short time, it might feel like your current crush is the only girl in the world. You may think you’ll never like another girl as much as her ever again.


This is a normal feeling and it will pass. Remember, there are other girls out there!
It’s okay to feel sad for a little while, but not forever. Meeting someone new can help you get over your crush and move on.
 Resilience is a quality that helps you to keep moving forward when you encounter difficult situations. Try to develop your resilience to help make moving forward easier on you and to protect yourself in the future. Some things you can do to develop your resilience include:Develop a positive view of the future and of yourself.

Set realistic goals.

Get to know yourself.
 As you move forward, it is important to recognize that this is probably not the only time that you will experience disappointment. However, you can develop your ability to deal with disappointment so that you will be better equipped to handle it in the future. Some things you can do include:Facing your disappointment head on. Instead of avoiding the situation, acknowledge it and look for learning opportunities and solutions.
Let yourself feel the emotions you are having for a little while. It is okay to feel express your feelings when you are disappointed. Just make sure that you do not dwell on these feelings. Try telling a friend how you feel or writing about your feelings to help you get them off your chest.
Do something nice for yourself. When things don’t go your way, you might also find it helpful to do something kind for yourself, like you might do for a friend who is feeling down. Buy yourself a new book, pair of shoes, or an outfit. Take yourself for a massage or manicure. Or, just give yourself permission to spend the day doing whatever you want, whether that is playing video games, watching movies, reading, or hiking in the woods.

