 If you notice symptoms of keratitis, you should take your cat to its vet as soon as possible. They’ll give your cat a physical examination and take cultures to identify any bacterial or viral causes.Symptoms of keratitis include:Excessive tearing or discharges from the eye.
White or pink plaque or lesion over the surface of the eye.
Frequent squinting, light sensitivity, and pawing at the eye.;
, If a physical examination doesn’t show signs of injury and cultures are negative, your cat might have an allergy. While less common, allergies can cause keratitis, so talk to the vet about testing your cat.If allergy test returns positive results ask, “Could my cat’s allergies cause keratitis? How can I eliminate the allergen from its environment?” Your vet might recommend medication and, if it goes outside, keeping it indoors.
 Generally, the first steps to treating keratitis include a combination of anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, or corticosteroid eye drops. Your vet will suggest a treatment plan appropriate for the suspected cause.Be sure to apply eye drops as directed by the vet. Application will likely be frequent, or somewhere between two to five times a day.
 An Elizabethan collar, or E-collar, fits around an animal’s neck to keep it from touching a recent surgical site or infected area. Your cat will likely want to scratch or paw at the affected eye. However, this will interfere with treatment, so ask its vet for an E-collar., Your cat’s immune response to a bacterial eye infection can cause keratitis lesions and result in scarring. Corticosteroid eye drops help treat this response by suppressing the immune system.If the vet recommends corticosteroid drops, ask them, “Do you recommend that I give my cat any immune supplements during treatment? Should I stop letting my indoor/outdoor cat go outside, keep it away from children, or take any other precautions to prevent other diseases or infections?”

, If eye drops aren’t effective, your vet might recommend an oral medication called megestrol acetate. If so, ask them what precautions you should take to reduce the risk of harmful side effects.Ask the vet, “Should I modify my cat’s diet or take any other precautions to reduce the risk of diabetes or adrenal gland problems?”
In addition, it can be dangerous for women to handle megestrol acetate pills, especially pregnant women or those planning on becoming pregnant.

