 It can be a real name or a dreamy name, or it can be a really creative name that you made up yourself. It can be anything you want, from Zach to Frookipops, and since you're essentially creating this person, you can be as frivolous as your heart desires. A suggestion, however would be to make sure you can remember the name easily.;
, Are they mean, funny? Or nice and random? You decide!


Come up with a special power or characteristic for this person. It's what will make them fun. Give them flaws, but make sure their personality will make them side with you almost all the time.
Try taking a look at book characters for ideas. They can give you personality and novel ideas. Also, think about what you'd want in a friend, and then incorporate it! Just remember that they can be whatever you want. A human, a beast, a flying carpet, or a spirit, it doesn't really matter.
 Draw them, write a description, or just make a picture in your mind. Do they have black hair or pink? Are they wearing a dress or a tux? Be creative and make up a style!


If you have The Sims, or a Wii (the Mii Channel), you can create them on there. Or make them at South Park Studios website, or WeeWorld (WeeMee).
 For example, decide what school they go to. Do they go to your school in a special class for imaginary friends? Or do they go to the Secret Academy For Imaginary Friends? This is up to you. They don't have to go to school if you don't want them to.
 How do you and your friend talk when you're not with each other? Are you telepathic? Or do you write imaginary letters?

, You have a birthday, why not give your imaginary friend one too? Select a month, a day, and a year to decide when your friends birthday is. Don't forget to celebrate it too!

, Like a real person, your imaginary friend has some history, it gives the friend growth., If you like books, go to the library and read together. If you like video games, hook up your game console and start killing zombies! The possibilities are endless.


Have an adventure with your new friend. Go somewhere exotic (real or otherwise), somewhere that you've never been and share stories together of your findings. Write an imaginary diary about all the wonderful places you've been.

Hold a conversation! If you can't talk to him or her, you essentially won't be friends. An imaginary friend will never tell anyone your secrets or talk about you behind your back so tell them anything.

