 The first thing you need to do to repair your credit is understand exactly what you will be able to do and what you won’t be able to do. Credit reporting is governed by laws and by the regulations of companies that participate in the credit system. Because of this, there are a number of things you’ll be able to do, but there are also things you can’t legally do.


You or someone working for you can’t remove accurate but negative information.
Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act you have the right to have inaccurate information removed from your credit history.
Also know that you have the same rights and abilities to repair your credit as “credit repair” companies.;
, There are a number of things that are legally not allowed to be included in your credit history. These banned items are a mix of factors that do not directly impact your credit worthiness and items that do reflect your history but are excluded because of law or common practice. If any of these items are on your credit report, you have the right to have them removed. Banned items include:


Medical information and medical history.
Chapter 11 bankruptcies older than 10 years.
Any debt that is more than seven years old.
Information about your marital status, sexual preference, race and ethnicity, or age., The first step in repairing or even understanding your credit report is to check it. Checking your credit report will help you keep tabs on new or suspicious items. You’ll also gain an understanding of how credit reporting works and you might also be able to track your credit score.


There are three major credit reporting bureaus: Experian, Equifax and TransUnion.
All three can all be checked once per year for free through AnnualCreditReport.com. AnnualCreditReport.com is the only source of free credit reports and is authorized by federal law.
Make sure to spend time checking over all three reports from all three agencies.
Each of the three above-mentioned reporting sites can have varying data on you. You need to know what each one says about your debts., After you’ve educated yourself and checked your credit report, you need to determine if you have the right to repair or fix your credit report. Most of the time, you have the right to repair your credit report (for free) if there is inaccurate or erroneous information on it. Consider:


If there are items due to identity theft or similar issues marring your report.
If a company has reported a debt that is inaccurate or untrue.
Any negative items that you incurred and are responsible for will be very difficult to remove. , Once you’ve identified the faulty information and the reporting agency responsible, you need to contact that credit reporting agency. That agency is responsible for removing inaccurate information at no charge to you. Consider:


The free credit report discussed above will include contact information.

Dispute the error and give the corrected information to the company if you have it available.
You should also get any duplicate entries removed. Negative duplicates can hurt your credit score by twice as much, if not more.
Send copies on any documents that support your claim.
Use a sample letter from the Federal Trade Commission to help you craft your own letter. See it at: https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0058-credit-repair-how-help-yourself

The credit reporting agency is bound by law to investigate your claim and to report back to you within 30 days., If the agency’s investigation does not resolve your issue, you should request that they include your letter of dispute in your credit report. This way, anyone pulling your credit report will also receive a copy of your letter and be able to read your side of the story. While this might help in some circumstances, it might not help in others. You can also ask that (at your expense) the agency forwards a copy of the letter to anyone who recently pulled your credit report., After your initial actions have failed, you need to file a formal written dispute with the credit agency. Your formal dispute will list all of the information you believe to be inaccurate. Your dispute, as well as your letter of dispute, will be included in all future reports., Beware of anyone offering to help you repair your credit for a fee. Ads such as this are often illegal; or, at the very least, they will not help you as much as they claim.


You have the ability (for free) to do anything a company might legally do to repair your credit.
The Credit Repair Organization Act says that it is illegal for a company to misrepresent their abilities. If a company charges you a fee and doesn’t make good on its promises, you can sue them and seek punitive damages.
Contact the Federal Trade Commission at 1-877-FTC-HELP if you feel you’ve been taken advantage of by a credit repair company., When negative information is accurate, often the only recourse you have is to wait for those items to disappear on their own. Unfortunately, time might be the only recourse you have to repair your credit report.


Bankruptcy information disappears after ten years.
Unpaid judgements against you disappear after seven years.
Information regarding criminal offenses does not disappear.
 One of the best ways to repair your credit is to apply for new credit and make sure you honor your obligations in full. Over time, your credit will improve and people who pull your credit report will be able to see that you honor your debts and are potentially a trustworthy person to lend to. Make sure to:



Get a secured credit card if you can’t get a non-secured one. Secured credit cards are ones where your credit limit is tied or secured by an amount of money deposited in a savings or checking account.
Pay your debts on time and quickly.
Do not overextend your credit. Only borrow and spend what you can pay off on a monthly basis.
 One tactic to improve your credit and the way your credit report looks to others is to lower your debt to income ratio. A debt to income ratio speaks volumes about your monthly debt obligations to your monthly income. The lower your debt to income ratio, the better. To lower your debt to income ratio:


Pay off debt as quickly as you can.
Avoid taking on new debts.
Try to increase your income.