 Pennies generally come in rolls of 50 cents, and boxes containing 50 rolls or $25. If possible, ask the bank for rolls that customers have brought in, as opposed to ones ordered from the Federal Reserve, as the coins tend to be older on average. However, even FR rolls can turn up substantial amounts of copper coins.


Be aware that customer rolled coins may be short by 1 or 2 pennies occasionally, but this should be negligible considering you are going to obtain copper for well below its spot price.
Go into large banks that service average small businesses, as these are usually better than going to a small "enterprise" bank, where they could pass the cost of the coin request on to you. (Yes, banks need to pay a small fee to order the coins.) If you're buying in bulk, it's best to open an account at the bank before you order the circulated rolls.;
, You will need the wrappers later to re-roll your post-1982 zinc pennies.


If the wrappers are folded, simply unfold the ends and dump the coins out. If the wrappers come from the federal reserve and are sealed, you will need to gently peel the end of the wrapper, and use a pencil/pen to push the coins out from the other end.
It is important not to disturb the folding on the wrappers because they will indicate the size of the roll and allow you to avoid manually counting the coins later.
 Put the pennies that were minted 1981 and before in the copper container and any pennies minted in 1982 and after in the zinc container.


Pay close attention to any valuable, rare pennies that you might find in the process. Consider reserving these pennies for another collection:
1943 steel pennies, issued during the war in order to save copper.
"Wheat" pennies, made between 1909 and 1958, with two stalks of wheat instead of the Lincoln Memorial.
Many others, including the famous double die obverse wheat penny, which bears a 1955 mint.
 If you have handled the coin wrappers properly, it should not be too hard to tell how long the rolls should be by the fold on the wrappers. Alternatively, you can see if some banks will count your coins without a fee and sign up for an account there.


It is generally not a good idea to use CoinStar unless you are planning to buy a gift card, so they waive the fee. Get to know what gift cards are offered so you can skip rolling the coins occasionally when you plan on shopping in these areas.
 Banks may be reluctant to exchange too many rolls for cash if they are running short, so exchanging them this way will offset the issue. Mark the wrappers of the rolls that you bring back, so you avoid getting the same rolls of coins back again.
 Circulated pennies don't necessarily travel long geographical distances.
 Many banks will give you free penny wrappers if you go in and ask for them. Stores try to sell them to you.
 Even though the copper in these pennies is worth more than a their face value, the federal government has disallowed this practice for quite some time. Tampering, defacing, and otherwise destroying currency carries with it a sentence of up to six months in prison.