 Pastry bags typically come with a set of tips that you can switch out to make different designs with your frosting. Pick a tip that looks appealing to you. Common designs are circles, stars, dots, and other simple shapes, though more complicated tips are also available.


Choose the smallest tip you can for the design you are trying to pipe. Smaller tips let the frosting come out more slowly and are easier to perform detail work with, making them best for intricate designs. Larger tips are fine for simple designs.;
, Depending on the type of bag you're using, there are several different ways to do this. See below:


Many modern bags have a screw-on mechanism. For these, thread the bottom end of the bag through the coupler. Next, screw the tip on to tighten and lock it in place.Some bags simply have a hole at the bottom. For these, set the tip point-down inside the pastry bag. Shift it around so that it sits at the hole in the bottom. Give it a gentle downward tug to pull it snugly into place.
Some disposable bags allow you to push the tip through the plastic at the bottom.
 Roll the top of the pastry bag over on itself. This keeps frosting from getting on the outside. Use a spoon or spatula to transfer the frosting inside. Unroll the top edges of the bag. Squeeze the frosting down toward the tip.


You can either buy commercial frosting or make your own. See our cupcake frosting recipes for a few good ideas. It's easy!
The frosting should not run out of the bottom of the bag when loading it. If it does, it is too thin. Thicken it by whipping in powdered sugar or a very small amount of cornstarch (less than a tablespoon for average recipes)., Push the air gently out of the top portion of the bag. Don't use too much force or you may push the frosting through the tip.


Twist the top of the bag shut to keep the air out. Hold the bag shut with one hand.
 With the hand holding the bag shut, squeeze lightly until you see the tip of the frosting peeping out of the tip. At this point, you're ready to start frosting the cupcake. Any squeezing you do now will push frosting out.
 Hold the piping bag 5 centimeters (2.0 in) above the edge of the cupcake. Squeeze gently on the pastry bag to force frosting out of the tip. Cover the cupcake with frosting as you wish. One common design is below:


For a traditional swirl design, start piping at one side of the cupcake and lay the frosting around the border in a circular pattern. Move inward and overlap the frosting with each full turn to build a spiraling pile of frosting.
 When you are satisfied with the frosting, stop squeezing the bag. You're not quite done yet. To get a good-looking peak, use a a quick, "bouncy" upward movement to pull the pastry bag away from the cupcake. This may take a little practice.


If you have frosting to spare, you can practice this motion on a plate before attempting to frost the actual cupcake.

