 If you don't have much in your advertising budget, one of the most important things you can do is make sure you're making the most of free options. Given how many people use it, an obvious place to start is with social media.


At a minimum, you should create a Facebook page for your business so people can find you on this popular site. Keep it up to date with a good description, hours of operation, and some eye-catching pictures.The next step up from this bare-bones approach is to start offering interesting, free content on your Facebook page. Create infographics, articles, or videos that reflect your expertise and will be interesting to people. This will keep people coming back to your page.You can also consider starting a Facebook group about a topic related to your business but not about your business. For example, do you sell rare and imported wine? Start a "Wine Fanatics of " group where you offer free information and tips. This will attract people who would be interested in your business more than a page dedicated to the business itself.;
, Another way to get your business's name out for free (or very inexpensively) is by starting a blog. Again, offer your information and expertise, not just promotional messages, and people will read and return to it.


Don't just post on your own blog, though. Subscribe to other blogs related to your business, and post comments on them, too.These comments shouldn't promote your business directly, but if people see "Sarah's Wine Shoppe" commenting regularly on their favorite wine blog, there's a good chance many of them will eventually want to see what your business is all about.
You should also research who the prominent bloggers are that write about your type of business. Reach out to them. You may find they are willing to write about your business or review your products., Google, Yahoo, and other search engines typically have listings for local businesses on services like Google Places and Yahoo Local. Your claim the listing for your business, free of charge.Just search for your business using these services. There should be an option to click "I own this business" or something along those lines.
Once done, it's easy to customize the listing to make it more appealing.
 Your business probably has an email address already. Ask customers to sign up for an email newsletter. Collect their addresses and send out a monthly email.Email may seem old-fashioned in the age of social media, but almost everybody has an email address.
This is can be a great way to remind people about your business, as well as to alert them to sales or promotions you might be having.
Services like Mail Chimp and Constant Contact can help you manage your email lists.
Many businesses will offer a one-time discount, giveaway, or other promotion when people sign up for their newsletter.
 If you run a business, chances are you have some specialized expertise on some topic. Write articles about it and submit them for publication! People who are interested in this type of business will see you are an expert.


You can submit articles to trade publications and niche magazines for no cost. There's no guarantee you'll be published, but if you have decent writing skills, your unique perspective certainly helps your odds.There are also websites such as Ezinearticles.com, Articlesbase.com, and TheFreeLibrary.com that will publish high-quality articles online, and will allow you to embed a couple of links to your website in exchange for the content., Don't forget to make the most of traditional media! You can often get free-of-charge news coverage by submitting press releases about special events or promotions your business is having. Send press releases to your local newspaper, as well as the news departments of local TV and radio stations.Journalists today are often pressed for time and resources, so they are often looking for fast, easy content they can easily plug into the news.
A good press release is one that mirrors the style of a news article, and contains concise and compelling quotes that journalists can use. Write a catchy headline and put the most important information first.Pick up a book or do some research online about how to write effective press releases.
 Another great way to use your expertise to promote your business is to offer a free class on a topic related to the service you provide. This gets your name out, and establishes you as an authority in your area.If you have a brick-and-mortar store for your business, this can also get people coming in the door. Many will stay and shop.
For example, if you run a specialty wine store, you could do an introductory "wines of the world" course in which you teach people about different wine regions and the varieties they produce.
 Even in this digital age, it's hard to beat good old word of mouth advertising. Encourage your employees and friends to tell others about your business.People are often more trusting of an endorsement that comes from a friend or family member than from an advertisement or other media sources.