 Aria has long, curly dark hair. Grow out your hair, but occasionally you can get it trimmed to avoid split ends. Change your shampoo and conditioner and/or dye it to make it more similar to Aria's.


Aria normally has loosely curled hair, so it would be best to curl your hair with a large barrel curling iron. You could also use a hydrating, curl-holding product after showering.
Aria also has long, side-swept bangs. You can keep the shape of these by combing them into position while they're wet, putting a round brush under them, and blow drying, before gently applying hairspray.;
,


Eyes: Apply a smokey black eyeshadow just along the top of your lash line to make your eyes look big like Aria's. Use flesh-toned eyeliner on your waterline to make them look doe-like. Blend a pink or brown tone into the crease of your eyes.
Face: Put on peach or light pink blush, a little cool-toned shadow under your natural cheekbones as a contour, temples and on both sides of your nose and blend well.
Lips: Either nude or pink lipstick depending on the day.
Eyebrows: Aria's eyebrows are very defined. Try shaping yours along your natural arch by plucking, waxing, or threading, then fill in any sparse bits with a brow powder or pencil.
Nails: Aria's nails are mostly darkly colored. Black is her most basic choice, although she also uses different colors like dark gray, deep plum, rich burgundy and deep blue. Always keep your nails clean and trim.
 Aria is in great shape. If you aren't quite as in shape as Aria, it's okay. Part of her personality is being different. But you can still eat healthy and exercise like Aria, who likes to do yoga.
 Aria is very unique and likes wearing clothes stand out. Her style is mainly Bohemian, but with an indie-hipster twist. Research those styles, and get some basic Bohemian clothes.


Get a signature leather jacket (Aria's is a gray bomber, which can go with almost anything).
Try out second-hand/thrift stores for unique vintage pieces.
Be bold. One thing Aria is known for is the confidence behind her clothes!

, Aria is sweet and funny, emotional but strong, and mysterious but friendly. and unique. People are drawn to her friendly attitude. She is also a total romantic. However, she is also quite secretive. Try to incorporate these things into your own attitude.
 Aria's exotic style comes from the variety of the cultures she's experienced. Try to travel as much as possible and always pick up souvenirs on the way: jewelry, clothing, and other trinkets. If you can't travel IRL, travel online by chatting to people from all around the world and learning as much as you can about their lives and experiences.


With a charm bracelet, you can show off the places you have visited. Pile more bracelets on top of it to create a very Bohemian stacked look.
 Aria's room is full of books, so read as much as you can. One of Aria's favorite books is The Great Gatsby. Some of Aria's favorite authors are Jean Paul Sartre, Camus, Beckett, and Ayn Rand. She also loves classic literature like the work of Edgar Allan Poe, William Shakespeare, and Jane Austen.


Go see some classic plays, as well, such as "Romeo & Juliet," "Waiting for Godot," and "No Exit." Plays, after all, are a form of literature.
 Aria keeps a detailed journal of her life. Start your own journal and add to it whenever you can.
 Try to get into photography classes, internships, and/or competitions.


Aria's love for film noir influences her work-- especially "It Happened One Night."

