 Set the oven’s temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat. Next, line a large baking sheet with parchment paper to keep the fries from sticking.You can substitute a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper if you prefer.
 To make the fries, you’ll need 2 large carrots. Use a sharp knife to cut the carrots into long sticks approximately ½-inch (13-mm) thick.You can peel the carrots with a vegetable peeler if you like, but it isn’t necessary.
 Add 1 egg and 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of water to a small shallow dish. Use a fork to whisk the two together until they’re fully combined., Set a second shallow bowl beside the egg wash. Fill it with 6 tablespoons (30 g) of grated Parmesan cheese, spread out in a single layer.You can substitute another hard, grated cheese for the Parmesan, such as Romano or Asiago.
If you like, you can season the Parmesan cheese. Garlic powder, dried basil, dried oregano, and/or Italian seasoning are good options.
 To coat the fries, dunk the carrot sticks into the egg mixture. Next, roll them in the Parmesan cheese so they’re evenly coated.When you’re dipping the carrot fries into the egg wash, be sure to allow the excess to drip back into the bowl so clumps don’t form when you coat them with the cheese.
 After you’ve coated the fries, transfer them to the lined baking sheet. Sprinkle them with salt and black pepper to taste.Make sure that the carrot fries are spread out in a single layer on the baking sheet.
 Place the baking sheet in the preheated oven. Allow the carrot fries to bake until they are golden brown, which should take 15 to 20 minutes.Turn the fries over halfway through the cooking time to ensure that they cook evenly on both sides.
 To make the dipping sauce, add 6 tablespoons (90 g) of mayonnaise and 2 tablespoons (34 g) of chili sauce to a small bowl. Mix the two together so they are completely blended.You can use either hot or sweet chili sauce for the fry’s dipping sauce depending on your preference.
 When the carrot fries are finished baking, transfer them to a plate or platter. Sprinkle them with fresh, chopped parsley.You can omit the parsley if you prefer.
 Once the carrots are seasoned and garnished with the parsley, place the bowl with the chili mayonnaise dip beside the fries. Serve the dish while the carrot fries are still warm.If you aren’t a fan of the chili mayonnaise dip, you can substitute your favorite dipping sauce. A garlic aioli works well with the Parmesan carrot fries.

