 That is, sometimes, it's in your best interest to just stay silent. If telling the person won't help the situation, then you may just want to leave it alone, even if the person does irritate you.For instance, telling a manager you don't like them probably isn't going to be all that helpful to you. Your manager holds power over your career and can make your work life miserable, so telling a manager you don't like them isn't going to be beneficial. You might also get in trouble for insubordination.
In addition, you may weigh your options if the person you don't like is a family member or a friend of the family. If you're going to see the person on a regular basis, telling them you don't like them is only going to make those situations more difficult.
Similarly, if the person is a mutual friend with other friends, it may make social gatherings more difficult if you tell the person you don't like them.
Also, consider whether you're being fair in your dislike. Maybe you took an instant dislike to someone without getting to know them. Try getting to know the person better before making a snap judgment.
 No matter how you tell someone you don't want them in your life, try not to cross over into being a jerk. You can tell someone you don't enjoy their company without being mean about it, which can also help you not burn bridges.If you're too brutal, you may have trouble making friends with other people. Word will get around.
Don't be abusive or mean when you talk to the person; be as respectful and calm as possible.
For instance, saying, "I can't stand to be around you." is pretty mean. Instead, try, "Our values are too different, and I don't really have time for new friends."

, If you simply don't respond to a person's advances towards friendship, they'll eventually get the message. In other words, try not to engage in chatty conversation and don't agree to plans you don't want to join in on.Also, try not to smile at the person. You don't have to frown, but smiling makes you more approachable.
This approach can lead to other people seeing you as standoffish or a snob, so be careful.
 While the direct approach can be brutal, it can also establish right off the bat that you don't want to go any further. If you really can't stand the person, it might be better to get it out in the open; however, this can backfire, especially if you use it at work.You could say something like, "I don't think we're compatible as friends, but it was nice to meet you."

, If this person appears to want more of a relationship than you are comfortable with, directly tell the person without being judgmental. For instance, perhaps they want a deeper friendship when you just want to stay acquaintances.

You might say something like: "I'm sensing you want more friendship from me. That's more than I'm willing to give right now. If you still want to be closer friends with me in a few months, would you be willing to check back in with me then?"
Alternatively, you could say, "Thanks for your kind request for friendship. You seem like a wonderful person. I'm just not interested, thanks."

