 Depending on the type and severity of the physical disability, it may be helpful to incorporate something like a portable potty during the training process. This allows the child to have quick and easy access to a toilet while they are learning a schedule. As you move through the training process, use any of the devices to further help your child potty train.


For example, if you use a portable potty, move the portable potty closer and closer to the stationary bathroom. This will help your child adjust to and practice continence in having longer distances to reach the potty.
It may be necessary to get an adult sized portable toilet depending on the age and disability of your child.
Consider the addition of hand rail, step, or back rest adaptive devices to help with positioning while getting on the potty or staying on the potty while training.
You may also consider dressing the child in easy to remove clothing, such as loose fitting clothing or clothing with Velcro fasteners. This may help to make undressing and dressing easier when the child needs to use the bathroom.
 Visual difficulties or disabilities make many stages of the toilet training process more challenging for you and your child. Without sight ability your child will not be able to witness modeling behavior as well as the smaller tasks involved in toileting.Rely more on language, hearing, and touch sensations to help your child understand how the process works. This may mean waiting a little longer to begin toilet training with your child.


When you are ready to begin, let your child explore the bathroom, making sure to help them locate and identify the toilet and handle, as well as the toilet paper.
Talk to your child more about the process of toileting, explaining all the steps and letting them talk to you about it.
Utilize training products such as musical potties to help reward your child for successful use of the toilet., Similar to difficulties in potty training a special needs child with visual disabilities, hearing and communication will also greatly impact training. If your child is fluent in sign language or is able to communicate, you may find it somewhat easier.To help your child with potty training rely on visual observation and explanations that you can provide to them. Work on one part of the process at a time to not overwhelm your child and to make sure they understand before moving on.


Let your child observe you, and if possible, other children like their siblings, using the bathroom.
Consistently use the same signs, gestures, and facial expressions when training your child.
Place a few drops of food coloring in the toilet bowl and have your child guess what the color will change to after they urinate., Your child's special needs may not be difficulties with interpreting or understanding the toileting process. Instead, your child may experience trouble with continence and frustration with the training process. Try to help your child by making a regular potty schedule to get them used to regularly going to the toilet. This may help with frustration of accidents or interruption of activities. You may also need to help your child with dietary changes to facilitate easier toileting. Consider the following specific special needs:


Children with Cerebral Palsy may struggle with bladder awareness, bladder control, and constipation.Concentrate on developing awareness of needing to go to the bathroom, and altering diet or medications to avoid constipation.
If your special needs child struggles with Spina Bifida, spinal cord injury, or spinal tumors they may have some similar difficulties to children with Cerebral Palsy. You may need to focus toilet training more on teaching your child to use a catheter for urination and visit the bathroom on a schedule for toileting.It might not be possible to completely potty train some children, especially those with neurologic disabilities.
 If your child's special needs include conditions such as Oppositional Defiant Disorder or Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, toilet training difficulties may include low motivation, concentration, or a lack of response to typical reinforcements.Your child may struggle because it is difficult for children with these needs to adjust to change in their daily lives. Take training slowly and focus on one small change at a time as not to overwhelm your child with changes all at once.


Get creative and adapt your training methods to your child's interests and motivations. For example, if your child has a favorite cartoon character, try to buy underwear with that character on them and make a game out of trying to keep that character from getting wet. Making it fun for your child and connecting it to something they are interested in will ease the stress of change.
 Key to potty training a special needs child with and intellectual disability, developmental delay, or a developmental disorder is the understanding that the time to achieve successful training may be significantly longer than expected.Your child may need the process broken down into smaller tasks and may need more time to master those tasks. Be patient and consider the following.


Cater to your child's verbal level and ability. If they have a lower verbal ability utilize facial expressions and modeling to help.
Keep each portion of training simple and concrete. Utilizing visual aids each step of the way can help your child develop the concrete ideas into actions as well.
Use rewards, such as treats or play time to increase the likelihood that they will repeat the behavior. Avoid using punishments or reprimands as it may cause a regression or further delay in successful toileting.

