 From a birthday party to a friendly get together, parties are a great way to gather your friends and expand your network. Ask all of your close friends to come and encourage them to bring guests. Speak with everyone at the party and get phone numbers and contact information from those you do not know and that you share common interests with.
 Attend weddings, funerals and parties that you are invited to. Showing that you care about the people in your network, even if you just pop in and say hi, will cause those that are in your 'network' to return the same courtesy. And, you could meet other people there too.


If you have to say no to an invitation, send an event-appropriate gift or card.
 Consider volunteering and joining a cause that you believe in. You might agitate for a change in election procedures, march against corruption, fundraise for the homeless in your neighborhood, or join an anti-deportation league.You will meet people who share your interests and do some good at the same time.
 Meet new people by joining groups of strangers that gather for socializing. Sites like Meetup.com offer local volunteer-led hiking groups, poker parties, and other fun things. Since everyone is participating in the initial difficulty of meeting with strangers, the awkwardness is diminished.
 Go to large meetups that involve the topics you are interested in. Whether they are about technology, skiing or scrapbooking, you will meet new people that share similar interests. Introduce yourself to people in line, ask questions at panels, and add other attendees on social media.


Try going to the same gatherings every year. That way, you'll make friends with other regulars.
 If you want to participate in a community, you have to give back! That means hosting parties and connecting people, promoting the interests of others within your network, and otherwise being a mensch to those around you.


Consider starting your own activist, social, or artistic group. This can be a bit of a daunting task, but if you start your own group, whether an internet bulletin board group or an actual meet and greet group, people will be coming to you instead of you looking for them. This is a great way to meet new contacts and friends.
 Once you have established yourself in a community, and are known to give back to it, ask for favors. Should you be seeking a job, don't hesitate to tell everyone in your network about it. Send out resumes to those you are closest to or those that share business interest.

