 It is truly hard to be photogenic if you are wearing your dirty sweatpants and torn-up sneakers. If you know you’re going to have your picture taken, choose outfits that photograph well. Neutral tones and muted colors work best because they simultaneously enhance your natural characteristics without distracting from you in a photo.


Avoid anything that hangs or drapes very loosely on your body, as this will look bulky and large in a photograph. On the other hand, don’t wear anything too tight as the flash from the camera will highlight every little flaw hiding under your clothing.
Don’t wear anything for photos that you wouldn't normally wear in real life. Your goal is to look like yourself at your very best; you can’t look like yourself if you’re wearing something totally out of your comfort zone or style range., The source of light in your photo will greatly dictate the quality of your appearance in the end shot. A light source directly above you will give you dark shadows under your eyes, while one from the side will create bold background lines. Work so that your light source is in front of you and slightly above you. Whenever you can, take your photos in natural light near a window or outside.


The best lighting for photos occurs in the hour after sunrise and the hour before sunset. When you can, try to take your pictures during these times.
Although some photographers can use light metering to add brightness to a dark foreground, it is best to avoid taking pictures with your light source behind you. A light source coming from behind will darken your entire body and ruin a great picture.
 Although the seat in your car or in front of your mirror may be the easiest places to perfect your pose and get good lighting, they don’t allow for the most scenic of backgrounds. Being photogenic has a lot to do with working your surroundings in addition to showing off your facial and bodily posing skills. Take photos in a comfortable environment where you are the focus.


Busy restaurants and bars add a lot of noise to the background of a photo, taking the eye off you as the subject. If you must pose in a crowded area, blur the background to keep the viewers eye on you in the foreground.
If you are taking a group photo, try to insert yourself in the center of the group and away from the ends. The two people in the ends of a group shot will always appear the largest and are not often the focus of a picture.
 Although you don’t necessarily want to be tossing around a football or holding eating utensils, adding fun and interesting props to your photo can add interest and highlight your idiosyncrasies. Hold something in your hands, lean against a prop, or incorporate something related to a hobby or activity you enjoy into your photo.


If you love reading, try holding a book casually in your hands. It will force your body into a more natural position and add detail to your portrait.
Don’t use large props or anything that is too distracting in your photos. The goal is for you to appear photogenic with the aid of something small and related. Adding in big props or anything brightly colored will do more harm than good.
 Confidence will show in a photo, and is the key to being photogenic. Even if you don’t feel confident, act like it for the camera. The quality of your appearance in photos will greatly improve with a bit of personal knowledge that you look good, and that your photos will turn out great because of it.

