 Her location appears on your map as an orange question mark in Grapeseed, which is east of Trevor’s safehouse in Sandy Shores. After you speak to her, check your phone to find the email she sent you. It will contain the name of the target and a photo of their location.


Capturing targets is easiest with a Stun Gun, though it isn’t required. Trevor can acquire a Stun Gun by completing the first “Abandoned Vehicle” random event. To do this, you must use Trevor’s Rampage special ability to slow down time and kill the person inside the abandoned vehicle before they have time to use the Stun Gun on you. Afterward, you can pick up the Stun Gun and keep it.
The first target, however, is easiest to capture using a sniper rifle. Purchase one from an Ammu-Nation, or if you already have one, equip it once you reach the destination.
If you don’t have a Stun Gun, running into a target or shooting them non-lethally will cause them to surrender.
Having a high-level stamina stat will make it easier to chase after targets on-foot. Running, cycling and swimming increases your stamina.;
, He is located in the David Quartz quarry, which is southeast of Trevor’s safehouse and southwest of Maude’s home. Stay at a distance and zoom in through your sniper rifle scope to identify the target, who is standing next to a black Landstalker. Shooting him in the leg will cause him to surrender. Drive him back to Maude’s home and drop him off, then check your phone for the next email from Maude.


If you catch his attention or fail to shoot him in the leg, he will try to escape by driving away in the Landstalker. This will make it more difficult to get him to surrender, but you can still do so by shooting two of his tires.Try not to shoot at the gas tank, however, since doing so can cause the vehicle to ignite and explode, resulting in his death and a lesser reward.
 Follow the road directly south of the Suburban shop in Sandy Shores (which leads southwest) until you find a barn on a hill. Larry Tupper will be inside the barn, along with friends who will shoot at you when you’re noticed. You can kill all of them if you want, but it’s not necessary. Larry will flee when one of his friends are killed or injured, at which point you should drive to chase him. Gently bump into him with your vehicle to make him surrender (or shoot him with a Stun Gun), then deliver him to Maude and check for the next email.You can exit your vehicle and use it as cover while shooting one of his friends, but get back into your vehicle as soon as you notice that Larry is fleeing.
Check the photo that Maude sent you to make sure you don’t accidentally shoot Larry instead of his friends.
 Take the tram up to the top of Mount Chiliad, then grab the parachute on the tramway station once you arrive.Glenn Scoville will be standing with a friend at the top of the mountain, and will jump off of the edge when you approach him. Jump off as well and follow him while parachuting. Once he eventually lands, land near him and run into him, causing him to surrender. Find a nearby vehicle and take him back to Maude, then check for the final email.


If you have a Stun Gun, activate Trevor’s Rampage ability to slow down time and shoot him with the Stun Gun before he jumps off of the mountain.
 Travel the Great Ocean Highway to the east of Paleto Bay. Look for a tunnel beside the highway, which has a banner above it that reads “Dignity Village!” Go into that tunnel to find the target: he is wearing a hat, a tank top and suspenders. He will flee when he sees you. Either shoot him with a Stun Gun, shoot him in the leg or chase him and run into him. Once he surrenders, drive him back to Maude’s home to receive your payment.


When he runs away, he may run into traffic and be killed.If that happens, you will only receive half of the reward.
Trevor’s Rampage ability is useful here, and it gives you extra time to capture the target.

