 Choose only green cleaners, which are ones that do not contain bleach and quats (quaternary ammonium compounds). These chemicals are known for triggering allergic reactions. Or, make your own home cleaning solution by mixing together 50% water and 50% vinegar in a spray bottle.Some groups, such as the Environmental Working Group (EWG), evaluate and list green cleaning products on their websites.;
, On the same day each week, mop/vacuum your floors. Use a dusting wand or microfiber cloth to wipe down other surfaces. Don’t forget to look up top, too. Ceiling fans, crown molding, and the tops of bookshelves are all places where allergens can gather.If possible, allergy sufferers should leave household cleaning to someone else. If the person with allergies must clean, wear a disposable dust mask, especially while vacuuming.
 These types of vacuums are designed to remove and trap small particles, even down to 0.3 microns in size. Look for the seal of the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America (or a similar organization for your country). Be aware that some vacuums are marketed as “allergen removers,” without being HEPA.Throw out and wipe down the debris collection area of your vacuum regularly. This will keep allergens from sneaking back out into your home.
 Buy covers that are woven with a fabric pore size smaller than 6 microns. This means that the openings in the weave are too small to let in dust mites and other allergens. The cover should zip-on and be washable for even more protection. Buy enough covers to fit your box spring, mattress, and sleep/throw pillows.Non-woven covers have a shorter lifespan and are more likely to collect allergens in their dimpled areas., Gather all of your bed sheets, pillowcases, and linen covers. Throw everything into the washing machine and set it to “Hot.” You want the water to get to at least 130 degrees Fahrenheit (54 degrees Celsius) in order to kill off the allergens. Dry everything on high heat.Don’t forget to wash your children’s stuffed animals. Throw them in your dryer on high heat for a half-cycle (around 20 minutes) to kill off any dust mites., Choose curtains that are machine-washable and clean them on a monthly basis, at minimum. You can also vacuum them weekly using a brush attachment. Even better, replace the fabric with wooden blinds or shades., Every two years or so, peel up the caulk around your sinks and tubs and apply a fresh coat. Remove and replace any cracked or damaged tiles at the same time. Cleaning your bathroom carefully as well will keep mold at bay.