 Some addicts can become sober if they work hard to change. Of course, the saying is an addict is always an addict, but if your partner is willing to do the work and stay vigilant, it may be worth staying.If your partner says they want to change, see if they follow through. If it's just words that they never back up with action, they may not be ready to get sober.
Other signs that your partner isn't willing to do the work include your partner constantly quitting recovery programs or relapsing all the time.
 If your partner is addicted to drugs or alcohol, they may need medical supervision to detox without serious side effects. Entering a rehabilitation program will provide your partner with the safety and support they need to overcome their addiction, such as therapy, coping mechanisms, exploring the underlying causes of their addictive behavior, and much more.

If your partner does not want to enter into treatment, contact a treatment center for advice. They can help you motivate your partner to seek help and enter treatment.
 One step that you may ask your partner to take is to see a counselor with you. Try to pick a counselor who specializes in addiction and couples counseling, if possible. That way, you'll have professional help in assessing the situation., Recovery is not an easy process, and it can take some people years. It takes an emotional toll on anybody else around the addict. You have a life to live, too, and you may not want to spend a chunk of your life helping someone become sober. On the other hand, you may decide it's worth the effort because of the commitment you've made to the person., If you're married, a legal separation may be a good way to wake your partner up to the issue. A separation is a way of saying (in a legal way) that you need time apart to work out whether you should stay together, but it's not a divorce. If you're not married, you could still ask to take some time away from your partner. It gives your partner time to work on recovery, and you time to figure out what you want your life to look like.If you're interested in this option, contact a divorce lawyer to discuss the legal side of things. If you're not married, sit down and have a discussion with your partner about the possibility.
 When your partner is still with you, they have you to fall back on. They can maintain their addiction because they have your support. That's not to say you're to blame for their addiction. Rather, it's important to note because if you withdraw your support, by leaving the person or (if married) getting a divorce, that can cause some addicts to hit rock bottom. In turn, they may finally get the help they need.