 Do cardio and strength training.Cardiovascular (or aerobic) exercise gets your heart pumping. These exercises usually involve the whole body. Strength training increases your muscle mass and helps you lose fat. In addition, try to integrate physical activity into your everyday schedule. Walk or ride your bike to school instead of driving, and take the stairs instead the elevator (unless you’re going up more than three flights).


You can lift barbells, dumbbells, or kettlebells. The best strength training workout will set you on a circuit where you do 10 to 15 reps on a given machine before moving on to the next one.
Swimming, running, or going for a bike ride are all great ways to keep your heart healthy. Teens should get at least one hour of exercise each day.
Always warm up when you exercise.Warming up helps your muscles stretch and can reduce the likelihood that you’ll pull a muscle or strain yourself. You should especially warm up your legs, back, neck, and arms.
Know your limits.Don’t exercise to the point where you’re in pain or about to collapse, and don’t obsess over your weight. If you find your exercising interferes with your school or social life, find more positive ways to integrate it into your schedule, like playing games with friends.;
, Designate a few hours each day during which you can disengage from your computer and digital devices in order to go for a walk, run, bike ride, or do some other physical activity (as well as study and do homework). Unless you have your own weight set, you’ll probably need to hit the gym. If your school doesn’t have a gym, check for local gyms that allow teenage members.


Don’t feel intimidated by going to the gym just because you aren’t strong or fit. Remember, people go to the gym to become strong and fit, not because they already are.
Start out with a small weight limit of 10 – 20 pounds and perfect your technique before moving up to a larger weight limit. An improper technique or weights that are too heavy can lead to injury. Have a staff member or trainer show you how to use the machines before you start. They can also help you decide how much weight to start with.
Add weight slowly in increments of 10 pounds or less.
You’ll know when you’ve hit your lifting limit for a particular exercise or weightlifting machine when 15 reps produces significant strain.
Ensure you always have a spotter to supervise your weightlifting exercise.Cut back on your screen time to make time in your schedule for exercise.Instead of playing a video game or watching a show, join an extracurricular sports team or engage in a physical activity.
Alternately, exercise while watching a show or listening to a podcast. You could do this while lifting weights, running on a treadmill, or riding a stationary bike.
 There is a whole world of exercise just waiting for you to discover it. The more kinds of exercises you do, the more flexible and healthy you’ll be, and the less likely you are to get injured. Dance, yoga, gymnastics, capoeira, and other martial arts can increase your flexibility.Have fun when exercising.If you hate swimming, try running. If you hate running, try karate. Exercise comes in many forms, so find one that suits you and stick with it. Mix your exercise routine up from time to time to keep it from getting stale.
Get your friends involved. Exercising with a friend makes it more fun. Join a team, or just challenge your friends to a quick game of basketball or tag.
 As a teenager, sleep is vital. With the changes going on in your body, and your early-morning school schedule, you might find yourself more and more tired as the school year goes on. Getting enough sleep contributes to both physical and mental health. If you don't get enough sleep you won't look good in the morning and you won't have the energy you need to do your best each day.


Aim for at least nine hours of sleep each night.Set a sleep schedule. Set an alarm to wake up up and go to bed at the same time each day.Keep naps short. A quick 30-minute nap can help you feel more rested and relaxed for the rest of the day, but sleeping too long in the middle of the day can leave you feeling groggy when you wake up and make it difficult to fall asleep at night.
Limit your caffeine intake, especially in the evening. Caffeine can keep you up far later than you want. Avoid coffee, energy drinks, and soda.
 Brush with the bristles of your brush angled up on your upper teeth, and brush with the bristles angled down on your lower teeth.


Additionally, you should floss once daily. If you don’t have time to do this in the morning, do it as part of your evening routine before bed.
Drink lots of water. It helps wash out bits of food that might lodge in your teeth.
As a busy teen, you might find it hard to brush your teeth regularly. Buy a toothbrush and toothpaste carrying kit so you can take them with you when you’re running late for school in the morning.
See a dentist every six months for a dental cleaning and checkup.
 They can check for health problems and treat them before they become serious. You doctor will provide the needed vaccines during your teen years as well as when you are younger. Your doctor can also offer advice about healthy lifestyle choices specific to your medical history and situation. Contact your doctor if you have any medical concerns. For instance, you might ask your doctor:


”Am I at a healthy weight?”
”What should I do to protect my health?”
”How is my overall health?”
”Can you tell me why my body is growing and changing?”

