


When deciding to start an online business a target market must be chosen. This is the people the LLC will reach. Does the LLC want to sell manufactured products that were patented and created? Does the company want to sell products bought directly from manufacturers and wholesalers? Does the company want to be large? Does the company want to offer a large variety of products or only a single product? What kind of competition is out there? How can the company's make the product(s) better than the competition? What are the company's strengths and weaknesses? Most businesses require a team...this is because one person cannot wear every single "hat." There is no I in team. A team is needed in a company because this is what makes it strong. The CEO is there to guide the team but is not always strong in all areas of the company's structure. The CEO should be a solid leader, be able to spot weaknesses, and have a vision for the company in which all are onboard.;
,


Very key... Businesses need products. Will the company make them? Is this is a small business that is a one man/woman show and the product can be manufactured at home? Believe it or not there are manufacturers in the USA. If you want to be big and have your item mass produced have a reputable manufacturer in your city make the product for it. There are companies that will make a prototype first. Patenting is important if the product is the company's and a prototype is required in this case. Lawyers are very helpful in getting the patent process moving fast.
 A business plan has two purposes. One it's what investors want to see when they decide whether or not they will invest in a company. If this the first business the company has started this can be a little trickier. Second it is a road map for the company to follow as it has every single detail about the business from the structure, to the numbers, and everything in between. Hiring, Business Strengths and weaknesses, What sets the business apart, market research, marketing strategies, and so much more is included. Even if this is the first company ever being started, financiers can still be found. Just don't give up! But the best bet is to save up some money, and put personal funds into it. That way no one is owed anything. Depending on the size and scope of your company, a partner would probably be a good idea starting out. Hiring will take place after that. One book that can be Recommended is The ABCs of Writing Winning Business Plans by Garrett Sutton. He worked with Rich Dad Poor Dad's Robert Kiyosaki in the creation of the book. Knowledge is power and one should never stop learning. As CEO, be involved in it's writing. This is not something to outsource. Certain parts may be tricky and expert advice may be needed, but the CEO/Owner/Founder must be fully involved in writing the plan. This is the visionary. This is the leader. This is the person guiding a business to success!

,,


There are many options out there for one to purchase a domain name. First let's explain what a domain name is. A domain name is what is typed at the top of your browser that tells it where to go. For example www.google.com. That is a domain name. Web Hosting is where the information for webpage(s) are stored. Godaddy.com offers hosting. Hostgator.com offers hosting and domain registration as well as, lunarpages.com, and a list of the best hosting and registration companies can be found at hostaz.com. Just go into Google and type in domain name registration and hosting and many options will pop up. A business will need both to start. Since the 90's prices for .com addresses (the most recognized domain name ending) have become significantly cheaper. A business should never pay more than $7–20 to register a domain name. Hosting is not so expensive either. Per year hosting should cost somewhere in the area of $100. If you purchase a domain and hosting for multiple years e.g. 3–5 years it is cheaper. This is online real estate. This is ideal because it takes time for any business to grow.



Now let's say the business decides to sell electronics. There are tons of electronics stores online. On eBay there are plenty and on the web there are plenty. So the company has to make its business stand out. A good example of a domain name for an electronics store would be superelectronics.com. Pick something easy to remember.



Blogging has become the "in thing" nowadays. People want to be heard and want an outlet. This is also a good place to write about a business as it develops. Anything that comes to the mind about a business should be here. Make one for the business. Talk about opening day, what's going on, and just what's running through a CEO's mind (which should be a lot).



Seventy Five Percent of Search engine inquiries come through google. When someone says google it, you know the company is huge. Just like when someone says xerox (make a copy) it, or I need a Kleenex (tissue). The 2nd largest is Bing. Then yahoo. The rest hit around 2-3 percent.
 There are affordable solutions on the web for taking care of this for the business and they may not even be local. Just do homework and research the company before investing any cash into it.

