 Stretch out the wire so that it is long enough to reach the unlock button or the post. Untwist the hooked portion, then straighten it completely, leaving only the curved end in its original shape. To unwind the part of the wire hanger that is twisted around itself, it helps to use a pair of pliers. The coat hanger should be shaped like a relatively straight line with a curved hook on the end when you’re done.You may want to wear gloves while untwisting the hanger to avoid poking yourself in the hand.
Using pliers will make untwisting the hanger easier.;
, You will need to bend the hook of the coat hanger down into a shape that can grip the door lock post. A small “V” or check mark shape will be the easiest shape to fit through a small gap that can also do the job. Use a pair of pliers to fold the end of the straightened coat hanger until the span of the check mark is tight enough to hook the post.Many door lock posts have a groove or ridge that will make it easier to grip when using a coat hanger for this purpose.
You may need to bend the hanger into a few different sized check marks or “V” shapes until you have one that will grip the post.
 If the window is open slightly, you will not need to pry it out at all. However, if the window is shut, you will need to slide a narrow wedge into the gap between the window and door frame and pry the window out away from the vehicle. Be extremely careful doing this, as applying too much pressure will break the window.A wider prying surface such as a paint scraper is a better choice than something narrow like a screw driver.
Once pried open, place something like a folded up piece of cloth or rubber into the gap to hold it open.
 Grip the end of the coat hanger that is opposite from the “V” shape you made with pliers. Slip the hanger into the gap you created between the window and door frame. If the lock post is too close to the rear side of the car door, you may need to approach it from the front instead. It is important that you get to the post in a direction that allows you to apply pressure to it as you pull it up.
Be careful not to put additional pressure on the window as it’s pried open or you may break it.
 Wiggle the hanger around until you catch the post, then apply pressure by pulling the hanger back toward the rear of the car. If the lock is too close to the rear side of the window, try applying pressure forward as you pull it up. Continue to apply pressure as you pull the post up to unlock the door.If the post pops up, the door will be unlocked and you can open it.
You may need to try multiple times if the hanger slips off of the post.
 Snake the bent coat hanger through the window crack and hit the unlock button with the tip of the wire. Be patient. This may take a number of tries, depending on the size of the window crack and the layout of your particular car.If you're having trouble hitting the unlock button with the tip of the coat hanger, try adding a small bit of rubber to the end.
Wrap a small rubber band around the tip, for friction, or impale an eraser on the wire. This might help you get a better handle on the button surface.

