 Stores often anticipate certain items will sell more during the holidays. Overstock items are often marked down at after Christmas sales. Overstock items often go fast, as they can be very marked down if the store needs to get rid of them, so aim to find these products first thing when you get to the store.Depending on the store, there may be a section dedicated to marked down overstock products.
Common overstock products include things like electronics, trendy gifts, clothing, and accessories.
 Electronics and television sets often do not sell as well as expected over the holidays. You may be able to get a variety of pricey electronic items at a very low price at an after Christmas sale.Remember to research brands before heading to the store. Very well known brands may not be marked down, but a lesser known brand can still be of decent quality.
 If an item was a popular gift choice over the holiday season, it may be on sale afterwards. Was there a popular gift that was out of your budget during the holiday season? You can probably find it marked down at an after Christmas sale. For example, if fitness watches were a popular Christmas gift, the prices may be slashed at an after Christmas sale.You may also be able to find popular gift items marked down online.
 Many people buy clothing for loved ones over the holiday season. It is not uncommon for clothes to be marked down after Christmas. Check the clothing section in a department store to see if you can find marked down items here.If clothing itself is not marked down, accessories like jewelry may be marked down.
 Not all sales are worth going for. When choosing items to purchase, make sure you're really saving money. A marked down item for a poorly known brand, for example, may not be worth buying if a higher quality brand is only slightly more expensive.


You should also watch out for items marked down because they will be obsolete soon. For example, if a new version of gaming system or computer is coming out soon, don't bother buying an old version at a cheaper price.Only buy bulk items you'll really use. If you need to buy a certain number of bottles of wine to get a cheaper price, do not do so unless you're actually a wine drinker.

