 If your father is making you uncomfortable, you may want to talk it over with another adult. Your other parent, for example, may be able to help mediate the situation so you feel more comfortable. If you're unable to talk to your other parent, try talking to another relative, such as aunt or uncle, or the parent of a friend.Another adult can help you sort out your feelings. If you want to talk the problem over with your dad, another adult can help you figure out how to best bring up how your dad makes you feel.
Tell another adult exactly how your dad is picking on you. You can also tell them how the behavior makes you feel. For example, "I don't like it when dad yells at me when I don't do my chores. The way he talks to me makes me feel insecure and scared and I wish he would stop."

, This is especially important if your father has temper problems. Confronting your dad in the moment he's picking on you may backfire. He may get angry and double down on his aggression. Wait until your dad is calm to raise the issue.Do you know a time when your father is generally in a good mood? This may be a good time to talk with him. For example, maybe your father is always in good spirits when he gets home from bowling with his friends.
You may want to let your dad know you want to talk ahead of time, so he has a head's up. If your dad has a busy schedule, he may need to carve out some time to have a discussion. You can say something like, "Dad, I need to talk to you sometime this week about something that's bothering me. Can you let me know when is good for you?"

, You should let your dad know exactly how you feel about the way he treats you. Be honest and give precise details. It's important your dad understands how you feel about the situation.Avoid sounding accusatory. Do not open the discussion with something like, "Dad, I hate how you're always yelling at me." This will make you sound hostile, and your dad may become defensive.
Instead, start with something like, "Dad, I don't feel like we always get along as well as we should, and I don't like that. I would like to work on fixing this."

, It can help to use an "I" statement when telling your dad how his behavior affects you. This is a statement phrased in a way to emphasize personal feelings. This way, it feels less judgmental. Instead of offering an objective assessment of the situation, you're merely saying how the situation makes you feel.An "I" statement has three parts. It begins with "I feel..." after which you immediately state your feeling. Then, you state the action that led to that feeling. Lastly, you explain why you feel the way you do.
For example, you may be inclined to say something like, "You yell all the time about my grades because you think I'm stupid. It's really mean because you know I try hard." This sounds very hostile, and it could put your dad on the defense right away.
You can use an "I"-statement to better express that feeling. For example, say something like, "I feel hurt when you yell at me about my grades because I feel like you're saying I'm stupid, when I'm trying my best in school."

, Give your dad a chance to talk as well. You want to hear his take on the situation, and understand where he's coming from. While it is never okay to make a child feel uncomfortable or hurt, your father may have reasons for behaving the way he does. Understanding him better can help you empathize, and make it easier to forgive your father and move forward.Listen to what your father has to say. He may have many reasons for picking on you. He may be stressed at work, or he may simply not realize how the behavior was making you feel. For example, your father may say something like, "I thought it was just lighthearted teasing. I didn't realize it was hurting your feelings."
If your father is receptive to what you are saying, he will hopefully offer an apology and an explanation. The two of you can move forward towards a healthy relationship.

