 Loosen the jaws of the chuck to their widest extent. On most keyless chucks, you'll see a screw at the base of the chuck, fastening it to the drill case. Insert a screwdriver of appropriate size and turn clockwise to remove the reverse-threaded screw. The screw is usually coated with thread-locking fluid, so this may require some force.









Skip this step if your model does not have a screw.
If the screw is completely stuck, follow the steps below to knock the screw loose, then remove the screw and repeat the steps below.;
, Choose the largest Allen wrench you can insert. Turn the Allen wrench to tighten the chuck, until it is held firmly in place.
 This will reduce resistance from the gears to a minimum.
 Position the drill so the Allen wrench lies horizontal and overhangs your workbench. Give the end of the Allen wrench a sharp downward strike with a wooden or rubber mallet.Most drill chucks have a standard thread, so striking the Allen wrench in a counterclockwise direction should loosen the chuck from the drill. If you'd like to be certain, contact the manufacturer and ask whether your model is standard or reverse threaded onto the drill spindle.









This can bend or crack the drill casing if the strike is too forceful or at an angle. Start with light force and increase if necessary. This is especially important if you are just trying to loosen a stuck screw.
 Once the chuck is loosened from the drill casing, you can unscrew it by hand.
 Once you are ready to install a new chuck, dab a bit of thread-locking fluid onto the end of the screw. Roll it on your finger to spread the fluid evenly.If your keyless chuck has no screw, you may need to use thread-locking fluid on the threads of the chuck where it screws onto the drill.
 You can use the same tools to install a new chuck, or to replace the original chuck after cleaning:








Thread the base of the chuck onto the spindle.
Open the chuck.
Insert the Allen wrench and tighten by hand.
Insert the screw and tighten by turning counterclockwise.

