 Take an old lingerie bag or buy a new one from the women’s section at any clothing store. You will use this to protect your paper money in the washing machine. Lingerie bags are small, zip-up bags made of fine mesh that are designed to safely wash delicate undergarments. The bag will keep heavy streams of water and the movements of the washing machine drum from destroying the bills.You may have discovered from experience that paper money will hold up through an accidental trip through the laundry. Dollar bills are constructed mostly of cotton and durable cellulose fibers, meaning that they can safely be cleaned in a washing machine under the right conditions.
Lingerie bags and other mesh wash bags are cheap, and can be purchased new in most places for less than $10.;
, Select the dirty bills that most need cleaning. Place these in the lingerie bag. Make sure all the bills are separated and laid out flat. It may be a good idea to put a folded hand towel or some other small washable item in the bag with the paper money to keep it from getting knocked around as much during the wash cycle.It is not advisable to wash all of your paper money this way, nor to clean large amounts at one time. You should only clean bills that are caked with enough dirt, grease or grime to become a possible health risk.
 Set the washing machine to a gentle wash cycle and turn it on. Place the lingerie bag containing the money in the washing machine as it fills. Add a very small amount of detergent to the load. Let the money complete the cycle in the wash.Stop the washing machine and take a look at the bills every now and then to make sure they aren’t tearing or coming apart in the wash.
If the bills you’re cleaning are especially old or fragile, consider cutting off the wash cycle early to prevent possible damage.
 Take the lingerie bag out of the washing machine. Remove the loose bills from the bag. Be very careful: the wet money will be delicate and very easily torn. Separate the bills and lay them out on a towel or other flat, dry surface. Let the bills dry completely before handling.Leaving the bills beneath a ceiling fan on a low setting will allow air to circulate around them, which can help dry them faster.
Paper money should only be air-dried, just to be on the safe side. Never put loose bills through the dryer or use a hair dryer or other heat source to dry them.

