 Ask the bartender for a shot of whiskey and a short glass full of water, then bet your friends you can switch the liquid in the glasses without using a third glass, and without putting either of them in your mouth. If you can't do it, the next round is on them. The trick is, you'll be able to do it every time.Use a business card, a playing card, or a coaster and cover the water-glass tightly with it. Turn it upside down, and put the water glass on top of the whiskey with the card separating them. Line them up carefully, then slowly pull the card out, so a little space remains.
If you watch closely, the different densities of the liquids will cause them to switch places gradually. The water will flow down into the whiskey and the whiskey will rise, until both glasses are eventually switched.
 Order two shots and then bet a friend for the next round that there's no way they'll be able to repeat after you and drink their shot exactly the way you drink yours. To complete the trick, you'll need four coins, two given to each participant.


Tell your friend to do exactly what you do. Put your shot glass on a coaster and let your friend repeat it. Then, put one coin to one side of your shot glass. When your friend does the same, put another coin on the other side. Your friend should be feeling quite confident now.
Pick up the glass and take the shot, but do not swallow all of it. Hold some of it in your mouth, but swallow some of it to make it look like you took the whole thing. Your friend will be trained in repeating after you, and will down the shot. When he looks at you expectantly, spit out the rest of your shot back into your glass. Since he's taken his, he won't be able to repeat after you, meaning that you win!

, Bet a friend that you can drink two pints of beer before they'll be able to take two shots of whatever liquor they favor. The only rules are that you're not allowed to touch the other's glasses and that you both have to wait to pick up the second glass until you've both put your first glasses down.


Your friend will take the first shot quickly. Try to drink your beer quickly, looking concerned that you'll lose. Your friend will wait for you to finish smugly and talk trash. When you're finished with your beer, put it upside down over your friend's second shot, then pick up your beer and drink it at your leisure.
 Bet your friends for a round that you can make smoke come from your fingertips, then rub your fingertips together and promptly blow your minds. This bar trick requires a little preparation, but is easy to pull off.


Tear off the striker strip from a box or a book of matches and fold it in half. Put it into an ashtray and light it on fire. Let it burn for a while and then blow it out. When you move it aside, there should be a yellowish-brownish residue left. Wipe it up with your fingers. When you rub your fingertips together, they should smoke slightly.
 Come up with a pile of 17 coins, preferably all the same, but the trick works just as well with a variety of coins. Tell your friend that you'll take turns pulling one, two, or three coins at a time from the pile, but that your friend will always be the last person to choose.The trick requires that you let your friend pick first. When they pull their coins from the pile, pull enough coins so that the sum taken from the pile for each turn is 4. In other words, if your friend takes 1 coin, you'll take 3. If your friend takes 2, you take two. Always keep the sum 4. After four rounds, you'll only be left with 1 coin and it'll be your friend's turn. You win!

, Tell your friends that, like Soviet Russia, you can make a glass drink itself. For the trick, you'll need a glass with some water in it, a small plate or a saucer, and a match.


Pour some water or other liquid from the glass into the saucer. Hold the glass upside down and light a match. Hold the match under the glass and wait for the match to burn out. When it does, put the glass upside down onto the plate and the liquid will move into the glass mysteriously, from the suction created by the heat.

