 Before going to bed that night, make sure you know what time you need to wake up in the morning. Know when you have any morning appointments, like a hair stylist, and when you can expect the arrival of any wedding services, like a florist delivery or a limo.Write out a schedule ahead of time so you can reference it easily on the big day. Put it in an easily-accessible place so your wedding party or family can see it, or email the schedule out to them ahead of time. Letting everyone know what to expect and what they need to do will help everyone feel more prepared and relaxed.;
, Get all wedding supplies prepped and ready to go. You may wish to make a list of supplies you need ahead of time and who is responsible for bringing which item.


Know where the rings are and who will be bringing them to the ceremony.
If you have any items for the ceremony, like candles or music, have them set aside and know who is bringing them.
Pack a small bag or purse with items you may need during the wedding day, such as makeup, your phone, bobby pins, or breath mints.
 Lay out your wedding clothing and shoes. Put any accessories you will be wearing in a visible place, so you will not have to search for them.


Take care of any last-minute wardrobe needs ahead of time, like ironing or shining your shoes.
Have all the toiletries you need for tomorrow ready in the bathroom.
 Don’t add to your pre-wedding stress by waiting until the last minute to tie up loose ends. Do the necessary prep work as far out as possible from the wedding.


Delegate last-minute tasks to your wedding party or trustworthy family members. Do not make them your workhorses, but it’s okay to ask them to run to the store for a last-minute item, for example. Treat your wedding party well! They may have gone through expense or inconvenience to be there for you on your special day.If you know ahead of time you will need help with last-minute items, like dropping off place cards at the reception hall or giving a head count to the caterer, enlist help ahead of time. Designate a member of the wedding party or trustworthy family member to help you complete the task.
You could say, “Katie, would you mind calling the caterer and giving them a final count for the kids’ meals? I would really appreciate your help!”

