 It’s important to choose the right words depending on your audience. For example, you should use formal language when sending an email to your boss or drafting a cover letter for a job application. Save your informal language, such as beginning an email with “Hey,” for close friends and family.;
, Choosing the right words also means explaining them to audiences who may be unfamiliar with particular words or phrases. For example, if you are writing about a new technology, you may need to explain the technical terms that appear in your paper or email as your audience may not have encountered them in the past.
 One of the most common mistakes in written communication is misusing a particular word. Oftentimes you may think a word means one thing, but it in fact means something entirely different. For example, you might write that Native Americans are not a monotonous culture, when in fact you mean that Native Americans are not a homogenous culture.Ask yourself, “Am I sure I know the definition of this word?”
Use a dictionary to look up the definitions are words whose meaning you are not quite sure about.
 Sometimes you will write a sentence without realizing that your choice of words is delivering an unwanted meaning. For example, you might write, “I looked inside the boy’s private place,” when in fact you meant, “I looked around the boy’s hiding place.”, It’s easy to fall into the trap of using jargon or technical terms when it’s not necessary to do so. While it’s sometimes necessary to use technical terms, make sure you don’t overload your writing with unnecessary jargon. For example, don’t write, “The dialectical interface between the Republicans and Democrats offers an algorithm for neoliberal thought.” Instead, try writing, “The dialogue between Republicans and Democrats offers a model for neoliberal thought.”, A cliché is a phrase that has been overused to the extent that it has lost its original effect or meaning. These trite and often stereotypes expressions should be avoided if you’re aiming to improve your written communication skills. Instead of writing, “in this day and age,” try writing, “today” or “presently.” Instead of writing, “dead as a door nail,” just write, “dead.”, It’s important to understand that different types of written communication have different requirements. An email, for example, has different requirements than a corporate report. A letter to an insurance company, similarly, will be written differently than a set of guidelines for employees.

