 Surgery is another treatment option for feline intestinal lymphoma. It is recommended when the cancer has blocked part of the intestine or the intestine is perforated (has small holes in it).Surgery is also a good option when there is only one tumor mass.When discussing treatment options with your vet, ask them whether surgery would be a good option.


If intestinal lymphoma has made your cat very sick, your vet may be concerned about it being strong enough to undergo surgery.
 If surgery is a good option for your cat, your vet will surgically remove as much of the tumor as possible. Because lymphoma often spreads to other organs, your vet will likely take biopsies of other digestive organs, such as the liver and pancreas, to determine if the cancer has spread.Your vet will send these samples to a pathologist, who will analyze the samples under a microscope to look for cancerous lymphocytes.


Rather than just removing the tumor, your vet will remove the section of intestine containing the tumor.
Your cat will need some time to recover at your vet’s office. Your vet or a member of their staff will contact you to let you know when you can take your cat home.
 When pick up your cat, you will receive some at-home care instructions. Following these instructions will help your cat start feeling better after surgery. Examples of instructions are below:Monitor your cat for signs of poor recovery, including shivering, pale gums, and bleeding. Call your vet if your cat is not recovering well.
Offer half of your cat’s normal servings of food and water about two hours after bringing your cat home. Keep in mind that, with lymphoma, your cat was likely already eating less.
If your vet prescribed pain medication, follow the prescription instructions carefully when giving the medication to your cat.
Check the incision site each day. If it looks discolored or you see discharge coming from the incision, the incision may be infected. Contact your vet.
 Since lymphoma can affect multiple organs, chemotherapy is often recommended after surgical treatment for feline intestinal lymphoma. However, because chemotherapy can delay wound healing and possibly cause the surgical incision to rupture, your vet will recommend waiting 10‒14 days after surgery before starting chemotherapy.