 Losing a job or dealing with a failing business can be stressful and induce feelings of shame and self-doubt. Left unchecked, these emotions can be crippling and make it more difficult for you to bounce back. Consider talking to someone like a religious leader or a mental health professional who will help you get some perspective and move through negative emotions.Although it is important to grieve your loss, the sooner that you address the negative emotions attached to your setback, the sooner you will be able to move past them.
 Although the negative emotions attached to a financial setback can be difficult to address, practicing some self-care can help you deal with them. Keep up your exercise routine and continue to give yourself time to relax. If you do not take time for yourself, it will be difficult to shed the anxiety attached to your financial setback.


You might try relaxing by meditating, exercising, or doing some other activity that makes you feel good.
Although cutting back on expenses is necessary, you should prioritize those activities that value the most. For example, if your gym membership makes you happy, do not cut it when you trim your expenses.
 In the face of financial strain, you will need the support of your friends and family. Not only will these people help you come up with solutions to the setback, they will also help you deal with the accompanying stress and anxiety. Make sure that you prioritize quality time with your loved ones.Consider looking for inexpensive family activities, like going hiking or hanging out in your local park.
Although financial troubles at work may make it difficult to spend time with your family, make sure that you prioritize time with your loved ones. You should schedule times that are family only and stick with them.
 Although financial setbacks can make you feel ashamed, you should not hide those problems from your family or friends. If you try to hide or are dishonest about them, your financial problems can cause serious damage to your relationships. In order to build and maintain trust with those that you love, you need to be upfront with them about any financial setbacks.When talking to your children out your setback, make sure that you tell them about it in a way that is age appropriate. Try to let younger children know what is going on without causing them excess anxiety, while telling older children how they can help out.
 When facing a significant financial setback, you may resort to risky behaviors that will only compound your problems. For instance, you might take out a high interest loan to meet your financial needs. You might also abuse drugs and alcohol to manage the negative emotions associated with your setback. Ultimately, these kinds of risky behaviors will only sink you deeper in debt while possibly damaging your personal relationships.

