 A person who is on club drugs may have coordination problems. They may have difficulty walking or walk in an awkward way. Their muscles may cramp up and cause them to be unable to move the correct way.The person may be dizzy or faint.They may clench their teeth or jaw.;
, Club drugs cause many negative side effects, such as shaking or tremors. The person may appear to be chilled, or they may actually be sweating. When you touch their skin, they may be clammy or damp. They may be shaking like they're freezing, but their skin may be wet or covered in sweat.Notice if their hands or limbs are shaking as they do daily tasks. Watch for sweating or damp skin when they haven't been in the heat or doing physical activity.
 Many club drugs dilate the user's pupils to an unusually large size, including methamphetamine, LSD, and GHB.Constricted "pinpoint" pupils, even in dimly lit rooms, are often an effect of heroin or other opioids, but these drugs are less common in party scenes., Different club drugs affect people in different ways. On ecstasy (the most common club drug) or other stimulants a person may have extremely high energy levels. On sedatives, such as rohypnol, the person may have no energy or lose consciousness completely.Many drugs can cause aggressive or combative behavior, or hallucinations that cause the user to react with fear or euphoria to nonexistent stimuli.All the drugs affect the brain but in different ways. Any significant change in someone you know should raise a red flag that drug use might be causing the change.
 Some club drugs, such as Ecstasy or meth, can cause paranoia. Those who are using club drugs may think there is a threat or be more apprehensive than normal. They may even have hallucinations, act like they are in a dream, or feel disconnected from reality.The person may also have delusions or act in a delusional manner.
 Club drugs lower people’s inhibitions. Often, they feel good due to the drugs and end up engaging in reckless behavior. This may be driving or doing other dangerous things while under the influence, or participating in risky sexual acts.Because of drugs, people may make poor judgments, which may lead to injury.
 Many club drugs are stimulants, so they make people stay up all night so they can dance and party. A person appears to be having a great time and is super excitable. They may act hyper or do things in an abnormally fast or hyperactive way.This may include sporadic movements or talking very fast.
 People who use club drugs may not make a lot of sense if you talk to them. Their speech may be slurred, or they may speak in sentences that don’t make any sense. The person may say things they don’t remember saying.They may do things while under the influence that they don’t remember, or may lose consciousness completely.
 Depression is another common symptom of drug addiction. They may become extremely depressed after coming down from the high of the club drug. They may become irritable or withdraw from family and friends.They may have problems sleeping, such as insomnia.
 Many drugs can cause long-term mood or behavioral changes even after the drug has left the system, especially for frequent users. Even if you only see someone while they are sober, you may notice major mood changes, paranoid episodes, or difficulty functioning.

See below for specific information on the effects of common club drugs.

