 If you want to travel solo but don’t want to feel completely alone, you can sign up for group trips and tours. These can often be a great way to safely travel by yourself and you will meet a lot of new people to share in your travel experiences. If an entire group trip does not appeal to you, combine some group-based activities with solo time.For example, you could take a five day bus tour through Italy and then spend three days exploring Rome on your own.
Research and book group trips ahead of time.
Typically, the more expensive the tour, the older the demographic.
 If you are worried about feeling lonely while traveling, do not isolate yourself in a 5-star hotel. Although glamorous, large hotels are not the best places to meet people. Instead, you should stay in a more community-oriented space, such as a hostel or bed and breakfast.At a hostel it is easy to meet fellow travelers and many will have group tours offered through the hostel. You can opt to pay a bit more for a single room, if you are not interested in sharing your sleeping space with strangers.
B&B’s are a great place to meet locals who can give you amazing dining and travel tips. The owners are usually very eager to share information about the local culture and B&Bs often feel more homey than a large hotel.
 Don’t be afraid to meet people and talk to strangers. While you are traveling on your own, you will find that it is actually quite easy to meet people. Strike up a conversation with anyone who looks friendly. One way to meet people is by offering to take someone's picture. Then you can begin a conversation from there.Alternatively, you could head to a local bar and strike up a conversation with the bartender or other patrons. You could say something like “I hear California Sushi has the best sushi in town. Is that true?” Locals will be eager to give you their opinion.Another way to meet people when you are traveling in a large city, is to ask people where they are from. Most people, even those living in the city, have likely migrated there for work. This can often lead to fun and interesting conversations.
 There are a growing number of social media-based apps that can connect travelers. These can be a great way to easily meet like-minded individuals while traveling. Try out some of these sites:


Meetup is a site where you can meet up with a group of people for a variety of different events including photography walks, happy hour, picnics etc.
Leaplocal will connect you with local guides who can show you around.
Couchsurfing is a way to find accommodations by staying with a local. This is a great way to meet new people.
 You can also fight the feelings of isolation by keeping in touch with your family and friends back home. For example, schedule a Skype call periodically throughout your trip. You can also post pictures from your trip onto social media sites, such as Facebook or Instagram. This will allow your friends and family to comment and engage with you, while you are traveling.Keeping in touch is also a good safety precaution. This allows your friends and family to know where you are throughout your trip.

