 Make lists of everything you plan on doing that day or that week. Once you're done, cross those things out so that you feel encouraged and motivated. Your list should be realistic and attainable. If you make a list of 20 items but only achieve 5 items on your list, you will feel like you didn’t get anything done.Prioritize your tasks so you know what’s most important and needs to be completed first.
If your list is too long, try having separate lists for different areas of your life such as personal, school/work, and home.
People are typically more productive in the morning. Try to complete a more difficult task from your list in the morning and then handle the other items on your list. You will feel accomplished and can carry that momentum into the rest of your day.
 Your list only works if you actually use it. Setting deadlines will hold you accountable. Do your best to stick to your deadlines. Also be sure to set realistic deadlines that consider your responsibilities and other obligations.For example, if you need to schedule some personal appointments but will be tied up at meetings during work all day, a realistic deadline would be scheduling all of the appointments in the next few days instead of by the end of your busy work day.
Give yourself some room for error when choosing a deadline. The deadline should be a few days before your task has to be finished.
 You can set alarms on your phone, computer, or place visual reminders of the things you have to get done. Use the method that works best for you. It may help to use multiple methods as well. Your reminders should be set for the final deadline and any mini deadlines to keep you on schedule.For example, if you have a task that needs to be completed in 2 weeks, you may have reminders set at day 7, day 10, and day 14.
 Systematize all your daily tasks so you can manage your time efficiently. Always check your calendar at the start of the day and make any necessary changes, so you know all your tasks for the day. Make sure your calendar is easily accessible and highlights all important events.
 You experience downtime throughout your day. You can use that time to make a quick list or set your priorities for the day. Commuting to work/school is an ideal time to get some of this planning done.All of your downtime should not be devoted to planning and organizing. This could become stressful and do more harm than good.
If you have 10 minutes of downtime, start by devoting 2 or 3 minutes to getting organized.

