 Black is a bad idea. At all hours, you'll stick out like a sore thumb. Red attracts attention. Wear greys and greens. If the weather permits it, wear a hooded sweater or jacket.;
, if possible go into a shop to change outfit.
 If someone sees you you can drop the bag off somewhere. People who recognised you with the bag may, surprisingly, not recognise you without it.(Make sure the bag matches your outfit- a hoodie and a briefcase would look out of place)

, See which direction they're headed in, and how fast they are moving, remember to keep this pace.
 You should be on the opposite side of the street from them. Get a little bit in front of the person you're tracking, then slow down to about their walking pace (Be careful not to make too obvious of a change. It will draw their attention).
 If the weather isn't cold enough to make a bent head plausible, keep looking down at your watch.
 Pretend that you're busy. Walk around reading a book, etc.
 If this happens, keep on walking nonchalantly. If you are behind your target, move in front, until you have created that same ten meter gap. At the nearest corner or parked van, or any other form of cover for that matter, hide and look back. Be careful not to be seen while doing so. You should count to three after hiding before looking back.
 Instead, move away at a normal pace, as though you heard a noise behind you. Then, continue walking, as though you did not recognize your quarry, until you find the next bit of suitable cover. (Note: It is recommended that if you are hiding in an indentation in a building that you hold out a book, binder, or cell phone, and return your attention to that as you withdraw back into your spot).
 Look at your watch or pretend to check a text message on your cell phone, then shout a curse or exclamation and run past your target at a dead run. Do not look directly at them. Logically, if you were avoiding them, you'd run the other way, so the fact that you went past is a sure sign that you have to be somewhere. Right...? No. Find a secure hiding spot (preferably on the other side of the street), and wait it out there. Keep an eye on your target, but sit tight.
 If you plan on following the person as they emerge, get as far away from the entrance of the building as you can while still retaining the ability to recognize them if they leave.
 Make sure that you are across the street from them. Then, keeping your head down to keep from being recognized, allow them to walk past, giving them a distance of 15–20 meters (49.2–65.6 ft).
, If you are spotted give a signal (hand signal, text etc) for them to take over. Swap outfits and follow him again later if your friend(s) gets spotted. Also if you walk alongside a friend, talking to them, you are less noticeable.

