 Arrange ahead of time to take a towel or blanket your new kitten slept on from her old home. Having a familiar scent will make the adjustment much easier. Use this blanket or towel in the carrier on the way home and leave it there for your cat to sleep on., The carrier will keep your kitten safe and help her feel more secure. Place a towel in the carrier for warmth and to absorb urine in case of an accident.Don’t use another pet’s carrier, as the smell of another animal can be stressful to the kitten.
 Provide your kitten with her own small room or space. It should be quiet and out of the way. The space should have a bed, water, kitten food, a litter box, scratching post, and safe toys.Whether you use a cardboard box or a bed purchased from a pet store, consider lining it with an old sweatshirt so your kitten can grow accustomed to your scent.
Be sure the room or space has places to hide. If there is no furniture to hide behind, put cardboard boxes in the room with holes cut into them for your cat to enter.
 Place her carrier in the room, open the door, and let her come out when she’s ready. Leave the carrier in the room as another hiding place., You will likely want to hold and pet your kitten continuously. Don’t. Your kitten needs time to adjust to her new environment, including the people in it. Introduce one family member at a time, and take it slow, letting your kitten come to you.Be sure to teach young children how to interact with your kitten properly, including how to safely hold her.
Do not allow children under 5 to interact with the kitten. It is unsafe for the cat.
 When your kitten is eating, drinking, and using the litter box regularly, that is a sign that she is comfortable in her room and you can start introducing her to the rest of your home one room at a time.Place her open carrier in a room and let her explore on her own. After exploring, bring your kitten back to her den for at least a few hours before exploring the next room.If your kitten climbs on something – a bookshelf, bed, etc. – that you don’t want her on, gently pick her up and place her on the floor. If you do this from day one, you should have less trouble establishing off-limits places for your cat.
 Giving the kitten the food she is used to will provide a source of comfort and avoid an upset stomach caused by the bacteria in her gut having to adjust to a new food.Plan ahead and ask the person you are buying the kitten from what kind of food they have been feeding it, so you can have that food ready when your kitten arrives at your home.
 Cats produce facial pheromones (chemical signals) that they rub on things they know are safe—like their bed, a chair, or even your leg. There are plug-in diffusers that spray a synthetic version of these pheromones, which let cats know they are in safe environment. They last about 30 days – plenty of time to comfort your kitten until she has adjusted to her new environment.The most commonly used kind of pheromone diffuser is Feliway. It can come as a spray or as a device that you plug in to the wall that will emit the pheromones automatically.

