 If your guy only calls you hours after the sun has set below the horizon and the stars come out, chances are, it's not because he's in the mood for stargazing. Though it does mean that he's definitely in the mood. If you never hear from him until after-hours, unless he's a doctor with an insane schedule, it's likely that it means he only has sex on the brain.;
, If he gets in touch with you on week nights but you almost never hear from him on the weekends, it's because he's reserving the weekends for his Grade-A tail, or for the women that he actually thinks are worth dating. If you never hear from him until rarely on Friday or Saturday nights, but come Tuesday, his schedule is wide open, then it's because he expects your legs to be wide open, too., If you only hear from him once or twice a week, and it's not to set up a date, but to sporadically come over right now, then he may just want you for sex. If you can't get a hold of him when you want to see how he's doing for five days, but suddenly he's blowing up your phone at midnight on a Wednesday night, then he must be ready for some more convenient late night lovin'.
 If you text him to say, "How's your day going?" or "How was your big test?" and you hear nothing but the crickets in the woods behind your house, then he doesn't want to make small talk. But if you text him a casual "I want to see you," one night, and you can already hear him put his foot on the gas pedal, then you have a problem. , It's okay to have a busy schedule, but if it means your guy can never make time for dinner and a movie but can always make time for some catching-up between the sheets, then he's not busy -- he just wants to get busy. If you know that he has time to hang out with friends, go to sporting events, and spend hours watching TV with his brother, but when he's too busy to grab coffee on a Sunday afternoon, then he just doesn't want to make time for you.
 If he only calls you to "hang out" at your place, or to spend some time "catching up" on the couch of his dirty apartment, then he doesn't really want to do anything that doesn't involve your body. Sure, the occasional drink or fancy dinner can be his way of "making it up to you," but if you feel like you almost never see the outside world together, then he doesn't want you to be a part of his everyday life for a reason.

