 Before considering removing a mole, you should have a physician examine it to determine that it is benign and not cancerous. It is critically important that you do not try to remove the mole yourself without first having it professionally examined. If the mole is harmless, you can discuss safe removal options with your physician. If the mole isn’t bothering you, you might consider just leaving it alone; however, you might consider removing the mole if:It rubs against clothing.
It gets caught in jewelry.
You consider it unsightly.
It causes you to feel stress, anxiety, or embarrassment.;
, The area around the mole will be numbed with a local anesthetic. A surgeon will then remove the mole and some of the surrounding skin using a scalpel or similar device. The wound will the be closed with stitches so that it can heal properly.


Your physician may examine the mole again after removing it for further tests (a biopsy) to determine whether or not it indicates skin cancer., The area around the mole will be numbed with a local anesthetic. A small blade will then be used to cut off the mole and some of the area beneath it. This technique does not require stitches to heal, but is typically used only for smaller moles.
 Super-cold liquid nitrogen will be dabbed onto the mole, which will then separate easily from your skin. This method may cause a blister, but it should heal on its own.
 This does not involve applying flame to the mole, but rather carefully using a special medical device to deliver an electrical current to cauterize and remove the mole. This method might take several treatments to fully remove larger moles, since the electrical current only burns off a thin layer of skin.
 Some chemicals, such as salicylic acid, can be applied to a mole in order to remove it;however, it is very important that a trained physician administers this treatment. If you improperly apply salicylic acid or another chemical to your mole, burns, infection, or permanent scarring can result.

