 Before boiling white rice, it’s a good idea to rinse it. That removes any dusty starch that might be on the rice so it doesn’t stick together when it cooks. Place 1 cup (195 g) medium- or long-grain white rice in a strainer, and rinse it under cold running water.Rinsing the rice isn’t always necessary. Some rice may have more starch on it than others, though, so you may just want to get in the habit of doing it with every batch that you boil.;
, Add 2 cups (470 ml) of water to a small saucepan, and place it on the stove at medium-high to high heat. Allow the water to heat until it comes to a roiling boil.When you’re making white rice, use a use a 1:2 ratio for the rice and water. That means for every 1 cup of rice you plan to make, use 2 cups of water.
As it cooks, rice expands so it’s important to use a pan that’s large enough for the amount that you’re making. In general, a 2-quart (2.5 L) pan is large enough for 1 to 2 cups of uncooked rice.
 Once the water comes to a boil, add the rice and ½ teaspoon of (2.84 g) salt and stir gently. Allow the pot to come to a gentle simmer.You can also add 1 tablespoon (14 g) of butter or oil to flavor the rice and keep it from sticking together as it cooks.
 After the pot reaches a simmer, turn the burner’s heat down to low, and cover the pot with its lid. Allow the rice to cook for approximately 18 minutes. At that point, start checking its texture. When the rice is finished, it will be firm but not crunchy. You want it to be tender, so it’s okay if it’s somewhat sticky. However, make sure that you don’t cook it so long that it becomes gummy.Don’t take the lid off the pot before the 18 minute mark. It helps trap steam that aids in the cooking process, so if you remove the lid, it may take longer for the rice to finish.
If you don’t have a lid for your pot, use foil to cover it while the rice cooks. Just make sure to cinch the foil around the edges so the steam can’t escape.
If there’s still water left in the pot when the rice is finished cooking, you should drain it. Just tilt it over the sink to allow the excess water to drip out.
 Once the rice is finished cooking, turn off the heat but leave the rice in the pot with the lid on. Let it sit and steam for another 5 minutes to finish off the cooking process., Just before you’re ready to serve, take the lid off the pot and use a fork or spoon to comb through the rice and fluff it. Transfer the rice to a bowl or individual plates and serve.It’s a good idea to allow the rice to sit for another 2 to 3 minutes after fluffing before you serve it. That gives it some time to dry out so it’s not too wet and sticky when you serve it.

