 St. George’s Day is celebrated annually on the 23rd of April. This is St. George’s recorded day of death, so the holiday is used to memorialize his life and deeds with feasts, fellowship and a national pride. Save the date to make sure you don’t miss out!St. George’s Day falls on the same day every year.
The day is not a national holiday, which means banks, the post service and other businesses will still be open.;
, Hoist a flag outside your home, stick one on your vehicle or even wear one on (or as) your clothing. The flag is the most visible symbol of the holiday. It will probably look familiar—a large red cross on a white background. The cross refers to St. George’s role in the Crusades of the Middle Ages.You could also display the flag more subtly by wearing it on a button or patch.
St. George’s personal banner was later adopted as the national flag of England, so observing the holiday is a way of rejoicing in all things British., Incorporate some blue into your wardrobe to show that you’re staying in step with tradition. Blue was said to be St. George’s favorite color, so it’s now a custom to wear blue to major events, services and celebrations on the holiday.Pick out an eye-catching outfit in blue tones to wear to a dinner or social gathering.
 Another long held tradition involves pinning a rose blossom to your lapel or breast pocket. The rose is associated with St. George’s death, and has become one of his most recognizable symbols. Sporting one will identify you as someone who knows the meaning behind the day’s observance.A rosebud pin can be a tasteful way to add a little extra flair to your school uniform or work attire.
Find other ways to weave the symbol into your festivities, like wearing rose-scented perfume or setting the dinner table with a bouquet of roses.
 This is a good way to invoke the spirit of national pride. The poem is often sung on St. George’s Day as a way of linking the virtues of the patron saint to the country he represents.Written by English poet William Blake, “Jerusalem” is widely acknowledged as one of England’s national hymns.Sing “Jerusalem” as an anthem to support your team at a sporting event.

