 A yeast infection most commonly occurs as itching, burning and white patches either in the oral or genital area. However, some people have experienced further symptoms, including depression, headaches, fatigue, stomach pain, and indigestion.

Common, recurrent oral or genital yeast infections may be a sign of a more general yeast sensitivity. While the infection can be treated with a prescription, it is worth considering an underlying cause.
Some yeast infections will not respond well to prescriptions and you may find trying a yeast-free diet useful just to regain the a balance that has been thrown off. Since it is not a high-risk endeavor, trying a yeast-free diet is a popular method for people suffering from persistent infections.;
, You should check with your doctor to be diagnosed, as many of the symptoms suggested are general and can be due to multiple causes. Candida yeast overgrowth can often be measured, but even that may not be certain, and diagnosis by symptoms alone is disappointingly speculative.


If it is believed to be a yeast infection, you can get a prescription for antifungal medication (preferably a six week course) which you can take while on this diet as it will help kill the yeast infection. Appropriate antifungals include: Diflucan (Fluconazole), Lamisil (Terbinafine HCL), Nystatin, Sporanox
Many traditional practitioners are unconvinced that yeast-free diets are medically useful, so don't be surprised if your GP is not interested in what you choose to eat. Diet changes are difficult to measure (and could depend on individuals) so evidence may be limited for practical reasons, but nonetheless, not much exists.
 Whether you are imagining this to be simply for the next month and a half, or possibly for the foreseeable future, changing your diet can be a big undertaking if you aren't mentally prepared. Any time an elimination diet is starting, it is important to know all parameters of the diet and to be fully prepared. This is the number one key to success. Try to prepare yourself in advance, and find supportive people.


Remember that the first few days are likely to be the worst as your body transitions to a new diet. With a yeast-free diet, the physical balance in your body is thrown off even further before it rights itself, like trying to a right a boat in a rocky ocean.
Don't reward yourself with ways to cheat on the diet — instead, reward yourself with things that you love in other contexts, like being allowed to spend money or waste time on something you enjoy. Like other elimination-type diets, even the smallest "cheat" can cause a relapse of symptoms.

