 Primer creates a base for the rest of your makeup to stick to, meaning you can apply less and achieve a more optimal effect. Foundation will help even out your skin tone, and concealer will hide blemishes and discoloration. The key is to apply each sparingly.









Put a small dollop of primer on your finger and apply a thin layer all over your face.Give it a moment to dry, and repeat the same process with your foundation.
Only use concealer where necessary, such as to cover dark spots under the eyes, on blemishes, and to cover spots, flaws, veins, or redness. Apply small dabs of concealer where necessary, then blend with your finger.To set everything in place, consider applying a thin layer of finishing powder, which will help your makeup last longer and prevent oiliness.;
, The tricks with blush are choosing the right color, applying it in the right spot, and not putting on too much. Take a blush brush and dab it into your blush once or twice only.









Use sweeping strokes to apply a thin layer to your cheekbones.
Blow the excess makeup off the brush and then blend the blush into your skin until the lines completely disappear., For a basic everyday look, stick with pink shades, a natural gloss, or a cream lipstick that’s similar to your natural lip color. The trick with lipstick is to blend it into your lips with your finger after applying it, because this will soften the look.








If you find you’ve put on too much lipstick and want to get some off without starting over, take a piece of paper and give it a kiss with your full lips. Don’t blot lipstick with facial or bathroom tissue, as these leave white fibers on your lips., With a liquid or pencil eyeliner, apply a thin line of liner to the lash line on your top lashes. Try to get as close as possible to the lash line to keep the look subtle. For some extra definition, gradually make the line a little thicker in the middle, but taper it off to a thin line at the inner and outer corners.









To extend the length of your eye, slightly extend the liner beyond the outer corner, following the direction of your lashes.
For definition on the bottom eye lid, choose a liner that’s lighter than the one you used on the top, otherwise you will create an overly dramatic look. Be sure to keep the line thin and right at the lower lash line.
Instead of eyeliner, you can also use a thin line of powder eyeshadow as eyeliner., After eyeliner comes mascara, and the trick to mascara is making sure that it’s not so thick that it’s clumpy and unnatural looking. Pull the wand out of the bottle and, starting at the base of your top lash line, zig zag the wand back and forth across your lashes as you work your way toward the lash tips.









For a subtle look, only apply one or two coats. If necessary, go back with a clean wand or brush to brush out any clumps.
If you like, you can also apply a coat to the bottom lashes in the same way, but make sure it’s a light coat.
 You can wear a full face of makeup without overdoing it, and this even includes wearing eyeshadow. But to do this, you must use colors that complement your undertone and that are appropriate for your skin tone, and you must blend all the colors together.









Choose a color for your eyeshadow and select a base shade, a lighter shade, and a darker shade.
Apply the base shade all over your entire upper lid, then do a couple swipes with the lighter shade just below your brow. Use the darker shade in the crease to add definition. Blend all the colors with a clean brush.
If you are going to wear eyeshadow, eyeliner, and mascara, be sure to apply them in that order.
 You don’t want to draw your eyebrows on, as that will look overly dramatic and noticeable. Instead, you want to give some extra depth, shape, and color to them. Use the natural shade and shape of your eyebrows to guide you.








With a brow pencil that’s similar to your natural eyebrow color, apply short strokes of color to your eyebrows, then work the color through with an eyebrow brush or comb., If you went with a natural look for your eyes, you can get away with a brighter and bolder choice for your lips without overdoing your makeup.









Steer clear of darker colors like brown and magenta, and instead go with brighter reds and pinks.If you're going for a bold color, apply the lipstick with a lip brush, as this will prevent streaks, which are much more noticeable with a bright color., Your undertone is the color of your skin beneath the surface layer, and this never changes. Some colors complement each other better than others, so choosing makeup that doesn’t match your undertone can make you look ill, and it can make your makeup look very apparent and unnatural. Plus, your makeup won’t flatter your features the way it should when it’s the wrong color.


When you have a cool undertone, you tend to burn quickly in the sun, look best in silver jewelry, and have blue veins at the wrist.When you have a warm undertone, you tend to bronze in the sun, look better in gold jewelry, and have green veins at the wrist.
Neutral is the third undertone, and this means you'll look good in gold and silver, and will have blue-green veins at the wrist., When choosing a foundation, you want it to match your skin and complement your undertone. Using a foundation that’s the wrong shade will make your makeup look obvious and fake. Similarly, with a concealer, opt for a shade that’s just one or two shades lighter than your foundation.








Choose a lightweight foundation as well, otherwise your makeup will look thick and pancake-like. Lightweight foundations come in the form of liquids and powders. To identify them, look for words like “light,” “bare,” and “nude,” which denote that the foundation will provide light coverage.
When testing foundations, test it on your jawline to make sure it will match the skin on your face and not stand out against your neck.
Look for foundation in shades of cocoa, porcelain, rose, or sable if your undertone is cool. Go for golden, tan, caramel, chestnut, or beige if you're warm. If you have a neutral undertone, opt for nude, buff, ivory, or praline., One of the best ways to avoid overdoing makeup is to choose eyeliner and eye shadow colors that are neutral or that only have a hint of non-neutral color.Moreover, if you go neutral and natural with your eyes, you can get away with a bolder color on your lips, and vice versa.For instance, brown eyeliner will be less dramatic than black, but you can use a red-brown if that color complements you and brings out your eyes. And if you stick with neutral browns for the eyes, consider a brighter and more vibrant shade for your lips.
To choose colors based on your undertone, stick with blues, purples, greens, beiges, pinks, and berry colors if you're cool. If you're warm, go for earth tones in reds, yellows, browns, greens, and peaches. People with neutral undertones can wear all these colors, but the most complementary will be raspberries, lemons, and lavender shades., Just as the colors in your clothing outfits should match or complement each other, so too should your cosmetics colors, especially when it comes to blush and lipstick.








To wear blush and lipstick without overdoing it, it’s important to choose makeup shades based on how fair or dark your skin is. The paler your skin, the lighter your makeup should be; similarly, the darker your skin, the darker your makeup can be.
For fair skin, try blush and a complementary lipstick (in the same color family) in plum or light pink. For dark skin, go for tangerine or raisin. For olive skin, try rose or bronze.