 Not everyone can use Chapter 7. Instead, Chapter 7 has been reserved for those who cannot pay their bills. You will qualify for Chapter 7 in one of two situations:


Your income is less than your state’s median for a family of your size. Check here to find your state’s median: https://www.justice.gov/ust/eo/bapcpa/20161101/bci_data/median_income_table.htm. If you’re below the median, you automatically qualify.
Even if you are above the median, you can qualify if you don’t have enough disposable income each month after paying your bills. You can use a calculator here to check: https://www.legalconsumer.com/bankruptcy/means-test/. Also consult with a bankruptcy attorney if you have questions.;
, Credit counseling will take about two hours. You and the counselor will discuss your options other than bankruptcy. You cannot file for bankruptcy until you complete credit counseling.


Find a counselor in your state here: https://www.justice.gov/ust/list-approved-providers-personal-financial-management-instructional-courses-debtor-education. Click on your state under “Choose Option.”
If you live in Alabama or North Carolina, find a counselor at this website: http://www.uscourts.gov/services-forms/bankruptcy/credit-counseling-and-debtor-education-courses. Click on your district.
 Filing requires that you complete a petition and supporting documents called schedules. You list your debts, assets, and income on the schedules. Your lawyer can complete the paperwork for you. Remember to keep a copy for your records.


If you don’t have a lawyer, you can pick up a packet of forms from your court. Also look on the court’s website.
Find your bankruptcy court here: http://www.uscourts.gov/court-locator. Select “bankruptcy” under Court Type and then enter your address.
You must pay a $335 filing fee., After you file, the bankruptcy court contacts all of the creditors listed on your schedules and tells them you have filed for bankruptcy. Your creditors must stop all collection actions, including foreclosures. This is called the “automatic stay.”If your lender calls, tell them you have filed for bankruptcy. Give them your attorney’s number.
Your mortgage company can file to have the stay lifted. It can file the motion in bankruptcy court, and you will have a chance to respond. Nevertheless, it usually takes a couple of months for the court to decide the motion, and your foreclosure is stopped until the judge lifts the stay.
 In exchange for wiping out debts, bankruptcy will require the trustee to sell some assets and use the proceeds to pay your creditors. For this reason, you still might lose your home even if you stop foreclosure.


The trustee can sell your home if you have equity in it.For example, your home might be worth $150,000. If your mortgage is worth $130,000, then you have $20,000 in equity. The trustee can sell your home and use that $20,000 to pay your creditors.
You can protect some equity in your home by using an exemption. Every state has exemptions for homes, but the amount of the exemption will differ depending on your state. For example, Texas allows most homeowners to exempt an unlimited amount in their home.Alabama, by contrast, allows homeowners to exempt $15,000.You should thoroughly consider whether you will lose your home in bankruptcy before filing. Check the appraised value by looking at your property tax bill or comparing the home to others listed for sale in your area. Then compare this estimated value with the amount of your mortgage.
If you have equity in your home, consider Chapter 13 bankruptcy instead.
 There’s no point saving your home if you can’t make payments. The automatic stay will end when your bankruptcy ends, usually in a few months. At that point, you’ll probably lose your home. If you want to work out a loan modification, consider what you can afford.



Make a budget. Add up your fixed expenses, including your mortgage payment. Other fixed expenses include health care, insurance, food, and transportation. See if you can cut discretionary spending on things like meals at restaurants and vacations.
Confirm that your budget is realistic. Ideally, you shouldn’t contribute more than 31% of your gross monthly income to your mortgage., Your automatic stay will eventually end. Work quickly to iron out a repayment plan with your lender that is affordable. Gather your loan paperwork and call. Your lender might be willing to help you out, although they may insist on foreclosure if you are already behind on payments. Ask about any of the following:Forbearance. Your lender might be willing to let you stop making payments for a short period of time. Once you are caught up, your mortgage payments will continue according to your regular schedule.
Loan reinstatement. If you can pull together the money to pay all of the unpaid mortgage payments, then ask for reinstatement. This will get you current on the mortgage.
Loan modification. The lender might agree to modify your loan by stretching out the payments or by lowering the interest rate. Your lender also might add your missed payments to the balance and let you pay the amount off over the remainder of your loan.
 Be careful as you consider your options for saving your home. If your lender won’t work with you, you might be tempted to use an agency that promises to save your home from foreclosure. You should always thoroughly research businesses before signing up with them. Unfortunately, there are many scammers out there. Protect yourself by doing the following:


Check with the Better Business Bureau for the city where the company has its headquarters. Also check for complaints with your state’s Attorney General office and a local consumer protection agency.
Make sure the agency is approved by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. You can find a list of agencies by calling 877-483-1515 or visiting https://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hcc/hcs.cfm.
Avoid working with anyone guaranteeing results. Reputable agencies cannot make promises.
Don’t work with anyone who charges fees before providing services or who requires that you wire money to them or pay with a cashier’s check.
Avoid signing blank forms or letting an agency complete forms for you. Always carefully read something before signing it.
 In a Chapter 13, you keep all of your property. This is a good option for people with a lot of equity in their home. Instead of selling assets to pay creditors, you come up with a repayment plan that lasts three to five years.Talk with a lawyer about whether Chapter 13 is a better option for you.
Your credit counselor also should have discussed Chapter 13 with you.
 Chapter 13 is more complicated than Chapter 7, so you need to hire a lawyer. You can find a bankruptcy lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association.Ask for a referral.


At your consultation, talk about how much it will cost for the lawyer to represent you. An average Chapter 13 bankruptcy usually costs $3,000, though this amount depends on where you live.You might qualify for legal aid if you’re low income (income below 125% of the federal poverty level). Visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website to find legal aid: http://www.lsc.gov.
You can fold some or all of your attorney’s fees into your repayment plan, which can make obtaining a lawyer affordable.
 Your repayment plan will last three to five years, depending on your income. You must pay 100% of certain debts, such as child support payments and secured loans (such as your mortgage). You’ll also pay only a percentage of your unsecured debts, like credit cards and medical debt.A judge must approve the repayment plan.


Your lawyer will help you come up with a repayment plan. You can also use the repayment plan you came up in credit counseling as a guide.
You can pay your mortgage arrears (unpaid mortgage payments) as part of repayment plan.
At the end of the repayment plan, your remaining unsecured debt will be wiped out. However, your mortgage won’t because that is a secured debt.
 You must submit a petition and schedules of income, expenditures, assets, and liabilities. You must also show that you attended credit counseling.Your lawyer should handle filing for you.


It costs $310 to file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy. You can pay in installments.
Once you file, an automatic stay immediately goes into effect, so your foreclosure should be stopped immediately.
 You must continue to make mortgage payments as they fall do.If you stop, your lender can start up the foreclosure process. Should you find yourself in financial difficulty, contact your attorney.


You may be able to submit a modified repayment plan, if necessary.Doing so could free up more money to contribute to your mortgage payments.

