 You want your first can to be at least ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) wider and taller than your second can. This extra space will eventually be filled with ice to make the sides and top/bottom of your luminary.Try to use cans with smooth walls rather than ribbed walls. This will make removing the ice easier.
You can also use plastic containers, such as old yogurt tubs or food storage containers. Glass is not recommended, as the expanding ice can cause it to shatter., Don't worry if there is any glue residue on the cans, as this won't stick to the ice; any paper will stick, however., Start by filling the larger can about half-way with water, then float the smaller can inside of it. Don't worry, you can always add more water later on.


Add some food coloring into the water for an interesting effect!

, Do not let your small can sink all the way to the bottom; you want both rims to be level with each other, and about a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) of space between the two cans at the bottom.The water level will rise as the smaller can sinks into the water. Make sure that the water is ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) from the larger can's rim. If there is too much water, pump some of it out with a baster.
If you can't find any rocks, you can use other items from your kitchen or garden, such as pebbles, rice, dried beans, marbles, etc.
 Carefully fold the pieces of tape over onto the larger can's rim. This will help the small can float in the center, and ensure that your luminary will be the same thickness all around.
 At this point, your candle is just about ready for freezing. You can make it more festive, however, by filling it with bright items from your kitchen or garden. Here are some ideas:


For a spring luminary: bright green leaves, pieces of fern, and/or spring flowers (ie: Johnny-Jump-Ups)
For a fall luminary: brightly-colored leaves, orange slices, and or spices (ie: cinnamon sticks or star anise)
For a winter luminary: sprigs of pine, tiny pinecones, twigs, and/or holly berries.
For a summer luminary: leafy herbs (ie: basil or mint), citrus slices (ie: lime or lemon), and/or brightly-colored flowers.
 As you add more items into the water, the water level will rise. You want it to be ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) from the rim of the large can. The water will expand as it freezes, and if the water level is too high, it will over flow.If you have too much water, pump it out using a baster. This way, you won't risk messing up your added greenery.
If you don't have enough water, carefully pour it in a thin stream into the space between the two cans.
 If it is below freezing outside, simply leave your can outside overnight. If it is above freezing, stick the can into your freezer overnight. Remember, the larger your container is, the longer it will take to freeze.
 Run lukewarm or cool water over the outside and inside of your luminary until you can move the cans around. Peel the tape away, then slide the luminary out of the large can. Carefully pull the smaller can out.


Do not use hot water, as this may cause the ice to crack., You can use these luminaries right-side-up or upside-down. Because they are made out of ice, they do not last forever. If you cannot find any flameless candles, you can use real tea lights instead, but keep in mind that the flame will cause the ice to melt faster. The melting ice may also extinguish the candle.


If you want a centerpiece for your table, place the luminary with the hole facing up. Stick a flameless candle into the hole.
If you want to light your pathway, place a flameless candle down on the ground, then place the luminary over it, flat side up.

