 You likely know his schedule pretty well, so you should know when he will be home from work and will have time to talk to you.


Ask him if you can talk to him about something important at that time: “Dad, can we talk about something important after dinner?”
If he tells you that it is not a good time, ask him to tell you when he will have time to talk to you for a couple of minutes.;
, Even if your mom is not present, your dad has at least a basic understanding of menstrual cycles.


He might have learned about it in school.
He will probably have some knowledge about it due to living with his own mom, sisters, and aunts, as well as any other women in your family, like your mom or sisters.
 If you are your dad's first daughter, he might not be expecting you to start your period. It would be best to not ambush him with this news, as that will make the conversation awkward. Be clear in what you are talking about, but ease into the conversation.


“Dad, I need you to know about a change in my life. I've started my period.”
“Dad, I want to be honest with you about what's going on with me. You need to know that my period started.”
“I don't want this to be too awkward, but I started my period.”
“I know this is a little bit uncomfortable, but my monthly cycle started.”

, If your mom is not available, for some reason, then your dad will be responsible for helping you get the supplies you need.


“Can you take me to the store to get feminine products?”
“Would you mind giving me money so that I can go buy pads?”
“Do you mind picking up pads/tampons for me the next time you're at the store?”
“I've been experiencing cramps, so I think I need a pain reliever.”
“I've got a headache, and I need pain reliever to help with that.”

, It does feel scary or nerve-wracking, but if you stay calm, then your dad will stay calm, too.



Take deep breaths and focus yourself.
Do not give your dad any reason to believe that something is wrong. Getting your period is natural and expected, so you do not want to scare your dad into thinking that you are ill or injured.
 When the time comes for you to sit down with your dad and tell him, it is important to follow through.


Avoid feeling embarrassed or awkward. He will pick up on those emotions and mirror them, making the situation uncomfortable for both of you. Instead, be confident when telling him.
There is no need to have a long, drawn-out conversation. Tell him what he needs to know, ask for whatever help you need, and bring the conversation to a close., This could make talking about your period less uncomfortable and make it funnier.“Aunt Flow”
“Monthly visitor”
“Red wave/red sea”
“Crimson wave”
"My little friend"

, Your dad wants what is best for you, and he wants to help you stay healthy and happy.“Thanks for understanding and supporting me, Dad.”
“I appreciate that you took the time to talk with me about this.”
“Dad, thank you for being here for me.”

