 Some of the best sources of protein include the following:Lean meats, including chicken, pork, some cuts of beef, etc.
Seafood
Eggs
Dairy products, including milk, cheese, and yogurt
Beans and legumes, including lentils and peas
Soy products, including tofu, edamame, etc.
Nuts and seeds, including nut butters
Plant-based protein powders: soy, hemp, pea, rice, etc.
 Studies have shown that eating a protein-rich breakfast, containing around 30g of protein, can lead to greater satiety throughout the day, and reduce your urge to snack or overeat later on.Eggs are a great source of morning protein.
A protein shake makes a great breakfast.
Greek yogurt is convenient and high in protein.
Try a protein-enriched breakfast cereal; when coupled with dairy or soy milk these provide a quick and easy protein-packed breakfast.
 A sandwich made with peanut butter, cheese, or lunch meat is an easy way to get some mid-day protein, or try a salad with grilled chicken or tuna on top. Protein at lunch helps to keep you satiated throughout the afternoon and can increase the amount of muscle you build after a morning workout. Most lunch meats include a lot of preservatives and sodium, so minimize your consumption of these, or look for an organic or natural alternative.
If you are out of ideas, do a web search for "protein lunch recipes." You will find many ideas beyond the traditional sandwiches and salads for delicious lunches that are easy to make ahead of time and pack to work or school.
 Protein snacks are a great way to boost your energy, and keep you fueled up longer than carbohydrate-laden snack choices. The following is a list of some of the many great protein-rich snacks you can choose from. If you need more ideas, just do a search for "protein snack ideas" and you will find a wealth of great suggestions.Mixed nuts or trail mix
Hard-boiled eggs
A glass of milk
Cottage cheese and fruit
String cheese
Jerky (Just be mindful of the sodium!)
Protein bars
Greek yogurt
Even a protein-rich candy bar, such as one containing nuts, is a better snack choice than one without

, You could eat a grilled chicken breast every night and get the nutrition you are looking for, but variety is the spice of life! Choose favorite recipes, or go to the internet to learn something new. You might try a turkey meatloaf one night, and a tofu curry the next.Don't underestimate the versatility of legumes as both main dishes and sides.
Protein-enriched pasta is a great way to add protein to traditionally carbohydrate-heavy meals like spaghetti and lasagna.
 Many restaurants now feature protein-packed or low-carb menu offerings that you can choose from. Look for an entrée that features meat or protein as the main feature, instead of one that is primarily carbohydrate-driven. You can also explain your goal to your server and ask her for suggestions.Some cuisines are better choices than others for adding protein. It's a lot easier to get a high-protein meal at an Asian, American, seafood or burger restaurant than it is at a pizza place or sandwich shop.

