 Start with a piece of string measuring approximately 60cm long.If you already have a continuous Cat’s Cradle string, you can use that string, but otherwise, tie the two ends of the string together to create a large loop.;
, Loop the string around both of your hands so that the string loops on the outside of both of your thumbs and both of your pinkies. The string should run across both of your palms, specifically over the three inner fingers (pointer, middle, ring).An easy way properly loop the string is to hold the string with one hand, and touch together your thumb and pinky of your other hand. Place your thumb and pinky inside the hole of the looped string. You will now be holding up the string by your thumb and pinky.
Then touch together your thumb and pinky of your other hand, and again place them inside the hole of the looped string. Pull your hands apart to make the string taut, and fully widen your hands.
 With the string taut, bring your right pointer finger over to the left palm string. Slide your pointer finger under the left palm string and pull it back to your right side.Then bring your left pointer finger to your right palm. Slide your pointer finger under the left palm string (directly beneath your right pointer finger), and pull it back to your left side.


It does not matter if you first pull the string with your left or right pointer finger. The formation will still be the same.
Some people use their pointer fingers to pull the palm strings, while others use their middle fingers. It is really based on personal preference, but if you have smaller hands, it may be easiest to complete the cup and saucer if you pull the palm strings using your pointer fingers.
 Your hands should be pulled apart as far as the string will allow, with your fingers pointing up, spread apart, and palms facing toward each other. This is called “Opening A.”It is very important that you tighten the string after each step by pulling your hands apart from each other. A taut string will lead to easy visibility of the strings, and crisp string formations.
 Use your thumbs to reach over the strings to the furthest pointer finger strings.Hook your thumbs underneath these far pointer finger stings and pull your thumbs back toward their normal position.
 Move the lower thumb string (running straight across from thumb to thumb) over your two thumbs. Some people do this by using their teeth to pull the string up and over their thumbs, and some people manipulate their thumbs to roll right under the lower thumb string.You can alternatively try to lift each side of the bottom thumb string using your opposite pointer finger and thumb to pinch the string and move it. How you move the lower thumb string is all based on personal preference.
 Release the string from your two pinky fingers by letting the string fall from the pinky fingers.Pull your thumbs and hands apart to reveal the “cup and saucer” formation. You can tilt your hands horizontally so the cup and saucer can be positioned more realistically.


For an added trick, you can use your teeth to pull the top string of the “cup” and pull your pointer fingers downward to create the “Eiffel Tower.”

