 There are two conditions under which you’d ask for your girlfriend’s parents to marry:


You might be asking for permission to marry. In other words, if your girlfriend’s parents say no to the marriage, she will obey their wishes and reject any marriage offer from you.
You might be asking for your girlfriend’s parents approval. This is distinct from the request for permission. Asking for approval of the marriage means that they support the marriage of you and your girlfriend. If denied, your girlfriend may or may not accept a marriage proposal. Even if she remains open to the possibility of marriage, you might not want to go forward with the process. If you do end up getting married, prepare for some awkward family get-togethers at the very least.
 They, likewise, will feel more comfortable granting approval to the marriage if you are not meeting them for the first time when asking their permission to marry their daughter.


If you have not had the opportunity to meet your girlfriend’s parents before deciding to ask them for her hand in marriage, wait until after you have to ask for their permission to marry.
 This demonstrates that you take seriously the notion of marriage and the proposal process. Ask them to meet you for a brief afternoon outing.


If they ask why you want to get together, then you could say something like, "I have something important that I want to talk to you about."
Do not call your girlfriend’s parents on the phone to express your intentions for marriage or ask them for permission over the phone, unless you have no other option. Asking in person is the best option.
Do not send an email or a letter asking her parents to grant permission to marry.
 Think about what her parents are like. Would they like to go to a simple eatery? A fine restaurant? Would they want to have a conversation about at the bowling alley or on the golf green?


If your girlfriend’s parents live far away, finding the right location to meet them can be difficult. In fact, however, the apparent challenge distance presents is actually an opportunity. Traveling a great distance with the specific intention of acquiring their approval for your marriage proposal signals to them that you are fully committed to marrying their daughter and will go to great lengths to do so.
In the case of parents who live a distance away, you could also consider timing the question with a family visit you and you girlfriend make together. In this case, just take your girlfriend’s parents aside privately before leaving them.

