 If you love bright colors, consider a coat or jacket in a neon color, such as bright pink or electric blue. Make sure the rest of your outfit consists of mostly dark neutral pieces, which will balance out the loudness of the neon and keep the overall effect winter-appropriate.


For instance, you could pair a neon pink coat with black skinny jeans and a simple black and white striped top.Wear a neon green pea coat with basic blue jeans, a black sweater and statement heels.;
, Choose a crimson coat in your favorite style and wear it with solid neutrals for a polished look that still pops. For instance, you could wear a cherry red pea coat with an outfit centered around navy blue. The navy helps to temper the brightness of the red, while the red gives the blue tones warmth and life.For a more retro flair, consider wearing a dress or top with black and white polka dots with a cherry red jacket.You could also try wearing a red leather jacket with all black pieces. The red leather looks edgy, and the black keeps everything polished.
 A yellow winter coat can look great if paired with the right outfit. The shade of yellow is up to you – bright yellow works well, but a more muted mustard hue can also look sharp. The key to wearing yellow in winter is making sure the rest of your outfit is neutral.


For example, wear a long trench coat in a middle-range yellow color with sleek black garments and shoes.Black is the easiest neutral to pull off with yellow, but you could try charcoal gray or forest green, too., You don’t have to wear a statement coat that is one solid bright color. You can still make just as much of a splash if you go with a coat that is mostly neutral in color, but features bright detailing. For instance, you could wear a deep blue felt biker jacket with a faux fur color in an eye catching color like bright orange. Against the dark blue, the orange really pops.Consider coats that play with color-blocking, as well. This style makes it easy to work a few bright colors into a sophisticated geometric pattern that is mostly neutral.

