 Your eloquence would be nothing if you don't have a good subject matter. Think of topics that have sense, that are interesting, and are relating to you and to your listener. You don't want to talk about things you don't like to or listen to balderdash things either.
 Don't just talk and talk. Your listener might not listen and get annoyed. If you will initiate a conversation, know what your listener likes to talk about and what not to. Your listener will just listen if he likes to. Know the purpose of your talk. Would it be worth listening? Are you talking about significant things? Or just rumors and gossip?

, After introducing yourselves to each other, don't ask, "What are your interests?" But rather think of what they may be interested in. Ask them about the recent sports news. Ask them if they are new to the place, or tell them if you are new to the place. You may talk about fashion, if you are both girls. Talk about yourself - but avoid sharing personal information - if you love to sing, draw, dance, play computer games, and so forth. But don't boast! Make them feel they are your friends, not only listeners.



Be careful! Avoid talking about general subjects that cover politics, religion, and specific controversial matters. You might offend them about their political and religious views. Sometimes, you are speaking but your listener feels insecure or vexed deep inside.
 After you have determined your topic, talk more about it. Get deeper by not only talking about the thing, but also by sharing your thoughts and feelings about the matter. Think of things about it that you may exchange ideas. Show your opinions, but don't be too outspoken. You may offend your listener. Then, get wider, extend your topic to other topics. Make sure that that topic is very close and related to your main focus.


By deepening and widening your talk, your conversation will grow and will become more meaningful and substantial with facts and opinions. In addition, you will get new information from your listener, and so will your listener. You and your listener hold in your minds the same thing. Both of you stick to the same thought and focus. That is what we call communication.

