 The regular application of tomato juice to your face can shrink your pores, leading to a clearer complexion.


For maximum effectiveness, mix about 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of fresh tomato juice with 2 to 4 drops of fresh lime or lemon juice. Apply this solution to your face using a sterile cotton ball, gently massaging it in small circles. Leave the solution on your face for 5 to 15 minutes before rinsing it off with cool to lukewarm water.
 Tomato juice can be used to dry out oil on your skin. Before applying the juice, mix it with equal parts cucumber juice. Cucumbers hydrate your skin, which will prevent it from becoming dry and flaky once you strip the oils using the tomato juice. Use a cotton ball to apply the mix onto the oiliest parts of your face each day.
 Tomato juice can neutralize and cool the skin, and the lycopene in tomatoes can help shield the skin against UV light rays.

Mix about 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of tomato juice with 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) plain yogurt. Apply the mask to any part of your skin that caught a little too much sun and leave it on for about 20 minutes before washing it off with cool to lukewarm water. The yogurt works with the tomato to return lost protein to your skin, making it softer.
Applying a mixture made with 2 tablespoons tomato juice and 4 tablespoons buttermilk can accomplish the same goal. Leave this concoction on your sunburnt skin for 30 minutes before rinsing it off with cool to lukewarm water.
 The vitamin A and vitamin C in tomato juice can help brighten a dull complexion. Mix enough honey into the tomato juice to form a thick paste, and then apply this paste onto your face. Allow it to dry for about 15 minutes before washing it off with a gentle cleanser and warm water.
 The vitamins in tomato juice can also add the natural shine back to dull, lifeless hair.

Apply a small amount of tomato juice to your scalp and hair after you wash it with shampoo.
Leave it in for 3 to 5 minutes before rinsing it out, as you might do with a conditioner.
The tomato juice should increase the acidic pH of your hair, allowing it to regain some of its vibrancy.

