 Grab your keys or put on your coat and walk out the door. Then, immediately re-enter the house. Repeat this several times so the dog starts to associate any part of your exit routine with an immediate return instead of your departure.While desensitization training can be a highly effective way of treating separation anxiety, its major con is that it should be systematic and consistent. When you’re just beginning desensitization training, you can’t leave the dog alone other than when you practice exiting with an immediately return.
Try working on desensitization training during vacation time. If you live alone, consider having a family member or friend help you by staying with your dog while you’re at work. If it’s within your budget, you could also hire a dog sitter. Ask your dog’s vet, a friend, or family member for a referral, or search online for a well-reviewed local pet sitting service.
 Keep practicing the desensitization training over the course of days and weeks. Gradually increase the amount of time you spend outside before re-entering your house. Start with standing outside for a few minutes, then proceed to drive around the block or run a quick errand.For best results, the dog should not be left alone for periods of time longer than you’ve practiced. If you’ve practiced leaving your dog alone for 10 minutes, stick to that boundary until you’ve worked your way up to the next threshold.  

, When you start the desensitization routine, you might want to consult a trainer to discuss the severity of your dog’s separation anxiety. They can help customize your training routine for your specific dog. If you haven’t consulted a trainer and your dog isn’t responding to desensitization training, consider asking one for help.You can ask your dog’s vet for a referral to a trainer, or ask dog-owning friends and family. When looking for a trainer, try to find someone accredited by the International Association of Canine Professionals (IACP), the Certification Council for Pet Dog Trainers (CCPDT), or the International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants (IAABC)., If your dog displays symptoms of separation anxiety, discuss their severity with its vet and ask them if and when medication is the preferred option. Some trainers and vets will recommend giving your dog an anti-anxiety medication in combination with desensitization training. Medication could also be your best option if you don’t have the time that a desensitization routine requires.Explain your situation in detail to the vet. For instance: “Max starts to bark as soon as I put my coat on. My neighbors tell me he howls non-stop until I get back. I’ve come back to chewed pillows and visible scratches on the door, but he’s not crate trained so I’m afraid how he’d react to a crate at this point. I’ve read about desensitization training but I live alone and don’t have time to do it properly."
Ask the vet about the best solutions for your situation: "Do you think anti-anxiety medication is the best option given Max's symptoms and my time constraints? Would medication be more helpful and cost-effective than hiring a pet sitter or using doggie daycare?”

