









Closing your house up will only keep the stench inside. By opening your windows, you let out some of the smell and allow fresh air into your home to help replace some of the contaminated air.
Sunlight also has an effect on fabric. The ultraviolet rays can help neutralize the odor and lift it out of your fabrics.
If you need to get skunk smell out of clothes, towels, blankets, or other removable fabrics, wash the fabric and hang it to dry outdoors. The direct exposure to sunlight and fresh air will work better at ridding the fabric of the skunk smell than a dryer would.
 Turn on electric ceiling fans and desk fans to keep the air circulating in your home.









If you allow the air to remain still and stagnant, the skunk smell will only sink deeper into your fabrics. Turning on all the fans in your home as soon as possible helps to keep the air in your house moving, thereby preventing the odor from settling into anything too deeply.
This works especially well when used in conjunction with opened windows.










The skunk smell can cling to these filters, and as a result, you may end up smelling skunk through your air vents for months. The only way to remedy this is by changing out your air filters.
Changing the air filters before treating the rest of your home minimizes the amount of stink coming through your vents and re-contaminating the rest of your home.
Do a sniff test after you clean the rest of your home. Smell the air filters. If they do not smell like skunk, you may not need to change them again. If they do smell like skunk, however, you should replace them once more to prevent the filters from re-contaminating the rest of your home with smelly air.
 Clothes, towels, blankets, and other removable fabrics should be washed in washing machine with hot water and detergent as quickly as possible. Carpets and other hard-to-wash fabrics, like cloth furniture and curtains, should be washed using a wet vacuum.









Steam cleaners work better than ordinary wet vacuums because the heat helps to open and expand the stitching of the fabric. This allows the detergent to sink in further and eliminate more of the skunk smell. An ordinary wet vacuum is still better than nothing, however.
As a general rule, clothes and other fabrics should be washed within one or two hours of initial contamination in order to prevent the smell from sinking in too deep.
 Deodorizing air fresheners can mask and remove part of the skunk smell.









Look for a spray that specifically indicates its ability to deodorizing. Most air fresheners only emit a strong perfume that covers other odors in the home. This will not be enough to deal with skunk smell, however. Only a deodorizing freshener can neutralize and eliminate some of the stink.
There are also special "de-skunking" sprays that are formulated specifically with the purpose of removing skunk odor. People who use these sprays tend to report mixed results, but you can read reviews about various types online and determine which may be the most effective for your needs.

