 If you are going from a dark color to a very light blonde, you can expect to do multiple treatments on your hair. Wait a few weeks between each treatment so that your hair has time to recover. Doing multiple treatments in one day will damage your hair. If you bleach your hair too often it can begin to fall out., Whenever you bleach your hair, an oxidation process is taking place, which removes the color from your hair. This is what leaves your hair a white or yellow shade, because the keratin (the protein your hair is made of) in your hair is naturally a pale yellow. Be prepared for your hair to suffer from dryness and brittleness as well as the fact that it will be more prone to breakage and split ends.Because bleaching your hair is a serious process that can greatly damage your hair if done incorrectly, it is best to visit a professional if you are looking for a drastic color change.
If you don't want to bleach your hair, you can use temporary color, demi-permanent, semi-permanent, or permanent color. These types of coloring only lightens your hair, so if you have very dark hair, it may not be very effective. However, the benefit of dyeing your hair versus bleaching it is that the dye won't strip your hair of color. It will still damage your hair somewhat, though, so you'll still need to take care of your hair in the same way that you would had you bleached it.
 If you are going from a very dark shade to a very light blonde, the process takes some time and during that time your hair will usually begin to develop an orangey tint. This happens because as you bleach your hair, cooler tones are lifted from your hair easier than the warmer, underlying pigments. So, as you remove color from your hair, the warm hues (reds and oranges) are what remain because they are trickier to lift from your hair.


To counteract these warm hues you can add toner to your hair if you are going a very light blonde. This will counteract the remaining color in your air, thus removing those orangey, yellow tints in your hair. You can find the appropriate toner by looking at a toner wheel or asking a professional., Anytime you bleach your hair it is important to take care of it to prevent further damage. Before you bleach your hair, apply a deep conditioner, and after you bleach your hair apply deep conditioner again. Also, try to avoid using heating products, as the heat from these can further dry out your hair and make it more prone to breakage.If you must use your flat iron, blow dryer, or curling iron, make sure to use a heat styling product that will protect your hair from excessive heat.

