 A knotted bracelet can be a fun and simple design to try. To begin, you'll need some basic supplies. You'll need three different colors of embroidery thread, a safety pin, and a pair of scissors., Once you have you supplies together, you can cut your thread. Cut a strand of each color. Your strands should be fairly large. Each strand should be 2 to 3 arm lengths long., Once your strings are cut, you'll need to gather your strings together and tie them into a loop. This process can be somewhat tricky so go slowly and follow instructions carefully.


Gather all your strings together. You can lie them down side-by-side on a long table or on the floor. Find the midpoint of all three strings. Fold all the strings in half along the midpoint.Towards the end of your folded strings, tie them together in a tight knot to secure. This will make a small loop on the end of your stands of strings. Use a basic knot here, like you'd use when tying your shoes.
You'll use the loop you create when your finish your bracelet. You will end up slipping your strings through the loop and tying them together. Make sure the loop is big enough to fit three threads through.Slip a safety pin through the loop. Fasten the loop on a pillow or other firm surface. This will keep the threads organized and secure while you work., Once all is set up, you can begin the knotting process. For this type of bracelet, you simply repeat the following process until the bracelet is as long as you want.


Use one hand to gather two strings on the right.
Use your other hand to create a loop with the string to the left. Lie the left thread over the two threads on the right, creating a circular loop with the slack from the left thread. It should look something like a backwards "P."
Slip the left string under your two right strings. Move it through the loop you created, moving upward towards the knot on the top.Pull the left string, holding the other two strings loosely. You should be able to pull upward until the knot you created reaches the knot connecting the threads.Repeat this process until all your threads are knotted together.
 The knots will take on the color of the string to the left. If you want to change colors, return the left string to other two strings. Then, pull a string of a different color out of the bunch, moving it to the left side. Repeat the knotting process with that string.


How and when you change colors depends on your personal preferences. If you want a bracelet with a more random design, change colors whenever you feel like it. If you want a more uniform design, make a rule for yourself. For example, you'll change color every 5 knots., When you reach the end of your bracelet, you'll need to tie an end knot. How long you make your bracelet is up to you. However, make sure you have at least a few inches of thread at the end. Simply tie a knot using all three strings, as you did when making the loop at the beginning.


Remove the bracelet from the safety pin. Pull the excess strings through the loop at the top. Then, tie a knot with the excess strings to create a fully formed bracelet.For this part of the process, you can simply use basic knots, like you would use to tie your shoes.

