 Both paper and plastic bags take energy to produce. This causes global warming to get worse. You can make a huge environmental difference by doing this. However, some supermarkets may not allow you to do this because of security concerns.;
, The pesticides that are on non-organic foods require energy to produce, and they are bad for you! Organic food is really good for you, and it tastes even better than food laced with chemicals.
 If possible, do this. Dryers account for almost 5% of energy use in the USA!

, That way, you don't heat up an entire tank of water (using lots of energy) for some hot water for washing your face!

, They have fewer insulation problems, so you don't need to use the Air Conditioner / Heater as much!

, As said above, then you don't need to use the AC or heater as much.
 Heaters are major energy users! They have a huge negative impact on the world!

, Even if an electronic device isn't being used (it is off), it still uses a small amount of energy. See warnings section below.
 Push mowers don't use any gasoline, and they make you stronger!

,, That means that they use minimal amounts of energy!

, That way there isn't any heat escaping.
 Trees take Carbon Dioxide (which is one of the causes of global warming) and turn it into Oxygen (which we breathe!)

, Compacting garbage, and making new items to replace that garbage, uses energy.
 Cars are the #1 reason global warming is a serious issue.
 See above reason.
 Hybrids can get up to 99.9 MPG! That doesn't just help the world... it helps your wallet too.
 Packaging requires energy to produce.
 Shipping goods use energy!

, Pumping water around is one of the primary energy users!

, The more water you use, the more has to be treated - an energy-intense process.
 That way your AC doesn't use more energy than needed.
 Ensure there aren't any leaks!

, Keep air conditioning at 80° in the summer, and heating at 60° in the winter. Use your clothing, diet, and exercise habits to adjust your body temperature before turning to the energy-intensive HVAC system.
, Dishwashers use the same amount of water if they are filled with 1 dish or filled to the brim. Save water!

, This keeps your energy usage down.Do it yourself.
 Cars aren't as fuel efficient when their tires aren't full.
 These use much less energy.... don't break them while putting them in though!

, See The C Crane website about these lighting devices.
 This makes your computer use less energy.
 These may be solar powered and/or have a hand cranked generator. Some of these flashlights do not use any internal power cells, but use a "Supercapacitor" instead. Not only great for the environment but great for emergency use as well. Some models will even charge cell phones, providing power even when other power sources have failed during a long term disaster, such as a hurricane, earthquake, providing the cell phone towers are not damaged, destroyed.
 If you just sort your trash into recyclables every week, the rate at which the landfills grow will lessen.
 Any water that comes out of the house runs the sewage plant and then a lot of energy is used to treat it, even though it's not dirty at all!

