 On iPhones this will be labeled “Find My Phone,” while on Android devices, it’s called the “Android Device Manager.” This program will track your phone’s location and relay this information to the cloud. It’s important that you set this feature up while you still have your phone with you, as there is no way to enable Find My Phone if your phone has already been stolen. Find My Phone is a component of Apple’s cloud-based server, iCloud, which backs up and stores your phone’s data. If you have not yet set up an iCloud account, you won’t be able to use the Find My Phone app. Set up an iCloud account through your phone’s “Settings” menu, then locate “iCloud” and tap the “Account” to sign in.In order for the Device Manager to locate your stolen phone, you’ll need to have the GPS-tracking “Location” setting turned on.
 You can turn Lost Mode on remotely: you’ll need to login to your iCloud or your Android Device Manager account, and can turn on Lost Mode from there. With Lost Mode turned on, whoever stole your phone will be unable to login and shouldn’t have access to any of your phone’s data or apps.Once you’ve recovered your missing phone, you can turn off Lost Mode by entering your passcode on the phone’s home screen.
Even if your iPhone or Android is offline (not connected to the internet), you can still remotely lock the phone. You’ll do this through logging in to your online account. Any settings that you change on your device will take effect the next time the phone is online.
 If your iPhone has been stolen, you can track its physical location online at www.icloud.com/find. This will bring up a map showing the current location of your phone. The map will show real-time movements, so if your phone is on a bus or subway car, you’ll be able to follow it along the map.If your Android phone has been stolen—or you prefer to setup your account on a computer rather than on your phone—you can access the Device Manager online at: www.google.com/android/devicemanager. Logging into this website will show you your missing phone’s location.Once you’ve located your missing phone, you can have the device play a sound to draw attention. While this won’t help if someone has deliberately taken your phone, it could be useful if your phone is near you and has simply been misplaced.
 From the iCloud or Android Device Manager website, you can click a button to Lock your phone. This will disable the login mechanism, and make it so that the individual who stole your phone will not have access to any of your personal data or contact information.The Device Manager will ask you to input a new device password for your phone. Once you have recovered your lost or stolen phone, you’ll be able to disable Lock mode by typing in this password.
 From the menu on the online phone tracking page, you can choose to “Ring” your phone. This will cause your phone to ring at its maximum volume for 5 minutes, unless you choose to turn off the Ring setting before that. The Ring function is useful if you suspect that someone may have taken your phone by accident or that the loud ringing will help you or another individual find your phone nearby., If you prefer not to use the Android Device Manager function to track your phone if it goes missing, you can also download one of many available tracking apps from the Google Play Store. These apps will allow you to connect to a website where, if your phone has been stolen, you can find the phone’s location remotely.

An app like Lookout—among many others available on both the Apple Store and the Google Play Store—will allow you to sound an alarm, lock your phone, and remotely wipe your phone’s data.