 If your walls are not at right angles, place your countertop against the wall as closely as you can, then use a compass and sander to adjust the shape:Check that the countertop is level using a plumb bob or level. Slide shims or wedges beneath the countertop to make it level if necessary.
Hold the non-pencil end of the compass against the wall at the widest gap, and touch the pencil end against the countertop. Move the compass along the length of the wall to draw a line on your counter.
Clamp the countertop onto a sawhorse or other secure position, then use a sander or block plane to level the countertop up to the pencil line. Your countertop should now fit snugly against the wall.
 For L-shaped countertops, Formica typically comes precut with angles of either 45ยบ or 22.5ยบ. Attach these diagonal pieces together with miter bolts after aligning their front edge. Apply a bead of sealant or laminate caulk to ensure a waterproof corner.


Do not over tighten the miter bolts. Only tighten enough to keep the pieces in place.
Tap down one piece of laminate with a rubber mallet or shoe heel if the surface is not level across the diagonal.
 A backsplash is a vertical section of material above the countertop, which protects the wall from stains and other kitchen accidents.


If your wall is drywall, you'll need to attach a particle board base before adhering the laminate.
You could also consider installing a tile backsplash over your laminate counter.
 Once it's aligned against the wall with contact cement, roll it flat and trim excess or uneven edges with a router., Always follow the appliance manufacturer's instructions to determine safe placement on your countertop. Use a jigsaw to cut out the hole, and file down the sharp edges afterward.


Cover the edges of a rangetop cutout with two layers of heat-conductive aluminum tape to prevent the Formica from melting.
 Avoid placing hot objects onto the Formica or other laminate, as the material can melt. Use a cutting board rather than cutting directly onto it. Clean with a damp cloth and a mild household cleaner.
 Always wear eye protection and ear plugs, as removing Formica is a loud, time consuming process that creates dust and sharp particles. Use the sharp end of a hammer or other prying tool to pull the Formica off the countertop in pieces.Use gloves when handling the sharp, broken Formica.
Be careful not to dent the plywood or particle board base beneath the Formica if you wish to install a new countertop on top of it.

