 It can be difficult to determine the precise origin of chest pain, which can stem from stress, lung problems, digestion issues, or heart problems.It is therefore best to start by massaging your entire foot, and then focusing in on areas you think might be to blame. This sort of general massage has been shown to have a positive therapeutic effect., Hold the foot and gently rotate it at the ankle. Then rub all over your foot with both hands. Do this before applying any massage oil or moisturizing lotion., Rub the lotion in your hands to warm it up, then apply it to the top of the foot, starting at the ankle and wiping down to the toes. Do the same for the bottom of the foot., Starting with the big toe, pinch it between your index finger and thumb and use your thumb or thumb knuckle to gently press and massage the bottom of the toe for approximately 30 seconds.Twist the toe left and right, then push it down towards the sole of the foot. Repeat this procedure, spending approximately 15 seconds massaging each of the smaller toes. End by using your hand to gently press all the toes and the top of the foot down towards the sole of the foot., Grip the foot you are working on by the Achilles tendon above the heel to provide stability while you massage. Start nearest the big toe. Using your thumb or thumb knuckle, apply gentle pressure by pressing and holding for two seconds, or massaging with tiny circular motions. Move across the foot in three separate lines – top, middle, and bottom of the ball of the foot. Repeat these lines three times., Grip your foot with both hands. Use your thumb knuckles if your thumbs get tired.Start by applying gentle pressure as you pull your thumb across your foot, alternating hands – left to right for your right thumb, and right to left for your left thumb. Work in three lines, dragging each thumb 5 times per line.
Next apply gentle pressure as you pull your thumbs down along the middle of your foot, working towards your heel. Again, work in three lines, dragging your left and right thumb 5 times per line.
Massage the center of your foot by applying gentle pressure with you thumbs and moving in a clockwise direction.
 Using both your thumbs, one atop the other, massage the bottom of your foot just above your heel with a clockwise motion., Applying gentle pressure and using small circular motions, work your way down your instep from your big toe to your heel. Spend approximately two seconds on each point, and repeat the process three times., Rub the heel in a circular motion with your thumb or knuckle for approximately 30 seconds.Then use your thumbs to apply gentle pressure to the tops of the feet as you drag your thumbs along the spaces between your toes, which run from your toe webbing to the highest point of your foot., Now that you have massaged your entire foot, return to the areas you feel might be causing the pain and spend extra time on them.
 The reflexes for your lungs start at the base of your toes and extend down to the bottom of the ball of your foot, where the color of your skin changes. Also massage the corresponding area on the top of your foot., According to reflexology theory, this should help for issues like arrhythmia.,,
The small intestine reflex is located on the soles of your feet in the arch area.
The gal bladder reflex point is on the sole of your right foot, where the left hand thumb is in the picture above.

