 Molarity requires you to know how many moles there are of your solute, but these can be easily derived if you know the mass of your solute and its chemical formula. If you do not have all this information, or if you've never been taught the concept of "mole" in a chemistry context, use a different method instead.


Example problem: What is the molarity of a solution created by dissolving 25 grams of potassium hydroxide in 400 mL of water?
If the solute is measured in units other than grams, you'll need to convert to grams first.
 Each chemical element has a known "molar mass" (MM), which is the mass contained in one mole of that element. These molar masses have the same value as the atomic mass displayed on the periodic table, generally under the chemical symbol and name of each element. Simply add the molar masses of the solute's component elements to figure out the solute's molar mass.


Our example uses potassium hydroxide as the solute. Look this substance up in your textbook or in an online chemical formula database to find the chemical formula: KOH.
Use a periodic table or online resource to find the atomic mass of the element: K = 39.0, O = 16.0, H = 1.0.
Add the atomic masses together and write "g/mol" after it to get the molar mass. 39 + 16 + 1 = 56 g/mol.
For molecules with more than one of the same atom, add the atomic mass once for each atom. For example, H2O has a molar mass of 1 + 1 + 16 = 18 g/mol.
 Once you have the molar mass (g/mol), you can convert between grams and moles. You already know the amount of solutes in grams, so convert by calculating (solute mass in grams) x (1 / molar mass) to get the answer in moles.


In our example, since we have 25 grams of a substance with a molar mass of 56 g/mol, we calculate 25g x (1 / 56g/mol) = approximately 0.45 moles KOH in our solution.
 Molarity is defined as the ratio of moles of the solute to liters of the solution. Convert the solution's volume measurement to liters if necessary, then do the calculation.


In our example, we have 400 mL of water, which we can convert to 0.4 liters.
The molarity of the KOH in the solution is 0.45 mol / 0.4L = 1.125 M (molarity). (You'll get a slightly more accurate answer if you use a calculator and don't round any numbers until the final step.)
You can usually disregard the volume of the solute, since it rarely makes a big difference. If you are adding enough solute to visibly change the volume, measure the volume of the final solution and use that instead.

