 Make sure you are clear on the address of agency and what you need to do when you get there. Make sure you know what you need to bring - an existing portfolio will probably rank high on the list - or if you need to wear anything specific.;
, Keep up with your skincare routine, haircare routine, watch your diet and keep your nails neat and tidy.
 You'll probably be asked to walk and pose a little bit at the interview so you should practice. Even if you can get it perfect, practice will at least make you more confident and confidence will help you out! One of the best ways to practice is to watch catwalk videos and then to practice in front of the mirror.
 If you have not been given any instructions on clothing, opt for looking nice. It's an interview try to look your best. Heels are helpful - many girls find it much easier to model in heels than in flats. If you are not used to wearing heels, try kitten heels.
 Carry the agent's number on you so that you can call them if you think you might be late.
 Some modelling agencies' interviewers might ask you tricky questions to test your flexibility. Questions are usually about your ambitions and self perception. It may include: What do you love the most about yourself? What makes you stand out from other candidates? Where do you see yourself in a year? 5 years? Be prepared to answer them., Stop paying attention and you might miss something important.
 You will probably get one of three reactions -


You will be accepted onto the agency's books. Depending on the state of your portfolio, you may be invited to do a portfolio shoot soon. You will also be asked to sign the contract, which might be sent you at a later date or you might be asked to sign it on the spot. And remember to celebrate!
You will be asked to come back at a later date upon having done something else- as in, cut your hair, improved your modeling technique or lost some weight. This isn't a full out rejection, so don't get too discouraged, but you will have to do some work if you want to sign with this agent. You will either be given a date for another interview or you might be asked to call back later.
You will be rejected. Don't be too hard on yourself - you've got further than all the girls who think about sending in applications but chicken out, and then even further than those who had their applications turned down before they even had an interview!! Besides which, it only takes one good agent to launch your career so perhaps you should try somebody else. Don't forget to wear some jewelry to look beautiful and bring a brief case or a hand bag. If you have braided hair or twisted hair you should put your hair in a bun. Make sure the interviewer does see that your you are stressed or upset or anything else . Don't bring anything else or anybody else. You should bring a note pad and a pen. Good luck at your interview.

