 Since deed records are typically recorded at the county level, having this information is necessary. There are several ways to find out what county or parish a piece of property is in.


Probably the easiest way is going to the National Organization of Counties' (NACo) website, at http://explorer.naco.org/, and using their "city/zip" search function at the top of the page. Just type the city name or the zip code into the search bar and click on the magnifying glass icon. Even with minimal information, this should tell you what you need to know. For instance, if you type "Decatur" into the search bar and nothing else, the website will produce a list of all the cities named "Decatur" in the US, along with their accompanying county. Click on the link for your county, and it should provide you with information that includes a link to the county's website along with a list of their elected officials.;
, All the information that most people will need or want to know about a deed will be on record with the county tax assessor, such as the current owner, sale dates, price history, and current valuation. Tax assessor's offices in any county are responsible for appraising and valuing property for property tax purposes, so they are among the first to know when a deed changes hands. Since nearly all property owners have to pay property taxes (and therefore have to deal with tax assessors) this information is also among the most readily accessible in any county. Even if you need to know more information later, this is the easiest place to start.The websites of county governments can be among the least user friendly websites out there. It would not be unheard of for a person to thoroughly search the county's website for an office within the county government to no avail, only to find that the link to that office was hidden in some obscure area. When you're on the county's website, if you don't find a link for the assessor's office within a few minutes of looking around, it might save you some time to give the county a call and make sure that the assessor's office is online and that the records are searchable.
Don't be thrown off by changes in wording, and keep an eye out for keywords. "Tax assessor," "property appraiser," "property valuation," and "tax commissioner" are terms which are either synonymous or closely related organizationally. If you see any of these, it warrants closer investigation.
 Look for terms like "real estate data," "real estate records," and "property records." Follow the link for that, and find the section on the page where you can search for property records. Most counties will allow you to search by address, by lot number, or parcel ID. Search for your chosen property.


Depending on your locality, there might be more than one listing for the same address. For example, 123 E. Washington St. and 123 Washington St. might both be listed as 123 Washington St. in the index. If you encounter something like this, just look at the assessor's record for both entries. The actual record will be more specific than the index, so you'll be able to tell your E. Washington address from your Washington address. , Most people aren't going to need any more information than what they'll find in the assessor's record. It should tell you the current deed holder, the deed holder's mailing address, price history and sale dates, square footage for a structure or square footage for the entire tract of land, and most importantly, the property ID and the type of deed the owner holds. Some counties provide more extensive information than others. While almost every county will tell you who the current deed holder is, some counties' tax assessors records show deed holders dating back many years. Look closely to see what information is being presented.