 If you are documenting a complicated process that involves several people, teams, or departments working independent, consider making a complex flowchart. The type of flowchart described here is called a "swim lane chart" or "Rummler-Brache chart."The chart makes it easy to see who is responsible for each task, and helps identify areas where the process could be improved.


The flowchart should describe the process as it is currently done, not how it should be done.
 The flowchart will probably end up looking tidier and more readable if you use software for creating diagrams. Having an electronic file also makes it easier to make changes to the flowchart as needed. Search online for "process mapping software," making sure to download or purchase one that can create Rummler-Brache charts.
 Each row can be labeled with a department, team, or the job title of individual. Each participant is responsible for tasks located in his horizontal row, extending across the page. This is sometimes called that participant's "swim lane."


The lanes may be color-coded or not. They should always be divided by bold, black lines to make the chart easily readable by color-blind people.
Try to put groups that interact with each other adjacent to each other. This is not mandatory, however.
 Begin the process by placing the first task in a box near the left hand side of the page, just to the right of the participant responsible for that task. For example, if the Research division starts the process by creating a product idea, draw a box just to the right of the word "Research" and label it Create product idea.
 For example, if Research then sends its product idea to Marketing for focus testing, draw an arrow from Create product idea to a box in the Marketing row, to the right of the previous box. Label this box Focus testing.


Sometimes, a task might be repeated, for instance the product might later return for additional focus testing. If the process actually returns to the same earlier stage, draw an arrow back to the original box labeled Focus testing. If the process is actually different (for instance, this is a more advanced round of focus testing leading to different tasks), write a new box instead with a different name, such as Advanced Focus Testing.
 Most flow charts use boxes, diamonds, and circles, plus arrows between them. You've already encountered the box, which is labeled with the name of a task. Use a diamond when there are multiple possible results. Use circles when an end result has been achieved. Continuing the above example, draw an arrow from Focus testing to a diamond labeled Is product approved? Draw one arrow from the diamond, labeling it no, and connect it to a circle labeled End of process. A second arrow, labeled yes can lead to the next task in the process.


Place the diamond in the row or "swim lane" of the participant who is responsible for that decision.
The circle labeled End of process should be in its own row, with no associated participant.
There are many other specialized flowchart symbols, but they are rarely used and not typically necessary. Feel free to research them yourself if you feel your document would benefit from a greater variety., Use similar sized boxes and no more than two or three easily distinguished colors, to make the flowchart as readable as possible. For instance, all boxes (tasks) can have blue backgrounds, while all the diamonds (questions) can be yellow.


If possible, have the "yes" answer line always start from one side of the box (e.g. the right side, and the "no" always in another (e.g. the bottom side).This is not always possible or easy to achieve, so don't spend too much time on it.
 It's better to use multiple pages than to make the flowchart too small to read. Use clearly labeled tabs or arrows to make it clear how the flowchart continues. For instance, draw an arrow labeled A leading off the right-hand side of the page. On the next page, draw an arrow leading from the left-hand side of the page, also labeled A.
 Follow each possible "route" through the flowchart and see if it makes sense. Ideally, have someone else familiar with the process go through it with you to catch mistakes and identify missing steps. Once you have looked over it at least once and corrected any mistakes, the document is ready to present or send to other people involved. However, feel free to edit this flowchart if the process changes at a later date, sending the updated document to the people who use it.

