 Being a tour guide means you need to be a people person. Be prepared to answer questions constantly, handle difficult personalities, and herd groups of people around interesting sites and locations. You’ll need to be cheerful and upbeat whenever you’re on the job.You may want to schedule alone time during your days off to balance out your work schedule.
 Your primary job is to give people interesting facts about the places you visit. Take time learning about those places. Get information from your company, the local library, and online to expand your knowledge.Attendees will ask you questions that may be slightly off-topic. Knowing these answers will impress your audience and make you a better guide.
If you don’t know the answer to a question, say so. Tell your audience you’re not sure, but that you’d love to know the answer and will be looking for it as soon as you can.
 When you’re coordinating people, travel plans, and site visits, there’s a lot of opportunity for crisis! Don’t panic if someone gets sick, your tour bus breaks, or a park randomly closes for the day. It’s your job to think on your feet and deal with situations as they arise.You can always contact your company for assistance in these situations, but you’ll need to keep a cool head. You’re the leader of the group when you’re out on a tour, and they’ll look to you for guidance.
 One of the hardest aspects of being a tour guide is that you’re usually hired as a temporary worker. If you live in a country that provides health insurance through employers, you may need to coordinate getting private insurance on your own. You’ll also need to be responsible for keeping employment and tax records., Remember that your group is on vacation, and you’re at work. Do whatever you need to do to keep the group happy and safe. Stay focused on them whenever you’re on the clock.

This might be hard if you’re leading groups in beautiful and relaxing locations, but stay strong! You’re getting paid for this work.
 Being a tour guide requires you to be on your feet and walking around most days. You’ll need to be physically healthy and fit to keep up with the rhythm of this worklife., To keep your tours moving and engaging, tell stories. Don’t just recite a list of names, dates, and events. Give your audience something to grab onto by narrating short stories at different spots along the tour with beginnings, middles, and climatic endings.You also need to make sure that you and your group respects the environment you’re visiting. You’ll be responsible for enforcing the rules.
Always face your audience when giving tours.