 People will be impressed with a gorgeous hair style. Try different styles instead of a normal style that you do everyday. Go with barrel curls, or instead of that ponytail, let your hair just sway in the wind. Maybe some glitter or a fancy up-do?;
, A beautiful made up face will draw attention to you. For special occasions, you can go much more dramatic with make-up than usual...so take advantage of that.
 Make sure that you give yourself a manicure and pedicure! You can do this cheaply and by yourself very easily. If you decide not to wear lipstick or makeup, try a color that goes along with your skin color the best. A new color will have everyone saying that they love your nails instead of talking about what you're wearing. You can never go wrong with a French manicure.



A versatile accessory to use is a clutch. Clutches are multi-taskers; they can be used for special occasions, and they can also be used for a night out or a day at work/school.
Jewelry is another accessory that is a life-saver. A nice necklace and a dramatic pair of earrings can do the trick if put with the right outfit. Rings can add any twist to an outfit that you are wearing.
Scarves, belts, and headbands are also great accessories.
Focus on one or two great, dramatic pieces. Wearing too many at once will make you look over-done, tacky, and cluttered.
 How about cowboy boots with you blue jeans? Red flats with your otherwise boring T-shirt and leggings?

, If you have the expertise, or access to a handy and creative person, and some time, you may be able to make something unique and fabulous out of your same old stuff. Even simply using fabric glue with some sparkly embellishments, or ironing on funky patches on your ripped cargo pants, or tie-dying a boring tee shirt can enliven an outfit. Hey, fashion designers often start this way! Some other examples:


Put some rhinestones on a boring black shirt.
Add some dramatic trim to your jean skirt.
Take the length up on the hem and cut off the poofy sleeves your cousin's old prom dress.
Bleach out that concert tee for the dance. Make your own funky pants out of that length of denim.
 "You're never fully dressed without a smile" goes the song from the play and movie Annie. And it's true. Looking fabulous is, in large part, recognizing your own fabulous-ness. And, anyway, the nice part about having nothing great to wear is never over-dressing! Think simple, classy, and creative rather than pout, "I have nothing to wear!"

