 The clothes you wear can influence how people think of you. Poorly-fitting clothes often project a lack of self-confidence. Well-fitting clothes, on the other hand, project self-assurance and toughness.Make sure your clothes fit. No matter what your body type, well-fitting clothes will make you look better. If you can’t find clothes that fit will, or you don’t have enough money to buy a new wardrobe, take your clothes to a tailor. For just $5 or $10 a tailor can make the shoulders of your shirts fit your frame and the width of your pants follow the lines of your body.
Try wearing simpler clothes. A plain white t-shirt with a straight black hoodie will often look tougher on a guy than a colorful shirt with patterns. For girls, blue jeans and a well-fitting leather jacket project toughness.
 You don’t need to be hugely muscular to project toughness. But you should do some amount of weight-lifting that will show off the toned muscles on your body.Lift weights three times a week. If your school has a gym, go there for one hour on three days of the week. Focus on working out your shoulders, biceps, chest, back, and legs.
If you don’t have access to a gym, there are other ways to develop muscle. Chopping and stacking firewood is a good way to develop upper-body muscles. Pushing sleds on a football field is a good way to build your leg muscles.
 A clean, put-together appearance demonstrates that you value your appearance and won’t let others mess it up without a fight.Shower regularly. Try to shower every morning and anytime you work out.
Brush your teeth. You should do this at least twice a day.
Comb your hair. Combed, styled hair is classic sign of toughness.
Wear deodorant. If you’re a guy, choose a masculine scent like pine needles. If you’re a girl, choose a neutral scent that doesn’t smell too flowery.
 Posture is one of the first things people notice about you, and good posture indicates toughness and self-confidence.When you’re standing up, keep your head straight in line with your back. Don’t let your chin droop down. Keep your shoulders back and your chest extended forward. Let your arms hang naturally at your sides.
When you’re sitting, don’t slouch. You can lean back if you want to, but try to keep your shoulders back at all times.

