 This will ensure that the painting doesn't ruin your carpet/table/place of working.;
, Using a sharpie or pen, mark the height/length you want your piece of armor. You should end up with four marks (for height and width on both sides and top and bottom).
 If you want to create layers on your armor (to create dimension), cut out strips lower than the the base layer and hot glue them on.
 Then mold the foam form around your arm (or place of interest) so that it takes that shape. You may have to iron it several times and mold it several times until it actually stays. Just be patient and take your time.
The other route would be to do the decoration/detailing of your armor now. Take your armor piece and, using a sharpie or pen, draw on the detailing you want to have on your armor. Then, proceed to taking your puffy paint and tracing it over the detailing you drew. The puffy paint usually takes about 4-5 hours to dry. When dry, you'll want to use the iron on your armor and mold it then.
 When the armor detailing is dry, use the school glue and a thicker paintbrush and just cover the entire piece in glue. Then let it dry. This is what will give the armor a metal look and not look so much like foam.
 You may want to double-coat but this is up to you. Wait for it to dry. Then, take another paintbrush and dip it in plain black paint. Brush off most of the paint onto a paper plate or paper towel until there is barely any paint left on the brush. Then go ahead and gently brush it over the entire piece, making it darker in certain places of dimension, such as where the layers meet or around the puffy paint detailing to make it look more raised off the foam.


When you're all done, if you want, take a really small and thin paintbrush and dip it in your original color base paint (like metallic gold) and go over only the puffy paint to make it look raised, as if the light is hitting it.
 When all of the painting is dry and you're satisfied with the look, take two pieces of ribbon (any color, such as a shiny gold color to match the armor) and hot glue each piece to the inside of the gauntlet. Then tie it around your arm.
 You're done! Or, if you want, you could hot glue the piece together and just slide it on your arm but I prefer tying/untying it.

