 To obtain a doctorate, you must have completed graduate work in economics.;
, The best graduate programs for economics, according to U.S. News and World Report rankings, include Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute for Technology (M.I.T.), Princeton University and the University of Chicago.


Consider staying with the school you have attended already. Continue studying at the institution where you received your undergraduate or graduate degree, if you like the program.
Look at online programs. Obtaining a doctorate in economics online is a possibility. There are not a lot of programs available, but you can find one on Gradschools.com.
 Each school will have different classes that must be taken when you are working towards your doctorate.


Consult your school's handbook for the requisite courses. They will likely include advanced level classes in macroeconomics, microeconomics, statistics and research methods.
 Most doctoral programs will require students to choose an area to specialization. Depending on your school, you can choose majors in Health Economics, Labor Economics, International Trade and Development and other fields.
 The other courses you choose to take should enhance your study of economics, and prepare you for your Ph.D. These electives will often have to be approved by the chairperson of the economics department.


Include plenty of research instruction. Supplement your economics studies with extra classes in math, statistics and other quantitative and analytical research courses.
Check for foreign language requirements. Some schools will require that you demonstrate you can understand at least 1 foreign language.
 Ensure your Ph.D studies are on the right track by developing a relationship with your advisor. Your advisor can help you choose classes, and help you plan for your dissertation.
 Many schools will require you to pass qualifying examinations to demonstrate your preparation to write and defend a dissertation, or thesis.


Take the written examinations when they are scheduled by your school. Some schools may also require an oral examination.
Study hard and be prepared. If you do not perform well on your qualifying or preliminary examinations, some programs will not allow you to continue working towards your doctorate in Economics.



Work with your advisor and other faculty members on what you will write for your dissertation. The dissertation is a substantive research paper that offers your academic point of view on a particular topic, and provides the findings and conclusions you have drawn based on your study.
 At the end of your doctoral studies, you will need to submit your dissertation to a committee of faculty and administrators, and orally defend what you wrote against their questions about your research and findings.

