 Put the egg in a pot full of water. Use warm water so it will boil faster.


You might want to boil several eggs so you can try the trick more than once or in case something happens to your first egg.;
, Put the pot on the stove set to Medium-High temperature. Let it sit there for 20 minutes while the water boils., Empty the boiling water into the sink being careful not to burn yourself. Use cold water to cool the egg, then peel the shell off. It can be helpful to tap the egg on the counter to crack the shell so that it is easier to peel., Stand the glass bottle upright with the opening skywards. This is the necessary position to perform this trick.


Make sure that you use a glass bottle. Using a plastic bottle (or a bottle made of any material other than glass) could be very dangerous.
The mouth of the bottle should be small, but still at least half the diameter of the egg (like a milk bottle).
 Carefully light three matches. With extreme caution, drop them into the bottle. Wait a second or two., Quickly put the egg onto the bottle's opening, wide end up. Don’t wait too long to put the egg on the bottle or the matches will go out and this trick won’t work., After the matches go out, the egg will be pulled into the bottle. Then, you can amaze your friends with your egg in a bottle.
 Use two or three small birthday candles and place them in the narrow end of your peeled hard-boiled egg. Make sure they are securely in place, but not pushed in deep enough to make the egg fall apart., Carefully (and with adult supervision) light the candles. They should burn easily.
 Take your bottle and place it upside down with the candles inside of it, being careful not to seal the opening with the body of the egg for a few seconds. You need to let the candles warm up the air inside the bottle first., After a couple seconds, lower the bottle fully so that the outside opening is sealed by the egg. The candles may go out with a pop, but in moments the egg will slide up into the bottle.
 This trick works because when the matches burn, they heat up the air inside the bottle and release steam (water) as a part of the combustion reaction. This process causes the air inside the bottle to expand, forcing some out of the bottle.


Once the egg seals the top of the bottle, the matches quickly run out of oxygen and go out. As the air in the bottle cools, the volume of air inside the bottle drops due to condensation of the water vapor (look for the little "cloud" inside the bottle just as the match goes out) and the cooling of dry air.
When the volume of the air drops, it exerts less pressure on the egg, while the air pressure outside of the bottle doesn't change. The egg is pushed into the bottle once the difference between those forces is sufficient to deform the egg and overcome friction with the neck of the bottle.