 If you are planning a rustic desert ranch wedding, the best venue may be a working ranch. Ranches provide the perfect backdrop for a desert wedding because they have plenty of barns, horses and cattle onsite to create authentic photos. Although these venues can be picture perfect, they may have some shortcomings. Before booking your wedding at a working ranch ask the following questions:What time of year do you host weddings?
How many guests can you accommodate?
Do you provide accommodations for guests?
Do you provide wedding packages that include food and drinks?
Will you provide tables, chairs, plates, silverware, and glasses?
Some of these amenities may not be provided and will cost extra to hire outside caterers, servers etc.;
, Try and find an event venue that has been made to look like a ranch, but is actually used primarily for hosting events such as conferences and weddings. These types of venues can be found in Texas and Arizona and will likely offer packages that include all of the wedding essentials.Before booking, visit the venue to make sure that you like the atmosphere, environment, and staff.
 If you have settled on a rural ranch wedding then it may be difficult for your guests to find suitable accommodations. Try and find a venue that can provide lodging for your guests, or look for a place off-site that can accommodate them. If you have to find off-site accommodations, provide your guests with transportation to and from the venue., Having a desert ranch wedding likely means that the venue will be outside in order to take advantage of the natural beauty. Whenever you are planning an outdoor event, you must consider the weather. In the desert the weather will likely be very hot.Provide your guests with lots of shading, air conditioning or fans, and water.
Ask the venue if they have a tent or barn available incase of rain.
Consider providing your guests with bug spray at dusk if the bugs are bad in the area.
Have blankets available for guests to use in the evening when the temperature cools drastically.

