 Before you start bouncing your booty, you'll want to get in the right position. Start off by standing with your legs apart, wider than your hips. If you want to get lower to the ground, you can spread your legs about three feet apart. Make sure you don't spread your legs out too far, as you won't be able to do the proper booty bounce. Keeping them too close together, though, will make it harder for you to go lower to the ground. If you aren't sure how far to spread them, stand with your feet together and then jump your legs out at a comfortable position. If you feel a stretch in your inner thighs, you might have jumped your legs out too far.
 Now that your legs are spread apart, bend your knees so you are in somewhat of a squat position. If you can go lower, then go lower. If not, squat to a position that is comfortable and easy to stay in. Place your hands on the top of your thighs with your fingers turned towards each other. Lean your upper body over just a bit, so that your chest is over your knees, but keep it popped out.In this position, you want to make sure your chest, shoulders, and neck are not hunched over. You don't want to look defeated, but you want to look comfortable and chill. Try to keep your shoulders back and your head up.
 You have your position so you can begin to do the moves for a twerking booty bounce. Remaining in your position, arch your back, so that your chest pokes out even more. This will push your shoulders back and if you were to look at your back from the side it should form a small scoop.As you arch your back, your butt should pop out and perk up somewhat. If it's not doing this, you may need to arch your back some more or get lower to the ground. Also, your butt size will determine how much your booty pops out. In this move, you are getting down in a lower squat.
 Take your arching back and pull it back to round it somewhat so that your shoulders come forward and your chest comes in. You don't want to hunch over, but you also don't want perfect posture here, so just relax your back to what feels comfortable. Then, rotate from arching your back to rounding your back at a quick pace, going back and forth from one move to the other.To arch your back, imagine someone is pulling a string attached to your lower back, causing your back to be rounded instead of arched. Your main focus should be on rounding out that part of your back, first. You don't want to just hunch over and round out your shoulders. You're also lifting yourself up a little bit. When you are in the arch you should be in a low squat, but when you round out your back, your squat will lift up.
To get the beat of this move, as you are practicing say the words "arch" as you arch your back and then "drop" as you straighten out your back. Essentially when you arch your back your butt is perking up and popping out. Then, when you round and straighten your back you're kind of dropping your shoulders and your butt so that it bounces back to a relaxed position. In this move, your squat should be higher than it was when you were arching your back.
 There are two ways to do the previous move described. Now that you have practiced generally popping out your booty, you can begin to really draw attention to your booty bounce. The two ways to move your booty in this move are:Booty up bounce: As you are arching your back, pop your booty up. Before, it may have popped up naturally, but now you really want to put movement in your booty. Imagine something is pulling your booty up by a string. Try to lift it upwards as much as you can. When you arch your back, this move will require more force from your booty. Instead of having our booty poke out on its own, you are going push it out. As you are practicing, every time you arch your back say "up." Then, try to do five in a row, saying "up, up, up, up, up."
Booty down bounce: As you are relaxing your back and rounding it out think about bouncing your booty down. Instead of focusing on the booty bounce when you are arching your back, focus on the bounce when you are relaxed. Think about pulling your booty down every time you relax your back. When you pull your booty down you should be squeezing your booty and this should also cause your butt to round out as if it's curling under. Try five in a row saying "down, down, down, down, down."

, Now that you know the moves, you can practice them with some music. Choose some fast paced music you can dance to and twerk your booty, making it bounce up and then bouncing it down. If one feels more comfortable for you, then do that one most of the time.

