 If you're getting the kitten from a friend, or even raising the cat yourself, the most important thing is that it grows up socially, and is handled often. Try to see your kitten often before adopting it, if you can. Cats can be quite stubborn, and if they don't grow up around and with humans, they may well be the kind of cat that hides under the couch when you come into the room.;
, Introduce it slowly to your house, your family and your other pets. It takes time to get used to all the new sights, sounds, smells and movements around them when newly introduced to your home.
 Do not come upon a cat from behind; it will be instinctively wary and possibly scared. Very gently touch the cat's paws, ears, and tail, petting the cat with long, soft and kind strokes. Getting the cat used to physical contact reduces the risk of you and other people getting scratches when they pet the cat in the wrong place (such as the stomach or a sore spot).
 No matter if you're bringing up your next family pet or about to adopt out, always give the kittens a good impression of humans! The world could always use another friendly cat and an even kinder human being.


Speak softly and kindly to cats. Cats detect a great deal through listening and watching body language of other creatures, including humans. Cats subjected to angry, yelling humans will react just the same as kids or adults respond to such behavior––with fear, anxiety and a desire to get away. You can use tone of voice to make a cat behave but never overdo it.
Allow the cat to work out how it wishes to sit with you or near you. Not all cats are lap cats, not all cats want to be petted every five minutes and not all cats want to be with you constantly. On the other hand, some cats would love to sit on your lap and prevent you from knitting, typing, reading or whatever else, so you'll just need to learn to go with the flow and find the best ways to accommodate the cat's needs and yours.
 Try not to generalize about what cat behaviors. As with many living beings, each cat comes with its own personality, history and experiences. Some cats are born trusting, others aren't; some cats are stoic, while others aren't, and so forth. Purr-sonality does have its role to play. If you are willing to spend time with your cat, acknowledge and respect the way that it is, the cat will be happier around you and more likely to reciprocate the love you give to it.

