 You can play the game online within Facebook or on your mobile devices. Launch it, then hit the “Play” button.;
, When the game maps loads, navigate through it until you see “167.” Hit the button for the level to begin.
 Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. The four chocolate wheels at the corners are blocked by blocks of meringues. The three center columns and center rows are filled with candies. Jellies cover everything underneath. It will be good if you can easily make some special candies to help clear out lots of jellies at the beginning. Do you see good moves to quickly get those?

, If you don’t like your board, go ahead an exit. You won’t lose any life as long as you haven’t touched any candy yet.
 Working from the bottom up can improve your chances for unexpected candy matches as candies cascade from the top and settle into open spots on the board.
 As soon as the candies blocking the chocolate spawners are cleared, the machines will start releasing chocolate squares., All meringues are double-layered, and are covering single-layer jelly squares. Matching candies next to the meringues will help break down the meringue blockers and provide you with access to the single-layer jellies that lie beneath., Since the goal of level 167 is to clear the jellies, you don’t necessarily have to focus on clearing chocolate squares. The chocolate spawners will continue to release chocolate regardless of whether you’ve already managed to clear all existing chocolate from the board., Special candies such as striped candies, wrapped candies, color bombs, and combinations of these candies can help clear all jellies in fewer than 50 moves.Make striped candies by matching four candies of the same color in a row. Striped candies will clear all candies that reside in the same row or column, depending on the direction in which the stripes on the candies are facing.
Make wrapped candies by matching five candies of the same color in a T shape, L shape, or + shape. Wrapped candies will clear out the surrounding eight candies upon detonation.
Make color bombs by matching five candies of the same color in a row. When matched with another candy, a color bomb clears all candies of the same color as that particular candy.
 At the start of the level, the chocolate wheels cannot generate chocolate as they are blocked by the meringues. As long as the meringues are there, you’re safe from the chocolate. However, there will come a time when you need to break them. All the blocks of meringues also have jellies underneath, which means you need to clear them out to get to the jellies. When you do break the meringues, the chocolate will start to spread.
 You can break the chocolate by making a match right next to it. Do not let the chocolate spread all over your board. It will be very difficult to complete the level if it does. Stop the chocolate early before it spreads all over. Note also that some jellies may exist underneath some chocolate. Do not forget to clear them out as well.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look before doing a move.

