 Spend a day tracking the sun as it travels over your garden or the spot you’d like to use. Many plants thrive with lots of sun, so look for shady trees or overhangs that may limit the sun. Additionally, notice if the shadow of your house or other large structures falls across your garden for part of the day, as this can limit the amount of sunlight that your plants receive. Once you know where the sunny spots are, you can ensure that your plants get enough sun.


If the plants you choose require full sun, make sure that your garden will get at least five hours of direct sunlight each day.Consider choosing a new spot for your garden if it doesn’t get proper sun.
Alternatively, you can try adding more plants that thrive in the shade or in part sun.
 Your plants need dead plants and other rotting organic debris to break down in the soil so that the plants can absorb the nutrients. In addition to allowing dead leaves to stay in the garden, you can also buy fertilizer or compost material, or you can create your own compost pile with dead leaves and food scraps.If you clean up your garden, consider adding back some fertilizer or compost.
 You need to give your plants enough water to meet their needs. Since the plants are outside, they may also be getting rain water. Adjust your watering schedule to account for the rain. Your soil should be moist but not soaked.


With an outdoor garden, you can get a sprinkler system to ensure that they are thoroughly watered.
Don’t water your garden if it rained that day. If a heavy storm comes through, allow the soil to dry some before you resume watering.
Plants need more water when they’re freshly planted. If it’s dry outside, newly planted plants need about a half a watering can each per day., Pruning a garden should be minimal. Large, barren plants should be trimmed during the winter, while flowering plants should be trimmed after the first buds form. Otherwise, you should not be pruning your plants., Plants grow best in slightly acidic soil that has a pH of 6.5. Test your soil to see if it’s in a good range for plant growth.If not, you can amend the soil by adding compost, manure, or alfalfa meal to your soil, which all contain nitrogen. The nitrogen will lower the pH to 6.5 over time.