 Passive sources income are investments that create income with little involvement and time from you. This could be royalties from publishing a book, a song, or a piece of art, profits from a business partnership where you are a silent investor, or income from rental properties.Consider investing in a rental property, preferably several multifamily units rather than one single family home. Though a rental property can be a large upfront investment, the potential income generated from this investment could be substantial. Ask a friend or business partner to invest with you in a rental property and create passive income to supplement your existing income.
 A stock represents a stake in a company. When you own a share of a stock, you are a part owner in the company and have a claim on every asset and every penny in the company’s earnings.A bond is a financial IOU from a company or the government. Companies and governments issue bonds to fund their day-to-day operations or to finance specific projects.


When you buy a bond, you are loaning your money to the issuer, whether it’s a company or a government body, for a certain period of time. In return, you get interest on the loan, and you get the entire loan amount paid back either on a specific date (the bond’s maturity date) or a future date of the issuer’s choice. For example, if a bond is valued at $1,000, and pays 7% a year, it has an interest value of $70.
You can invest in stocks and bonds by buying them individually or by buying them via a mutual fund. A mutual fund is a collection of stocks, bonds, or cash equivalents, or a mix of all three.Talk to a financial advisor about the right mix of stocks and bonds for your financial portfolio. When you are young and just starting to invest, you should put money in stocks. The long term potential growth of stocks will outweigh the risks. Over time, as you get older, you should scale back on your investment in stocks. Bonds are less volatile and they are good long term investments. Over time, as you get older, increase your investment in bonds.Be wary of investing in hard assets like real estate or gold. These are unstable and unpredictable assets that can be difficult to manage., Penny stocks are publicly-traded stocks that have a very low price per share, usually under five dollars and sometimes less than a dollar. They are often issued by small, less established companies and can be purchased very cheaply. However, penny stocks can be risky investments because they are not traded on the major exchanges (NASDAQ or the NYSE) and it may be difficult to trade them once you purchase them.


Penny stocks are good for short term gains and not as long term investments. Before you invest in a company, you should investigate them online to determine if they are worth the stock purchase. You can then open an account with an online brokerage service and start purchasing and trading penny stock.
To make a profit with penny stocks, you will need to keep constant tabs on your stocks to make quick trades at the highest price. Be wary of “pump and dump” stocks, which are fraudulent stocks that are pumped up to a high stock price, enticing you to invest, only to take your money and leave you with a stock that has no real value.