 If you're currently going through a divorce, you may have the option to make your name change part of the proceedings. Louisiana courts allow women to make a name change part of the divorce proceedings. The court then confirms her change of name. But, Louisiana courts require men that changed their names during marriage to file separate forms to change their names after a divorce.A woman can start using her maiden name again without any legal process after getting divorced. But, it's usually recommended to make the name change part of the proceedings. This will make it easier to change other legal documents or forms of identification., You'll need to file a Petition for Change of Name of Adult with your local parish court.You'll need to go to the clerk of court in person to file the application, show identification (like a birth certificate), and pay the fee. The fee varies from parish to parish, so check costs before going to the office. You'll need to include the following information on your application:Your current name
Your description, including height, weight, hair and eye color, race, sex, place and date of birth
Your parents' names and addresses
Confirm that you aren't wanted for any crimes or have any pending legal actions
Why you'd like to change your name
The new name you want

, From there you can pick up and fill out the Official Form SS-5. You'll need to show the divorce decree or court ordered name change, which includes your old and new names.If it's been more than 2 years since your marriage, you may need to give other documents proving your old name.Once you've shown documentation of your new legal name and proof of U.S. citizenship or lawful presence, fill out an application for a new Social Security card.


There's no fee to apply for a new card and you should get it in the mail within 10 business days., Once you've gotten your new Social Security Card, you can change the name on your driver's license. You'll need to go in person to apply, pay the fee, and show the necessary documents. Realize that when you get your new license, it will still have the same expiration date as the old one. To update your license, you'll need:To show an original or certified document that proves your name change (like a marriage license, divorce decree, or court order)
Your current LA driver’s license
Proof of your car insurance, if you own a car
$13 payment for the duplicate license fee (You might also have to pay an extra local fee that's no more than $4, depending on where you're applying.)

, After you change your federal and state issued IDs, you need to change your name on your other important accounts and documents. Don't forget to change your name at businesses you frequently work with, including any medical/dental files, or post office boxes. Examples of accounts you'll need to update include:


Bank accounts
Credit cards
Leases, mortgages, or loans
Car titles
Passport
Voter registration
Utility services

