 If you're going to pull off this look you definitely need one. You have to have the "I don't really give a f*** what anyone thinks about me!" attitude. Don't let anyone bring you down, don't take any nasty comments to heart, and always have a smart-ass remark to throw back at those pricks!;
, It won't cost you that much, because you can shop at old thrift shops and even fabric stores to make your own clothes. Or if you want to look more adapted to your surroundings or you just want to look like a mixture of old 80s,90s grunge and now, you could buy things you like and rip them artistically, because we like it, we like to play with things and make on them our unique hallmark. So, never copy others, but make something on your own. That's grunge also. The goal is to make things look old and junky, but you don't have to really look like a beggar on the street. Wear big flannels and torn up jeans, along with old combat boots and studded belts. On top, put leather jackets. If you want to be feminine, you can put a beautiful flowery dress, or a school skirt.
 You don't have to put a lot of make-up, but if you do, use black eyeliner that's smeared with bright lipstick that looks like it's the same layer you had on last week. When you go out, make smokey eyes, make them black, black (PJ).
 In 90s you could have washed your hair once a month so it could have been greasy and straggly. BUT, because nowadays you simply cannot leave your house looking like that, you just simply wash it and don't straighten it. If your hair has big kinks and flicks without being straightened like mine does, towel dry it a little then leave it to dry naturally before you go out. look as much as natural. The whole point of grunge is to be natural, loose, look kinda lazy and that you think its over-rated taking care so much, because it's a big waste of time!

, What started grunge? Yep, music. Listen to Mudhoney, L7, Mother Love Bone, Soundgarden, lovely Shannon Hoon with Blind Melon, Alice In Chains, Stone Temple Pilots and amazing Scott Weiland, Pearl Jam, Nirvana, and remember, like them, we fight against the cold, manufacturing, capitalistic, controlling, money-adoring, system, but we also spread love. You can listen to whatever music you want, though!

, .

