 You want a bold, full-flavored bean to get the best drink. Fruity coffees, like many originating from Central America, often lose some flavor when mixed with the milk, and mild or light roast beans are not robust enough to provide the coffee taste you want. Aim for Sumatran, Java, or Brazilian beans, or dark-roasted beans with a big flavor.You can also use espresso beans, though you want to brew them like traditional coffee.;
, In order to avoid weakly flavored coffee, which may occur when the milk is added, you want a strong pot of coffee to start with. While some people suggest using espresso, a cup of espresso and steamed milk is technically a latté, not a café au lait.If you use a coffee maker, use twice as many ground beans or half as much water to get stronger coffee.

If you use a French press, or press pot, be sure to add an extra 2-3 spoonfuls of grounds, and let them steep in the hot water for at least 4 minutes., Scalding is just a culinary term for heating up the milk. You want to be careful not to foam the milk, just warm it up. Place it in a saucepan and heat it up slowly, on low heat, until it is just beginning to bubble and is hot to the touch. It should not be bubbling. You can also use the steaming wand found on an espresso machine, which will heat the milk up without the chance of burning it.


Use whole milk for the most authentic, rich café au lait taste you can get.
While a traditional café au lait has no foam, all milk drinks should be slightly foamed, as air bubbles improve the taste. Take a whisk to the milk for 10-15 seconds before removing it from heat to get the best flavored drink., You want equal parts of milk and coffee, and you want to avoid stirring it up if possible to reduce any foaming. To make this easier, you might transfer the warm milk into a heat-safe measuring cup before pouring.


While the ratios do not have to be exact, a café au lait is supposed to be half milk, half coffee. Add more or less milk to get a weaker or stronger cup.
If you are struggling to pour both simultaneously, then pour the milk first, then pour the coffee into the milk., If you want to emphasize the French aspect, you should serve the coffee in a small bowl, as the French do. For an Italian twist, serve it in a tall glass, usually with a handle (though most Italians use espresso instead of coffee).


Feel free to add sugar to taste, as most French drinkers add 1-2 packets.

