 Breathing is one of the most important parts of practicing tai chi, so a basic breathing exercise can serve as an introduction to the discipline. Maintaining deep, repetitive breathing is calming in and of itself, even if not combined with specific tai chi movements.Think of your breath as a circle – in through your nose and out through your mouth without holding your breath or stopping at any time. There should be no pause between the end of your inhale and the end of your exhale – it should be one continuous circle.
Rest the tip of your tongue on the roof of your mouth, in the position it would be if you were making a hard l sound, such as in the words "laugh" or "light."
Expand your chest and belly as you breathe in, making room for as much air as possible. Squeeze your belly gently when you exhale, as though you are pressing the breath out.
While breathing, focus on relaxing every part of your body where tension may reside. Continue your deep breathing, relaxing your body completely.;
, Standing is one of the most important warm-ups of any tai chi routine. Standing in proper alignment releases the tension from your body and puts you in balance. While there are several different tai chi standing positions, the neutral position is the easiest place to start.Do some deep breathing before you move into this position, and make sure that your entire body is relaxed. Then stand with your feet parallel and roughly hip- or shoulder-width apart. Choose the width that is comfortable and relaxed for you. You'll know when you're in correct alignment because your hands will line up over your feet.
Make sure your weight is distributed evenly, and that you aren't leaning more to one side. Then bend your knees slightly. You should be able to see your toes – if you can't, you're leaning too far forward. Your back should remain straight.
Tuck your pelvis in slightly so that your tailbone is pointing toward the ground and your back is less curved. Keep your head up and your neck straight. Your shoulders should be flat and neutral, and your chest relaxed.
When you achieve the correct posture, continue to relax and breathe deeply. Focus on how the position feels and increase your awareness of each part of your body and how it feels in this position.
 If you're just starting tai chi, you may not be able to physically feel the ball of energy you create, but with practice and focus you can raise your awareness of the energy within and around you.To start this exercise, stand in a neutral position. Bring your hands together in front of you and rub them together with slowness and intention. Think about pulling your energy into your hands as you rub them together. Feel the warmth generated by your motion.
Continue breathing deeply, focusing on the energy flowing into your hands as well as the energy that connects your two hands together. When that connection feels strong, begin slowly and gently pulling your hands apart.
As you pull your hands apart, remain aware and focused on the energy between your hands. Keep your hands and fingers relaxed and soft. Your fingers should be slightly curved, as though you are holding a ball.
Bring your hands closer together when you feel the energy weaken, but don't allow your hands to touch. Pull them apart and then bring them together again, keeping your motions slow and deliberate and your muscles relaxed.
When you're done with the exercise, pull your hands slowly apart until they are about shoulder-width apart, then drop them to your sides.
 The circling hands exercise introduces you to circles and cycles, which are fundamental principles of tai chi form and philosophy. It's a good exercise for beginners, and also can be used as a warm-up to regular practice.Start the circling hands exercise by standing with your hands in front of your body, palms facing each other. Think of how your body would be positioned if you were giving someone a standing ovation.
Keep your body neutral and your muscles relaxed, and make sure you are breathing deeply. Create space between your hands by separating them – you can have them as far apart as you want, as long as they are each equidistant from the center line of your body. For the duration of this exercise, you'll keep your hands the same distance apart.
Begin moving your hands in circles, keeping them the same distance apart. Move them up and out from your body, then down and toward your body. From the side, it should look like you're tracing a circle.
Expand your hands and wrists as they move away from your body and contract them as they move toward your body. Keep your movements slow and gentle, and focus on your breath and how the movement feels to all parts of your body.
You also can do variations of this exercise in which you change the direction in which you trace your circle, vary the space between your hands, or change the height of the circles.
 If you want to learn additional tai chi moves and forms on your own, pick up a book or video at your local library or bookstore. Books also introduce you to the vocabulary and philosophy behind tai chi.Learn as much or as little as you want about the philosophy underlying tai chi. Don't be intimidated by the vocabulary or terminology used by tai chi practitioners. It will become second-nature to you over time if you start regularly practicing tai chi.
Keep in mind it isn't necessary for you to adopt the philosophical underpinnings of tai chi to reap its benefits. It's enough that you believe in the power of meditation, relaxation, and deep breathing.
Even if you don't try to follow along with a video, simply watching others do tai chi is a way to become more familiar with the movements and forms of the practice.
 The best way to do tai chi is by taking a class. You can enjoy the companionship of fellow practitioners as well as guidance and assistance from a live instructor. If you think you want to attend a class, go watch one in progress first.You can find classes near you simply by searching "tai chi" on the internet along with the name of your city or town. You also might ask at your local library or community center.
Senior groups or clubs often have tai chi classes as well.
Watch the class quietly. When the class is over, you typically will have the opportunity to speak with the instructor as well as some members of the class and ask any questions you have.
Observe a beginners class that you think you would be interested in joining. You also might want to observe an intermediate or advanced class so you can meet and talk to more long-term tai chi practitioners.
 Tai chi is a low-impact and gentle type of exercise. However, if you have significant balance or coordination issues, or if you have musculoskeletal problems or medical conditions such as arthritis, it's a good idea to talk to your doctor before you start practicing tai chi regularly.You also may have difficulty practicing if you're currently on medications that can make you dizzy or lightheaded.
Your doctor will advise you whether tai chi is a good idea for you, and may even give you suggestions on classes to take or instructors to use.
 If you have arthritis, you may benefit from the 12-movement program designed by and for the Arthritis Foundation. This beginner-level program is offered throughout the United States.If you live in the U.S. and want to take a class that uses the Arthritis Foundation's program, call the Foundation at 1-800-283-7800 or visit their website at arthritis.org to find out where their program is available.
Even if the Foundation's specifically developed program isn't available in your area, they may be able to connect you to other tai chi classes that would benefit you.
 Before you sign up for a specific class, you should take the time to meet with the class instructor and find out more about their credentials and experience. Since there is no universal accreditation for tai chi instructors, make sure you take a class with someone who is experienced and respected in the practice.If you have personal health concerns or difficulties with coordination or flexibility, explain those issues to the instructor. They should be willing to accommodate you.
You can also research the instructor's background and reputation online. Ask the instructor where they've taught classes before, or if you can talk to any practitioners who have taken their class for an extended period of time.
 To practice tai chi, you need to wear clothing that provides you with a full range of motion without constricting or binding. More lightweight clothing will move with your body so you don't have to constantly adjust it.You may want to dress in layers, especially if you tend to get cold.
If you're unsure about what to wear to class, observe a class and pay attention to what the practitioners are wearing. You also can watch classes online to get an idea of what clothing is appropriate.
You'll typically see practitioners wearing everything from yoga attire to regular street clothes or business casual. You shouldn't have to buy any new clothes just to practice tai chi.
 Although many people practice tai chi daily, when you're just starting out you can try a weekly or bi-weekly class to develop the habit and get used to tai chi. After that, you can work towards implementing tai chi practice into your everyday life.Be prepared to try out tai chi for at least three months. After that time you should already notice positive changes in your body in mind.
If you don't enjoy tai chi, you can stop at any time. But if you want to quit because you're not noticing any benefits or positive results of doing it, keep in mind that it can take two to three months to realize many of the benefits of tai chi.
 Tai chi operates according to the 70 percent rule. With any movement, you should only do 70 percent of what you can do. If you have arthritis or other injuries that limit your mobility, this means you should only go 70 percent as far as you possibly could without experiencing pain.For example, if you can extend your arms out straight in front of you, that is 100 percent extension in your elbow. In tai chi, you should go with 70 percent extension of your elbow.
However, if you have arthritis in your elbows and can only extend the joint 70 percent without pain, then you should only extend your elbows about 50 percent.
 Your instructor typically will start with breathing exercises, and you should continue to breathe deeply throughout your movements and forms. In many ways, the deep breath is more important than anything else in tai chi.Your breath centers your body and mind, restoring your energy and bringing your body into better balance.
If you're in a class and the instructor is calling for a movement or form that you cannot do, return to a neutral standing position and focus on your breath.
Take plenty of breaks throughout your practice and check your breathing. You should breathe through all of the moves and forms, never holding your breath.
Don't worry about timing up particular movements with the inhale and exhale when you're just beginning tai chi practice. Breathing deeply is more important than breathing at a particular time. This ability to breathe and move together in harmony will come as you advance.
 Some like to think of tai chi as a moving meditation. Throughout your practice, you will be encouraged to clear your mind of outside thoughts and focus on the energy flowing through your body.Many tai chi movements focus on circles or cycles. As you practice tai chi, it can help to think of your body as a circle or moving in circles. Concentrate on the energy cycling through your body, the air moving in and out in a circle.
Many tai chi exercises call on you to focus the energy in your body, such as the circling hands or energy ball exercises you may have done when you were first starting tai chi. With practice, you'll be able to feel the energy moving between your hands as you perform these exercises.
 Many seniors feel lost after retirement because they no longer have a regular job to structure their daily routine. If you decide you want to do tai chi every day, you can make it part of your regular morning routine.Whether you take a class or practice at home, create a regular time during which you practice tai chi each day, so your practice becomes habitual.
You may have a class that meets twice a week, and you practice other days at home. Your home tai chi practice should be the same time each day as your class.
 Tai chi isn't a competition. You don't have to learn and practice a large number of movements or forms to get positive mental and physical benefits from tai chi. Aim to learn one or two new movements or forms each month to expand your practice.Keep your expectations realistic. You can realize great benefits from tai chi practice, even if you aren't able to do everything right away. Your coordination, balance, and flexibility will get better with regular tai chi practice.
Above all else, focus on your breath. Take plenty of breaks, especially in the beginning, if something gets difficult. Keep in mind that tai chi is supposed to be a gentle, relaxing practice. If you find yourself getting frustrated, take a break to breathe and regroup.

