 Begin by looking at your cat's eyes. Make sure that they are clear, there is no discharge, and that the surfaces of them are smooth. Then look in the cat's ears. They should be relatively clean and should not be red or irritated.

When looking at your cat's eyes you are looking for signs of disease or injury. If the surface of the eye is not smooth and there is discharge coming from the eyes, your cat may have conjunctivitis or some other disease. Get the cat looked at by a veterinarian.A cat's ears can have a variety of problems, including ear mites and bacterial or yeast infections. If your cat's ears are not clean, and it is rubbing them or seems to be hard of hearing, you should get it looked at by a veterinarian.;
, Dental health is very important for a cat's overall health. Look at your cat's teeth for signs of decay or disease. You may also want to smell the cat's breath. If it smells putrid or rancid, instead of its normal cat food smell, then you should have the cat's teeth looked at by a veterinarian.It is recommended that you clean your cat's teeth on a regular basis. It is best to do it daily but can be effective for preventing periodontal disease if it is done several times a week., It is important to make sure that your cat is breathing well when you do an at home health exam. Listen to your cat's breathing and make sure there are no signs that it is having difficulty. These signs can include difficulty breathing in and out, an increased rate of breathing, panting, open mouth breathing, coughing, and noisy breathing.Having difficulty breathing can be a symptom of literally hundreds of illnesses. If your cat is having difficulty breathing you should take it so be seen by a veterinarian so that the cat's illness can be determined and treated.
 Feeling your cat's body can help you to assess whether it is at a healthy weight, in addition to spotting the signs of illness or injury. Run your hands along the cat's core, feeling the ribs, stomach, and back. Pay attention to lumps or areas that are overly skinny or fat.You should be able to feel the ribs, but they shouldn't stick out. You should also feel a small area of fat on the abdomen, but it shouldn't be very large.
 Run your hands along the cat's legs and feel down to its feet. Make sure there are no injuries or areas that are sensitive when touched. Also make sure that cat's pads are not cracked or irritated and that the cat's paws are clean between the toes.If you have a cat that is skittish or aloof, you may have a hard time feeling its legs and feet at first. Work with the cat to get it used to your touch by using treats and positive reinforcement.
If your cat has minor cracks or irritation on its pads, try applying a moisturizing product to them. These products are sold at pet supply stores or can be supplied by your veterinarian.
 Look over the cat's entire coat for signs of hair loss or irregular patches of fur. Also make sure that the cat's skin has no pigment changes or areas of lumps or redness. Any problems with your cat's coat that last more than a week or two should be looked at by a veterinarian.

Areas of missing fur can be the result of simple injuries, such as scratches, or they can be a symptom of a health problem, such as hormonal imbalances., When you are giving an at home health exam you should look at every surface on the cat's body. This will help you to spot any developing problems.

It's important to feel the cat's body, in addition to looking at it. If you feel any abnormalities, such as lumps or bumps, you should keep track of them and make sure they are not growing. If they do, you should bring them to the attention or your veterinarian.
A good time to feel your cat's body is when you are brushing it or when it is curled up on your lap. Combining a petting session with a inspection of the cat's body will be more pleasant for the cat.
 If is important to make sure that your cat is eating and digesting its food normally. Assess whether your cat is eating the same amount as it always has and if it is going to the bathroom as much as it usually does. Changes to the amount your cat is eating or going to the bathroom can indicate a developing illness, so you should have the cat seen by a veterinarian if this occurs. Assessing how much your cat goes to the bathroom if easier for indoor cats, as they will only be eliminating in their litter boxes. For cats that go outside, it may be impossible to track their bathroom trips.
 Make sure that your cat is not vomiting regularly and does not have diarrhea on a regular basis. While the occasional case of vomiting or diarrhea that only lasts a day or so should not cause alarm, any bouts that last longer should not be ignored. A cat that is not properly digesting its food should be seen by a veterinarian.

Some diseases that can cause vomiting and diarrhea in cats include bacterial infections, intestinal parasites, and viral infections.It is especially important to get your cat veterinary care if there is blood in its vomit or diarrhea.
 When assessing your cat's health, you should make sure that it is getting enough exercise. A cat that has decreased its activity level may be suffering from an injury or illness that it is hiding. Watch your cat and make sure it is doing everything that it normally does.

Also, try engaging your cat in play and make sure that it moves normally when it plays. If it looks like movement is painful, if the cat is limping, or the cat is hesitant to play in a way that it normally likes, then you may want to have it looked at by a veterinarian.
Exercise is an important part of cat health. Without enough exercise, such as that done during playing, hunting, or exploring, your cat can become overweight and unhealthy., When assessing your cat's health, you need to take its mood into consideration. Aggression or unhappiness, especially in cats that have usually been happy in the past, can be signs that your cat is ill and in pain. Look for signs of unhappiness and if you see them, have your cat looked at by a veterinarian. They include:Inappropriate elimination
Hissing or growling
Hesitance to be touched
A defensive posture
Biting or swatting

