 Buy a bag of apples, preferably Red Delicious or Granny Smith apples, as they work best for this project. You'll also need semi-sweet chocolate, wooden sticks or skewers, cellophane wrap, and the toppings of your choice (peanuts, coconut, cookies, etc.).


Melt the chocolate in a double-boiler on the stove.
Skewer the apples and dip into melted chocolate.
Roll into a topping and allow to dry.
Wrap in cellophane. You can use colored cellophane or add a pretty bow. These are a delicious treat for your friends and family.
 Add a decorative ribbon to dress it up. If you can splurge a bit more you can include a bread knife, wooden cutting board or bread cookbook with the bread gift. For the more experienced cook you can try truffles, candies, etc. For an easy fix, buy tubes of cookie dough.
 Many people like homemade jam because it tastes fresher than the store bought kind, and not so many people make jam anymore. You can also make chutneys, salsaor other foods and if you're feeling ambitious, can the food. This can make your food gifts last a year or more. Given along with some muffins, homemade bread, biscuits or other pastries it will be a welcome gift.
 Just find the ingredients you like, mix together, seal in a bag or container and give with a big mug for drinking. This is a great gift for families as you can give each person an individual mug. This is also a great just in case gift to keep at the house for a last minute hostess gift or that person you accidentally forgot. Easy to transport, it's great for giving at the office or school.
 Combine vinegars or oils with rosemary, garlic or other herbs or spices, and pour into a decorative bottle and cork. There are many methods for doing this available online. There are also options available for marinating cheeses.
 Go to your local dollar store or discount supermarket and stock up on plastic spoons (buying some red/ green spoons and decorating them with curled ribbons would add a festive flare).



Melt chocolate in the microwave on 50 percent power for one minute (if you have a fixed setting, do it for 30 seconds).
Stir, and continue melting in 10-second increments at 50% power until smooth.
Dip spoons until generously covered with chocolate.
Lay them on waxed paper lined cookie sheet to cool down. If you want to get fancy, roll in crushed peppermint candies or drizzle them with melted white chocolate or sprinkles.
 Dip one end of a big pretzel stick in melted chocolate. Roll in either mini M&Ms, colored sprinkles, chopped nuts, or crushed candy cane. Allow to harden by placing the un-dipped end down in a drinking glass. Wrap in cellophane.

