 Characters and their dialogue or actions typically follow the introduction and descriptive info which sets a scene. They should be centered in all caps on the page with dialogue following on the line below.


To create a macro which will prepare you to input character names after writing scene description, repeat the same steps used to create a macro for description in MS Word 2013/2016, but:

a) after changing the indentation back to 0 during recording, press the space bar 22 times, then select the All Caps and
b) name the macro 'Character' and assign it to F4. Be sure that the first thing done during recording is to skip down two lines.


After pressing Stop Recording, F4 will skip two lines down the page (thus bringing the cursor to the correct character name position) and capitalize.
To create a dialogue macro for Word 2007, follow the directions for the description macro in Word 2007 but input the parameters outlined in the sub-steps above.
 In the bottom right corner of the Paragraph section, there’s a little icon. Click it and a dialog box will open. Set 1’’ indents before text and 1.5’’ after text under the Indentation section.


In Word 2007, display the Developer tab. At the top left of the Word window, there’s a multicolored button known as the Office button. Click it and go to Word Options (at the bottom). Under Popular, check “Show Developer tab in the Ribbon.”, Type a name for the macro. Since this macro is for dialogue, assigning the name “Dialogue” to this macro is a logical choice. Ensure you’ve selected “All documents” at the bottom of the drop-down menu reading “Store macro in.”


Click the keyboard icon and assign the macro to F5. Click “Assign” or press Enter, then click “Close.”
In Word 2007, click Record Macro. The button to record the macro is on the left side of the ribbon. Store the Macro in the same place you stored the other macro you created, and name it “Description.” Click the keyboard icon and assign the macro a button of your choice. For example, maybe you want to use F5. Click within the “Press New Shortcut Key” and then press the F5 button to assign this macro to F5.
 Hit Enter once on your keyboard to skip a line, then go into the Page Layout tab and move both indentations to 0. Next, click on the Home tab. In the bottom right corner of the Font section, select the little icon which opens the dialog box to open it. Look under the Effects section, then select All Caps. Click OK.


Click the View tab again. Click Macros > Stop Recording. F5 will now skip one line, utilize lowercase text, and prepare you to enter dialogue.
In Word 2007, instead of clicking Macros > Stop Recording, press Stop Recording in the Developer tab.

