 Set emotional boundaries between you and the person you care about. While it is important to be empathetic, avoid taking on someone's negative thoughts, feelings, or behavior. This may not be noticeable at first, but if you are constantly helping someone who is depressed and suicidal, this may take an emotional toll on you.People who are caregivers or mental health professionals can experience what is called "emotional burnout" or "compassionate fatigue." Think carefully about if you may be experiencing this.Difficult emotions can be hard to handle. If you are feeling sad when you see someone you care about hurting or depressed, that's okay. It's natural to be sad when someone else is sad. Just make sure that those feelings don't consume you or impair your ability to do daily tasks.
 In times of high stress, like helping someone who is suicidal, it is important to make time for yourself. By caring for your body, you can release some of the stress of caring for someone. Consider these ways to get your body moving in order to feel better:


Exercise a few times a week.
Go to the gym regularly.
Take a fitness class.
Go for a walk.
 Remind yourself that there are good things in life. It is important to connect your mind to your body. Relaxation techniques help to reduce anxiety and stress. Here are some to consider:


Meditate or pray. Put yourself in a calming place where you can center yourself.
Take gentle yoga. This focuses on stretching and breathing.
Use deep breathing exercises. These exercises teach you to focus on your breath and redirect your anxiety.
 Make sure that once you have helped someone else that you help yourself. Find healthy and relaxing ways to unwind from stressful situations. While it is important to help others, you also need to take time for yourself.Take a hot shower or bath. Go to a spa. Get a massage.
Do something artistic. Listen to music. Write in a journal. Draw.
Get a good night's sleep. Make time for rest and alone time. Unwind without distractions.

