 Saliva is not good for reeds. Be careful not to soak the reed for too long because then it will be harder to play. While the reed soaks, grasp the bell of the instrument and attach it to the bottom of the main part of the instrument.;
, Crowing it will help warm it up too: this is where you put the reed in your mouth, lips at the top of the string, and blow. After that, take the reed and insert it into the top of the main section of the instrument. Blow into the reed for a few seconds and follow that by a few short bursts of air.
 Close your lips around the reed. The tip of the reed is where you should place your lips. The tip of the reed is a little bit above the middle of it. It is thinner than the rest of the reed.
 Place the tip of your tongue over the opening of the reed. To blow, think of pronouncing the syllable "doo" (of course, with your lips still around the reed). If steps 6-8 are performed correctly, a high pitched note will come from the reed. If not, refer to those steps again.
 Apply cork grease, if needed, though don't put too much on or the joints will slip off while you are playing. Obtain a fingering chart from a beginner's oboe book or on a trusted website. An easy note to start with is a middle A or B. For an A, put your right thumb underneath the thumb rest on the lower-half of the oboe. This hand does not push any keys. Your left hand goes on the upper-half of the oboe. The thumb rests on the wood, not the octave key, and the first two holes are covered.
 Put your feet flat on the floor, a straight back and have your oboe facing outward, and away from your knees. The oboe should form an approximately 45 degree angle with your body.
 Your index and middle fingers cover the first two keys that have holes. Make sure the holes are covered. Your thumb goes under the key that is on the back of the instrument, for now.
 Take a weighted swab and pull it through the the top and the middle joint sections of the oboe. The bell, as it as at the end, can look after itself. Then put everything back in your oboe case.
 You must tune with your mouth and reposition your mouth to get the proper sound.

