 When you are trying to make an argument in any context, it’s important that you express yourself as clearly and articulately as possible. If you are vague, you will sound unconvincing, and you are even less likely to win someone around in an online argument than you would be otherwise. If you are writing on a forum, or a comments section, aim for concise prose rather than big blocks of text.


If you write large chunks of text, it is unlikely that your interlocutors will go through and read it all.
Try to say a lot with few words for a powerful and digestible argument.
Writing with poor grammar and spelling will not help people take your argument seriously.;
, As well as expressing yourself clearly and concisely, your argument will benefit from well-sourced and appropriate evidence. Link to evidence from reputable sources to back-up your claims, and try to rise above trading blogger opinions by linking to scientific and academic research. Make sure the evidence is relevant and accurately supports your argument.


Telling somebody to look up the evidence for themselves does not help your argument.Link to it directly and explain why it is a valuable source.
 Psychological research has shown that people with fixed ideas and opinions are generally unlikely to consider alternative perspectives, or to critically analyse how they came to their own viewpoint. This research has suggested that an effective way to make an argument can be to challenge such fixed assumptions by asking how they work in practice.


Those who are asked to explain themselves are more likely to soften their views and become more open to different perspectives.
Being able to explain the process by which you came to your opinion can further strengthen your argument., If you find yourself becoming very defensive about your position, your argument is likely to lose nuance as you retreat and become more entrenched. Always try to keep an open mind and be curious. Interrogate your own thinking and challenge yourself. If you have done this, you will be better able to acknowledge potential problems in your argument and demonstrate how you have come to understand them.