 Making a homemade solution from baking soda can help you eliminate the skunk odor instead of just covering it. To make the solution, mix together ¼ cup of baking soda, 2 teaspoons of dish soap, 1 quart of 3% hydrogen peroxide, and 1 cup of warm water.If you have a large cat, you may need to increase the amount you mix, or just mix two batches.;
, When you put together this mixture, make sure to use a plastic container, like a bucket. Do not place a lid on the container because the gases could build up and explode. Never store leftover solution in a sealed container.Always use caution with this solution and never cover it. This solution can be very dangerous if you cover it.
 Make sure to use the mixture within an hour of mixing. The mixture will lose its potency if left for long periods of time. Ideally, you should put it on your cat immediately after mixing, while it is still foaming.Make just enough to use on your cat. Mix another solution if your cat needs an additional dose.
Toss out any leftover solution once you are finished using it on your cat.
 As soon as you find out your cat has been sprayed by a skunk, wash them. Skunk spray becomes increasingly difficult to remove if it stays on the cat. The odor can permeate the hair and skin if it sits.The spray is oily and seeps into fur and any material it touches. Keep your cat isolated until you clean them.
 Before you bathe your cat, try to clean up some of the spray on your cat’s coat. Use paper towels on the sprayed areas to try to soak up as much as possible. Blot and don’t wipe with the paper towel. Wiping may spread the oil around to unaffected areas., Do not bring your cat into your home if they have been sprayed by a skunk. This could lead to the smell spreading to your furniture or carpet. Instead, set up an area to bathe your cat outdoors.If the cat is inside already, try to contain them in the bathroom and keep them off furniture, rugs, and other materials.
 Dampen your cat's fur with warm water. Then pour the solution onto the cat’s fur. While wearing gloves, spread the solution over your cat’s coat and skin with your fingers. You can also use a sponge to scrub the fur. Leave it on your cat for five to 10 minutes.Don’t get the mixture in your cat’s eyes. Use a cloth dampened with the solution to put the solution on the head.
 After you have let the solution sit as long as needed, rinse all of the solution off with warm water. Make sure to get all of the solution off of the coat. If the smell has not dissipated, apply additional doses of the solution.
 Once it is completely removed from the coat, wash your cat with cat shampoo. Make sure to bathe the cat thoroughly.Rinse the shampoo from the cat’s fur with warm water.
 If your cat’s eyes got sprayed by the skunk, you cannot use the solution for that. Instead, use water to flush the skunk spray out of the eyes. You can also apply mineral oil to the eyes to help with stinging or redness. Then, rinse the mineral oil from the eyes with water.You can also soak cotton balls in water to rinse off the cat’s nostrils and mouth.
 Before you wash the cat, or as you are washing them, you should check for any injuries. In rare cases, skunks can bite or scratch the cat. This may lead to infection or other problems.Skunks can carry rabies. If your cat was scratched or bitten by a skunk, make sure to get them checked out by a vet. If they show signs of rabies, like foaming or drooling at the mouth, get them medical attention immediately.
 Getting sprayed by a skunk shouldn't cause any problems other than a foul odor. However, if your cat got sprayed heavily, you can take them to the vet. The vet will assess their blood work for any problems.The vet will check the blood work again after 72 hours to look for anemia.
 If your cat is a long-haired cat, you may want to cut their hair. This can help remove any remaining odor left on the long hair. You may want to take your cat to the groomers to get them professionally trimmed instead of trying to do it yourself.