 Take a large chef's knife and check to see if the blade is sharp. Use a honing steel to slightly bend the blade back into realignment. Or you can use an electric or mechanical knife sharpener to smooth your blade until it's sharp again.

To tell if your knife is dull, hold a large piece of paper and slice directly through it. Ensure that the knife is pointing away from you as you slice. If the knife can't slice through the paper, you need to sharpen it.;
, Keep your cutting board from sliding around as you cube the sweet potatoes. Wet a small kitchen cloth or towel and wring it out so it's completely damp. Lay this on your work surface and place the cutting board directly on the cloth. It will hold your cutting board in place.

Avoid using glass cutting boards which can damage your knives. They're also more likely to slip around as you cut.
 If you plan on steaming or simmering the cubed sweet potato, you may want to peel it before cubing it. Otherwise, the skin will just add a little texture. Use a vegetable peeler to slice away the sweet potato skins.Keep in mind that the sweet potato may become slippery and harder to handle once you've peeled it.
 Lay the sweet potato on the cutting board and slice it in half (across the round center of the sweet potato). You should now have two equal halves of sweet potato, each with a flat end., Set each sweet potato half on the cutting board so it's standing up on the flat end. This will create a sturdy base for cutting the sweet potato. Take your sharp knife and slice down to create even slices. The slices should be as wide as you'd like the cubes to end up being. Do this for the other sweet potato half as well., Lay the slices down on their sides so the flat part is resting on the cutting board. Cut the slices into even strips. The strips should be as thick as you'd like the cubes to end up being., Turn the strips of sweet potato about 90 degrees and cut them into more strips. This will create cubes. Continue to cut the sweet potato strips until you've cubed all of them.