 Chances are you already have a resume that lead you to an interview. However, be sure to read your resume over once again, and make any necessary changes. You may have an experience you would like to add, or contact information to update. It is also important to read over everything outlined in your resume because the interviewer will ask you questions in regards to that information.;
, Before sitting down for an interview, make sure you have gained some knowledge about the company you are applying for. Research their mission statement and values, so you can gain a better understanding on some of the possible questions you may be asked during your interview.Develop a few questions from your research that you can ask at the end of your interview. This will show your interviewer that you took the time to learn about the company.
 Job interviews are not something you do everyday, so when you finally sit down for one, it can feel unnatural. Try practicing your interviewing skills until it begins to feel easy. Say your strengths and work experience out loud like you would at your formal interview, and have your friend listen to you. This will help you feel more confident when you sit down for your formal interview.Let your friend ask you interview questions and give you feedback to help you improve.
 Your outfit will be one of the first impressions your interviewer has about you, so make sure you put thought into it. Regardless of the type of job you are applying for, you should dress sharp, and never be casual. Your clothes should be ironed, there should be no stains or tears, and your shirt should always be tucked in.


For men, a suit, tie, and jacket is a strong look that shows you are professional.
Women can wear a blouse with slacks, or a pencil skirt.
 A portfolio is a collection of works (art, writing, photos, etc.) you've accomplished in the past. Some careers require this, while others do not. For example, architects could include structures they have designed, or journalists could include writing samples.


When showing off your portfolio, remember to explain any drawings or images to the interviewer, so they have some idea of what they're looking at.

