 Sinusitis can be hard to diagnose, especially since the symptoms are similar to that of a cold. Acute sinusitis often occurs after you have a cold, and symptoms get worse after 5-7 days. Symptoms of chronic sinusitis are usually a bit milder, but last much longer. Common symptoms of sinusitis include:Headache and fever
Pressure in the forehead, temples, cheeks, nose, jaw, teeth, behind the eyes, or at the top of the head
Facial tenderness or swelling, especially around the eyes or cheeks
Nasal stuffiness, loss of smell
Nasal discharge (usually yellowish green) or post-nasal drip (feeling a sensation of fluid dripping down the back of your throat)
Cough and sore throat
Bad breath
Fatigue

, Sinusitis can be acute (lasting less than 4 weeks) or chronic (lasting longer than 12 weeks).Acute sinusitis has many causes, but viral infection is the most common culprit, causing 90-98% of cases.This type of acute sinusitis will usually get better within 7-14 days.
Chronic sinusitis also has several causes, but allergies are the most common. You may also be more likely to have chronic sinusitis if you smoke or have asthma.
 Sinusitis is common during seasonal changes that may trigger colds or allergies. Changes in your environment or hazardous chemicals or particulate in the air may also trigger sinusitis.Allergens such as pollen or dust are common causes of sinusitis.
Cigarette smoke and hazardous fumes irritate nasal tissue, which can cause sinusitis.
Changes in pressure, such as when you scuba dive, fly, or climb high altitudes, can cause sinusitis.
Extreme temperatures or sudden changes in temperature can also cause sinusitis.
 Some cases of sinusitis may be caused by bacterial infections. These types of sinusitis may be more severe and may need to be treated by antibiotics. Because the symptoms of bacterial, viral, and allergic sinusitis are similar, it’s important to see a doctor so s/he can diagnose and treat you properly.Tell your doctor if you are pregnant. Also tell your doctor if you recently had any surgery related to dental problems or physical injuries.
Seek professional help immediately if you have a high fever (above 104F) or are experiencing shortness of breath. These could be signs of a more serious condition.
Rare complications associated with chronic sinusitis include blood clots, abscesses, meningitis, orbital cellulitis, and osteomyelitis, an infection that spreads to the bones in the face.
Do not take antibiotics for sinusitis unless your doctor has prescribed them. Only 2-10% of sinusitis cases are caused by bacterial infections. Antibiotics will only treat bacterial sinusitis. It will not help other types.Using antibiotics when you don’t need them can increase your risk of developing antibiotic-resistant infections.If your symptoms have lasted longer than 8 weeks, your doctor may request imaging tests, such as an x-ray, CT scan, or MRI. Your doctor may also order an allergy test to determine whether allergies are causing your sinusitis.
 If your symptoms last longer than 8 weeks, your doctor may refer you to an otolaryngologist (Ear-Nose-Throat, or ENT doctor). An ENT specialist can perform a nasal endoscopy using a fiber optic scope to examine your sinuses.


In some cases, your ENT doctor may suggest an endoscopic sinus surgery. This can help remove structural blockage from a deviated septum or polyp, damaged or swollen tissue, or other problems causing your sinusitis.