 Write down your observations of your senior dog’s behavior and symptoms in a journal. You can use a notebook, computer, or take notes on your smartphone. Every week, write down your observations with regards to your senior dog’s mobility, appetite, eliminations, and any signs of pain. This journal will help you monitor and keep records of your dog’s medical history.If you notice a limp, you might write: “Since our walk on Saturday, I’ve noticed a slight limp. Sam seems to favor his right leg over his left leg. I’ve checked the paw but there are no obvious causes. I need to follow up with the veterinarian.”
If you notice a loss of appetite, you might write: “Sam ate half his usual portion on Monday. We’ll see what his appetite looks like tomorrow, but this is a worrying sign.”;
, Watch for behavioral changes in your older dog. Take detailed notes of any behavioral changes, since such changes can be signs of underlying medical conditions.


If your dog looks really exhausted, it may just be a result of a tiring walk. However, it may also be a sign of a serious illness such as heartworm, diabetes, hypoglycemia, heart disease, or other illnesses.If your dog starts to bark in unexpected situations, it could be a sign of anxiety or even a cognitive dysfunction syndrome.See your veterinarian if you see this behavior.
If your dog has difficulty getting up or gets picky about food, it could be a sign of pain. You should see your veterinarian to figure out what the problem may be.If your dog becomes withdrawn, it could be a sign of depression., Senior dogs sometimes suffer from immobility, such as trouble getting up the stairs or into the car. There are things you can do to address mobility issues, including dog stairs and ramps.However, such mobility issues may be a sign of an underlying condition so you should take detailed notes and tell your veterinarian.
 Keep detailed notes about any fluctuations in their appetite. If you see any difficulty eating, it could be a sign of pain and oral health issues.Take note of any changes in their appetite in your health journal.


If you witness a loss of appetite, it may be a result of stress or picky eating. However, it could also be a symptom of more serious conditions such as kidney failure, cancer, infection, or an oral disease.If you see vomiting, it could just be because they ate too quickly but, more seriously, it may be a sign of an infection, liver failure, kidney failure, parasites, gastric ulcers, or gastrointestinal illness.Pay attention to how much your dog drinks as well. Increasing thirst and needing to go toilet more often can be a sign of diabetes or kidney disease.
 If you dog is soiling inside the house, there may be an underlying health problem. Your senior dog may be unable to control elimination for some reason, so you should take detailed notes in your health journal. Communicate your observations to your veterinarian.If you see diarrhea, it may be because of food sensitivities or stress. However, it may also be a symptom of serious conditions such as gastrointestinal illnesses, bacterial or viral infection, amongst other possible causes., If your dog has trouble getting up, walking up the stairs, or getting into the car, they may be experiencing pain and associated joint inflammation. If you see them panting excessively, acting withdrawn, or grooming themselves rather excessively, these could also be signs of pain. Take notes of any behavioral changes that you think may be associated with pain and tell your veterinarian., Schedule your annual veterinarian check-up for your senior dog. It is important to get a physical exam for your dog at least once a year, although your veterinarian may recommend semi-annual check-ups depending on their health. By getting a regular check-up, you can be proactive about conditions that commonly impact older dogs such as the following:Chronic kidney disease.
Hypothyroidism.
Cancer.
Cognitive disorders.
Arthritis.
Organ failure.
Diabetes mellitus.
 Bring your health journal to the check-up and use it to tell your veterinarian about any observations you have noted with regards to your senior dog’s behavior, mobility, appetite, eliminations, or signs of pain. These notes will be invaluable for your veterinarian, since one of their key tools in evaluation is the dog’s medical history.You might say: “I’ve noticed a limp on his left side. I can’t see anything stuck to his paw, but he’s definitely been favoring his right side lately. What do you think this could be?”
If you have observed a loss of appetite, you might say: “In my journal, I’ve noted Sam ate half his usual portion for three days in a row at the beginning of last week. He ate fine for the next couple days, and then started eating less again. Do you think this is a sign of something?”

, During the physical exam, make sure your veterinarian does a complete examination of your senior dog’s mouth, teeth, gums, tongue, and throat. Although puppies have a hard time opening their mouths for the oral exam, it typically gets easier for adult dogs.Also, make sure the physical exam includes an examination of your senior dog’s inner pelvic area, colon, and, if your dog is male, the prostate.Tell your veterinarian: “I think we should do an oral exam this time. I’ve noticed Sam (insert dog’s name) has been eating less, so I’m worried about his teeth and gums.”
Ask your veterinarian: What do you think about Sam’s oral health?
Request a rectal exam: “I am worried about Sam’s prostate health, can you check it out?”

, By keeping a watchful eye on your dog’s vision, you can be proactive and avoid possible blindness in later life.Cataracts make your senior dog’s eyes opaque and cloudy. They can be associated with other diseases like diabetes. If your senior dog has cataracts, your veterinarian may need to perform surgery.
Glaucoma involves a fluid build-up and pressure in the eye. It is a very common disease for old dogs. If your senior dog has very red eyes, they may be experiencing glaucoma. If your dog has glaucoma, your veterinarian may need to administer drugs and perform surgery to save your dog’s eyes.
 They will look at the health of the fur and the skin, including in relation to hair loss and inflammation., Your veterinarian should check for signs of external parasites such as fleas or ticks as well as internal parasites in the gut. To do so, your veterinarian will have to check the fur and the stools. Make sure parasites are addressed as part of their physical exam.External parasites include ticks, lice, flies, and fleas.Internal parasites include roundworms, whipworms, tracheal worms, tapeworms, heartworms, salmon flukes, giardia, and coccidia., Vaccines help the immune system fight diseases.Older dogs have weaker immune systems, so it becomes very important to stay regular with all vaccinations. Make sure your veterinarian has completed all of the necessary vaccinations for your older dog.Ask your veterinarian if they have followed the guidelines of the American Animal Hospital Association's task force on vaccines, which recommends core vaccines alongside non-core vaccines that depend on risk exposure:Core vaccines include canine hepatitis, rabies, parvovirus, and distemper.
Non-core vaccines will sometimes be given, depending on risk analysis. These vaccines include those that fight against Borrelia burgdorferi, leptospira bacteria, and bordetella bronchiseptica.
 By getting screening tests done on your older dog, you can catch any potential illnesses in the early stages. Similar to screening tests in older humans, screening tests for geriatric dogs are designed to identify specific conditions in the early stages. Ask your veterinarian: “What screening tests might be appropriate at this point?”

, You should ask your veterinarian about the cost of screening tests, as well as the potential costs of treatment. Use the estimates they give you to budget for veterinarian care. Generally, screening tests costs in the range of $85 - $110. If an illness is identified in the screening process, there will be additional costs associated with treatment. If there is surgery or complicated treatment required, you could be spending well over a thousand dollars.So, you should budget for the screening and set aside some money for potential treatment costs.


You could also ask about costs: “How much would it cost to get all of the necessary screening tests?”
Inquire into treatment costs and options: “What will the costs of treatment look like, if the screening identifies one of these diseases?”

, A complete blood count test will analyse red blood count, white blood count, platelets, and morphology.This test will give your veterinarian an understanding of the number, size, and health of your senior dog’s blood cells. It helps to understand immune function and overall health in older dogs., Urinalysis involves an analysis of the chemical makeup of the sample. It allows for an understanding of any problems in the kidneys, which is common in older dogs. It also allows for analysis of the health of the urinary tract and screens for diseases like diabetes., By getting the biochemistry profile test, you will know about any possible metabolic diseases and see if your older dog’s organs are working properly., Your older dog’s thyroid should be tested in order to screen for hypothyroidism. The thyroid gland is responsible for maintaining a healthy metabolic rate. Many older dogs experience a disease called hypothyroidism, which occurs when the thyroid gland fails to make enough of a certain hormone. To test for this disease, you should get a thyroid test.