 If you live in a U.S. territory, such as Guam, then your divorce in Guam will be recognized in all 50 U.S. states.Getting divorced in a U.S. territory makes the process much easier. Other U.S. territories include:American Samoa
Northern Mariana Islands
Puerto Rico
U.S. Virgin Islands;
, In order to get divorced, you need to satisfy the requirements for the country where you currently live.If you don’t, then you won’t get a divorce and there will be nothing for a U.S. court to recognize.


You should research the requirements in your country by visiting a library or by searching online.
You could also stop into the courthouse where you live and ask if there is any information you can get about how to divorce.
 For example, you might live in Japan but your spouse might live in New Jersey. In order to have your divorce be legal in New Jersey, you have to satisfy New Jersey’s requirements for foreign divorces.


Generally, a U.S. state will recognize a foreign divorce if the foreign court used certain procedures, such as giving notice to your spouse that you filed for divorce and allowing him or her to respond.Not every U.S. state recognizes every divorce decree issued by a foreign court, so you want to research the laws in the state where your spouse lives.
 The divorce process varies substantially from country to country. Only an attorney in the country where you live can advise you about how to get a divorce. You should find an attorney and schedule a meeting.


You can often get a list of attorneys from the U.S. Consulate or Embassy in the country where you are living.At the meeting, be sure to discuss whether or not you want child custody or a division of property. A court in your country might be able to issue a valid divorce decree. However, it might not have power to decide child custody when the children are living in the U.S.
Unless you are getting an uncontested divorce with few assets, you should seriously think about hiring the lawyer to represent you. Ask him or her how much it would cost to hire them.
 Accordingly, you should find a divorce attorney in the state where your spouse lives and talk to them.To get a referral, you can contact the state’s bar association.You might also contact the state’s Attorney General. You can find contact information on the Internet.
 Each country’s divorce process is different. You should work with your foreign attorney to complete all of the necessary paperwork. Always keep a copy of any papers filed for your own records.
 Generally, you will need to serve copies of your court papers on your spouse in the U.S. A court in the U.S. will not let you get a unilateral foreign divorce.Accordingly, you need to notify your spouse that you are filing for divorce so that he or she can respond.
The U.S. is a member to the Hague Convention. This convention has made it easier for people in different countries to serve legal papers on each other. Your foreign court will need to send the papers to Processing Forward International, also called ABC Legal. It costs $95 to have papers served., After receiving your papers, your spouse should respond to the lawsuit within a certain amount of time. If so, then they will send your lawyer a copy of the response.


If your spouse doesn’t respond, then you should talk about next steps with your lawyer.
 You probably have to attend a divorce hearing in your country. If the divorce is uncontested, then the hearing should be uneventful, and you can prepare by reading over your paperwork.


If the hearing is contested, then you and your lawyer will need to prepare witnesses and documents to support your side of the dispute. For example, if you are seeking a divorce on grounds of unreasonable behavior, then you might need witnesses to testify that your spouse verbally abused you or physically attacked you., Once the court approves the divorce, you should get a copy of the certified divorce decree from the court’s registrar.If you need help, ask your attorney how you can get a copy.


Depending on your country, you may need to have your copy of the divorce decree translated into English so that the U.S. court will accept it., If you weren’t able to resolve child custody or divide marital property in the foreign court, you will need to do so in the U.S. This means that you must register your foreign divorce decree in a U.S. court. Once you register, you can seek other relief.You can register in the county where your spouse lives. Ask the court clerk for the forms to fill out.
You will have to pay a fee to register the decree.The amount and acceptable methods of payment will vary by court.
 You also need to give your spouse notice that you have filed to have the foreign divorce decree recognized in the U.S. You probably have to send a copy of the divorce decree, as well as copies of other documents. Generally, you can have the papers personally served on your spouse.Often, the county sheriff or a private process server can make hand delivery for a small fee.
You might also be able to mail a copy to your spouse, using certified mail, return receipt requested. Ask the court clerk.
 Accordingly, you can handle any other issues that you couldn’t resolve with the foreign court.


For example, if you want child custody, then you will need to proceed in the U.S. court, which has power to resolve child custody issues.See Get Child Custody for more information.

