 When it comes to diagnosing the cause of your pulmonary dyspnea (shortness of breath), it makes a big difference whether it came on suddenly, gradually over a period of time, or whether it comes episodically.Shortness of breath that comes on suddenly is more likely to be related to a sudden "event," such as a heart attack, decompensated heart failure, a pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lung), a rapidly progressing pneumonia, a COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) "exacerbation," or an asthma attack.
Shortness of breath that gradually worsens with time is more likely related to a chronic (and slowly worsening) condition, such as ongoing COPD, interstitial lung disease, chronic bronchitis, or restrictive lung disease.;
, The quality of your shortness of breath is also key. In other words, is it wheezy? Does it feel like your airways are tightening? (A wheeze accompanied by the sensation of tightening airways is often suggestive of asthma.) Is it accompanied by a cough? If so, is the cough productive? (This may be indicative of COPD.)Your doctor will ask you a number of questions to better delineate the characteristics of your episodes of shortness of breath.
He or she will also ask you about what factors make it better (improve your breathing), and what factors make it worse (worsen your breathing). This can be valuable information when it comes to diagnosing the underlying cause.


For instance, is your shortness of breath accompanied by chest pain? Sweating? Dizziness or lightheadedness? Nausea and/or vomiting? Is it accompanied by a cough and/or a fever?The presence or absence of other symptoms is key in helping your doctor to rule in or rule out possible causes of your dyspnea.
If it is accompanied by a cough and fever, the probability that you may have an infection such as pneumonia is higher.
If it is accompanied by chest pain, sweating, dizziness and nausea, the probability that it may be heart-related is higher.
Chest pain may also be present in lung-related causes, so further diagnostic tests would be needed to differentiate between the various potential causes.
Other things to consider: does your shortness of breath come on at night? Do you need to elevate your bed at night so that you can breathe? Do you have swelling in parts of your body?

, If you have pulmonary dyspnea (which is a symptom of another condition), your doctor will likely start by ordering blood tests. These will include:A CBC ("complete blood count") — This can provide insight as to your red blood cell count and hemoglobin levels (which may or may not show anemia), as well as your white blood cells (which, if elevated, could indicate a possible infection).
A basic metabolic panel — This can provide insight as to the success of oxygen exchange at your lungs, by measuring acid and base levels in your blood.
BNP — If your BNP is elevated, it makes the diagnosis of heart failure much more likely to be the cause of your shortness of breath.
D-dimer — A test that is very effective at ruling out a pulmonary embolism (a blood clot in the lung), that may be responsible for your shortness of breath.
 Similarly, a chest x-ray can provide information to rule in or out possible causes of your dyspnea. These include:Looking for an enlarged heart, which may be a sign of heart failure (and heart failure can cause shortness of breath).
Looking for signs of pneumonia, or other "infiltrates" in the lung(s) that could indicate possible interstitial lung disease, or even cancer or other growths that would show up on x-ray and could all be possible causes of your shortness of breath.
 Spirometry is a special sort of lung function test that is particularly useful at detecting obstructive lung disease, which may be responsible for your shortness of breath.Conditions that can be diagnosed with the help of spirometry include:


COPD
Asthma
Chronic bronchitis
Restrictive lung disease

, An ECG (or EKG) is used to evaluate your heart rate and rhythm; this, in turn, can reveal whether there is a cardiac (heart-related) cause to your dyspnea, and it can even point toward some lung-related causes as well.An ECG can show characteristic signs of a heart attack, a pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lung), and signs of stress and strain on the heart which may go hand-in-hand with conditions such as heart failure.
It can thus be useful at ruling in or ruling out various possible causes of your dyspnea.
 A V/Q scan is most frequently used in the diagnosis of blood clot(s) in your lung(s). A radioactive substance is injected into the blood that flows through your lungs, followed by x-ray type imaging, which in turn demonstrates the pattern of blood flow in your lungs.If an area of your lung(s) is missing blood flow, this could be due to a blockage such as a blood clot, or pulmonary embolism.
Having a blood clot in your lung(s) is one of the more common reasons to experience shortness of breath.
A V/Q scan can sometimes give you confusing clinical data. It is important to get a D-dimer blood test or Spiral CT scan if your doctor suspects you have a pulmonary embolism.
 If it appears that the cause of your shortness of breath is heart-related, there is a good chance that your doctor will follow up with an echocardiogram. An echocardiogram is a type of ultrasound examination (using sound waves) that can take a closer look at your heart and also elucidate information about blood flow, valvular function, and how the various chambers of your heart are working.Pathology (disease) in any of these areas of the heart could decrease the function of your heart overall.
A decrease in heart function for any reason is commonly associated with shortness of breath.
An echo is a good way to get a look at the heart valves to see if there is any regurgitation, stenosis, or insufficiency which could be causing to dyspnea.
 If the cause of your shortness of breath is suspected to be lung-related, a CT scan is often the best way to further investigate this. A CT scan can provide better insight than a chest x-ray when it comes to detecting blood clots in the lung, possible cancers, and differentiating between other types of lung conditions.A CT with angiography is used to evaluate for a pulmonary embolism. If you have a shortness of breath that you believe is due to a pulmonary embolism you need to be evaluated by a doctor in the ER immediately.
 If your shortness of breath worsens with exercise, your doctor will likely recommend an exercise stress test. This is when you begin walking slowly on a treadmill, and the speed is gradually increased until stress is detected on your heart (you are hooked up to continuous ECG monitoring of your heart throughout the stress test).If your shortness of breath worsens with exertion, it may be related to heart failure and/or to angina — both of which are cardiac causes for dyspnea.
It may also be exercise-induced asthma. Although a stress test does not specifically test for asthma, asthma can be suspected based on wheezing, a feeling of chest tightening, and there is commonly the presence of reliable "triggers."
If you cannot exercise they will give you a pharmacological stress test. This is a diagnostic procedure in which cardiovascular stress is induced using pharmacologic agents, or drugs., Clearly, the treatment for your dyspnea will depend upon the underlying cause. The investigations detailed in this article are usually sufficient to diagnose the cause of your dyspnea, and to allow your doctor to proceed with an appropriate and effective treatment plan.You may need follow-up tests to determine how well your treatment is working, and to make adjustments as needed.
Your doctor will go over all of this with you once he or she is clear about what, specifically, is the root cause for your shortness of breath.
Don’t forget if you are having severe dyspnea to seek out medical attention immediately.

