 Your loved one will be on one or more medications for schizophrenia and any other conditions she is being treated for. Even if you aren't your loved one's primary caregiver, you can help your loved one keep track of all the medications taken every day. Your loved one may forget to take them or be resistant to taking medications. Encourage her to take each medication when necessary.


You can help keep your loved on track by suggesting she use a pill schedule/calendar, weekly pillbox, or medication timer. This will take the stress off of your loved one and make the medication taking process run smoother.
Keep a list of any and all medications and supplements your loved one takes with you so you can give it to any new doctors you take her to. You will also be able to provide a backup in case something happens to your loved one when you are around., Medications for schizophrenia can be harsh at times. If you notice your loved one having adverse side effects from any medication, new or old, when you are together, let your loved one’s doctor know. There may be a different medication option for your loved one.


These side effects may be hard to see. Many medications for schizophrenia can make your loved one listless, restless, or zombie-like.
However, never let your loved one stop taking medication until he is told to do so by his doctor. Stopping any medication, despite the unpleasant side effects, may be much worse., When your loved one has schizophrenia, she may not feel comfortable disclosing it to everyone or explaining the situation to everyone. When you and your loved one are together, step up for your loved one. Explain your loved one’s situation to those that need to know. When others don’t need to know, handle these situations for your loved one if she does not feel comfortable doing so alone.


Make sure you clear these things with your loved one. It is your loved one’s mental condition and life, so make sure she is comfortable disclosing the condition to whomever you tell.
There may be some situations where you have to, regardless of your loved one’s wishes. New doctors, psychologist, other mental health professional, emergency responders, employers, or other officials may need to know about your loved one’s condition, even if she does not feel comfortable disclosing it.