 This is one of the most common ways that people get beach hair, and you can find affordable sea salt sprays at stores that sell beauty products. They will probably only cost a few dollars. Sea salt spray will add texture to your hair that will mimic the look of the beach. Real beachy waves, the kind you get after taking a dip in the ocean, are caused by the salt in ocean water. The sea's salty spray causes hair to curl up a bit into natural-looking waves.
To replicate this look with the spray, separate your hair into three sections. Spray your hair with it, starting at the bottom section. Then ball your hair up in your hands, and twist it around.
Let your hair set for a few minutes, and then do the same thing to the other sections. Twist the front pieces of your hair around your finger before setting them so they frame your face.
 Maybe you can’t find a product in the store. It’s pretty easy to make a spray on your own, and there are several different ways to do it. Although regular salt can work, sea salt works better.


You could make a homemade salt spray that is one part salt, one part coconut oil, and 5 parts water. Coconut oil is great for your skin and your hair; it adds shine.
Or you could make a homemade spray out of sea salt and warm water, and then scrunch that through your hair along with a gel or mousse.
Another approach is to take a small amount of hair gel or hair curl enhancing cream, and add that to warm water along with 2 teaspoons of sea salt. Put it in an empty spray bottle, and then spray your hair.
 Putting unnatural heat on your hair – such as using a blow dryer or hair straightener – can cause a lot of damage to your hair. To truly have good beachy looking hair, you need your hair to look shiny and healthy.


If you use a blow dryer, make sure you attach a diffuser to the end of it to give yourself more curls. Scrunch it again every few minutes to make sure it retains its waves.
Curl strands of hair around your fingers, then let them slip off if you want your waves to look more curly.
Add hairspray. You can get some beachy waves if you spritz your hair with a light hold hair spray. Make sure to give your hair a good shake before you leave the house. This will make the curls look less perfectly formed, which is essential for the beachy look.

