 To create a memorable wedding proposal, do something that acknowledges a milestone in your relationship with your partner. For instance, consider proposing at the first restaurant you ever brought them on a date, or while playing the first song that you ever danced with them to. Make sure that the memory is significant enough that your partner will recognize it instantly.Propose at the place that you first fell in love with your partner (e.g. the cafe where you both worked at the time).
Make a scrapbook of your best photographs and memories together and write your proposal out on the last page.
Set up a screening of the first movie you saw together (e.g. in your living room, or on a projector in your backyard) and propose during the movie.
Try writing a simple proposal speech that highlights the things you love about your partner and the special, private details that make your relationship unique. Include every quality about them that you love, and why you want them to be your spouse.
 If one of your partner’s favorite movies or television shows features a romantic wedding proposal, consider replicating it. What they love about a movie is a good indication of what they would appreciate in real life. Reproduce the venue, props, and set-up, and don’t worry about pulling it off flawlessly- a proposal with a comedic tinge will be just as memorable and charming.For instance, try replicating the proposal in Love Actually for a grandiose effect. Have a large group of friends or family follow you (as the villagers trail Colin Firth’s character in the film) and make a heartfelt speech to your partner in broken Portuguese to ask for their hand in marriage. If your partner is a fan of the film, this will be funny, romantic, and memorable.
 If you and your partner have a trip planned together, make the most of the opportunity to propose while you are away. Your proposal can essentially piggyback on the excitement of travel, and is bound to be something out of the ordinary and truly memorable (e.g. proposing in front of the Bellagio fountain in Las Vegas, Nevada). There is also the added bonus of popping the question at a grandiose tourist spot that you and your partner would be visiting anyway, giving your proposal the element of surprise while maintaining the magic of the setting (e.g. the Eiffel tower in Paris or the Grand Canyon in Arizona).When preparing for your trip, budget extra money for supper at a nice restaurant, or a bottle of champagne to celebrate your new engagement.
 Share the joy of your proposal by getting friends and family involved. Either pop the question at a family dinner or event, or invite friends and family to the venue where you plan to propose. For the best of both worlds, opt to propose one-on-one and then bring out everyone as a surprise- this will give you two an intimate moment and allow for everyone to share in your happiness right after.Approach family and friends by saying something like, "I am proposing to Tim, and I would love it if you could be a part of the event."

, If you have the cash and are certain your partner would love something big and less intimate, hire a company that will help you customize and pull off an elaborate proposal that will create a huge impact. Proposal packages range greatly in price depending on what your wishes are — for example, The Heart Bandits, a romantic event planning company in the U.S., has proposal packages for between $300 to $2,500.Alternatively, Brilliant Event Planning, a company with offices in New York City and Boston, offers services that start at $500 and has charged up to $50,000 for customized proposals.Look online for a local event planning company that could help you with a spectacular proposal involving:


A flash mob
A musical serenade
A romantic gondola ride
A limousine tour
A carriage ride through the park

