 If you want to reduce the amount of sugar in your child's diet, it might be helpful to start the process by tracking how much sugar they're currently consuming.


The American Heart Association recommends that children ages 2 through 18 consume no more than 25g of sugar per day or about 6 teaspoons.Start a food journal or a running list of how much sugar your child consumes. You can tally up the whole day or track their sugar intake meal by meal.
If your child is consuming more than 25g of sugar daily, it's a good idea to start working on reducing how much they currently eat. If they're already under the 25g limit, you can continue to monitor their diet to make sure this doesn't increase.;
, When trying to reduce sugar in your child's diet, the first place you should look is the food label on the packaged items you purchase from the grocery store.


The nutrition facts panel is required on every packaged item. One of the first items you'll notice here is the serving size. Make sure that you're only providing your child one serving or accounting for giving them 2 or more servings.The total sugar is listed under "carbohydrates" on the nutrition fact panel. Scan down and look at how many grams of sugar are in each serving.
Note that the current labeling laws do not require companies to disclose the number of grams of sugar that come from a natural source or are added sugars., The nutrition facts panel unfortunately doesn't tell you where the sugar is coming from and whether or not it's a natural or added sugar. However, the ingredient list will give you more specific information.


The ingredient list will show you if there are only natural sugars or added sugars. If you see added sugars listed here, you'll know that some of the sugar is not coming from a natural source.Examples of added sugar names include: high fructose corn syrup, cane juice, evaporated cane juice, rice syrup, sugar, corn syrup solids, maltose, malt syrup, molasses, honey, maple syrup, sucrose or granulated sugar.You will also see if there are any artificial sweeteners here as well. Items like aspartame, sucralose, truvia or stevia may be listed here. Note, artificial sweeteners are considered non-nutritive so are not accounted for in the nutrition fact panel or total sugar.
 If your child consumes some meals and snacks away from home, you'll need to account for the sugar from those foods and make an effort to be aware of exactly what they're eating.


Many children eat a school lunch and even a snack at school as well. All schools have menus of available items for all meals, snacks and beverages served at school. Make sure you have an updated list at all times.
The USDA does have guidelines on what schools can and cannot serve. The rules for sugar are that "less than or equal to 35% of the food's weight can come from sugar."
If your child enjoys buying lunch from school occasionally, allow them to do so on a day where the lunch or snack is a lower sugar item.
 The largest source of sugar (especially refined sugar) in children's diets are sweetened beverages, candy, grain-based sweets and dairy-containing desserts. Limiting these items can help you make a big cut in your child's overall sugar consumption.Limit or avoid these types of items: ice cream, popsicles, milkshakes, cookies, cakes/pies, sugary cereals, breakfast pastries, candy, brownies, pancakes/waffles and muffins.
One easy way to limit how often your child eats these types of foods is by eliminating them from your home. Stop purchasing these items so your child won't have access to them. Or only keep one or two items in your house.
Cut out sweetened beverages like: fruit juice cocktails, fruit drinks, sodas, energy drinks and sports drinks. Older children should avoid sweetened teas or coffee drinks as well.
 Meal plans are a great tool to help anyone improve their diet - especially your child's diet. This will be a guideline and layout for you to follow during the week to make sure all the items you're serving fit into your child's eating plan.


Whenever you have some free time during the week, sit down and write out a meal plan for you, your family and children. Write out what you're planning on serving your child (or having on hand for them) for breakfast, lunch, dinner, snacks and drinks.
The meal plan will also provide you with a grocery list you can use at the store to help keep you on track and prevent you from purchasing quick and easy processed foods.
 It can be tricky to avoid sugar in processed foods, school foods or restaurant meals. If you make more items from scratch you can have much better control of your child's sugar intake.Try to make most of your child's meals and snacks (and your own) at home and from scratch. In addition, try to think of some of their favorite items that you can learn to make from home as well. For example, if your child loves granola bars, then you might research a low-sugar granola bar recipe that you can make at home.
When you're making these types of items at home, you can modify the recipes to make them low-sugar so that your child will be eating a little healthier, be eating less sugar, and still enjoying some of their favorite foods.
When cooking from home you can control exactly what ingredients you're using - and specifically how much added or natural sugar you're using. This will allow you to control how much sugar your child is getting from these foods.Homemade items also make it a little easier to track their total sugar intake everyday. School foods and packaged goods may be more tricky to track.
 Since kids do love their sweets and the occasional snack, it's best to find nutritious substitutes instead of denying them a snack or a treat on occasion.


If your child wants a sweet in the afternoon or after dinner, skip the fruit roll-ups or gummy candies and go for a more nutritious snack like sliced fruit sprinkled with cinnamon, no sugar added applesauce or Greek yogurt with fruit.
In your meal plan, make sure to include some low-sugar and nutritious snacks or treats.
 If your child typically goes for sweetened beverages, offer up a more nutritious choice. Ideally, your child should not be drinking any sugary beverages because they add sugar and calories without much nutrition. Encourage your child to drink water for most of their fluids and avoid giving them things like soda, juice, and chocolate milk.

To add flavor to water, you can add in a few berries, a slice of lemon or lime, or a couple of melon cubes to add a little flavor to the water.
 When you're making more foods from scratch and making your child's favorite sweets at home, use more natural sources of sweeteners. They still count as sugar but are not as processed.


Try sweeteners like pure maple syrup, raw honey (only if your child is over 2 years old), molasses, agave syrup and stevia.Many of these sweeteners are minimally processed and also do have some health benefits. For example, maple syrup has antioxidants, potassium, magnesium and zinc.
 Talking to other moms is an important part of monitoring your child's sugar intake. If your child plays at others' houses and is being served food by other parents, make sure to talk to them as well.


If your child has a play date with a friend, talk to the mom, dad or guardian of that child about your desire to monitor your child's sugar intake. Explain to them that you want to reduce the sugar in your child's diet.
Ask them if they're going to serve a meal or snacks to your child. You may want to suggest items that you know are OK for your child to eat, or even bring snacks to share.
It may be a little bit more polite to bring over a tray of dark chocolate covered strawberries or bananas instead of saying your child can't eat any of the foods at their friend's house.
 If your child wants a sweet treat, get them hooked on dark chocolate covered fruit. Dark chocolate is naturally low in sugar and high in antioxidants. The fruit is a source of natural sugar but has fiber, vitamins and antioxidants.Slice bananas in half width-wise. If you want, you can stick a popsicle stick half way up into the halved banana for a "popsicle" type treat.
Melt dark chocolate gently over the stove or in the microwave. Dip the banana almost all the way in the dark chocolate. Lay flat on a piece of wax paper to cool.
If you'd like, you can roll the banana with the melted chocolate in chopped nuts for an added crunch.
Freeze bananas for longer storage time or just stick in the refrigerator until the chocolate has completely hardened.
You can also do chocolate dipped strawberries as well. Follow the same recipe and either freeze or store in the refrigerator.
 A great afternoon treat for kids is trail mix or granola. When these items are homemade, they're lower in sugar but still contain a great source of protein and fiber.To make your own trail mix, toss together your child's favorite nuts (roasted and unsalted are a great choice) and dried fruit. However, choose dried fruit that doesn't have added sugar to it so the overall sugar content remains on the lower side.
To make granola, toast 100% whole grain oats with spices like cinnamon or nutmeg. You can drizzle on a little canola oil to help the oats toast.
Toss the toasted oats with your child's favorite unsalted nuts and unsweetened dried fruit.
Store trail mix and granola in air-tight containers and keep closed.
 In addition to chocolate covered banana pops, you can also make your own popsicles for your child. These are great in the summer and are a much healthier choice compared to an ice cream sandwich.


Purchase and set up a popsicle mold. You'll need to have the sticks and top ready to go so you can put the popsicle mixture directly into the freezer to set.
For a simple recipe, you can take your child's favorite fresh fruit and blend to a pureed consistency. Add a little water if you need to thin it out. If you'd like to, you can also strain out any seeds (from strawberries or other berries). Fill popsicle molds and freeze.
You can also make a creamier fruit popsicle by blending pureed fruit with low-fat greek yogurt for a fun twist on a fruit popsicle.
 Applesauce is a childhood favorite. Making your own from scratch allows you to control the total sugar. However, the sweetness from the apple is enough to make this treat appealing to kids.


Peel a bunch of apples to start with. Use any kind you like, however honey crisp apples are naturally very sweet so your child will be less likely to notice there's no added sugar.Cook in a large pot over medium-low heat with a squeeze of fresh lemon juice and a little water (just to thin it out).
After cooking for about 30 minutes, the apples should be tender and falling apart. You can either keep your applesauce a little chunky or puree it in a food processor for a thinner texture.
Sprinkle in any spices like cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger or clove for a spiced applesauce. Store in the refrigerator in an air tight container.
You can use this applesauce in other recipes as well. For example, many baked goods like muffins, quick breads or pancakes use applesauce as a natural sweetener.
 Another fun sweet treat for kids are fruit kabobs with homemade peanut butter dip. It's a great way for kids to eat their fruit and get all the wonderful nutrients that fruit contains.Slice up your child's favorite fruit into 2" or bite sized pieces. You need to be able to spear them on a kabob skewer without them falling off. Good fruits to try include: grapes, strawberries, pineapple chunks, cut apples or sliced bananas.
Spear about 5-6 chunks of fruit per kabob stick. You may need to sprinkle them with a little lemon juice to keep them from browning.
Mix together plain Greek yogurt with all natural, no sugar added peanut butter. Mix until thoroughly combined. Taste and adjust for seasonings - you may want more peanut butter flavor, need a little water to thin it out or feel like it'd be a little more flavorful with a sprinkle of cinnamon.
Serve the fruit kabobs with the peanut butter dip immediately. Store in the refrigerator covered if you're child isn't ready to eat at that moment.

