 You will need about three yards of fabric to make this dress. The best fabric types you can pick will be ones that are stretchy and drape well. Polyesters or knits are both good choices.
 Like all clothing, tailoring your dress to exactly what you need will make it look its best. You will need just two measurements before beginning:


Your waist at its smallest part.
The length from your waist to where you want the bottom of the dress to be. This will be its skirt length., Fold your fabric in half once and lay it on a flat surface. If your fabric is rectangular, make the fold along its length. From one of the two parallel free edges, use measuring tape to measure out the skirt length you determined earlier. Make sure the tape is straight and parallel to the long edge, not diagonal. Mark the skirt length on both sides of the fabric using either fabric chalk or straight pins. Cut straight across along these marks using sharp fabric scissors., Take the free long edges of your skirt and sew them together. The result should be a long tube.Many fabrics, especially ones with patterns, have only one side meant to be visible in the final garment. If your fabric is like this, sew the nicer sides together facing each other. You will flip the tube right-side-out later.
 Make a wide and loose stitch about half an inch from what will be the top of your skirt. Sew it completely around the tube. When you're finished, gently tug on one of the thread ends.This will "gather" the skirt, creating a slightly ruffled appearance.


Do not trim the edges of the string until the complete dress has been sewn together. If you trim it now, the gather stitch will come undone., On a section of fabric, measure and mark what will be your waistband. This will need to be a strip that is six inches wide and one half to one third of your waist measurement.


If your fabric isn't very stretchy, use your actual waist measurement instead. The more stretchy the fabric, the shorter this piece should be., Make the fold lengthwise. Then, sew the two shorter ends together. Make sure your stitches include all four layers of fabric., You will need two long strips of fabric to create the transformable "wrap" part of your dress. The length and width of these strips will be determined by your figure.


The straps' widths should be around 10 inches (25 cm) for a smaller chest, 12 inches (30.5 cm) for an average chest, and 14 inches (35.6 cm) for a large chest. You can make them wider if you would like your dress to have more coverage.
Strap length should correlate with your height. If you are on the short side, make them around 85 inches (216 cm) long. Those of average height should use 95 inches (240 cm) and taller people will need about 105 inches. If you are unsure about how long they should be, add a few inches and trim after assembling your dress if needed., Place the two straps with one short edge flush with the top of your skirt. Position the straps so that they overlap each other slightly by roughly a half inch. Make sure that the unfolded straps lay parallel to the length of the skirt rather than in the opposite direction. Sew the straps to the skirt along the top edge., Pin the waistband around the top of the skirt so that the bottom of the waistband is upside-down and flush with the top of the skirt. Sew the two pieces together.


Position the seam in the front center of the dress so that it will be hidden by the straps when worn.The waistband will be smaller than the top of the skirt. Gently stretch the waistband while sewing to properly line it up and give a snug fit.
 Once you've finished sewing, flip the waistband up and inward. Your dress is now ready to wear.


One style is to wear the dress at the waist with the straps pulled over your chest and around the back of your neck.
You can pair the dress with a similarly-colored tube top for more coverage.

