 If you’re having a religious ceremony, you may want to have a specific religious advisor hold the ceremony. However, if you’re not religious, you can also find someone who has been licensed and ordained by the state.Religious officiants in North Carolina are not required to be registered with the state. Some specific county clerk’s offices occasionally do ask for ordination paperwork, so make sure your religious officiant has that prepared just in case.
In the case of getting married by a friend or someone newly ordained, they may also want to have their ordination paperwork prepared. They can become ordained online rather easily.
 Your officiant can drop off your marriage license in North Carolina. They will need to sign the license to verify they performed the ceremony.Have someone in your wedding party, such as the best man or maid of honor, guarantee that your officiant has your marriage license. They should also talk to your officiant to see if they have any additional questions.
After the ceremony, your officiant should tell you when to expect the marriage certificate. They have done this before, so they usually can tell you when to expect it back in the mail.
 In North Carolina, you’re required to have two witnesses to the marriage. In many cases, this can just be your maid of honor and the best man.


Witnesses are required to sign the marriage certificate in many cases. This just states that they witnessed the ceremony and that it was valid wedding.
If you are getting married at a courthouse, the courthouse can usually supply witnesses. You can also ask a few friends to come along to guarantee you’ll have witnesses to your marriage.
 If your officiant is unable to drop off your marriage license, you can do it as well. Just make sure your officiant has signed all the paperwork and given final approval on your marriage.


You can bring the paperwork directly to the county clerk's office. They will be able to process the marriage license that day, but will not be able to give you your marriage certificate at that time.
It may also be easier to mail the paperwork directly to the county clerk's office. You can send it certified mail so you know when it's arrived.
 Your county clerk's office should mail you copies of your marriage certificate. In most cases, you'll receive one or two copies anywhere from 5-10 business days after submitting your completed marriage license.Make sure to keep your marriage license somewhere safe. It's an important piece of legal paperwork that you'll likely need again in the future.
If your marriage certificate does not arrive after 10 business days, contact your county clerk's office. There may have been an issue with processing your marriage license.
 You may need to use your marriage certificate to change your last name, update your tax status, or create a joint banking account. It may be a good idea to order additional copies so you have them when you need them.


You can order additional copies of your marriage certificate in person, online, or by mail. Each copy costs $10.Many businesses just need to make a copy of your marriage certificate for their records. If possible, try not to give away a valuable copy of your marriage certificate unless absolutely necessary.

