 One of those bits of “old-time” wisdom that still circulates today is the idea that it is better to clean a small cut, then let it “air out” and scab over. Like putting butter on a burn or tilting your head back during a nosebleed, however, this is false.


Small wounds actually heal better in a moist environment, in which blood vessels regenerate faster and inflammation-causing cells multiply more slowly. So, preventing scab formation actually aids the healing process.It may be no surprise that the company behind Band-Aids promotes covering cuts and scrapes instead of airing them out, but they have science on their side., Sometimes the worst part of pulling away a bandage is not the sticky adhesive, but dried blood / scabbing that pulls away with the bandage and reopens the wound. Proper preparation can make this less likely.Stop the bleeding of a minor cut or scrape by applying pressure with gauze, a paper towel, a clean cloth, etc. Apply gentle pressure for up to 15 minutes, until all bleeding has stopped.
For a large cut or wound, an excessively dirty wound, or a wound that won’t stop bleeding, get medical help.
Rinse the area with clean water and gently clean the wound with soap and water. Rinse again and pat dry with a clean cloth, etc. Don’t use hydrogen peroxide or one of those old wound cleaners your grandfather swore by -- just plain old soap and water. Hydrogen peroxide and iodine can irritate an injury.
 Antibiotic ointments have shown little evidence in helping wounds heal faster, but they do help keep the wound moist and make sticking less likely upon bandage removal.That said, plain old petroleum jelly will provide the same moistening / lubricating benefit.Apply a small dab only over the wound itself, so the bandage will stick where it should.
 Try not to touch the pad when applying to reduce infection chances.


Especially when wrapping a bandage around a finger (or a larger bandage wrap around an arm or leg), make it tight enough to stay in place and prevent a gap between pad and wound, but not so tight that it hampers blood flow. If your finger tingles or turns purple-ish, it’s too tight.
Apply a new bandage if the old one gets saturated with water or dirty.
 If you need to apply a bandage to a hairy area -- for a man, an arm or leg, or even chest or back -- you may want to prevent the inevitable pain of the bandage being stuck to your hair by removing the hair first.


Use warm water, a fresh, clean razor, and don’t shave over the wound itself.
Unless you want to have patchy hairless spots along with your small scars, you probably should try the other bandage removal procedures discussed in this article before resorting to this step.
 Bandage removal is not just an annoyance -- some 1.5 million people in the U.S. annually, mostly infants and the elderly with sensitive skin, suffer scarring or irritation from bandage removal. However, new bandages are being developed that sandwich a “quick-release” layer between the backing and dissolvable adhesive.So, perhaps painful bandage removals will be a thing of the past soon.

