 Preheat your oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit or 232 degrees Celsius. Preheating your oven helps your pizza bake properly and bake on the correct temperature. The cheese will be able to melt well and the shrimp will be crisped nicely.;
, If your pizza dough is still a ball and/or needs to be flattened, flour your cooking space and use a rolling pin to flatten the pizza dough. Pinch the edges of the pizza dough to make a proper, thick crust. Using a pastry brush, spread olive oil on your dough, as well as the crust too. The olive oil will make your pizza get this nice, greasier taste. The olive oil also helps the dough get more flavor.
 Using your hands, sprinkle the shredded and Parmesan cheese. You can use any type of shredded cheese but Monterrey Jack is the best. The Parmesan cheese is a key ingredient for topping your pizza, it has this nice salty taste which adds flavor to the pizza.


Remember to spread the cheese all around the pizza, not just in one spot. If you do it in just one spot the rest of the pizza slices won't have enough cheese. Sprinkle cheese all around like you are coloring in a circle.
 Drop the pineapple bits right on top of the cheese. Use a wooden spoon to spread it all around the pizza dough. It may mix a bit with the cheese but that's perfectly fine, it'll still taste like pineapple, sweet and juicy.
 Follow the same steps as you have done with the pineapple bits. Spread the onion pieces across the pizza with a wooden spoon. If it is hard to spread, use your hand to sprinkle the onion right on top. Make sure you sprinkle all around, all the slices need to have red onion on it. If desired, sprinkle the cilantro on top as well.
 The most important and thrilling ingredient of all for this pizza, the shrimp! Unlike the other ingredients, you can't sprinkle or spread the shrimp around the pizza. In order to have nearly each slice get a piece of shrimp you'll need to go one-by-one, placing each shrimp piece on each slice. Not all the slices will get a piece of shrimp so don't panic. Just try your very best.
 For qualified baking, place the pizza on a pizza or baking stone so it can bake well. Pizza stones can withstand high temperatures so you won't have to worry a lot about it like other baking pans. Plus you can easily slice your pizza without scratching the bottom or surface. That's why most restaurants and professional chefs bake their pizzas on pizza stones or baking stones. They may be pricy but they last for a long time and are worth it.


Follow your pizza or baking stone's package instructions. Some on them give tips and directions on how to bake with your stone. For example, you may need to spread butter on your pizza stone before cooking.
 Place the pizza in the oven and have it bake until the crust is golden brown and the cheese has melted. Usually that takes about ten minutes but all ovens vary.
 Remove the pizza from the oven and have it cool on the pizza or baking stone until warm enough to serve.
 Using a pizza cutter slice the pizza into slices for all to eat. Serve the pizza slices on a plate to eat from.
 Enjoy your delicious, warm pizza that has juicy pineapple and yummy shrimp on top.

