 Buy UL-endorsed tape with a built-in thermostat. This safety precaution will prevent the tape from overheating You can either wrap the tape around the pipes or run them along the length of the pipes. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions.


While you can lay insulation over some tapes, others might cause the insulation to catch fire. Always read the safety information before installing the tape.
Alternatively, you could use a heated reflector lamp in a dry enclosed space. On cold nights, check the light to see that it is working.;
, Wrap pipes in foam rubber insulation designed for pipes. Make sure that there aren’t any gaps between the pipe and the insulation. Miter any strips of insulation that meet at the corners of pipes. Secure them with duct tape. Keep the foam dry as you insulate.


Insulation alone doesn’t prevent freezing. It only slows down the transfer rate of heat to cold., Apply foam rubber insulation in the same way you insulated the pipes. Pay attention to bathroom and kitchen sinks. Don’t overlook lines in crawl spaces and cold basements. On especially cold days, direct a heat lamp on the drain P-trap.If you’re concerned about a fire hazard, keep the cabinet doors beneath the kitchen and bathroom sinks open to allow warm air to circulate around the pipes., If you lose electric power, let the water run no faster than a slow constant drip. This is cheaper than repairing a burst pipe. First, start a slow drip on the hot side faucet, then a faster drip on the cold side faucet. There is no need to run a lot of water. Bathrooms can be cold, as long as they aren't freezing., This doesn’t require electricity to operate. It bypasses the drain and continuously circulates warm water through the waterlines. Turn the water off at the main source before installing. Remove the valves under the sink with a mini hacksaw. Use the included connecting joints to attach the valve to the copper fitting from the wall. Secure the fittings to the pipes with a wrench. Switch off the valve whenever you don’t want the water to circulate.


This method requires that the valve be installed at a higher level (usually the second or third floor) than the water heater.
Circulating water throughout your system non-stop will also increase your water heating bill., This device uses an internal water contacting temperature probe to monitor the water temperature inside the pipes. Disconnect one end of the existing faucet supply lines. Attach them to the RedyTemp. Connect the two faucet supply lines that come with the device. Plug the unit into a standard wall socket and set the desired temperature set point.


Gauge the effectiveness of your chosen set point by opening cold water faucets upstream and feeling how cool or warm the water is coming out the tap. Adjust the set point accordingly until optimized. You’ll achieve an optimized set point when cool or warm water stays in the cold water pipes or the portion of pipe requiring protection.
If you own a tankless on-demand water heater, you’ll need the TL4000 series model rather than the more common ATC3000. During off seasons when you don’t need circulation, lower the temperature set point., Set the home or structure's thermostat to at least 55 °F (13 °C). This will keep the temperature well above the freezing point of water. It will also allow enough warm air to circulate to the attic and behind walls, where pipes are often located.