 One thing that almost all pop stars have in common is a wholesome factor – at least when they were first starting out. You can look at Justin Bieber, early Miley Cyrus, the members of N*SYNC, Britney on the cover of ...Baby One More Time, or pretty much any pop star, to see that they all have a level of wholesomeness, a virginal glow, and a general vibe that they won’t do anything worse than staying out past curfew. Though it gets more complicated when you see that this look also has to come with a healthy dose of sex appeal, focus on the wholesomeness at first.People want a pop star who they can relate to, not someone who is so stylish, or so much of a bad boy or bad girl, that they have nothing in common. Remind your audience that you’re not so different from the boy or girl next door.
Keep in mind that pop stars tend to appeal to an audience of teenagers or even pre-teens. You want parents to be okay with sending their kids to your concerts, don’t you?;
, To be a perfect pop star, you have to be able to add a layer of sex appeal to that layer of wholesomeness that you exude. You have to be a little bit sexy, or at least to have the potential of sexiness, if you really want to make it big. It’s tricky to find a balance between being wholesome and having sex appeal, but all you have to do is to find a way to show a little bit of skin and maturity without giving up your self-respect. Think of Britney on her first album cover – she was dressed as a schoolgirl while also bearing her midriff. Find a way to be a little bit fun and flirty without looking too adult at the same time.


Bare a little bit of skin so your fans can see your sexy side. That said, you shouldn’t have to show more skin than you’re comfortable with. You don’t have to bare it all to get people to like you.
Sex appeal is more than just baring your midriff or giving the cameras a suggestive smile. It also has to do with carrying yourself in a way that shows you’re confident and happy with how you look and what you have to offer. Stand up straight, look ahead instead of down at the floor, and don’t cross your arms over your chest or look displeased with your physical self.
Part of sex appeal is mastering the art of flirting. When you talk to people, whether they are interviewers or fellow stars, you should be a little bit playful, suggestive, and fun. Don’t completely let your guard down, but be open to being flirtatious.
 Of course, not every pop star in the history of music has been blessed with having the voice of an angel. Still, if you want to make it last, you have to start with a baseline of strong vocal chords, and to have range, too. You can take voice lessons and work on improving the talent you already have, but if you start with nothing, it’ll be hard to end up with something. Sure, some pop stars are famous for their lack of talent, their lip-syncing, or their computer-generated voices, but you want to be better than that. Think of Mariah or Whitney – no one has ever accused them of not having a voice.


This will require you to be honest with yourself and to get some feedback. Ask your friends or mentors to give you an honest assessment of your talent. Of course, if you really believe that you have what it takes, then you shouldn’t let other people get you down or tell you who you are. But if everyone is telling you that you’re missing out on the strong vocal chords, then it may be time to rethink your plan.
If you’re going through puberty or have yet to go through it, keep in mind that your voice can change. Boys who have sweet, higher voices before puberty may end up with deeper voices after it. This doesn’t mean that your voice will change for the worse, but that you should be prepared for the change.
 You don’t need to have moves like Michael Jackson to be a successful pop star. However, it does help to start with a baseline of solid rhythm, and to know how to move to a beat. If you have two left feet, though, don’t think that this disqualifies you from being the next Selena Gomez. The most important thing you need to have is a willingness to learn and the rest will follow. You should take dance classes to get your basic rhythm down, and be prepared to work with a dance instructor after you reach stardom. Another thing you’ll need is coordination – you’ll need to be able to sing and strut around on stage.


The most important thing is confidence. If your dance instructor or team see that you’re struggling, they’ll work on giving you a few simple moves that you can work with. If you can rock a few easy moves, you’ll be just fine. The important thing is that you’re willing to learn and that you’re not embarrassed about stepping out of your comfort zone to achieve greatness.
 Another important part of being a pop star is to be persistent. Just like any career in the arts, luck and determination is half the battle. Just because your first attempt at getting your work out there or getting signed by an agent doesn’t lead to much, it doesn’t mean that you should give up and find a new career path. Instead, it takes a whole lot of rejection to get to where you are, and even the most famous stars, like Madonna, had to start by waiting tables and waiting to get a big break. If you really want to follow this dream, then you have to be prepared for the rejection that comes with it.


That is to say, if you really want to be a pop star, then you need to develop some thick skin. You have to be sure about who you are and what you have to offer if you want to make it anywhere, or you’ll let other people break you before you get a big chance. If you’re really sensitive, vulnerable, and self-conscious, then you have to work on improving your self-esteem before you move forward.
 Being a pop star means being criticized in the tabloids, for everything from gaining two pounds to being accused of having an affair. You’ll have to be able to face annoying and untrue gossip and to treat it as part of the game. If you doubt yourself every time someone questions your fashion choices or questions your current relationship, then you won’t be able to make it out there. Instead, you have to learn to accept the praise, to learn from the constructive criticism, and to push aside the rest of the pointless hate if you want to succeed. You have to love who you are and to believe in yourself if you want to make it out there.


It’s not a stereotype that many pop stars get broken down in the face of fame. The endless criticism is too much for many of them to face. This means that you have to have healthy ideas about who you are and what makes you unique before you let the tabloids eat you alive.
Even the most confident pop stars doubt themselves now and again. However, starting off with little confidence will make it hard for you to stay strong. If you know you need to work on your confidence, you should do that as much as you can before you through yourself into stardom.
 Some people think that all you have to do once you make it big as a pop star is to flash a big smile, wear cute outfits, and go clubbing. However, real talent takes hard work, and if you’re committed to being a star with staying power, then you have to be able to put in the hours every single day. It’s like having a day job, only harder. You’ll often have to put in eight or more hours a day to recording songs, practicing your dance moves, rocking out at concerts, promoting yourself, maintaining a social media presence, and just making sure that you’re doing the best you can.


If you like to sleep in, slack off, or spend the majority of your time watching TV or hanging out with friends, then being a pop star may not be in the cards for you.
If you want to keep growing as a star, then you can’t settle for less than the best. You’ve got to not only make sure to perfect the moves and lyrics you’ve got, but to always work on taking it to the next level. Your audience won’t stay with you if you’re just producing the same beats again and again. They’ll want you to grow and evolve to keep things interesting. And that takes work.
 This does not mean that you have to be cookie-cutter hot and to have a perfect body to be a pop star, either. However, it does mean that your look has to stand out in some way. Think of Nicki Minaj, Lady Gaga, or Pitbull – often, it’s more important to have a distinct look that intrigues people and makes them remember you instead of being traditionally attractive. So, if you don’t think you’re classically good looking, you can find something else that makes you stand out, whether it’s a few key piercings, loud fashion, high heels, or a unique hairdo. You shouldn’t force an image that doesn’t feel comfortable for you just to stand out, but you should find something that makes you distinctive.


Pop stars are also often reinventing themselves again and again. You can find a look that makes you stand out, but then work within it to keep things interesting. Lady Gaga, for example, is always recognizable though she is constantly changing her hair, style, and general look to keep things interesting.
 If you’ve got what it takes, then the next thing you’ve got to do is to flaunt it. Being talented, cute, and determined isn’t enough if you want to make it big. If you want to get anywhere in this world, then you have to be prepared to promote yourself by networking. This may feel sleazy or not genuine to you, but that’s just the way you’ve got to play the game. Take every opportunity you can to meet with producers, other artists, dancers, song writers, or people who are connected in the industry.


Accept invitations to parties, put yourself out there, and be assertive when introducing yourself to new people without being annoying.
Swallow your pride and talk to people who maybe normally wouldn’t be your cup of tea to get your name out there and to find future opportunities, and you’ll be more likely to make a name for yourself.
It may feel unnatural to talk to people to let them know who you are, but you shouldn’t feel like you’re above it. Unfortunately, it’s rare that you can get by on talent alone, and you’ll need to do some extra work if you want to get noticed.
A big part of networking these days is having a strong social media presence. Have a Twitter account with daily tweets, create a Facebook fan page, and stay on top of your web page and Instagram account. The sad fact of the matter is, if you’re not making connections online and posting frequently, then people may forget about you.
 Applying to talent contests is a great way to put yourself out there and to get noticed. You should look out for local contests in your area, which are a great way to put your name out there and to give yourself some practice in competing with others. This can be especially helpful if you’re living in a small town and want to make it big. However, if you’re really committed, then you should move to a city like New York or LA, and try out for some bigger contests, such as America’s Got Talent, The Voice, American Idol, or whatever else is out there. The more you put yourself out there, the more likely you are to succeed.


Of course, it’s not likely that you’ll win American Idol the first time you apply to a talent contest. That’s not the point. The point is that you get used to the fact that you’ll be competing with people and putting yourself out there.
 If you want to be a pop star, then you’ve got to record your music. Wowing a director of a talent contest isn’t enough. If you write your own songs, then you should write and then record them to show producers what you’ve got. Though making a professional recording can be costly, you should try to pony up – or raise money to do so – for some time in a professional studio so that your recording is as clean and impressive as possible. You can start by recording a single or go for a whole album if you feel like you have enough material to do so. This is an important step on the path to making it big.


If you’re thinking of recording your music in a professional studio, then you should practice on your own so you’re prepared when you have to get in the studio. You don’t want to waste any time, since a trip to the studio will be expensive.
 Once you’ve got a recording of your music, it’s important to send it out to producers so you can start to make it big. If you can get yourself hooked up with an agent before doing this, then great, but if you have to do this yourself, it’s important to do it right. Ask around and do your research to send your music to producers who are looking for new talent, and who work with performers who do work that is similar to yours, but not too similar. Make sure you’ve described yourself well and that your music is packaged professionally.


Be persistent. Just because a few producers have rejected your work, it doesn’t mean you should stop sending it out. In fact, it means that you should try even harder.
That said, if multiple producers are giving you the same feedback, you should see if there’s a grain of truth in it. If you think there’s something you can do to change your sound to make it more appealing to future producers and fans, you should take that leap before sending it out more.
 If you want to achieve your dream, then you have to create a strong online presence. You can do this before you make it big, in order to show that you already have fans and that there are many people who are interested in you and your work. You can create interesting content, post at least once a day to stay current, and work on amassing hundreds, or even thousands, of followers. You can post YouTube singles, have a blog as part of your website, post photos of yourself, and just do whatever you can to make yourself known.


If a producer or agent is interested in you, it’s likely that they will Google you pretty fast. You’ll want them to see that you’re a professional who is already thinking of marketing him or herself, and that you’ve really put a lot of thought into putting yourself out there.
 Though it’s important to achieve your dream, you shouldn’t give up your studies completely to do it. It’s important to dream big but to also be realistic, and just in case things don’t work out, you don’t want to be without a backup plan. Whether you stay in school or hire a tutor or keep up your studies yourself while you try to make it big, it’s important to keep learning so that you’re still getting an education while you move forward in your career.


You don’t want to find yourself at the age of college students without getting anything resembling a high school education; this is valuable learning time that will be hard to make up.
This doesn’t mean that you’re admitting you won’t make it. It just means that you’re being smart about your future.
 If you’re lucky enough to have made it big as a pop star, then you have to make sure to keep a good head on your shoulders. You will find yourself surrounded by new friends and acquaintances who you wouldn’t have met in your everyday life. Some of them will be genuine, caring people, just like you, while others are just hangers-on who only spend time with you for personal gain. It’s important to be slow to trust people, to take your time to get to know new friends, and not to spill any big secrets when you’re just getting to know people. This will help you find people who like you for you, not for your fame.


Though it may not feel natural to keep your guard up when meeting new people, it’s important to do this to protect yourself. Ask yourself if your new friends are really interested in getting to know you, or if they just want to go to your fun parties or vacation with you.
The same goes for new significant others. Make sure you’re dating people who want to get to know who you are, not just who want to be seen in the tabloids with you, or to use you to promote their own fashion line.
 Being a pop star isn’t all about going on ritzy vacations and tweeting photos of yourself in a bikini. It takes hard work, long hours, and plenty of sweat. If you’ve made it big, then being a pop star is a 24/7 job and there is no such thing as a real vacation. You constantly not only have to work on your craft, your music, and your dance moves, but you have to work on maintaining a positive public image, and on reminding people that you do matter. If you’re really cut out for the lifestyle, then you have to put in the hours.


Even when you’re out at clubs, award shows, or parties, you still have to think of it as working because it’s important to keep up a good public image. Getting drunk or fighting in public is a bad career move, and you have to work on being on your best behavior full time, because there’s no vacation from keeping up a good image.
 Though it’s important to create an image and to remind people of how relevant you are, you can’t do the same old thing day after day, especially if you grow up a lot as you become a pop star. Sure, being an innocent girl or boy-next door is a great way to start, but if you’ve matured significantly as an artist, or have just become interested in exploring other sides of your talent, then it’s important to switch up your game.


Think of Justin Timberlake, who began as a wholesome pop star with bleached blonde curls, who is now in the throes of a fantastic R&B career. If you’re sick of singing the same old songs, then you’ve got to find a new way to be you – with a kick.
Of course, you still have to stay true to something that your fans love about you. Doing a complete career switch, like moving from country music to rap, may lead you to lose too many fans. Find a way to still be you while adding some more dynamic changes to your routine.
 If you’re really committed to being a pop star, then you have to be prepared for all of the negativity, the gossip, and the rumors. People will say the worst and most untrue things possible just to get you down and make you doubt yourself, and you have to learn to avoid what the tabloids say, whether they claim you’re pregnant or are in rehab when you’re not. Some celebrities just flat-out don’t read the tabloids, while others use their social media expertise to fight back. Whatever you chose to do, the most important thing is that you don’t let a bunch of ignorant people get you down or keep you from following your dreams.


Every single celebrity, even the most beloved of them, have had their fair share of dealing with gossip and rumors. Just think of it as an initiation process. Unfortunately, there’s not much you can do to keep people from spreading rumors about you. However, you can control your reaction to all the hate.
 The hardest part of being a pop star can be staying true to who you are. It can feel nearly impossible to be faithful to yourself when there are a million voices in your head telling you what to do and who to be. The most important thing is that you never forget your initial dream and that you don’t end up acting and looking like a complete stranger. At the end of the day, it’s all about being happy with the work that you’ve done, and in affecting your fans in a positive way. Make sure you never forget the person you were before you reached stardom, and you’ll be able to stay true to yourself.

Though making new friends and starting new relationships is an important part of being a pop star, don’t forget your old friends or family members. They’re there to keep you grounded, and they’ll keep you from forgetting where you came from.
Though it can be hard to find alone time when you’re a pop star, it’s important to make time to check in with yourself, to write in a journal, and to make sure that you’re achieving the goals you want to achieve. If you’re constantly surrounded by an entourage and are moving from one show to the next, you won’t be able to slow down and remember why you wanted to become a pop star in the first place.

