 If your mango isn't quite ripe, leave it out on the counter in relatively cool room temperature for a few days to ripen some. For most mangoes, between two and four days is usually enough time to soften and become ready to eat.Mangoes that were picked especially green will sometimes take much longer, and in fact may never ripen like you want them to. If a mango hasn't ripened in five or seven days, it's probably not going to get any riper.
In hotter temperatures, mangoes will ripen more quickly, and may go from green to overripe in a very short amount of time. If it's hot and you're not in some temperature-controlled air conditioning, keep a close eye on them. They'll probably be fine.
 After your mango softens, it's fine to put it in the fridge if you want to keep it at it's peak of ripeness for a couple of days before you want to eat it. It's also great to chill mangoes, because a cold mango is a delicious treat.


In the fridge, the cold will slow the ripening process, so the fruit won't ripen any longer and will last for up to 4 days longer than they will on the counter, where they'll continue ripening. You don't have to refrigerate them, however, if you want to eat them quickly.
 While most people choose to not eat the mango skin, because it has a bitter flavor and a stringy texture, it's still a good idea to rinse mangoes on the outside before slicing into them, especially mangoes you've purchased at the store. Traces of chemicals, germs, and other gunk can work its way onto the fruit in the grocery store, making it a good idea to rinse them off, rub them thoroughly with your hands, and prepare a clean surface on which to slice them up.Mango skin is perfectly edible and in fact extremely high in compounds that help control receptor molecules called PPARs, which help to regulate cholesterol, glucose, and are thought to have some anti-cancer properties.Give it a rinse and give it a try!
If you want to try the skin, you can just eat the mango whole like an apple, or you can peel it and go right at the fruit, eating your way around it.
 The best way to slice up a mango is to hold it upright on the small end, with the stem end facing toward the ceiling. Run a sharp kitchen knife into the flesh just to the side of the stem, cutting alongside the pit on the inside. You should feel something hard that will push your knife off to the side. That means you're doing it perfectly. Do the same thing on the other side of the stem, then trim off the extra flesh on the two sides of the fruit.


You should be left with a furry-ish stone that still probably has a lot of fruit on it. Chef's rights: you get to chew off that bit.
 One of the cleanest ways to get the fruit out of the skin at this point is to use your knife and run it through the inside of the flesh, cutting a cross-hatch pattern in the fruit. Depending on the size of the mango, you might want to cut chunks anywhere from a 1/2 in. to an inch.


It's best to do this while the fruit is sitting on a cutting board, even though it might be easier to hold the skin in your hand. It's very easy to cut straight through the skin and poke into your hand, which can result in a nasty cut.
 Once you've hatched up the fruit, push on the skin-side to pop the fruit chunks out and up and make them easy to cut off the skin. Slice them off carefully into a bowl, or bite them off like candy. Enjoy!

