 Printing on vellum can be used for a variety of small crafts. You can, for example, print a nice quote on attractive vellum paper, and then put in a picture frame as a gift. You can also print out a birthday greeting on vellum, and glue the vellum inside a card. Printing on vellum can be somewhat tricky, so have patience during the printing process.Read your printer's manual and see if there are any specific instructions for printing on unconventional types of paper. Ink can smear easily on vellum, so see if your printer has a "draft" or "quick" printing mode. These modes tend to use less ink.
See if your printer lets you choose a paper type when printing. Most printers default to "plain paper." Instead, select something like "photo paper" or "fine art paper."
After printing your vellum, set it aside to dry. Ink will take awhile to dry on a vellum surface, so it's important to set the paper aside to dry. Do not attempt to use vellum in crafts until the ink is dry to the touch.
 Take apart a regular envelope and use it as a template to create the vellum envelope. When assembling the envelope, try using glue specifically made for vellum, as vellum possesses different adhering properties than typical paper.


Make sure to use a glue that dries clear. Standard or colored glues will be visible through the translucent nature of vellum.As vellum can be hard to write on, and can smear easily, you may want to mail out vellum envelopes inside conventional envelopes.
 Print your wedding invitations or other greeting cards on vellum for an airy design. These can be further modified with a drawing or personalized message once the printing has completed.


If you're having trouble feeding thick cardstock into the printer, consider printing onto the vellum and overlaying it onto the cardstock instead. Attach the vellum with vellum glue along the top, or punch holes through the vellum and cardstock and use a ribbon to tie them together., Mat a photo onto a larger sheet of plain, colored or printed vellum. You can then lay the printed photo on colored cardstock. Create a border by choosing a sheet of cardstock larger than the vellum or with an overmat. Add a mounting board, glass and a frame if you wish.


The photos can also be printed on vellum paper directly and combined with standard cardstock for various effects.