 These events are great for networking. As booths hand out cards to you, don't be afraid to hand one back, though you should try to stay in the same industry.These shows are even better if you can get your own booth or table. If you do, be sure to have plenty of business cards in plain view on your table. That way, if people like what they see, they can take a card away with them.
Don't just think big. Think about what makes sense for your business. For instance, if you own a dog grooming business, it makes sense to visit a dog park and make connections. However, outside of events where networking is expected, it's important to not be too pushy and to respect people's space when asked. While it's always important to respect someone's space, in a social gathering like a dog park, the person may not be expecting a business pitch and may get annoyed if you try to give them a card. If that happens, apologize and walk away.;
, If you just hand someone your business card with no pretense, it's likely going into the trash. You have to actually talk to the person and make a connection.For instance, if you go up and say, "Hi, here's my business card," that's not likely to work. That's the equivalent of walking up to someone and saying, "Hi, let's go on a date."
Instead, introduce yourself, and try to make a connection with the person. You could say, "Hi, I'm Jess Smith. What brings you to this event today?" Any number of openers can get a conversation going. Another one could be, "Hi, I'm Jess Smith. I work for a metal pipe company. What about you?"

, Everyone likes to talk about themselves. The more you can get the other person talking, the more likely they'll feel like they've really made a connection with you.You don't need to spend 30 minutes talking to one person, though that would certainly be making a connection. However, you do need to spend several minutes getting to know the person.
Ask questions like, "What's your business?" "What's your job like?" or "What do you do for a living?"

, While you might be tempted to run around the room putting a card in every person's hand you see, that's the in-person equivalent of spamming them. Instead, only offer business cards to people you make a connection with or who ask you for one., One way to sort of force the issue is to ask for their business card first. Most people, when asked for a card, will ask for yours in turn, as well.For instance, you could say, "Well, I'm glad to have met you. Do you mind if I have your business card so I can follow up with you later?"

, If you do ask for a business card, use it to make a connection. That way, you will be fresh in the person's mind.For instance, send the person an email, or look them up on social media. You could say something like "Great to meet you the other day at the trade show. I'm looking forward to running into you in the future!"

