 Visit your optometrist regularly to check for visual impairments or diseases that may harm your overall eye health. If you have blurred vision, nearsightedness, or farsightedness, you might need either corrective eyewear or surgery.See your doctor based on age, health, and risk of eye problems. These are factors that will determine how often you should see your eye optometrist. If you are experiencing and difficulties with eyes, visit an optometrist as soon as you can as earlier treatment leads to better results.
Check your visual acuity to determine if you will need prescription eyewear.
Get screened for glaucoma, which is damage to your optic nerve. If left untreated, it will get worse over time.
 You might need glasses to improve your vision if you have either nearsightedness or farsightedness. In both cases, corrective lenses will either counteract the increased or decreased curvature of your cornea or the length of your eye.Eyeglasses are the most accessible and safest rout to correct problems caused by vision impairment. You can get a range of eyeglasses: bifocals, trifocals, progressive lenses, reading and driving glasses.
Contact lenses are a popular choice as well. They are worn directly on your eyes and come as hard, soft, extended wear, disposable, and rigid gas permeable and bifocal.
The most important factors in choosing eyeglasses or contact lenses are safety and lifestyle choice.
 There are several different types of surgery to choose from if you prefer not to get corrective lenses. These surgeries have become routine over the past two decades and are considered relatively safe for fully developed eyes. A doctor uses a laser to reshape the cornea.A laser-assisted in-situ keratomileusis (LASIK) surgery removes layers from your cornea and is repositioned to help you attain your desired level of vision. It is painless, immediate, and does not require a long recovery period.
A laser-assisted subepithelial keratectomy (LASEK) is a procedure that reshapes the cornea’s outer layers and changes its curvature to improve vision. Compared to LASIK surgery, LASEK surgery takes longer to recover from, may be more painful, and is more complicated in post-surgery recovery, but still a very successful procedure.
Photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) is similar to LASEK surgery, but instead of the cornea it’s the epithelium that gets reshaped. Recovery includes wearing a bandage contact lens for a few days.
An intraocular lens (IOL) implant is surgically implanted into the front of the eye’s lens. Implants are not a popular treatment option at this time.
Conductive keratoplasty (CK) uses radiofrequency energy to apply heat to the cornea. The biggest drawback to this procedure is that the results are not permanent.
Side effects of refractive surgery include visual side effects, under or overcorrection, dry eye, infection, cornea scarring, and vision loss.

