 Starting to have a social life is one thing, but if you want to keep your life going, then you have to make your relationships last. Though you should start slow with new friends, and stick to safer topics as you get to know one another, you can't just rehash the same superficial territory if you've hung out more than a handful of time. You need to learn to open up, to reveal a little more about yourself, and let the person reciprocate.


Don't reveal everything at once. Start introducing more personal information into the conversation little by little.
As you try to build a deeper relationship, you should also think about the activities you do with a person. If all you ever do with a new friend is drink a lot and go out dancing, try inviting the friend to dinner and a movie instead.
Invite people in to more spheres of your life. As you develop closer bonds with people, you can invite them to share your hobbies, see your place, meet your brother, or do whatever will help them get to know a different side of you.
 One of the most important things you can do is to stay on the grid, keep attending your commitments, and continue to hang out with people. If you met a new friend and had two successful coffee dates, don't let two months go by without reaching out to the person, no matter how busy you are. With a new friendship, it's important to keep moving forward.


If you miss your last three book clubs, you have less of a chance of connecting with the people there.
If you want to be a real friend, then you'll have to stick to your commitments. No one will take you seriously if you have a reputation of being a flake.
 This may sound counterproductive if what you're really trying to do is get a social life, but when it comes to having real friendships, having two or three close friends you can really rely on is more important than having thirty acquaintances. Though having acquaintances can help improve your social life, if you connect with a few people on a deeper level, then you'll be more likely to hang out with each of them at least once every week or two, which will greatly improve your social life.


It's okay to have close friends and acquaintances. Not all acquaintances have to turn into sincere friendships, and that's okay.
 Though you may have tried a little harder or hidden parts of your personality when you first went on the friend market, if you want to make your relationships with new friends last, you have to drop the act. If you're having a bad day, open up to your friends; if you're worried about the future, let them know you're concerns; if you have a goofy sense of humor, let it out.


Don't be afraid. If you want to have meaningful friendships, then you have to put yourself out there.
 Sure, there are the parties, the trips to the beach, and the funny text exchanges that crack you up in the middle of your work day. But having a real social life, and having real friendships, means being their for the laughter and the tears. Working out the difficulties of life together is what will bring you closer to your friends, and will make you take your relationships to a deeper level.


If you want to be a real friend and to make strong connections that lead you to hang out with people, then you have to learn to be sympathetic, be a good listener, and learn to recognize when your new friend is upset and just wants to talk.

