 Add ¼ cup (60 g) of room temperature egg white to the bowl of a stand mixer with the whisk attachment inserted. Whip the egg whites on medium speed until they are light and frothy.To separate the egg whites from the yolks, break the eggs on a flat surface, such as a countertop or table. Divide the egg in half over a bowl, and allow the yolk to fall into the lower half. Move the yolk back and forth between the two halves, so the white can drip into the bowl below. Continue moving the yolk until all of the white has fallen out.
You can use a handheld electric mixer to whip the egg whites if you don’t have a stand mixer.
You can whisk the egg whites by hand, but it will take a little longer.;
, When the egg whites are frothy, add ⅓ cup (65 g) of sugar to the bowl. Whisk the ingredients on high speed until stiff, shiny peaks form., If you want your macarons to be colored, add red food coloring to the mixture and mix until the color is even. A few drops of coloring will give you pink heart macarons, while more generous amount will give you red cookies.Red food coloring is the traditional option for heart macarons, but you can use any color that you like.
Gel food coloring works best in the macaron batter, but you can also use liquid coloring.
 Add ¾ cup (75 g) of almond flour and ¼ (55 g) of powdered sugar to a sifter. Shake the ingredients through the sifter to remove any large lumps.If you don’t have a sifter, you run the almond flour and powdered sugar through a fine-mesh sieve to remove any lumps.
 Once the almond flour and powdered sugar are sifted, add them to the egg white mixture. Use a spatula to gently fold the dry ingredients into the egg whites until they are incorporated.You’ll know that you’re done folding the dry ingredients in when there are no longer any streaks of egg whites and the mixture forms ribbons when you lift up the spatula and allow the batter to drip off.
 For macarons, you’ll need a large cookie sheet. Line it with parchment paper, so the cookies won’t stick after you’ve baked them.You can line the cookie sheet with a silicone baking mat if you prefer.
 After you’ve prepared the cookie sheet, fit a piping bag with a circular tip. Next, use the spatula to fill the piping bag with the macaron batter.If you don’t have a piping bag, place the batter in a plastic zipper bag. Press all the air out of the bag and seal it. Use a pair of scissors to snip off a corner of the bag so you can pipe out of it.
 With the piping bag, pipe the macaron into heart shapes that are all roughly the same size until you’ve used up all of the batter. After you’ve piped all of the hearts, tap the cookie sheet against the countertop or table three to four times to remove any air bubbles.If you don’t want to freehand pipe the hearts, you can find a heart shape image online and use it to create a template. Place it under the parchment paper or baking mat so you can trace the shape with the piping bag. Just be sure to remove the template before baking the macarons, though.
You can also use a heart shape cookie cutter to serve as a stencil when piping the macaron batter.
If you make heart macarons regularly, you may want to purchase a heart shaped baking mat specifically for macarons. They have heart shaped indentations that you fill with the batter, and are made of silicone so you can bake the cookies right on them without worrying about the macarons sticking.
 Once you’ve piped out all of the macarons, leave the cookie sheet out for 30 to 60 minutes so the macarons can “dry”. You’ll know that they’re ready when you can touch them with your finger and the batter doesn’t stick., While the macarons are drying, it’s important to preheat the oven so it’s warm enough when you’re ready to bake them. Set the temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s reached the proper temperature. It will likely beep or flash an indicator light.
 When the macarons are dry, place the cookie sheet in the preheated oven. Allow the cookies to bake for 5 to 8 minutes, and then rotate the cookie sheet. Let them bake for another 5 to 8 minutes.The macarons should be firm and dry to touch when they’re finished baking. You don’t want them to change color, though, so keep an eye on them when you reach the 10 minute mark.
 Once the macarons are finished baking, remove the cookie sheet from the oven. Before removing them from the baking sheet, let the cookies cool completely, which should take 20 to 30 minutes., Add ½ cup (113 g) of unsalted butter that’s at room temperature to the bowl of the stand mixer with the whisk attachment inserted. Beat the butter on medium until it light and creamy.As with the macaron batter, you can whip the butter with an electric hand mixer or by hand if you prefer.
 Reduce the stand mixer’s speed to low, and slowly add 1 ½ cups (188 g) of powdered sugar to the bowl. Mix the ingredients until they are fully incorporated.For the best results, add approximately ½ cup (59 ⅓ g) of the sugar at a time.
 When the butter and powdered sugar are just mixed, turn the mixer’s speed up to medium. Whip the mixture for approximately 3 minutes, or until it has a light, fluffy texture., Once the butter and powdered sugar mixture is light and fluffy, add ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of vanilla extract and ½ tablespoon (7 ½ ml) whipping cream to the bowl. Continue to whip on medium speed until the mixture is completely smooth, which may take up to 3 minutes.If the buttercream is too stiff, add up to another ½ tablespoon (7 ½ ml) of cream.
You can substitute almond extract for the vanilla if you prefer.
If you want the butter cream to have a slightly spicy flavor, add ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of cinnamon to the buttercream.
 When the macaroons are completely cooled, use a butter knife or small offset spatula to spread the buttercream evenly over the bottom of the cookies. Cover half of the cookies with the buttercream.If you prefer, you can transfer the buttercream to a piping bag and pipe it onto the macarons.
 After the bottom of the cookies are covered with buttercream, press the plain cookies over the frosting to create sandwiches. Place the macarons on a platter, and serve.Store any leftover macarons in an airtight container in the refrigerator. They should stay fresh for 5 to 7 days.

