 Many migraines are triggered by sensory stimuli, such as bright or flickering lights. Calm your senses down by turning the lights off and pulling down the shades, or by moving into a dark room.Stay in the dark room until your migraine goes away, or for as long as possible.
Wear sunglasses when necessary. If you have to be out and about and are unable to get to an area with soft light or no light, wear polarizing sunglasses to protect your eyes from the brightest parts of the light spectrum. This may not be quite as effective as spending a few minutes in a dark room, but it will usually still help.;
, As with light, sound is another sensory stimuli known to trigger migraines. Turn off all background noise, such as radios and televisions, or move to a quiet, calm spot.


If you cannot go to a separate room, wear noise-canceling headphones over your ears to block out external noise.
Some individuals find silence stressful or unnerving. If this is the case, run a white noise machine or air purifier in the background to provide soothing ambient sound. You could also try soothing music; however, avoid loud or exciting tunes.
 Stress and lack of sleep are other common triggers for migraine headaches. Take a few minutes to lie down on your back and close your eyes the next time a migraine comes on.


Rest anywhere from five to 30 minutes to help your migraine go away.
Note, however, that some migraines are caused by getting too much sleep. If this may be one of your triggers, you should avoid lying down any longer., Deep breathing exercises can relax the body, thereby releasing any tension that might be contributing to your migraine.Lie on your back with a pillow below your head and a second pillow below your knees. Your legs should be somewhat bent.
Place your dominant hand on your upper chest and your other hand below your rib cage.
Breathe in slowly through your nose until your stomach pushes against your non-dominant hand.
Breathe out slowly through pursed lips as you tighten your stomach.
Keep your dominant hand still throughout the entire process.
Do this routine for about five minutes.



Wet a soft, clean washcloth with cold water and place it over your forehead or on the back of your neck. Let it sit for 10 to 15 minutes. Take a 10 to 15 minute break before applying the compress again, and continue in this pattern until your migraine goes away.
Note that in some instances, however, cold temperatures can actually make a migraine headache feel worse. If the pain increases within the first 5 minutes of treatment, stop immediately and try something else.
 Stand under a cold shower with the water running over the top of your head for at least 15 minutes. Give yourself a head massage while you shampoo. This helps to reduce the tensions in your body while releasing the heat from your scalp.


Lightly squeeze the excess water from your hair, but keep it damp. Do not dry your hair.
Lie down in a cool room while your hair is still damp and try to sleep for a while. You can place a towel over your pillow if you are worried about it being wet.
 You can determine any dietary triggers you may have by recording what you ate prior to the onset of a migraine headache, and looking to see if there are any patterns over time. Common dietary triggers of migraine headache include:


Foods containing aspartame or MSG
Alcohol
Chocolate
Cheese
Salami
Caffeine

