 This is the most common form of loan for students who are struggling financially. Of course, it only works if you are enrolled in college or graduate school.The amount of the loan varies and you have some flexibility in choosing an amount. You will not have to pay back the money until you graduate or stop attending school.


It is difficult to work full time or even part time while attending school, taking out a student loan will insure that you can focus your full attention on your education while meeting your financial needs.
 Having a high student loan balance can negatively affect your credit score and prevent you from making large purchases, such as purchasing a home. Additionally, there is no way to get rid of or reduce your student loan balance after you have received the loans aside from paying them.


Unlike other types of loans and other types of debt, there is no relief for borrowers of student loans who have fallen on hard times. While many people who cannot pay their bills consider filing for bankruptcy to discharge (or eliminate) their debts, student loans cannot be discharged in bankruptcy, leaving borrowers with the same payments even after bankruptcy.
Depending on the type of education you pursue, there’s also no guarantee in the job market once you complete school, but you must repay the loans regardless.
 To apply for a student loan, you must fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form online.The FAFSA is free to fill out, and you will be required to disclose information, including your current enrollment status for school, your tax information, and any possible family financial contributions to your education.


You can fill out a FAFSA online at: https://fafsa.ed.gov/


, After filling out the FAFSA, you will be contacted by either your educational institution or the government with approval or denial for the loan, and you will receive instructions for accepting the loan.


In the case of financial need, students usually qualify for Direct Subsidized Loans (which do not accrue interest for as long as you remain in school) while students who cannot demonstrate financial needs can still qualify for Direct Unsubsidized Loans (which begin accruing interest as soon as the money is dispersed).