 Zinc poisoning occurs when stomach acids break down the object or substance the cat consumed.This leads to vomiting within a few minutes to an hour after poisoning. Lethargy and/or depression usually occurs around the same time as broken down zinc enters the bloodstream., A poisoned cat will usually lose their appetite within a few hours of zinc absorption into the bloodstream. Look for anything out of the ordinary. If you notice fewer trips to the dry food bowl between meals, it could be a red flag. If your cat doesn't take an interest in their main meals, you should call the vet just to be safe., Jaundice might start to show up within a few hours to a few days after poisoning. This causes the skin, gums, and the whites of the cat's eyes to take on a yellow appearance. The gums could also begin to look pale up to a few days after poisoning., Look for orange-tinged fecal matter. Even if the stool is still solid, an orange appearance usually signals zinc poisoning. Urine can also turn orange as the body attempts to expel the excess zinc. You should also check for soft stool or evidence of diarrhea., On average, healthy cats take 16 to 40 breaths per minute. If they're sleeping or resting, this rate should be on the lower end of the range. On the other hand, cats suffering from zinc poisoning breathe at a more rapid rate than normal. Another sign for concern is if your cat is breathing through their mouth. Healthy cats don't breathe with their mouths open.To calculate your cat's breathing rate, count the number of times your cat's chest rises (inhaling) or falls (exhaling) in 15 seconds. Multiply that number by four. Don't count both rising and falling, as this will give you an inaccurate rate. , Healthy adult cats have an average resting heart rate of about 120-140 beats per minute (bpm). When they're active, it can go as high as 220. For kittens, a healthy heart rate runs between 220 and 260 bpm. If your cat is already lethargic and their heart rate is above 140 bpm (or 240 bpm for a kitten), call your vet immediately.To take your cat's pulse, place your index and middle fingers on the inside of either upper hind leg. Move your fingers slightly if you don't feel a pulse at first. Count the pulse the same way you calculate your own for 15 seconds. Multiply that number by four., Your vet will provide most or all of the treatment in the office or at the hospital. Expect your cat to stay at the vet's office/hospital for a few days. The vet will have to order tests, remove the source of zinc from your cat's body, and administer medication. As long as you catch the symptoms early—preferably within the first few hours of poisoning and before any organ damage has occurred—your cat will have a good chance of survival., Your vet will provide most, if not all, of your cat's treatment. However, if the vet prescribes medication, follow their instructions to the letter. Make sure you give your cat the full course of the prescription. Medications can include antibiotics (especially if your cat had to have surgery), others to reduce the cat's heart rate, anti-seizure medications, and others to protect the gastrointestinal tract., In some cases of zinc poisoning, the zinc object must be surgically removed from the digestive system. Afterward, the vet will fit your cat with an Elizabethan collar to prevent them from licking or pulling the stitches. Keep the collar on until the stitches are removed. You might have to apply topical ointment to prevent infection and/or speed up healing. Finally, you'll also have to check the stitches several times a day for swelling, blood, or other seepage from the wound., Your vet will need to monitor your cat to check the prognosis of the healing process. Work with your vet to make a check-up schedule and keep every appointment. Once your cat has a clean bill of health, your vet will let you know., If the lock or fastener on your cat crate is metal, assume that it could contain zinc. Go to your local pet supply store or search online for plastic replacements to the lock. Follow the replacement instructions on the packaging., Never leave coins, especially pennies minted in 1982 or later, lying within reach of your cat. Clean up nuts, bolts, nails, and screws after you're finished using them. Replace all metal board game pieces after the game is over. Bottom line: if it's metal, assume it contains zinc. Stow away any metal jewelry and stash staples in a drawer or cabinet that your cat can't open., Read the list of ingredients on your hand and body lotions. Look for zinc or compounds containing it, such as zinc oxide. If you use creams for diaper rash or sunburn, zinc oxide is a likely ingredient. Lock these up in a medicine cabinet that your cat can't access. Reinforce the cabinet doors with child-safe locks, if necessary., These products often contain zinc. Place them in the medicine cabinet with the diaper rash cream or buy them in child-proof bottles. Always replace the caps on your vitamin and supplement bottles. If you use a pill sorter, make sure the lid is secure.