 In order to set aside time every day to learn, write it into your schedule. Create a block in your day to day schedule that is specifically made for learning. Try to make it a time that will be the best for learning. This means avoiding times when you will not be able to focus, such as right before bed when you may be too tired or first thing in the morning when you are still waking up.


This may be hard with a full work schedule and a family or everyday obligations, but scheduling time to learn will help prioritize it in your life every day.
You can write out your schedule weekly or monthly, whatever works best for you.About an hour a day is considered the most beneficial for long-term learning.;
, When you are looking for placed to add in learning time, think about empty times in your day. Instead of wasting time doing mindless activities, switch the time out for learning time. This could be times when you find yourself flipping through the channels aimlessly or scrolling through things on your phone.


You may not even realize that these times exist until you start looking at your daily activities. If you find a chunk of time where you aren’t being productive or doing something meaningful to you, switch this time over to learning time., There are many people throughout history who approach learning with the “five-hour rule”. This means that they found five hours per week to dedicate to learning. People such as Benjamin Franklin, Steve Jobs, ad Bill Gates approach life in this way and it helped them to be life-long learners and achievers.


You can choose to take all five hours during the week and take the weekend off, do two hours over the weekend and skip stressful days during the week, or break it up over all seven days of the week. As long as you are learning at least five hours a week, you will get the benefits of this method.
Avoid getting behind and trying to do all your learning in two or three chunks. This will impeded your learning process over time., Even if you schedule time to learn every day, make a plan, and set goals, you need to continually remind yourself to take this learning time every day. Set a reminder in your phone’s calendar or set an alarm at home to remind you.You can make yourself less formal reminders such as post it notes around your room or in your office at work.

