 Wait for the download to finish.;
,, You must enter your password when prompted to proceed. Once you have entered your password the installation should finish on its own.
 Go to system preferences and click the sound pane. Under the Output tab of the sound pane select Soundflower (2ch) as your sound device.
 Open the Soundflowerbed Application. It should be located in the Soundflower folder which should be in your Applications folder. A black icon resembling a flower should appear in the top right hand corner of the screen near the system time.






Click on the Soundflowerbed icon click on the Audio Setup option in the drop down menu.






Ensure that Soundflower (2ch) is selected as the default and system output under the Audio Devices tab.






Before moving on make sure that you have selected Speakers/Headphone under the Sunflower bed drop down menu. This will allow you to hear audio playback as you record it in later steps.
 Go to http://audacity.sourceforge.net/download/mac Download the version of audacity which is appropriate for your hardware.
 Open the .dmg you downloaded in step 6. Drag the Audacity Application to where you wish to store it on your computer.



Launch Audacity. A dialogue box titled 'Audacity First Run' will appear. Ensure that the language you want audacity to use is selected and press ok.






Go to the drop down menu titled Audacity and select preferences.






In the Audio I/O tab ensure that Soundflower (2ch) is selected as the recording device.
 Configuration will vary slightly from application to application you must ensure that the application in question uses either system audio or has Soundflower (2ch) selected as its audio device. Your browser should work with the outlined settings without any need for configuration as such testing your setup should work if start playing a video (with sound) in Youtube before you proceed to the next step.
 Press the big red button on the main screen to begin recording. Enjoy the ability to record any sound on your computer!

