 Since heat, humidity and dirt are notoriously dangerous for precision electro-mechanical devices like cameras, a hot, sandy beach is its natural enemy. If there are two or more cameras available from which to choose, leave the expensive one at home.;
, If it has been a while since last use, review the camera manual and reacquaint yourself with it by taking some test photos in conditions expected for the beach day, if possible. When done, carefully pack the camera for the day.
 ASA) setting, if offered. A low speed or ISO number (50 - 200) is usually provides the best results for portraits, bright light and direct sunlight photography; while indoor and sports (fast motion) photography often have better results with faster speeds offered by 200 to 400 ISO range and up. Many "point and shoot" digital cameras however, render unsatisfactory graininess or muddied color results when the ISO is set for values approaching 400 and greater. A film camera's ISO is usually set to match (or approximate) the ISO rating of the film purchased. This can be done manually; or in some cases automatically, depending on the camera's ability to detect a film that has its ISO value encoded on the canister. Typically, the film buyer specifies the ISO of the film desired at the time of purchase - as dictated by its intended use. Film is available in ISO ranges from as low as 50 to over 1000.
 Simply stated, white balance has to do with the tint or "warmth" or temperature of the light in the photo. Many cameras have selectable settings that consist of an icon for Sun, Clouds, Fluorescent, Incandescent and other light source types. Do not confuse these icons with those that represent portrait (often a bust), close up (often a flower), distant (often a mountain), night (often stars), etc. Select the setting that best matches the shooting conditions. A mismatch will result in images that have either a slightly blue or pink tint to them. If unsure, "AWB" (or automatic white balance) is a good choice. While this is not the "end of the world" an outdoor image on a hot sunny day can suggest a colder day if a "blue" tint is present. Experimentation with both the ISO and white balance settings is suggested for your particular camera before setting out.
 While sand is a danger, the dust created by disturbing it blows everywhere and is difficult to see and control. Sand particles can lodge between moving parts, preventing operation. It is important to keep any protective lens cover on the lens until ready to shoot. Interchangeable lenses should have covers on both ends when not mounted on the camera. The build up of dust however, is insidious. It is very difficult to remove, and often results in scratching surfaces, including glass optics (lens). Once an optic is scratched, it cannot be repaired. Scratches nearly invisible to the naked eye capture light and can show up prominently in (all) pictures. If using a camera that supports the use of filters, installing such a filter is highly recommended. An inexpensive "sunlight" or "UV" filter will impact the image the least, but provide relatively cheap protection to the expensive lens optics. These filters should be the outer-most if other filters are used at the same time.
 Many camera bodies are black or dark in color. Wrapping the camera in a white or light colored cloth or towel will reflect the sun's light and resulting heat away from the camera. If packed in a thick, light colored towel, the packing will provide protection from thermal shock. This results in a more desirable slow warming of the camera and lens. A camera will be at or near "room" temperature (or less if the car's air conditioner is directed at it) during the trip to the beach. Upon getting out of the car, the temperature could be 30 degrees or more warmer. A rapid temperature and humidity change can cause condensation to form in the camera and lens, if left unwrapped. This condensation can have undesirable effects on (all) pictures. Furthermore, this moisture can cause oxidation and bacteria growth wherever it accumulates, and can only be removed professionally.
 Bring a strobe light or flash unit if not built-in. Use the flash outdoors; doing so will help bring out details that become hidden in the dark shadows that often accompany photos taken in direct sunlight. The flash also allows photos to be taken with the sun behind the subject, instead of trying to keep it behind the photographer, illuminating the subject.
 Enable the flash only if there is not enough light to capture the image successfully. Doing this prevents a list of problems including "red eye" in people (and bright eyes in pets), large dark shadows cast behind the object or person, overly bright areas and unnatural colors.
 With the lens off the camera body, sand, dust and humidity have a huge, gaping entryway into the camera. Don't do it, as it's not worth the risk. Particles that find their way on to the surface of the sensor will show up as dark spots in the same place on every picture. Removing the particles could result in permanent damage to the sensor. It is far better to select a single lens before leaving home and install on the camera. Otherwise, change lenses only when protected inside a building or under suitable cover.

