 Included in the search engine of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is the Global Patent Search Network. This will allow you to search the full text of multiple international patent databases.The GPSN currently includes information from 1985 through 2012. Regular updates are expected.
You can access the GPSN by visiting the USPTO.gov site, then following the links to “Patents,” “Patent Search,” and then “Global Patent Search Network.”

, This database, the EPO, is available at www.EPO.org. From the home page, you simply select the tab “Searching for Patents,” and you will be directed to the EPO search tool. On this site, you will have access to millions of patent documents, including resources throughout Europe and Asia., The European Patent Register is an extension of the European Patent Office (EPO). This is a free online service that contains all European patent applications from the moment they are published. It includes links to all the national offices for the countries that subscribe to the EPO.In addition to simply searching for patents, the European Patent Register includes information about the current stage of a patent application, whether or not a European patent has been granted yet, and whether any oppositions have been filed to a European patent. It also includes copies of correspondence between the EPO and patent applicants or their attorneys.
You can access the European Patent Register by going through the EPO website at www.epo.org, and then selecting the links to “Searching for Patents” and finally “European Patent Register” under the heading of “Quick Access.”

, The World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) has a website that is accessible to search over 57 million worldwide patent documents.The WIPO page is translatable into ten different languages: English, French, Spanish, German, Portuguese, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Russian, Arabic.
You can conduct a search on the WIPO site by visiting its home page at www.wipo.int, and then following the links to “Reference” and “Patentscope.”
Within the Patentscope search tool, you can search for individual terms to find patent information, or you can browse the week’s applications and approvals.

