 Donating your time to others in need not only improves mental health, but it also helps you foster qualities important to developing internal beauty, such as selflessness, conscientiousness, and empathy Knowing that you have a social impact on your community can help fulfill a need to belong and positively influence others.


Choose organizations and causes that are personally meaningful to you. You'll enjoy the experience because of your connection to it, and be more willing to set aside time in your schedule.
 Read a new book, take an art class, visit a museum, or listen to music. Seeing or experiencing art or natural beauty can help you develop beautiful inner qualities such as passion and determination.Having passion for these pursuits not only nurtures your own inner well-being, it also leads to better relationships with others., Building close friendships is a key source of developing inner beauty and health. Friendship activities reduce the presence of cortisol, a stress hormone, in the blood.Spending time with people you enjoy nurtures your sense of happiness, purpose, and feeling of belonging.Seek out activities you enjoy with friends. Try taking a hike, grabbing coffee, or joining a book club together.
Other forms of social support include offers of help, advice, or expressions of affection. To reap these benefits, send a friend a kind note, call them, or send them a funny text, or reciprocate when they do the same., People love to be around someone who knows how to have a good time. Spending enjoyable time with friends and family doing fun activities is the perfect way to enhance your inner attractiveness quotient.Laugh and be silly. Laughter helps us relax, boosts our immune system, and protects our hearts.Attend comedy shows, go to funny movies with friends and family, or watch comedies on television together to put more laughter in your day.
Bring out your inner child. Seek out the benefits of childhood by being curious, joyful, and creative., Feeling grateful for your life’s circumstances increases feelings of optimism, boosts performance at school and work, and cultivates enthusiasm for life – all necessary prerequisites for creating a sense of inner beauty and wellbeing.Note what makes you grateful and be sure to tell others that you are grateful to them for their help and friendship.


Keep a gratitude journal and write down daily between three and five things that make you happy, increase your life enjoyment, and that you are thankful for., Social intelligence involves acquiring the knowledge, cognitive abilities, and affections to successfully navigate the world.Feeling confident in your social abilities enhances the quality of your daily interactions and reflects how your inner beauty and its associated qualities projects positively onto others. Improving your conversational skills, better interpreting social cues, and being an attentive listener reinforces your social connections among friends, family, and colleagues.

