 These runes can be found as early as the first time you visit the Hound Pits or right after your escape from prison (between the missions “Dishonored” and “High Overseer Campbell”).;
, The first rune is automatically given by the Outsider during his first meeting with Corvo.
 As soon as you wake up from the Outsider’s call, go outside and take out the heart (received from the Outsider). Head north toward Samuel’s boat and dive into the water. Head east until you hit the wall, then head northeast to a small islet. Climb to the top and pick up the second rune.


Be careful while you’re in the water, there are fish there that damage you. You can kill them by hitting them with a sword.
 The third rune can be purchased from Piero for 500 gold.
 You can find these two runes between the missions “High Overseer Campbell” and “House of Pleasure.”

, As soon as you wake up, head down to the pub, then outside. You’ll be told that Havelock wants to speak to you. Talk to Havelock, and he will inform you about some strange sound in the sewers. You will receive the sewer key from him.


To find Havelock, head outside, then east until you reach the small staircase. Climb up the stairs and turn to your left. You’ll see Havelock along with Lord Pendelton.
 Once you receive the key from Havelock, you’ll be able to unlock the sewer. Open and go down the small square manhole near Havelock, head northeast toward the first corner, and keep going until you see two Weepers.


Kill the Weepers or knock them out with sleep darts.
The first rune is inside the overturned cabinet in front of the female Weeper.
The second rune is underwater, behind the iron bars.
 Before you leave for Lady Boyle’s party, during the quest “Lady Boyle’s Last Party,” accept the side quest offered by Lord Pendelton. You’ll be asked to find a masked man called Lord Shaw and duel with him. Speak again with Lord Pendleton after the duel, and he’ll reward you with a rune.


Lord Shaw is in the courtyard of Lady Boyle’s mansion; he’s the one wearing a wolf mask. Speak to him to participate in a gun duel.
Stand on the designated marker and he will begin to do a countdown; quickly turn around and shoot him once the countdown ends.
Even if you mess up, Lord Shaw can’t kill you in one hit, but he dies when shot once.
Alternatively, if you’re doing a non-lethal approach to the game, you can use a sleep dart on Lord Shaw.
 Finish the mission “Lady Boyle’s Last Party” using the non-lethal approach, that is, without assassinating Lady Boyle.


The non-lethal approach will only be available after talking to Lord Brisby; he will be at the Main Hall of the Boyle’s estate, and he will provide you with the alternate solution of kidnapping Lady Boyle as well as which Lady Boyle you need to kidnap.
Go to Corvo’s room at the Hound Pits after you’ve successfully kidnapped Lady Boyle and you’ll receive a letter from one of the other Boyles thanking you. You’ll receive a rune attached to the letter.
 After finishing the mission “Lady Boyle’s Last Party,” you can acquire another rune by finding Emily for Callista (the lady that’s taking care of Emily).


Go to the pub and talk to Callista. She will ask you to find Emily.
Emily will hide in random places, but noteworthy areas are Corvo’s room and the side and the base of the tower she stays in (same tower as Piero’s workshop).
You can use the skill Dark Vision to help find Emily.
Receive the rune from Emily after you find her.

