 If you are looking for a healthier option, then plain Greek yogurt and plain yogurt are similar in texture and consistency to sour cream and are excellent substitutes in recipes likes dips, salad dressings, marinades, and your favorite baked treats. For most dishes, you can use the same amount of yogurt as you would for sour cream, making the swap a simple one.Be aware that the flavor of your dishes may a slight tangy taste that is not as strong in sour cream.Make a cool dip for your next party by swapping out sour cream for yogurt. Mix a cup of Greek yogurt or plain yogurt with a tablespoon of chopped dill, a chopped garlic clove, and a teaspoon of lemon juice for a creamy, zesty dip that is perfect for dipping vegetables or pita chips.;
, Plain non-fat or low-fat Greek yogurt is lower in calories, fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, and sodium than sour cream, making it a healthy replacement. One cup of regular sour cream can contain around 480 calories, while a cup of full-fat, plain Greek yogurt contains around 220 calories. Greek yogurt is an excellent source of protein and helps fuel your body and metabolism, and it is full of probiotics, which can help aid in digestion.Greek yogurt comes in a variety of flavors. Choose plain Greek yogurt as a substitute for sour cream as it is most similar to sour cream’s flavor, texture, and consistency.
Top a baked potato with Greek yogurt instead of sour cream to cut back on calories. Mix some yogurt with a pinch of salt, pepper, and some chopped parsley or chives to create a tasty, healthier garnish., Plain yogurt is also an excellent and healthy substitute for sour cream. When using plain yogurt, select a full-fat yogurt over a non-fat variety. Non-fat yogurts contain added thickeners and stabilizers which can make its consistency very different than the consistency of sour cream., Because Greek yogurt has a higher protein content and a lower fat content than sour cream, it is more likely to curdle when it comes into contact with hot foods. To avoid this, wait until you are about to eat your meal at the table before you layer the yogurt on a baked potato, a taco, or a bowl of soup.If you are adding yogurt to a hot sauce, keep the temperature low and add the yogurt at the end to prevent it from curdling., You can try crème fraiche if you are looking for a gourmet option. Like yogurt, crème fraiche is a cultured product that has a similar creamy texture and consistency to sour cream. This rich cream is milder in flavor and can be used in both sweet and savory dishes. It has a higher fat content than both sour cream and yogurt, so it will not curdle when added to hot sauces.However, the higher fat content will cause it to melt if it is added to the top of a hot soup or placed under an oven broiler.Find crème fraiche in your local supermarket in the cheese or dairy department.
 Kefir cream is a versatile sour cream substitute that is cultured from cream and contains many beneficial enzymes and probiotics.You can try this option if you are trying to get more probiotics in your diet. This substitute is not as thick as sour cream. Because of its runny consistency, it is best used for baking or for whipping up homemade salad dressings and marinades.Because of its higher protein content, kefir cream can curdle when exposed to high temperatures. Add kefir to your favorite sauce or soup while on low heat or off heat right before serving., You can create a sour cream substitute at home by mixing butter and buttermilk. Buttermilk is sour milk, and it can be found in the dairy aisle at your local grocery store. To replace one cup of sour cream in a recipe, thoroughly mix ¾ cups of buttermilk with ¼ cup of butter.Because the mixture may not be as thick as sour cream, it is best used for baking or for salad dressings., If you are looking in your fridge trying to find a way to substitute sour cream or if your local grocery store has just run out, check for some heavy whipping cream to make a sour cream substitute. Heavy whipping cream has a high fat content and a creamy, thick texture. To use heavy cream as a sour cream replacement, whisk a cup of heavy cream with a tablespoon of vinegar or lemon juice to give it a tangy taste. The mixture should start to thicken and appear similar to the consistency of sour cream.Use this mixture as a topping for soups or mix it with chopped cucumber and dill to make a Greek marinade for chicken or lamb kebabs.
 You can create a vegan-friendly sour-cream substitute by using raw cashews, lemon juice, and apple cider. Soak 1 cup of raw cashews in water overnight. The next day, blend the softened cashews in a food processor with a dash of salt, 1 tablespoon of lemon juice, and ½ tablespoon of apple cider until the mixture is smooth and creamy. This recipe contains the same creamy, tangy flavor of sour cream.