


Check out any minor-league or semi-pro teams that might be playing in your area. It's cheaper than going to major sporting event and is just as much fun.
Visit a zoo or aquarium to see critters from all over the world.
Look for weird roadside attractions in your area. A quick internet search can tell you how to find the Neon Museum in Las Vegas (a graveyard of massive neon signs), the giant Cabazon Dinosaurs in California (seen in the movie Pee Wee's Big Adventure), or the Big Banana in New South Wales, Australia.
 Bypass the things that jump to mind when you think of sports--basketball, football, rugby, and try out some less-obvious pass times.


Go bowling.
Play darts.
Play horseshoes.
Ride a mechanical bull.
Play disc golf.
 This could get a little embarrassing, so ask a close friend that will laugh with you (not at you) as you try to learn the steps. Dancing is great exercise and a lot of fun. Some bars and other venues host swing or dance nights and will give free lessons.


If you can't find a class that meets that day, search for videos online and teach yourself to dance at home.
 Go through your closet and make a pile of everything you haven't worn in the last 12 months. Ask your friends do the same and bring their clothes to your house. Then go through each other's clothes and take what you want.


Take advantage of your friends' presence and try on your "new" clothes so they can give you the thumbs up or down on how they look.
Gather the remaining clothes and donate them.
 Write the script, make the props, learn your lines, and and shoot your film all in one day. The time constraint will push you to take risks and come up with creative solutions to problems that might arise. Like if your lead actress has to leave for a dentist appointment halfway through filming, then your script takes a shocking turn and the romantic comedy becomes a murder mystery.
 Invite friends and family over for an impromptu gathering. You can do something no-fuss--like ordering a bunch of pizzas--or show off your cooking skills by making an elaborate meal. Sharing the duties and cooking together is also a really fun way to bond with your besties.
 Go to a craft store and gather up materials like watercolor pencils, paper, paints, and invite your friends to come over and bring any projects they are working on.


Choose a painting and have everyone try to duplicate it.

Paint flower pots and give your friends flowers or succulents to put in their pots.
Make ornaments for the upcoming holidays.
 Go to a toy store or gaming store in your town and find a new game (or dust off some old classics) and invite your friends to play. Put out bowls of chips and popcorn and have prizes for winning teams.


Organize a game of laser tag or paintball.
 Pile your friends in the car, make a playlist, and hit the open road. You can plan a destination or just stop at the first place that seems interesting.


See if there are any historic or scenic drives in your area.

