 Before you talk to a state caseworker, you should have solid reasons to believe the child is being neglected.


Any person can report child abuse or neglect – it isn't necessary that you are a parent, teacher, or have any other specific relationship to the child.Keep in mind investigations often are prioritized depending on the danger to the child and the evidence available. The more reliable information you have about the situation, the more likely it is that a caseworker will investigate the situation promptly.At the same time, you don't need legal evidence or first-hand knowledge of the abuse or neglect – all you need is reasonable cause or suspicion to believe the child is being neglected based on your observations. The child welfare agency will investigate the claim and determine if the child is at risk.You will need to know some basic information about the child and his or her living situation, such as the people in the home and whether the child has any siblings. If you don't already know, try to learn the address of the home and as many names and approximate ages as possible.A claim of child neglect means you suspect the child isn't being properly cared for. Children who are neglected don't have adequate food or clothing, or may be left home alone for hours on end to fend for themselves. These children typically also have significant health problems., Although it goes by a different name in each state, you need to contact the agency in charge of child protective services, which typically is a part of the state's social services department.


The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services has a list of state child welfare agency websites available at https://www.childwelfare.gov/organizations/?CWIGFunctionsaction=rols:main.dspROL&rolType=Custom&RS_ID=16.
Keep in mind that many agencies are short on funds and staff, so it may take awhile for someone to get in touch with you regarding the specifics of your claim. You may have to call more than once to get the ball rolling., The caseworker assigned the case may wish to interview you regarding the information you provided.


The caseworker will ask you questions about the child and about the people you suspect of neglecting the child, as well as the reasons for your suspicions. Be open and honest, and give the caseworker as many details as you have about the situation.If you know of anyone else who potentially has witnessed the abuse or neglect, give their names and contact information to the caseworker so he or she can contact them., As the caseworker looks into the child's situation, he or she may contact you with further questions.


The caseworker's investigation will focus on whether abuse or neglect is occurring, and assess the immediate and long-term risk to the child.If the caseworker determines the child is in imminent danger, he or she may be removed from the home and into emergency protection. A hearing then will be held to determine the continued custody of the child.The caseworker will investigate by evaluating the home environment where the child lives and interviewing people around the child, including parents, family members, family friends, and other professionals such as teachers who have regular contact with the child.If the caseworker determines the child is at imminent risk of abuse or neglect, he or she may file a petition with the court to have the child removed from the home.