 The brush should have soft yet firm bundles of bristles, like in a nail brush or tooth brush. A makeup brush is too soft and a hairbrush is too stiff, so choose something mid-range.
 The temperature of the water should be as warm, but not hot or steaming as it may scald your hands or damage the synthetic fabric of the plush. Warmer water will aid in dissolving dirt or oils that may on the toy and also kill bacteria., You can either create a bubbly lather in the water by swishing it around with your hands, or you can apply the soap to the brush and create lather directly on the toy.

If the toy has been in a very dirty environment, is going to be given to a very young child, or is bought secondhand from an untrustworthy source, you may also want to use a heavy duty soap or even an antibacterial soap. This will kill bacteria more thoroughly.
If the toy is stained with dirt or similar substances, you can use a small amount of laundry detergent or borax in the water to get rid of stains. Ask an adult to help you since these materials can harm skin and be toxic.
 Do not fully soak the Beanie Boo if it's not that dirty: soaking a soft toy can create the risk of mold forming, which is harmful to both the integrity of the toy and for the health of the owner., Scrub gently to prevent ruining the fibres on the fur of the toy. Rinse after scrubbing- if the stain is still present, consider using a more heavy-duty soap., First, use a towel to thoroughly dry the surface moisture on the toy. Then you can follow up with a more intense drying process as follows:

Place the toy in indirect sunlight on a warm or windy day for about 12 hours. Avoid direct sunlight, as it may discolor the toy. You may also want to hang the toy on a clothesline to aid the drying process.
Use a hairdryer on a cool or warm setting (do not use hot, it will damage the toy or catch on fire) for about five minutes, keeping it at a safe distance.
Place the toy in a cool and gentle setting in a drier. Make sure to not leave the Beanie Boo in the drier without checking on it regularly- it may become damaged. However, this step will dry the toy thoroughly.


Once dry, brush out the fur to maintain its softness. For an extra touch, you may also want to use a small drop of diluted essential oil on the Beanie Boo for a nice scent.

