 You will likely see the terms "enriched" and "fortified" on the labels of most enhanced foods. These terms actually mean different things. Foods are enriched when nutrients are added that were lost during the manufacturing process. Foods that are fortified have extra nutrients that may not be normally found in that food.When wheat is refined into white flour, it loses B vitamins and iron contained in the wheat. A company may choose to add those nutrients back in, "enriching" the flour.
Milk and orange juice are often fortified with vitamin D. This is an essential nutrient that can be difficult to get through diet and is essential to absorbing calcium. Milk and orange juice do not normally contain vitamin D.
 It is totally reasonable to reach for the item that proclaims it’s health benefits in compelling, large-print font. However, you should also read the label on the food products you consume. If there are certain ingredients that are unfamiliar to you, look into them. Some additives do have legitimate benefits, so take the extra step to familiarize yourself with what you’re consuming.Never believe the claims of a single “study.” The most compelling claims about food are often made without substantiation. In particular, there is simply no miracle food that will cure you, burn away fat, etc.
Do not assume that all sources of health food information are legitimate. Generally, if you read an article with a number of sources that reference studies done on people, and published at a .edu or .gov address, the information is likely empirically tested and trustworthy.
Note sample size as well. If the study showed remarkable results but there were only five participants, this does not provide enough evidence to make any claims about the benefits of the food.
 Before making any significant dietary changes, talk to your doctor. These include changes such as switching to a formula-based diet, a gluten-free diet, or a hypoallergenic diet.Write down any questions you have about your diet to bring with you next time you visit your doctor. These include any questions about whether a certain dietary health claim you encounter should be considered valid.
Ask your doctor for a referral to see a registered dietitian for more in depth information.
 If you have a condition that requires you to consume specific amounts of certain nutrients, work with a healthcare professional to establish what products you should be eating, and how often.For instance, those with diabetes or heart disease may need to remove certain types of food from their diet, and may benefit from eating more of other types of functional food, whether whole or enriched.
Further, there are also foods designed for extremely specific conditions. For instance, there are prebiotic-enriched foods to help fight diarrhea.

