 Most Mac desktops are self-contained units that include everything within the monitor. You will simply need to plug the monitor unit to the power outlet, and connect the mouse and keyboard to the monitor via USB.
 It can be turned on any time if it is plugged in.
 You will be guided through the Setup Assistant process, which will configure your Mac for first-time use. Follow the instructions on each screen to set your location and language settings and create a new account.
 If you used a Mac before, you can use Setup Assistant to migrate your files and settings over. You can migrate virtually anything over, using a wireless connection, USB, Ethernet, or FireWire.


In general, it is recommended that you only transfer your essential files. Any apps you used should be reinstalled. This will lead to better performance, as you won't migrate anything over that slowing down your previous system.
 Before you can download any updates or apps, you will need to connect to a network. Most Macs have WiFi built in, allowing you to connect to your home, school, or office wireless network. Some Macs also have Ethernet ports which allow you to connect directly to a modem or router using an Ethernet cable


See this guide for detailed instructions on connecting to a wireless network.
If you are connecting via Ethernet, simply connect the Ethernet cable to the Ethernet port on the back of your Mac, and then connect the other end to an available port on the router. your Mac will do the rest.
 After connecting to a network, the first thing you should do is make sure that all the latest updates are installed. Chances are that updates to Mac OS X and your preinstalled programs have been released since the time your Mac was packaged, so be sure to grab all the available updates before diving in.


To check for and install any updates, click the Apple menu and select "Software Update". After the program takes a moment to check for available updates, you will be provided a list. Confirm that you want to install the updates.
You may need to restart your Mac during the update process.
 Now that your Mac is connected and updated, you can start installing the apps you need on a daily basis. Installing apps is simple on a Mac. Open the DMG file that you download, and then drag the application file into the Applications folder.


Productivity/Organizational - Mac has a host of productivity and organizational software available. Everything from day planners to full office suites can be found on the Mac Store. Microsoft has a version of Office available for Mac as well, and Apple has its own office suite in Pages and Numbers.
Browser - Your Mac comes with Safari installed, but you can install other browsers if you prefer. Chrome allows you to sync your browser settings across any device you use it on, making it great if you have multiple computers with different operating systems. Firefox is another popular option, and both are free.
Multimedia - Macs are known for their multimedia capabilities, so consider installing some good multimedia apps. VLC player is an essential video player, and there are tons of music, video, and image editing programs available.
Games - More and more games are making their way over to OS X as time goes by. Steam is now a very popular and easy way to access a variety of Mac games, and there are lots to choose from on the Mac Store as well.
Utilities - Macs allow you to have a lot of control over the system, and there are many utilities that can make your life a little easier. From storage management to system automation, there is a lot to choose from.
 You can change your desktop wallpaper to make your computer more personal. There is also software, such as DockMod, that allows you to customize the Dock, while programs like Desktop Groups allow you to organize the icons cluttering up your desktop.


You can use the Dashboard to add widgets to OS X. These are tools that you can quickly access without having to start a program. To access the Dashboard, click the Dashboard icon in the dock. Add widgets by clicking the "+" button in the lower-left corner of the Dashboard, and then clicking "More Widgets...". This will open the Widgets download page where you can browse through all the available widgets.

