 Laminate flooring consists of pre-cut wooden boards that snap into place with each other. You don't need nails or screws because each piece comes with an interlocking tongue and groove. You place one row of flooring down, then snap the next row into the first one until the room is covered.

You always place laminate parallel to the longest side of the room.
You need to figure out exactly how wide your final row of laminate will be, as it is rare that the rows will all fit perfectly right out of the box.
 In order to buy the right amount of flooring, you need to know the square footage of the room. To calculate the square footage of a rectangular room, simply measure the width and length of the room in feet and multiply the two numbers.

If you have an oddly shaped room, imagine it is made up of many smaller rectangular rooms. Measure each of these "rooms" separately and add together your answers to get total square footage. For example, an "L" shaped room would measure the vertical section and the horizontal sections, then add the answers together.
 Some pieces will break, you'll have to saw some extra wooden laminate, and you may need to make repairs in the future. If your room is 200 square feet, buy 220 square feet of flooring to be safe Bring your measurements into your hardware store or flooring dealer for help deciding how much flooring you need to buy.
 It is easiest to install laminate flooring parallel to the longest wall in a room, and it usually looks best. Measure the width of the room from this wall to the other side and write this number down. Subtract 1 inch from the final result to account for the space between the floor and wall.For example, your room might be 22 feet (6.7 m) wide, or 268 inches wide. You need 267 inches of flooring to cover this width.
 Take your longest width and divide it by the width of your planks or tiles. For example, if the width is 267 inches wide and the planks are 6 inches wide, you would get 44.5 planks. This number means that you need 44 and half of your six-inch planks to cover the entire width of a 268-inch floor., This is often the hardest part about setting up your new floor. In the previous example, you needed 44.5 planks to cover your flooring. This means that there will be half a plank missing if you only laid down 44 pieces of tile/laminate, so you need to cut one row in half to make everything fit.To find the width of your last piece, multiply the decimal from your calculation by your plank width. For example, pretend you are using 8-inch wooden planks and you need 20.65 of them to cover the width of the floor. This means you need 20 normal rows, plus one row cut to 5.2 inches (.65 x 8 = 5.2).
 You can use a table saw to do it yourself, but most hardware stores will cut wood or tiles for free if you ask. If you are cutting a new plank greater than 3.5 inches, consider splitting the difference and cutting matching first and last planks. Simply divide the number by two and cut two new sets of planks. For example, if you need your last plank to be 5.2 inches wide, you could instead have a first plank that is 2.6 inches and a last plank that has 2.6 inches, matching them perfectly.Make sure that all of your planks are at least 2" wide or bigger.
Though less professional, you can also install the all the floorboards and then measure the remaining space at the end. This, however, can lead to an unattractive “squeezed” look if your last row is much skinnier than the rest.
 You don't want the joints (where the end of one piece meets another) to be lined up across your floor, you want them to be varied. To do this, you need to start and finish with different lengths of laminate for every row, so the number of pieces needed will change each time., Wood changes shape depending on environmental conditions. To prevent warping once the wood is installed, stack your new laminate and leave it in the room you are installing in for 2 days to acclimate., And underlayment protects your floor from damage and moisture, and is essential for laminate flooring. However, check your chosen laminate before buying an underlayment -- many of them come with pre-attached underlayment. Ask a specialist at your home-improvement store if you have any questions, but be sure to have an underlayment before continuing.

A vapor barrier is one of the most important underlayments. It prevents moisture from getting under your floors and ruining them. They are essential if your subfloor is cement. Always install a vapor barrier if it does not come pre-attached.
 These will form a space between the wall and your laminate. This way changes in humidity that cause the wood to bulge won’t damage the flooring or walls. Place wooden spacers along the wall every 4–5 feet (1.2–1.5 m) to separate your laminate from the walls.

Your baseboards will cover up this space after they are reinstalled., A dry fit is basically a practice run for your installation. Without locking each piece of flooring into place, lay the flooring out so that each piece is parallel to one another and you know that it fits. Make notes of any spots that are exposed or the pieces are too big. on the ends of your first three rows., Place the flooring snugly against the spacers on the wall with the tongue side facing the wall. Lay your first piece in the corner of the room so that the bottom presses against one side and the length presses against another. Then add the next plank on top and snap it into place.

You want to lay your first row parallel to the longest side of the room.
Start on the side of the room with a door to make installation easiest.
Chose the shortest side of the room with a door if there are multiple., It is rare that your flooring will fit your room perfect. Lay the plank sunny-side down (the side you will see) and use a band saw to cut it into the appropriate length. Remember that your need to keep ½ inch space between the plank and the wall.The cut side of the board always goes against the wall.
 This ensures that the joints of the wood do not match up. For a better look and a sturdier floor, the horizontal joints of your laminate should be at least 6-12 inches apart.If you have no remainder, or the remaining piece is too small, cut a piece of the laminate so that it is 2/3 the length of the piece next to it, then start with that. This will prevent the joints from lining up too much.
 Snap the laminate together., Lay down the laminate, snap it into place, measure and cut the end piece, and repeat. If you did all of your measuring correctly in the beginning, this should fly by.

Slide any laminate underneath doorjambs.
Vary the joint length by 6-12 inches.
Remember to keep 1/2-inch spacers between the wall and flooring., This is the final step for your new flooring. Simple re-adhere your old baseboards, or buy and install new ones.