 There are different reasons to massage your dog (e.g, calm his nerves, warm him up for physical activity, relieve joint stiffness), each of which involves a slightly different massage technique.On most days, though, a basic massage will suffice for your dog. To set up a routine, come up with a word or phrase (e.g, ‘rubdown,’ ‘It’s massage time!’) to let your dog know it’s massage time.Pick a time of day for the massage. It is best to wait until your dog has gone to the bathroom, and at least 15 minutes after he has eaten.;
, The massage area should be quiet and distraction free.Play some soothing music,such as nature sounds or soft classical music.


Set up an area for your dog. The surface on which he will lay should be flat (no pillows or cushions), firm, and soft.A layer or two of comfortable blankets on the floor would work well.
Prepare the massage area so you can sit comfortably to massage your dog., Have your dog lie down comfortably on his side. With your palm facing down,use broad, light strokes to touch your dog from the back of his head to the tip of his tail.This will probably feel like normal petting to him, and will help get him ready for the massage.


There is no set amount of time for you to do this. Move forward with the massage when your dog looks calm and settled.
 Starting at your dog’s shoulders and working back to the base of his tail,massage the muscles alongside his spine—do not place direct pressure on his spine.First, use your fingers to make small circles (clockwise, then counterclockwise) down his back.Next, use your thumbs to apply gentle, vertical pressure down his back.As you massage along the spine, gently lift up small sections of your dog’s skin and slowly knead it between your fingers.Throughout the massage, pay attention to your dog’s body language.If he is not enjoying the massage and wants you to stop, he will use such body language as tensing, holding his breath, growling, and flinching., The sacrum is at the very end of your dog’s spine between the hips.With your palms facing down, use light pressure and make slow circular movements with your fingers.Massaging this area improves the mobility of the hips and spine., Use the thumb and fingers of one hand to rub his leg muscles, starting from the top of each leg.When you get down to the paw, gently squeeze the muscles between his toes and individually move his toes up and down in a wiggling motion.Flex and rotate each paw to release any tendon pressure.You can also give each paw a gentle squeeze.Not all dogs like their paws being handled.Read your dog’s body language when you start massaging his paws.
 As much as your dog probably loves a tummy rub, it is important to remember that his tummy is a sensitive area.As with the other areas of your dog’s body, use light, circular movements to rub his tummy., With your hands on either side of his head, use a slow, backward and forward motion to massage his cheeks.If you have a small dog, it may be easier to use your fingers rather than your whole hand on his cheeks. To massage his ears, start at the base of the ear and rub the earflaps between your fingers until you reach the ear’s tip.You can also scratch behind his ears.Your dog will probably love how that feels!
Rub under his chin, over his nose, and between his eyes., Your dog’s tail deserves attention, too! Starting at the base of his tail, make several, gentle squeezing motions from the base to the tip.Be careful not to pull the tail as you squeeze— that could be uncomfortable for your dog.
 After giving individual focus to each body part, complete the massage the same way you started it—broad, gentle strokes from the base of your dog’s head to his tail.Stroke down his legs as well.