 Although being a third wheel is probably not your idea of a good time, and possibly a little demoralizing, with the right mental framework you can make it a positive experience. One easy way to do that is to act like you are having a good time and not be a downer. Be chatty and engaging. Try buying a round of drinks. If you act like you are having fun, you might find that you are actually having a good time., Instead of focusing on the fact that you are a third wheel, try focusing on your friend’s relationship. Think of your role as providing moral support for your friend and their love life. If you understand your role as being supportive in nature, being a third wheel might become less of a chore., The easiest way to make being a third wheel not fun is to make it awkward. Try not to constantly refer yourself as a “third wheel” and lament your singleness. Be sure to avoid wallowing in your self-pity and making things uncomfortable for the couple you are with.If you can do it, limit how often you talk about being single. Instead, try to discuss things that you all have in common.
 Although it is typically considered rude to be on your phone when spending time with others, it might be a lifesaver in a third wheel situation. You can use your phone to invite another friend to where you are. It can also serve as a nice distraction from the couple. Try not to be rude but, if your couple friends are ignoring you, your phone might save the day.A phone can give you some distance from the romantic couple, even if it isn’t physical distance.
 The worst case scenario for being a third wheel is that the people you are with start getting hot and heavy with each other. If you are out with a couple and they start making out or doing things that make you uncomfortable, you should definitely let them know about it. Ask them to stop and, if they do not, get out of there. That is really inappropriate and you might want to reconsider hanging out with them in the future.

If you still feel uncomfortable or if your friends seem to want privacy, perhaps it is best to leave. If you can't, just get on your phone and text a friend or play a game. Being on your phone will make you feel more occupied and comfortable. However, don't pull out your phone unless if you've absolutely given up on the situation; it can be seen as an uninviting gesture.
 If you find yourself invited to something where you know that you will be a third wheel, try to bring along someone else. Find someone, be it a friend or relative, who you can bring along to chat with. This way, no third wheel dynamics develop and you do not feel like the outsider.


Be sure to make plans ahead of time. If you invited someone at the last second, they will likely say no.
 If you find yourself in a third wheel situation and it is miserable, just get out of there. Say that you are not feeling very well or that you have some other obligation. You could also just be honest and say that you are not having much fun. Regardless, bail on being a third wheel and go somewhere else.Find out where your single friends are and go hang out with them.

