 It's important in the aftermath of a romantic breakup to keep up the self-care. You may feel too sad or tired to eat right, sleep well, and exercise, but all of these things will help you to recover as quickly as possible.Things like exercise will also give your brain the extra positivity it needs to get through this rough patch, since it produces the happiness chemical serotonin.Enlist the help of friends if you're having a hard time with self-care. Make dinner with people you're close to or go to the gym with someone who is into exercising consistently.
 Distracting yourself from your pain may seem like a good idea in the moment, but it will only increase the amount of time it takes you to process the breakup. This can make it more difficult not to bring your residual feelings into new relationships and other areas of your life.Talking it out with a friend can give you a good way of reflecting on your feelings. Make sure it's someone you trust to be sensitive with your emotions and really listen to what you are saying.
Avoid using alcohol or other substances to keep your feelings away. In the long run this will only hurt you.
 Focus on the positive aspects of the breakup. Writing will help you organize your thoughts and begin to process all of the difficult emotions that go along with a breakup. Specifically writing about what went right in the breakup is better for you than just venting.Was he honest and straightforward when he told you he was into someone else?
Did he let you know what was going on before it got serious with the new person?

, It's important to give yourself time to heal. Straining yourself too hard, like jumping straight into a new relationship, overworking yourself, or just pushing yourself to move on can make the situation worse. Emotional injuries, like physical injuries, require time to fully heal. Give yourself the space to rest and recover.Don't be afraid to say no if friends want you to go out and you don't feel like it. True friends will understand that you need time before you can return to your normal way of being.
 It's easy in our culture to buy into the idea of there being only one person for you, but in reality there are a lot of people in the world that you are compatible with. Avoid telling yourself stories about how this person was the only one for you, or that you'll never find anyone like him. In all likelihood you will find someone else, and he might be even better than this guy. You may eventually find an amazing fit with someone, but when that happens then neither of you will want to break up.