 If you can access a map online, you will be able to find the shops that interest you, the bathroom facilities, eating areas and suitable parking. This should help to relieve some of the stress of the visit; planning ahead is a good for dispelling some of the anxiety that you might be feeling. Also, if you don't enjoy parking in mall car parks, have a friend or family member drop you off and collect you so that you can avoid this additional anxiety, or visit when there won't be so many cars parked.;
, Some examples of ways to find "peace" in the mall include:


Finding a good cafe to stop and have a cup of tea or coffee in
Visiting the bathroom for a break from the noise, to have a freshen up
Find a garden store with plants. Plants break up noise and garden stores are often less brightly lit and more open to outdoor light
Visit the foyer of a cinema. If the shopping center has a cinema, these often have very large and darkened foyer areas where you can sit on soft seats and chill out for a bit. Have a drink while you're resting!
Have a rest near large potted plants. These will give you a little privacy and cut off the glare of the lights and throngs of passers-by.
Post offices, bookstores and bookstore cafes are often wonderfully quiet compared to other places in a mall.
Have a massage! Some malls offer these services; have one to unwind!

, Perhaps you can block out some of the noise with an MP3 player; or wear sunglasses if the lights are too bright. Wear comfortable shoes and clothing so that you don't have to worry about slipping, tripping or just feeling too "constricted". Have your packages stored somewhere so that you don't have to carry too much around with you. It pays to consider all of the ways that you can reduce the impact of the noise, crowds and bright lights on your frazzled nerves.
 If you feel tired and hungry before you have even started, then you will have a very hard time of it and will be driven by the need to eat and rest rather than feeling energetic.
 Don't wander aimlessly and without purpose. Instead, visit with a list and a time deadline so that you can get in and get out doing just what is required and no more. It can also help if you have phoned places in advance (or looked online) to check that stock is available.

