 The only time you need to bathe your rabbit is if it has a messy bottom, which comes from having runny stool or urine leakage. The residue on your rabbit’s rear is both unsanitary and uncomfortable, and you’ll need to bath him to get it off., You’ll want to make sure the soiled parts of its rear are easily visible and accessible. The rabbit can be on a bunched up towel sitting on your lap, or lying comfortably on the floor.Make sure you cushion your rabbit’s back and neck so that they are well supported in case he decides to start kicking.
While your rabbit is lying there, stroke it smoothly and talk soothingly to keep things calm and relaxed.
 Put it all over the affected areas, and gently rub it into the messy parts of the fur down to the skin. As the powder coats the dried poop, it should fall out of the skin easily.Do not use powders that contain talc, as it is a respiratory irritant, and can even cause cancer in rabbits.
 If there are a few stubborn pieces that rubbing won’t get out, use a fine-toothed flea comb to pull them out. Just be careful not to pull too hard, as rabbit skin is very delicate, and can tear easily., Once you are finished, pat your bunny’s bottom to get any excess powder off. If you need to, a small handheld vacuum would work too. Use the vacuum to pick up whatever falls off to clean up the area as well., If the dry bath doesn’t do the trick, you’ll need to provide a wet bath. This can be a tough procedure, and you will need to be very careful. Rabbits do not like going into water, and can go into shock if they are put into it. Make sure you don’t give your rabbit a wet bath unless it is absolutely needed.Fill a bathroom sink or small basin with about 2.5 inches of lukewarm water. Mix in a tablespoon of hypoallergenic, non-medicated shampoo. It is best to get a shampoo specifically intended for rabbits, and not one used on people.Slowly lower your rabbit’s rear into the water. Gently wash the solution over the affected areas, then rinse with lukewarm water.
Dry off your rabbit’s bottom. First use a soft towel, being careful not to rub too hard. Then use a blow dryer set on low to finish drying. Keep one hand close to the rabbit’s skin so you can feel if the air is too warm.
Clip fur away from the irritated skin, then apply a soothing balm.
 After you have cleaned off your bunny, go to the vet for an examination. Incontinence could be a sign of other health problems, and the vet will need to determine the cause.