 Suicide is the culminating act in the process of overcoming the human instinct towards self-preservation.Suicide is a worldwide problem;in the year 2012 alone, around 804,000 people ended their own lives.In the US, suicide is a leading cause of death,with a suicide occurring around every 5 minutes. In the year 2012, there were over 43,300 suicide deaths in the US., Though the trigger for the suicidal act may be sudden and the act impulsive,suicide happens in progressive stagesthat are often recognized by others in hindsight.The stages of suicide include: Stressful events which trigger sadness or depression
Suicidal thoughts in which the individual questions whether to continue living
Making plans to commit suicide in a specific way
Suicidal preparation, which can include gathering the means to commit suicide and giving away possessions to loved ones
Suicide attempt in which an individual tries to end her own life

, People of all age experience life changes that can bring out feelings of anxiety and depression. Most people are able to recognize that it is normal to have problems and that situations are temporary.However, some people become so mired in their depression and anxiety that they cannot see beyond the immediate moment. They have no hope and see no options to escape the pain that they are feeling.


People having suicidal thoughts seek to end the pain of a (temporary) situation with a (permanent, irreversible) solution.
Some people even believe the fact that they feel suicidal means that they are crazy, and if they’re crazy, they might as well commit suicide. This is untrue on two levels. First, people without mental illness can contemplate suicide. Second, those who do suffer from mental illness are still worthwhile individuals with a lot to offer.
 You may have heard that people who are serious about committing suicide don’t talk about it.This is untrue! Someone speaking about suicide openly may be asking for help the only way she knows how, and if no one offers help, she may give in to the darkness that is overwhelming her.In a recent study, 8.3 million American adults admitted contemplating suicide the previous year. 2.2 million made plans for a suicide attempt, and 1 million unsuccessfully tried to commit suicide.It is believed that for every successful adult suicide, there are 20 to 25 unsuccessful attempts.In the 15-24 year-old age group, there are as many as 200 unsuccessful attempts for each successful suicide.
More than 15% of American high school students surveyed admitted to contemplating suicide. 12% of those made a specific plan, and 8% attempted suicide.These statistics suggest that if you suspect that someone is considering suicide, you’re likely to be correct; it’s best to assume you’re right and ask for help.
 It might be easier to prevent suicide if there were a specific profile for the kind of person who commits suicide, but there is not. Suicide can affect people from every country, ethnicity, gender, age, religion, and economic level. Some people are surprised to find that even children as young as 6and elderly people who feel that they have become a burden to their familiessometimes take their own lives.
Do not assume that only people who are mentally ill attempt suicide. The suicide rate is higher in those with mental illness, but people without mental illness also commit suicide. Additionally, people who do have a diagnosed mental illness may not share that information openly, so you may be unaware of someone’s mental illness.
 Though suicidal thoughts can happen to anyone, there are certain patterns that can identify groups that are higher risk. Men are 4 times more likely to commit suicide,but women are more likely to have suicidal thoughts, voice those suicidal thoughts to others, and have unsuccessful suicide attempts.Native Americans have higher suicide rates than other ethnic groups.Adults under 30 tend to think about a plan for suicide more that adults over 30.Among teenage girls, Hispanic girls have the highest rate of suicide attempts., It is important to remember, as specified above, that suicidal individuals are unique and don’t fit into a specific mold. However, knowing the following risk factors may help you determine whether your friend is at risk. Individuals are at higher risk for suicide if they:have a history of suicide attempt(s)
suffer from mental illness, often depression
abuse alcohol or drugs, including prescription painkillershave heath problems or chronic pain
have employment or financial problems
feel as though they are alone or isolated and lack social support
have relationship problems
have family members who have committed suicide
are victims of discrimination, violence, or abuse
experience feelings of hopelessness

, Dr. Thomas Joiner believes that three factors that best predict suicide are feeling isolated, feeling like a burden to others, and having learned to hurt oneself. He calls suicide attempts “rehearsals” for actual suicide rather than cries for help.He explains that those most likely to successfully commit suicide:are desensitized to physical pain
do not fear death

, Warning signs differ from risk factors (see above) in that they indicate an imminent risk for a suicide attempt. Some people commit suicide with no warnings, but most people who attempt suicide say or do things that can serve as red flags to warn others that something is wrong.If you see some or all of the following warning signs, intervene immediately to prevent a tragic death. Some warning signs include:changes in sleeping or eating habits
increased alcohol, drug, or painkiller usage
inability to work, think clearly, or make decisions
expression of feelings of extreme unhappinessor depression
expression of feelings of isolation or the impression that no one notices or cares about them
sharing feelings of worthlessness, hopelessness, or lack of control
complaints of pain and an inability to visualize a pain-free future
threats of self-harm
giving away valuable or cherished possessionsa sudden period of happiness or surge of energy after a long stretch of depression