 You can order your credit report and score directly from Equifax's website for $15.95.This score will be Equifax's score based on their proprietary scoring model. Equifax also offers a complete score report that contains scores from all three major credit reporting agencies (Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian).Be sure that you know which score you are paying for. There is also a more generalized FICO score available from Equifax that doesn't used their proprietary scoring model. It is available for $19.95.;
, The Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) created the basis for credit reporting algorithms.Through their website, you can order your Equifax score as a part of a combined credit report that compares your Equifax score with your TransUnion and Experian scores. This "FICO Score 3B Report" is available instantly online and costs $59.85.This is only a good option if you want to compare your Equifax credit score with your scores from the other credit agencies. Otherwise, you are just paying more for features you will not need.
 Recently, some credit card issuers have begun offering credit scores for free to cardholders. Be aware that these credit reports may not always include your Equifax score, and may simply report a FICO score or the specific score of another credit reporting agency. Currently, this service is offered by many issuers, including American Express, Bank of America, and Barclays US, among others., Equifax issues a credit score based on a range from 280 to 850.The lower the score, the lower your creditworthiness. While it is hard to definitely say what a "good" credit score is, most credit scores fall in the 600's and 700's. A score above 780 will put you in the top 20% of borrowers, whereas a score below 619 will put you in the bottom 20%.The complete score breakdown by percentage of the general population is as follows:

20% are above 780
20% are in the range of 745-780
20% are in the range of 690-745
20% are in the range of 620-690
20% are below 619



, Many different factors go into determining your credit score, and each have a different weight in the algorithm. For example, almost two-thirds of your score is determined by your payment history and amounts owed. These weights differ by the credit rating algorithm used and may result in slightly different credit scores between agencies.Payment history accounts for about 35% of your score and includes things like proportion of bills paid on time, proportion of bills paid in full, and any public record items (bankruptcies, delinquencies, court judgement, etc.).
Amounts owed accounts for about 30% of your score and includes the amount owed on various accounts in total and versus the original loan amount or available credit limit.
Smaller determining factors include the length of your credit history (about 5-7%), the amount of new credit you have or have applied for (about 10-12%), and the types of credit you use (about %15)., Equifax doesn't include any personal details unrelated to credit when calculating your score. These excluded factors include:


Personal details like your race, age, color, religion, national origin, sex, or marital status
Employment details like your salary, occupation, title, employer, date employed, or employment history
Where you live
Certain types of inquiries such as promotional, account review, insurance, employment-related inquiries, or inquiries when you request your own credit report
Any information not found in your credit file
Any information not proven to be predictive of future credit performance, Certain factors may be seriously lowering your credit score. These range from more obvious factors like high amount of delinquency on accounts or owing too high a proportion of credit limits to less obvious reasons like having opened too many new lines of credit recently or simply having too many active credit cards., Equifax offers a service called Score Simulator that allows you see what effect your future actions may have on your credit score. It also offers a suggested best action to improve your credit score. Note, however, that this service is only available to Equifax members who pay a monthly fee.