 If you have sensitive skin, always choose brown sugar over white granulated sugar or other coarse-grained sugars. Brown sugar is the softest sugar and will be the most gentle on your skin., The following oils contain ingredients that will benefit your skin:Olive oil is naturally antibacterial and will moisturize very dry skin without clogging pores.
Safflower oil is also antibacterial, and may help calm irritated skin and prevent clogged pores.
Almond oil is antibacterial, reduces the effects of UVB rays, and may improve skin tone.
Extra virgin coconut oil is a favorite amongst DIY beauty product aficionados. It is antibacterial, and full of antioxidants and free radicals that keep the skin looking young.
Avocado oil is a rich moisturizer. Unlike the other oils, it is not antibacterial.
 The amount of fruits or vegetables you add is flexible; just start small and keep them finely chopped so that they don’t overpower the mixture. The following fruits and vegetables are popular recommendations:Kiwi flesh contains antioxidants, which can help brighten your complexion, reduce fine lines, and fight other signs of ageing. Kiwi seeds will add a little boost to the exfoliating properties of the scrub.Strawberries are full of vitamin C, and will help brighten and even out your skin tone. They also contain alpha-hydroxy acid, which helps remove dead skin cells. Experts claim strawberries can also reduce oiliness, clear up acne, and reduce under-eye puffiness.Pineapple contains an enzyme that dissolves dead skin cells, making it a good choice for acne-prone skin. Studies have shown that pineapple enzymes may also have skin-whitening effects.Tomatoes contain lycopene, an antioxidant that may be useful in protecting your skin from UV damage caused by sunburn.Cucumbers have an anti-inflammatory capability that can reduce puffiness., Small plastic containers with tight-fitting lids are a good choice.
 In other words, don't make a big batch, otherwise it could go bad before you can use it all. In addition, if you add fruits or vegetables to your facial treatment, be sure to refrigerate it., Regardless of which sugar, oil, and fruit you choose, you’ll use a 2:1 sugar-to-oil ratio. How much fruit you add is more flexible and really just depends on personal preference. Experts recommend the following combinations:


Granulated white sugar, safflower oil, and kiwi to brighten your skin.Granulated white sugar, almond oil, and strawberries to brighten and tone your skin.Brown sugar, avocado oil, and cucumber to soothe, calm, and restore sensitive skin., The process for mixing your ingredients is to stir the sugar and oil in a bowl until they are just combined, then to add in the finely chopped fruit or vegetable. Next, muddle the mixture together., Be sure not to over-mix or over-muddle the sugar, oil, and fruit/vegetables, otherwise the sugar will dissolve.
 Be sure to close the lid tightly. You can store the mixture in your refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.

Apply the mixture to your face using your fingers, working in gentle circular motions.
Let it sit for 10 to 15 minutes, removing it immediately if you experience a burning sensation.
Rinse your face thoroughly with cool water and pat dry.
Follow it up with your favorite moisturizer.
Repeat up to twice a week.
