 If you are transporting agricultural commodities between states, you will need to meet certain requirements above and beyond those of intrastate carriers. While some requirements will overlap, other requirements are specific to carriers operating in multiple states. The types of permits and licenses you need will depend in part on the weight of your vehicle.


If your vehicle is less than 10,001 pounds GVWR, no special permits are needed.
If your vehicle is between 10,001 and 26,000 pounds GVWR, you need a US DOT number even if you are farm certified. In addition, you will need to register under the Unified Carrier Registration (UCR) program.
If your vehicle is over 26,000 pounds CLW, you need a US DOT number, an International Fuel Tax Agreement (IFTA) license, UCR registration, and an International Registration Plan (IRP) license. Farm-certified vehicles only need a US DOT number, UCR registration, and maybe an IFTA license., If a US DOT number is required for your interstate carrier, go online and apply through the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.If you have questions or need help, contact the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and not your local or state DOT., The UCR program is meant to register and collect fees from carriers engaged in interstate travel.You will apply with your home state. For example, in Indiana, you can apply online using their UCR Portal.In general, your state will ask for the following information in your UCR application:Your personal information (including your US DOT number).
The number of vehicles you are registering.
How much money you owe, which is usually around $76 for one or two vehicles.
 IFTA helps you report motor fuel taxes when you travel in more than one state. IFTA is not a separate tax or fee. If you are required to obtain an IFTA license, you will do so through your state's tax department. For example, in Ohio, you can download and mail in an IFTA application, which will ask for the following information:Your personal information, which will include your US DOT number.
Whether you have IFTA licenses from other states.
Whether you will be travelling outside of your home state.
How many decals you are requesting.
 The IRP is a registration agreement between every state providing you a way to pay apportionable fees based on the total distance traveled in all jurisdictions. You will register with your home state's motor carrier division. When you register, you will receive an IRP license plate that will allow you to travel outside your home state.


The fees you will have to pay will be apportioned depending on the percentage of actual distance the fleet (not individual vehicles) traveled in each state., If you are traveling between states, federal law may require you and your vehicle to meet certain safety regulations. The safety regulations you may need to abide by are found in the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21). The types of safety regulations you are required to abide by will depend on whether or not you have a "covered farm vehicle" as defined in MAP-21. If it is not a covered farm vehicle, you will most likely have to meet all the safety standards. If you have a covered farm vehicle, you may or may not be exempt from certain standards. Check with your state's motor carrier division for more information., If you are required to comply with MAP-21 safety regulations, be sure you know which ones apply to you. Depending on your situation, you may be required to meet one or more of the following safety standards:Minimum insurance requirements
A verification that all of your truck parts and accessories are in good working order (e.g., lights, brakes, windshields, tires, exhaust, bumpers, seat belts, and steering)
Carry various inspection, repair, and maintenance records
An annual truck safety check
Drug and alcohol testing
Driving hour requirements and log requirements
Trailer markings (e.g., reflectors)
Load securement

