 Now that your children have left home, you have time to do what you want to do. You may have sacrificed your interests, hobbies, or wants while raising your children, but now you can focus on what you want. Start picking up your interests again and doing things you used to do.For example, if you used to play tennis, scrapbook, or garden, you can start doing those activities again.
 If you are married, you can take this time without children to focus on your marriage. You can get to know one another again, institute date nights, and spend time doing things you both want to together. Start by spending time talking and rediscovering mutual interests.You can discuss your goals and dreams as a way to get in touch with each other’s needs. You both may have changed what you want or need after years of raising children.
Another thing you can do is work on your sex life. Start with physical intimacy, like touching or kissing, then work up to focusing on sex.
If you aren’t married, you can start dating again.
 Another thing you can do to cope when you’re suffering from empty nest syndrome is to try new activities. You may not have had time to try new things you’ve been wanting to do, but now you can take time for yourself and try new things. New activities can also help give you something to focus on so you don’t feel so upset.For example, you can try a painting class, join a gym, or take up horseback riding.
 Another way to help keep busy and fill your time when your child leaves home is to try to do something new at work. See if there is a project you can get involved with or something you can do to start working towards a promotion.Ask your boss if there are committees, projects, or tasks around the office that need to be done. See if there is a certification or program you can complete to expand your professional development.
 Even though you live in different places, you can still have a relationship with your child. Technology offers many ways for you to keep in touch in with others. You can call your child, text them, email, or video chat. It’s important to schedule visits so you can be together.You can come up with a schedule for video chats or phone calls that works with both of your schedules.
Make sure to think about your child’s independence, lives, and responsibilities when you decide to visit. Come up with an amount of visits that work for both you and your child.

