 Penetrating oil, like WD40, is intended to revitalize metal parts that have rusted. Spray metal hardware, like nuts and bolts, thoroughly with this oil to lubricate them so you can remove them more easily.


Wait about 5 to 10 minutes for the penetrating oil to seep into the narrow spaces of the hardware and break up corrosion.
If you don’t have penetrating oil on hand, you can mix together a solution that is 90% vegetable oil and 10% acetone to make your own., While applying various stubborn seat removal techniques, it’s likely you’ll jostle the seat or push against it. Depending on your situation and the kind of fasteners used to attach the seat, you may want to tape the lid and seat together in a closed or open position.


If your situation requires you to cut or drill off bolts to remove the seat, you may want to tape a cover material, like cardboard, in place to protect the porcelain of the toilet and the plastic of the seat as well., In some cases, you may be able to directly fit your socket wrench onto the nuts holding bolts in place. Some toilet designs may require a deep socket or socket extension for you to reach the nut. Turn the socket counterclockwise firmly to break loose the nut.Apply steady moderate force with your socket wrench. If the nut doesn’t loosen, intensify the force on your wrench to high for a very short interval. Do this several times until the nut loosens.
If the nut and bolt are already loose, the bolt may turn with the nut when you attempt to loosen it. Insert a screwdriver into the head of the bolt to hold it in place, then loosen the nut with your socket wrench.
 Take a broad knife, like a putty knife, and position it so it covers the porcelain of the toilet around the head of a bolt. This will protect against accidental scratches when you saw. Cut away at the hardware fastening the seat to your toilet a little bit at a time with the hack saw. This process may take a while.A regular hack saw will be able cut through unmoving toilet seat hardware, but a mini one will be easier to use in the narrow space.
Depending on the hinge of your toilet seat and the hardware connecting the seat to the toilet, you may have to cut through the hinge and the bolt or the bolt alone.
 Put on safety glasses. Insert a thin drill bit, like on that is 1/16 in (1.59 mm) thick, into your drill.Drill into the bolt with firm, steady pressure where the nut and bolt meet. Drill through the nut completely, then use increasingly larger drill bits to widen the hole. Remove the nut when it comes loose.


Save this technique as a last resort because there is a possibility that the drill bit might slip, causing damage to the porcelain or the seat.
When you’ve almost drilled through the entire nut, be very careful. Drilling into the porcelain or the seat may cause unsightly damage.
Drilled metal may have burrs or jagged edges that can cut you. Handle drilled metal with gloves.
Use pliers to try to pull the bolt off. Continue enlarging the hole as necessary and pulling at the nut with pliers until it comes free.