 Most players choose to use either a one-handed or two-handed backhand very early in their training. Some find that using two hands on their backhand leads to a more accurate and powerful shot., Start from the ready position with your feet pointing towards the net and your knees bent. You should be holding the racket with both hands while facing the net.
 Make a split step from the ready position to help you to get into position for the two-handed backhand. The split step is a small hop about an inch (2.5 cm) off the tennis court to load up in your legs. Your weight should be evenly divided over both your legs and they should feel like springs so that you can push off explosively to whichever direction you need.


Your split step should occur right before your opponent makes contact with the ball. This enables you to be ready to chase down the ball as soon as you know where it is going to hit.
 This is the first step of the two-handed backhand and is essential for perfecting your shot. From the split step take one step forward with your right foot, pivoting on your left foot and putting all your weight on your left. As you step forward your body and shoulders will begin turning sideways.


All your weight should now be on your back foot. This will help generate power and pace when you take the shot.
By turning your body sideways you can move in a sideways and upward direction with your legs while taking your shot.
Your arms should not be turning back during this step. They should stay directly in front of your chest. It is very important that your arms are not used during this step.
 The two-handed backhand grip uses a Continental grip for your dominant (right for right-handers) hand and a Semi-Western forehand grip with your non-dominant (left for left-handers) hand. The non-dominant hand will be just above your dominant hand. Ideally this should happen at the same time as you pivot and turn your shoulders.


To achieve the Continental grip use your left hand to hold your racket in front of you. Point the grip to the right and orient the string area perpendicular to the ground, facing you. Hold your right hand out as if you are shaking hands with the racket. Place the base knuckle of your index finger on the small, sloped side of the grip to the right of the flat side top, and close your hand around it squarely. The sloped side should go diagonally across your palm to point toward the heel of your palm below your pinkie.
To achieve the Semi-Western forehand grip you will place the bottom knuckle of your non-dominant hand on the bottom left slanted facet of the grip and close your hand around the grip. The same slanted face should point diagonally across your palm to point toward the heel of your palm beneath your pinkie.
 The pivot and shoulder turn begins to take the racket back but you must continue to rotate your shoulders and move your arms until the tennis racket is all the way back and your shoulders are all the way sideways.


You should be looking over your shoulders at the ball at this point.
 These three things should all occur at once. Let your racket drop down as you push off with your back foot, lifting your heel off the ground. At the same time your upper body should rotate towards the net; lifting your heel will help you to rotate your upper body.


This step is the transition from the preparation to the swing.
You have the option of taking a small step forward with your front foot at the same time but this is optional. For beginners it is a good idea to take this small step forward at the same time.
Make sure your eyes stay on the ball so that you can anticipate the ball’s location and height.
 Swing your arm and the racket to the contact point with the tennis ball. Your racket will follow a C shaped path as it travels towards the point of contact. You should make contact in front of your body.


Your upper body will rotate back towards the net as you make your swing.
 Your eyes should be totally focused on the ball as you make contact. Make sure contact is made in front of your body and at waist height to enable you to maximize power and topspin. Your strings should be flat on the back of the ball and so directly facing the net.
 After the contact point you should extend the racket in the direction you are hitting and then rotate your upper body. Continue rotating your shoulders all the way through the shot, until you bend your elbows and bring the racket up over your shoulder.


You want your follow through to be one easy motion so that the deceleration of the racket is smooth.
Your shoulders should be facing the net by the end of your follow through.
Your racket should end up over your right shoulder when you are finished following through.

