 A child under 18 may qualify for benefits if a parent is disabled or retired and drawing Social Security benefits.Likewise, a dependent grandchild may also claim a benefit.If the parent is disabled, then the benefit is up to 50% of the parent’s disability rate.If the parent is retired, then the benefit amount is 50% of the Social Security benefit the parent would receive at their full-retirement age.Note that the child does not have to be disabled him or herself for the family to receive the benefit.
After reaching 18 (or 19 if in school), the benefits will stop unless the child is actually disabled. After 18, a disabled child must meet the following criteria: (1) the disability must have started before age 22 and (2) the child must meet the definition of “disability” for adults., The government caps benefits paid to a family at around 150-180% of your benefit.Accordingly, if a worker has a benefit of $1,500, then the total amount that could be paid to the family would be around $2,250-2,700.
 An adult is considered “disabled” depending on his or her ability to work. The definition is strict: the child cannot do the work he or she did before the disability, cannot adjust to any work because of a medical condition, and must have been disabled for at least a year.Social Security pays only for “total” disability. Partial or short-term disabilities do not qualify.The disability criteria for adults is complex. Typically, a person will qualify as disabled if he or she has a listed impairment or if the disability is equivalent to a listed impairment.Additionally, Social Security may determine that the person has sufficiently limited functional capability to qualify.
You may want to meet with an attorney to figure out if your adult child qualifies as disabled for purposes of benefits past age 18. Often, arguing that a disability is “equivalent” to a listed impairment requires an attorney’s skill and experience.
 If you are retired or disabled and have a dependent child in your care, then you can sign up for benefits for the child by calling 1-800-772-1213 and requesting an appointment. You may also visit your local Social Security Office. You cannot apply online.


If you have an adult child who is disabled, then you can apply for Disability Benefits for the child by calling the same number.You may also want to complete an Adult Disability Report and bring it to your meeting.

