 Even if you feel great at the beginning, be sure to conserve your energy so that you don't get tired later. The more you run, the more comfortable you'll feel setting your own pace, knowing when you can push yourself and still have energy for later. In the first few runs, err on the safe side and conserve your energy until the end. You can always add another mile if you feel great and still want a challenge.


Music can be an effective way to keep pace. As you run, take note of songs that fit your gait comfortably, then make up a playlist when you get home full of similar songs.
 Try to place your feet on the ground for as little time as possible. A good way to remember this is to imagine pulling your plant foot backward almost as soon as it lands, really emphasizing the push-off motion to get maximum power and kicking the foot up towards your butt.To stay on the balls of your feet, land with your knee slightly bent, not locked.
Don't try and bounce up -- this just wastes energy needed to go forward. Push back with your landing foot, not down.
The last thing you want to do is land, stand you body up, then push off. Landing just behind the balls of your feet and pushing back to the toe smoothly will help avoid this., To find your stride rate, simply use a timer set to 1 minute and run, counting every time you right foot hits the ground. After a minute, double this number to find you stride rate. You should be between 175-185 strides per minute for the most efficient running. Too low and you're likely moving up and down too much with each step, too high and you need to stretch each stride out a little further.


Eight in ten runners have too big a stride, meaning their stride rate is too low. Try leaning forward slightly as you run to naturally shorten your stride.
Build up to a better stride, aiming to add 2-3 strides per minute each time you run.
Note that there will be some variability in body types -- smaller runners tend to have slightly higher stride counts., You want to keep your chin up and your shoulders back, with loose, relaxed arm and hand muscles. If anything, the only muscles you want to focus on keeping strong and tight are in your core, as this will naturally keep your posture strong and help efficiently channel energy. While you're not tensing your abs, you shouldn't be slouching or leaning back when you get tired, but straight up.


Don't neglect your abs and core while training. While not directly used or felt, they are key to running smoothly and efficiently during long distances., As soon as you're thirsty and your throat is dry, you've waited too long. The goal is to use water to stave off thirst, as this means you body has the water it needs to run efficiently. You can carry a water bottle with you, or, in certain areas, learn to plan your route around water fountains. Many running apps that use GPS will even map these out for you.


If you bring a water bottle, focus on taking lots of small sips instead of a few big gulps. This helps to avoid cramps and stay hydrated.
 Keeping your breathing calm and regular is easy if you just focus on this simple system. Inhale through the nose, exhale through the mouth. It takes some practice, but you'll feel the benefits almost instantly. The goal is to have calm, even breathing, avoiding short shallow breathes even when you're tired.


Keep your head up and chest out especially when tired -- it helps you suck in more vital oxygen.
Keep your breathing regular and patterned -- try to match it up with your stride if you're struggling., Your body is crushing calories every second you're running, and you will start to crash if you don't get some form of energy replace what is being lost. Like hydration, the goal is to stay ahead of this process instead of reacting to a sudden loss of energy. If you're running for an hour or less you shouldn't need a snack, but anything longer than this will require refueling to run effectively. Try out:


Sports beans and gels designed for running.
Half of a power or energy bar
Banana
Half of a peanut butter sandwich, This applies to both races and normal runs. You are you own best gauge of health and energy levels, so listen to your body when deciding the speed and length of the run. If your muscles are shaking, you feel dizzy/light-headed, or want to puke, move to the shade and get water immediately. If you're a little sore or breathing heavily, but can still move, try lowering the pace a bit and seeing if your energy comes back.


While setting plans and goals is smart, remember to be a little flexible. If you feel great, add another mile or so. If you're really struggling, try to get home and add more difficulty to the next run.
Being in a little pain is different than being sick or woozy. Know that, to truly get stronger, you need to learn to push yourself through some of the struggling sections.