 Reading out loud to your children is the most effective way to increase their vocabulary. The vocabulary in picture books is more extensive than the vocabulary you can introduce in regular conversation. Picture books include more uncommon wordsand demonstrates the proper context for the word.


Reading aloud will also stimulate more conversation between you and your child. It is more effective for building vocabulary than other interactions you have with your child.;
, Reading is most effective if your child is interested in the topic. You want your child to enjoy reading and see it as a fun activity.Think about your child’s interests and find books that address them.


Reading aloud is also a nurturing activity that creates a bond between you and your child.
If your child develops a love of reading when young, they are more likely to enjoy reading as they get older., As you read, describe the pictures. Ask your child what they see and what does it mean. At the end of the story, ask your child what the story meant and what they liked about the story.Allow your child to turn the pages of the book.
Try to connect parts of the story to your child. For example, if the character in the book has a bicycle, you may say, “you like to ride your bike just like ___.”
You can also provide explanations that are not in the book. If one of the characters laughs, you may say, “She was laughing because she was very happy.”

, Read books that would be difficult for your child to read independently. Discuss words that are new and interesting. Try to relate those words to your child’s life and give examples.If your child is old enough, ask them to come up with a way to use the word.
Try to use the word in your daily life or challenge your child to use the word as many times as possible during the day., If your child can read on their own, encourage them to read. Children who read have larger vocabularies than children who do not.Reading does not have to be exclusive to books. Magazines, newspapers, and any other items your child is interested in should be read as well.


Encourage your child to keep a dictionary nearby and look up words that are unfamiliar.

