 Modern email services offer a myriad of ways to maintain a clean and organized inbox. Utilizing your email provider’s filtering tools can limit the amount of time you spend scouring for a message and keep you from scrolling through a sea of spam. Gmail, Outlook, Mail.app and just about any other email service will have similar filters to help you save time.


Keep spam email and chain messages from reaching your inbox by having your email provider instantly identify and delete them.
Have your work related emails automatically sent to their own folder.
Set up groups for any category you want, like friends and family, or social media updates. This way, you can find exactly what you’re looking for in no time!, They may not seem like much, but once you get the hang of them, or even just a few of them, the time saved will add up fast. Whether you use a Windows operating system or prefer a Macintosh computer, knowing the basic keyboard shortcuts and finding a few specific to your job will help you save time at work.


Some of the most frequently used shortcuts for windows include: Ctrl+C (copy selected item), Ctrl+V (paste selected item), and Ctrl+Z (undo an action).For Mac users trying to perform the same shortcuts, replace the Ctrl key with the command key., It’s easy to get trapped in a social media tailspin, where one profile leads to another and another. There’s a lot on the web to take your attention away from the important things in life. Don’t let yourself be distracted. Set a daily limit to your social media use. Try to stick with only an hour, or 30 minutes a day. Set aside a block of time each evening, or a little bit during the work day as a break.


Consider following fewer people on Twitter, Instagram, and other social media forums. That way there’s less to consume.
Take small steps to avoid social media. Don’t use it while you’re eating, or while you’re in bed.
Encourage your friends to limit their usage, too. You’d be surprised how quickly you find other ways to stay in touch., Sitting on the couch staring at the television can be relaxing after a long day, but it’s not a productive use of time. Eliminating your TV exposure will help you save time and make the most of the time you have. On the extreme end, you can cut your cable subscription. This will save you money and free up a lot of time. Or, take smaller steps, like only watching your top one or two favorite programs each week.


Take advantage of recording technology and save time by skipping commercials during the shows you can’t live without.
Multitask as you watch. Sometimes a show doesn’t demand your full attention. Try tidying up or exercising as you take in some television.