 One bad apple really can rot the bunch because apples produce a large amount of ethylene gas as they decay. As a result, you should not store damaged apples with undamaged apples.;
, When kept at room temperature in a basket, apples can stay fresh for about two days. This is not a long time, of course, but damaged apples should be eaten within a short amount of time no matter how you store them since a partially decayed apple is likely to spoil faster.


If the apples are too damaged for human consumption, you could also consider throwing them out into the woods for deer or other wildlife to enjoy. Even if no wild animal is interested, as the apples decay, they will provide a food source for various insects and other organisms living in the dirt.
 Most modern refrigerators have a fruit drawer or crisper drawer, and if your refrigerator has a drawer like this, you should store your apples there. If not, place the apples in an uncovered plastic container near the back of the refrigerator, where it tends to be coldest.
 Aside from cold temperatures, apples also need a small amount of moisture to stay their freshest. Laying a damp paper towel over the apples provides just enough moisture, but if you do cover the apples with a wet paper towel, you need to make sure that you do not seal them in an airtight container or drawer.
 If you have a temperature control dial for your crisper drawer, set it to a temperature between 30 and 35 degrees Fahrenheit (-1.1 to 1.7 degrees Celsius). This is the ideal temperature range for apples to be stored at. Storing them in colder conditions will cause the cells to break down, leading to mushy, inedible apples, and storing them in conditions that are warmer by only 10 degrees Fahrenheit (12.2 degrees Celsius) can cause the apples to ripen twice as quickly.


If you do not have temperature control settings that allow you to control the temperature by degrees, but you do have basic settings that allow you to make the refrigerator or crisper drawer colder or warmer, place a thermometer in the drawer and adjust the settings until the thermometer shows a number within the appropriate range.
 Stored this way, apples can stay fresh for up to three weeks.

