 By federal law, you must be at least 21 years of age, not have been convicted of crimes punishable for more than 1 year, have not violated federal firearms laws, have a business location from which to sell firearms, and have applicable licenses as required by your state.


The state of Florida does not require you to obtain any state licenses or permits for clearance to sell firearms or handguns.;
, The forms include the FFL application and FFL Certificate of Compliance.


Visit the ATF website provided in the Sources section of this article to view and print copies of the FFL application and Certificate of Compliance. The links for each form will be listed on the right, below the "Necessary Materials" section.






If you do not have Internet access, obtain the forms directly from an ATF field office in your region. Contact the Miami regional field division by calling them at 305-597-4800, emailing them at MiamiDiv atf.gov, or by visiting their office at 11410 Northwest 20th Street, Suite 201, Miami, Florida, 33172.
 These cards can be obtained from your local law enforcement agency and are required for identification purposes and the background check.


Visit the nearest law enforcement office in your local area or find the nearest office by calling the headquarters for the Florida Department of Law Enforcement at 850-410-7000.
 The photographs will be used for identification purposes and will be kept on file with the ATF.


The photographs can be identical; however, they must be at least 2 inches (5.08 cm) in height and 2 inches (5.08 cm) in width.
 Application fees can be paid by check, money order, or credit card.


The application fee will cost 3000 dollars (2119 euros) if you plan on selling destructive devices such as grenades, bombs, and missiles. If you plan on selling only non-destructive devices, such as handguns, the application fee will be 200 dollars (141 euros).
 You will be required to complete the form in its entirety. The application will prompt you to enter information such as the contact information for your business, the types of firearms products you plan on selling, daily business hours, personal firearms license information, and any existing criminal history.
 This document will require you to certify that you are a lawful United States citizen.
 The materials to include in the package are the application, Certificate of Compliance, the 2 fingerprinting cards, your 2 photographs, and the fee.


Address the envelope to: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, P.O. Box 409567, Atlanta, Georgia, 30384-9567.
 After the ATF receives your application package, your information will be reviewed and a background check will be conducted. An ATF field office representative will then contact you and meet with you for an in-person interview. During the interview, the representative will verify that you understand the federal FFL laws and inspect your business to ensure it meets zoning requirements in your area.
 After the ATF representative has verified that you and your business are in compliance with federal and state laws, you will receive the FFL license within 60 days.

