 Sleep is crucial for your mental and physical health, and not getting enough can make your depression worse.When you’re in college, it can be hard to get the sleep you need. Most young adults need 7-9 hours of sleep a night to be at their healthiest.Schedule time for sleep the same way you would for studying and other obligations. Try to create a consistent schedule for when you go to bed and when you wake up.
Make sure that you have some downtime before you go to bed every night. Spend a little time doing something peaceful, like reading a book, taking a warm shower, or doing a little meditation.
Avoid using your phone or computer right before going to bed, since the light from the screen can make it more difficult for you to fall asleep.;
, Eating and drinking the right things can boost your mood, help you concentrate, and help you sleep better. It is also important to avoid foods and drinks that can aggravate symptoms of depression.Eat foods that are rich in vitamin B12 and folates, like lentils, almonds, spinach, chicken, and fish.
Make sure you are getting enough vitamin D, which is often added to milk, juices, and breakfast cereals.
Eat plenty of fish, or look for foods fortified with omega-3 fatty acids.
Avoid foods that are high in refined sugars, like sugary desserts and sodas.
Avoid drinking too much caffeine. While it can temporarily boost your energy, it can also disrupt your sleep cycle and make you feel nervous or irritable.
 While having a drink or two with your friends now and then can be a fun way to socialize and blow off steam, drinking too much alcohol can have a negative impact on your mood and your health. Excessive drinking can leave you feeling sick and tired, disrupt your sleep, and make your depression symptoms worse. It can also lead to more serious health problems, including liver disease, gastrointestinal problems, and cardiovascular disease.If you feel that your drinking is having a serious impact on your health, your relationships, or your ability to do your work, or if you are having trouble cutting back on your alcohol intake, seek medical attention from your doctor or the student health center.
 Exercise can stimulate your brain to release chemicals that boost your mood. It can also help create a sense of self-confidence and give you an enjoyable distraction from things in your life that are stressing you out.Set aside a little time every week to do some kind of physical activity. Even 30 minutes of exercise 3 days a week can help improve symptoms of depression.
Decide on a type of activity that you enjoy. Take up a casual sport that you can do with friends, spend a little time in the gym, or go for a walk or jog.
 Set aside a little time each week for fun and socializing. Taking time to enjoy yourself will both lift your mood and ultimately help you be more productive.Try scheduling an hour for dinner or just hanging out with your friends every evening.
Join a student club or organization dedicated to an activity you enjoy.
Decide on a regular time every day to play a game or watch an episode of a TV show you love.

