 This person clearly never appreciated you in all your glory in the first place -- so they're not worth your time. Not "Are they worth your time?" or "Maybe they're not worth your time," but they are 100% no-ifs-ands-or-buts-about-it not worth your time. You deserve someone who sees you, sees your value, and wants to be an active part of your life. Those that don't can hit the road.


Take a moment to concentrate on self-awareness. Look at yourself as objectively as possible. Was there something about the relationship that was safe because it was unreal? Does the guarantee that you'll never get hurt because there's zero commitment reassure you? If this even touches on the truth, this has all to do with you and nothing to do with this other person. They're just a symbol you've placed meaning onto.
 Whether you're the other (wo)man or this is just an intense crush, were you as happy as you could be with this person? Odds are you probably weren't and were longing for the relationship like the one you have in your head. How much was reality and how much of it was wishing, hoping, and projecting?


Clearly this relationship didn't meet your needs, or you wouldn't feel the need to let them go. Know that. Let it sink in. This didn't meet your needs, but another one will. The only thing is that in order to find that other one, you need to let go of this one. Well, that's what you're here for! Step one? Check.
 Life is too short not to start living now. This other person has been out living, so why don't you take a leaf out of their book and do the same? It's only fair. This doesn't mean jumping into a new relationship -- but it does mean staying social and trying your hardest to enjoy yourself.


Don't wait around in hopes things will change. You'll be waiting for an awfully, awfully long time. Generally speaking, the best way to predict future behavior is to look at past behavior. Since past behavior has led to heartbreak, why would future behavior be any different? That's right; it wouldn't.
Chances are there's a part of you that knows all these things. That knows this relationship wasn't the best for you and that sees the logic in moving on (it's why you're here, after all.) Regardless of how small that part is, give it the reigns for at least a few hours a day. Let it protect the hurting you. It knows what you need to feel better -- whether it's a wine night with the girls, a nice, long daily jog, or that vacation you've meaning to take. Whatever it is, put it in the books.
 Now that you've decided to keep your mental distance, it's imperative that you stay away in body, too. The only way the inner torment will stop is if the person isn't around. If this is controllable (they aren't a coworker, for example), do it. The process will go much, much faster.


This does not give you an excuse to stay at home instead of going to class/the gym/out with friends. However, it does give you an excuse to alter your routine. Always go to the same cafe? Find a new one. A certain gym? Go at a different time. Hell, pick up an entirely new hobby!

, If the person is in your life, they're going to ask questions. There's no use in making up some lame excuse as to why you're avoiding them -- it'll all come out in the wash eventually. Your best bet is an incredibly diplomatic version of the truth.


No one can script your situation but you. However, something to the effect of, "I need some time to myself to reevaluate what's best for me," is a line no one can refute. If they don't like it, all the more reason to walk (or run) away.
 This is not a failure on your part. This is life. It happens to everyone and you know what? You'll learn from it. You learned from the last heartache and got over it and this one will be no different. You didn't do anything wrong. At the time, whatever you did you believed was right. That's all you can do.


Wishing you did something differently, acted differently, said something differently is fruitless. You are who you are and if things didn't work out -- well, then something else was meant to. Changing yourself is an exhausting process that only results in resentment and fatigue. Beating yourself up for being you is just silly! Who else are you supposed to be?!

, It's high time for "me" time. Not only is this for your sake, but it's for the sake of all your future relationships. Without some closure and some figuring out who you are, nothing and no one will succeed. This isn't you being selfish; this is you being logical.


What do you enjoy? Come up with at least 5 things and do them in the next two weeks. Eventually, there will come a time when you've let go, but you won't notice. You'll be far too busy thinking about the life you're leading to take note. When you realize it months down the line though, it'll feel really, really good.

