 After receiving the news, many questions may arise. For example, you might wonder if the visual impairment is permanent or reversible. Take advantage of your medical provider’s presence to learn more about blindness or vision loss.Jot down notes and ask for pamphlets of frequently asked questions. If you are a loved one, take the opportunity to ask any questions you may have.
Always bring a friend or family member with you to an appointment. They can help you remember things and even take notes for you if your nerves are shaken.
It may also be advisable to seek a second opinion or conduct research to gain a better understanding of the condition. Not all your questions need to be asked when a diagnosis is made. Take time to do research, write down your questions, and make a follow-up appointment to get them answered.;
, Loss of vision is a traumatic experience for which you will likely grieve for several days, weeks, or even months after your diagnosis. You may be overcome with shock, denial, fear, or confusion as to how your life will change due to your condition. Give yourself time to properly mourn.Practice self-compassion. If you only want to lie in bed all day, give yourself the liberty to do that. Cry. Vent your frustration or anger to loved ones. Do whatever you need to cope during this upsetting time.
While a period of grief is normal, don’t allow yourself to wallow in despair for too long. Grief will happen in stages, and some days will be better than others. However, generally good moments should increase over time. If you find yourself stuck in depression, speak with a doctor.
 If you have trouble moving forward after losing your vision, there are professionals who can assist you. Vision loss is linked to serious conditions like anxiety or depression. Whether you simply need someone to talk to about your feelings, or need specific guidance related to blindness or visual impairment, you can find trained counselors who are willing to help, and who may even be able to track your recovery and make sure you are progressing. Depending on your status, you may be able to locate a counselor who is able to provide in-home services. These counselors will offer valuable support and guidance as you cope with the news and adjust to blindness or visual impairment. Ask your doctor to refer you to a counselor in your area.
The impact of having a closed loved one such as a child with vision loss may also cause emotional pain. Parents and other family may benefit from talking to a counselor, too.
 Learning to live with blindness or visual impairment requires obtaining an entirely new set of skills for doing everyday activities. You can sign up for special adjustment classes that are directed at teaching you new skills or alternative practices so that you can live as independently as you’d like.


You can locate training courses in your area by talking to your doctor or therapist. You will likely be appointed a liaison who will also provide support and guidance as you navigate the adjustment.
In addition, you can reach out to organizations that advocate for blind or visually impaired individuals like the American Foundation for the Blind or the Royal National Institute of Blind People which can connect you with local programs.You may also be able to schedule appointments with an occupational therapist who can help you with your adjustment. Talk to your medical provider or insurance company to help you locate the right occupational therapist for you.
 Another aspect of mobilizing yourself to take action after vision loss is getting a firm handle on modern technology use. Technology can be a lifesaver for people with blindness or visual impairment because it can help them stay mobile and maintain independence.


Depending on the level of visual impairment you have, you can turn to a wide selection of assistive technology devices that are specially designed for people with vision loss. Devices might include screen readers as well as braille watches and printers for the blind and magnifiers for people with low vision.
In addition, you can learn techniques to make general technology like smartphones and computers more accessible to accommodate your condition. Such tips will likely be introduced in your adjustment classes, or through occupational therapy specialized for people with visual impairment.
 If you suffer from a visual impairment that has drastically reduced your ability to see, you might benefit from a variety of commonly used low vision aids that can support your mobility and functioning. Many of these devices may have some technological aspect, too.


Low vision aids are handheld or stationary assistive devices that filter light or magnify. Examples may include telescopic glasses, magnifying glasses, and reading prisms., Your medical provider may have assigned you a special liaison professional to help you get necessary assistance you need to adjust to your new lifestyle. However, if you were not appointed a contact person, you will need to find a local community clinic for the blind or visually impaired. Such clinics can help you get access to all the resources you need such as transportation, occupational training, and support groups.


In addition, a number of charity or volunteer organizations exist to support and provide services for the blind or visually impaired. These organizations vary by geographic region, but you can locate them by reaching out to your medical provider, counselor, or an advocate at a low vision clinic., After learning of your vision loss diagnosis, you might wish to isolate yourself from others to grieve. You might suffer from a loss of self-esteem or worry how people will perceive you. Resist the urge to withdraw from your support network. Social support is one of the healthiest ways to cope with your new reality.If you have others in your household, take advantage of their presence to fulfill your natural need to connect. If you live alone, make an effort to have a meal with others or spend time with a loved one at least once a week.
Let your friends and family know when you need to talk or if you simply need a hug. You might say, “I’m feeling really sad today. Do you mind watching a movie with me?”
You may feel the urge to spend more time alone while you process and begin to recover. This is normal, but it is important to make sure that you do not isolate yourself too much.
 Support groups are an essential aspect of coping with vision loss for both blind and visually impaired individuals and their families. Others who are going through similar experiences as well as their loved ones participate in these groups to build community and share their experiences.


Making the acquaintance of others like you may help you feel less alone. You may even learn helpful strategies to adjust to your condition or function more effectively in your job, at school, at home or in your relationships.
Find support groups through your doctor, counselor, low-vision liaison, or by searching for groups online., In addition to connecting with others experiencing vision loss in support groups, it might be encouraging to locate blind or visually impaired public figures and others with notable reputations to learn about their unique trials and tribulations.


Understand that at times you will feel sorry for yourself. It is alright to want validation and seek support for your struggle, but it is also important to look at your situation as a challenge that you can readily meet with the right resources.
Keep in mind that millions of people suffer from vision loss and still lead rewarding, autonomous lives., It can be easy to get lost in grief over your vision loss and forget how fortunate you are in other ways. Perhaps you or your loved one suffers from vision loss, but has a clean bill of health otherwise. Keep things in perspective so that you are able to fully enjoy your life despite your circumstances.


It may help to start a gratitude journal. Take a moment each day to jot down a few things you are grateful for. These might include "a supportive family" or "a healthy brain and heart.", Being blind or visually impaired may cause you to give in to negative thinking. You might harshly judge yourself for relying on the help of others or view yourself as worthless. Overcome negative thinking patterns by simply choosing to reflect on the positives. Affirmations can be a powerful way to rebuild your self-esteem.Each morning as you complete your routine, you might repeat “I am worthy despite being blind/visually impaired. I will thrive,” for example. Turn to similar affirmations when you are suffering from a confidence blow or when you are faced with challenges as you adjust to your vision loss.

