 This exercise involves using your imagination to move your breath through your body. This technique will lower your stress levels and produce feelings of calm and well-being. This exercise can be done while sitting or lying down.Breathe in slowly through your nose and imagine that the breath is traveling up to the top of your head.
Then breathe out through your mouth, picturing the breath moving downward toward your spine. Repeat this circular pattern ten times.;
, This is an easy, uncomplicated relaxation method that produces results similar to meditation. This exercise will help calm your mind and relax your body. This technique is best performed in bed with your legs slightly apart and your eyes closed.Inhale deeply through your nose for a count of four, while you constrict the back of your throat so that it makes a soft sound similar to snoring.
Hold your breath for another count of four, and then exhale through your nose for a count of four, again making the soft sound. The sound itself will actually help to relax you.
Repeat this motion for a count of six, then repeat for a count of eight. Continue to repeat this exercise several times, until you are feeling relaxed.
 This exercise helps you get to sleep by redirecting your attention to something else. The benefits of this technique are heightened relaxation and a calmer mind. It will help you fall asleep faster, and sleep more deeply. You should perform this exercise while lying in bed with your eyes closed.Breathe as you normally would, while you focus on the surface of the bed below you, and how comfortable you are.
Breathe deeply into the lower part of your abdomen and release it, noticing how your breath moves as it travels into your lungs and out again.
Focus on breathing more slowly and deeply with each breath, thinking about nothing but your breathing and how your body moves with it. If you get distracted, turn your attention back to your breathing.
 This exercise will help calm you down in the event of an anxiety attack, producing a relaxed sensation similar to the effects of meditation. This exercise can be done sitting or lying down.Instead of breathing in through your nose and out through your mouth, purse your lips and take several long, deep breaths in through your mouth and release them through your nose.
Try inhaling through a straw, to help create more resistance to the flow of air.

