 A good way to determine what a story really means is to determine what the story means to you, as a reader. Every story can mean something different to other person, but oftentimes, a story that rings true to you will do the same for another person for a similar reason. For example, a work of literature in which a boy’s beloved dog gets killed may relate to you especially well if you once had a dog that was also killed, but anyone who has experienced the unexpected loss of something or someone held dear can relate to the sensation of loss.
 If you have never shared in the experiences of the protagonist, consider how others might. For instance, you may have had a peaceful childhood, but a work of literature about an adolescent struggling to grow up in a turbulent environment or broken family is usually designed to speak to the coming of age process as a whole, not just to those who have gone through similar experiences.
 Cultural connotations can refer to the setting in which a story is written, but they also refer to the setting in which the author wrote the piece in. A female writer whose works were published at a time in which women were not well received in the publishing community may have feminist undertones, even if the main plot of the story has nothing to do with feminism. An author who was exiled from his or her homeland is likely to weave a political message into the work. The author’s circumstances often tint the work of literature itself, regardless of whether or not the work is supposed to be focused on a particular circumstance.
 This relates to conflict, but goes a little deeper. Ask yourself what the protagonist’s conflict really means, and clue yourself in by drawing on classic story patterns. A boy who gets into a fight with his rival over a girl is at odds with his rival, but he is also playing into the basic pattern of the hero—the good knight, the prince, the cowboy with the white hat, the superhero—facing off against the villain—the bad knight, the sorcerer, the cowboy with the black hat, the super-villain. Adding a love interest into the battle is another common aspect of the quest.
 Imagery refers to any sensory detail in the work, including visual, auditory, olfactory, taste, and touch. An author may not mean anything much when describing the way a certain chair felt, but then again, he or she could use those details to draw emphasis on an underlying theme in the story. A "soft chair" may not mean anything, but if the protagonist has recently lost her grandfather and sits down in his old recliner, noting that it makes her feel "soft and warm," the sensory detail suddenly takes on new meaning as it indicates her present state of mind after losing her loved one.
 The tone of a work refers to the mood or atmosphere created. Word choices can indicate tone. For instance, bold, unquestioned statements can create an air of confidence or determination, while polite or diplomatic phrasing might indicate more uncertainty. Tone is also influenced by setting, subject matter, and the way that characters behave.
 Such an element can be an object, place, color, season, figure, character, or any other concrete or tangible expression. Seasons, for example, are often used to represent the passing of one's life, with spring indicating childhood and coming of age, summer representing the prime of one's life, autumn indicating maturity and growing old, and winter representing the process of dying.
 A theme is a fundamental idea addressed in a work of literature, and could also be thought of as "what the story really means." Themes are usually topics explored and fleshed out throughout multiple works of literature written by multiple writers, giving the theme universal appeal. A motif is a structure or device used to develop a work's theme. If a work is about the struggles of someone dealing with depression, that struggle could be identified as the theme. Feelings of loneliness or hopelessness that are emphasized could be considered motifs, since they serve to highlight the theme.
 Not every work of literature makes use of every literary technique, but there are many that can be used to help identify structure and meaning in a given work. Irony and foreshadowing can help set the tone, for example, while foil characters and stereotypes can support or contrast against a theme.

