 If you have a younger sibling, you can ask your parents for the chance to watch your sibling to gain experience. You can start out small, watching your sibling for an hour or two and gradually work your way up to an afternoon or evening.Demonstrate responsibility by helping your parents with sibling-related tasks, like changing diapers, putting lunch together, or playing.
If possible, start out watching a sibling before moving on to watching a stranger’s children. Doing so will give you a chance to build up your confidence and skill.
 If you have no younger siblings or are ready to move on to more babysitting jobs, ask your aunts, uncles, and cousins if you can help them with their kids. To start, you can watch them for free, but it is also reasonable to request a fee for your time and work. To show you are responsible enough to watch your family’s children, try tagging along on a shopping trip or fun outing and helping with the children with your aunt or uncle nearby first. Then, if they see you doing well, you can move on to watching children on your own.
Talk about payment beforehand to avoid any awkward mix-ups, and ask your family what they think a fair price would be.
 After your extended family, ask family friends and neighbors if they could use a babysitter. The next step in babysitting is branching out to friends of your family.


Determine what your time is worth, and firmly (but kindly) relay this information to the parents for whom you are babysitting. You can charge $7 per hour, plus an additional $2 per hour per child, for instance, or you can charge a flat fee of $8-$10.
Family friends are sure to be familiar with you, but a neighbor might not immediately be comfortable. In this case, offer to help them out for a few days with supervision. If they like how you help with supervision, you can move on to unsupervised jobs.
 Your church or community center might know of someone who needs a babysitter, so let them know you are available to work.


Churches and community groups can be great resources for people looking for babysitting or nannying jobs, as people often go to both as a way to find help. If you are not affiliated with a particular church, don’t fret; a community center or social club may be just as helpful.
 Once you have started babysitting for people you are familiar with, babysit as often as you are able. This will help you develop the skills necessary to successfully care for children, and will help you feel calmer when dealing with unexpected or new situations.If you babysit for someone and they are pleased with your work, ask to use them as a reference. If they agree, make sure you use a phone number or email address they feel comfortable being contacted through.
Include at least one reference on any flyers you give out, and any online presence you create. This will lend you an air of credibility that others might not have.

