 Many people become jewelry makers without formal training or education. About 1/3 of jewelers work independently or from home.In some cases, they make jewelry as part of a side business or hobby. In other cases, jewelry making is their full-time career. However, the costs and risks to this path can be quite large. Keep in mind that start-up costs of jewelry making include:


Business and self-employment taxes
Fees to show your wares at shows or conventions
Renting a workspace
Equipment for metalsmithing, gem-setting, etc.
Supplies (metal, beads, charms, tools, etc.)
Fees to maintain a website or collect payments online

, Work at a local jewelry store until you have enough capital and experience to start your own business. In order to succeed, you will have to understand the jewelry making business thoroughly, including fashion trends, business expenses, the time involved in making large amounts of jewelry, and sound construction techniques. It is wise for you to become independent only after you have learned the industry backwards and forwards.


If, however, you hope to make jewelry as a side business or hobby, there are fewer risks involved and you can simply jump right into making your craft.
 Jewelry design encompasses as many styles as there are tastes. It's possible to specialize in anything from baroque style jewelry to minimalist jewelry to charm bracelets to body jewelry. Perhaps you love to create vivid, colorful, 3D printed necklaces. Or perhaps you love making steampunk necklaces with octopus pendants. Or perhaps you are passionate about making eco-friendly jewelry out of recycled materials. Concentrate on the style you enjoy most and that allows you to express your creativity while still making saleable jewelry.


Though many people initially plan to become designers, some discover that they have a talent for fabricating others' designs or repairing jewelry. Be honest with yourself and select the field you enjoy most.
 There are countless types of jewelry that you could consider making yourself. Some of these can be high-cost and require specialized equipment (such as setting your own diamond rings). Others are lower-cost and can be accomplished with supplies from any art supply store (such as resin pendants). A few kinds of jewelry that are feasible for independent jewelry makers include:


Custom engagement rings
Charm bracelets
Beaded earrings, necklaces, and bracelets
Jewelry made of carved wood or other eco-friendly materials

, Depending on the type of jewelry you wish to make as well as the amount you wish to create, your supplies will vary quite widely. Some jewelry makers require microscopes and welding equipment. Others might simply require paper and a simple silver-link chain. Consider carefully the supplies you need to make the jewelry as well as the supplies you might need in order to ship your jewelry safely to clients.


If you plan to sell large amount of jewelry, you should develop a relationship with a wholesale provider of jewelry supplies such as metals, chains, gems, and beads. They can provide your supplies at a lower cost.
 Many jewelry makers advertise their creations on large websites such as Etsy or Ebay. However, it can be difficult to use web-based clients as your sole source of revenue. Consider other in-person and digital ways to advertise your wares and grow your client base. This will be an important part of your business plan as a jewelry maker.These might include:


Art fairs or conventions
Charity events
Social networking websites and events
Demonstrations or classes you might offer locally

