 Before reading this article, make sure you are familiar with basic Melee terminology such as wave dashing, teching, hitstun, and DI or "directional influence". Also note that some terms may be abbreviated:

WD = wave dash
WL = wave land
Nair = Neutral Aerial attack
Bair = Backward Aerial attack
FSmash = Forward Smash attack
UTilt = Up Tilt attack
CG = Chain Grab

, Some of the best Luigi players in the world include Abate, Eddy Mexico, Blea Gelo, LuigiKid, Ka-Master, Vist, and Vudujin. If you go to http://youtube.com and search any of these names with the keywords "SSBM" and "Luigi", then you will see lots of videos from past tournaments where they played. You can include the keyword "Fox" to find more matches against Fox players., When Fox is at low percents, you have to be very careful. He's hard to hit in the first place since his movement is so fast and versatile, and if you miss an attack, he's fast enough to come in and punish you for it. Even if you do hit him, at low enough percents, he might be able to hit you anyway before your attack animation even finishes. You have to find an attack that's fast enough to hit him in the split-second window that he isn't ready, but strong enough that he can't just shrug off the hit. All while not getting opened up by the Fox in the process. This is called the "neutral" game.
 Luigi can put out two aerials in a single short hop. To prevent the other player from catching on to your timings, use different combinations of aerials and fast falling. You can also WL after the first aerial, freeing you up to throw out a hitbox in one place and move somewhere else smoothly.

Nair comes out the fastest, is a great combo-starter, and stays out for a while as a weaker hit.
Bair comes out fast too and has a fairly short animation. It doesn't have very strong knockback growth, but its base knockback makes it a good damage builder at low percents.
Fair can cover space above your head and stuff one of Fox's aerial approaches if you do it preemptively. Another good trick is to WL off of a platform, fast fall and L-cancel Fair or Dair.
Bair has great range below your feet and also covers all the way up to Luigi's waist. It comes out later than Fair, but the entire animation is slightly shorter. If you hit someone with only the "hip" hitbox, basically Luigi's butt, the move is a meteor smash (it knocks the opponent straight downward). This means hitting someone on the ground will stun them and put them in a great position for you to combo, hitting them in the air above the stage will start a tech chase, and hitting them off the stage forces them either to meteor cancel or lose their stock. However, it's hard to hit with this hitbox consistently, people can meteor cancel, and usually when you use this move you'd rather just get the normal hitbox.
Uair hits sooner than Fair directly above you and can start a combo. However, unlike many other characters that have similar-looking Uair attacks (Falcon/Ganon, Mario/Doc), Luigi's hits only above him while the rest reach further in front and behind.
 Once they're at a high enough percentage that your moves stun them for a while (say above 10%) use a DSmash, Nair, or Uthrow to knock them up into the air., This bounces them back up and is hard for them to DI out of, because it hits them forward if they're behind you and back if they're in front, keeping them above you. You can get 3 or maybe even 4 in before their percent is too high and you have to chase them down., UTilt has a hitbox above you and is weaker than DSmash, so you can sometimes alternate between the two. Hit them with DSmash when they're on or near the ground, then UTilt when they fall back down above your head. Since the UTilt doesn't hit them as hard, they'll come back down sooner and you can DSmash them again. This means you can keep this part of the combo going a little bit longer and put on a little bit more damage before going for the finish.,,, If they DI behind you, WD back and turn around like normal but FSmash, USmash or Up-B them. If they DI in front, jump up and hit them with Fair, Dair, or Up-B., When a character is hit with a strong move and then hits a surface (floor, wall, or ceiling), they will bounce off of that surface and be stuck in a "down" animation. However, they can prevent this by pressing "L" or "R" within 20 frames (1/3 of a second) before they would hit the ground. Instead, they will enter an animation known as a "tech".

They can tech in place simply by pressing the button, or they can roll to the right or left by holding the stick in that direction when they land. When someone is down, they can also get up in place, roll to the left or right, or do a get-up attack. These roll and stand-up animations all have invincibility, but there are a few frames at the beginning and end that are not invincible, and this is when you want to hit or grab them.
 You can either try to predict where they're going to go based on their previous patterns and their position on the stage, or you can wait and see what they do and react.

Predicting, or "reading", is good because you can decide what to do sooner and get a more rewarding punish if your prediction is correct, like when you start charging up a smash attack and then release it when they end up vulnerable and in range. The downside is that if your prediction is wrong, you don't get your punish and they might be able to punish you instead.
Reacting, on the other hand, is good because they can choose any option and you can cover it without having to predict what they were going to do. The downside is that it is harder and requires more precise timing, and messing it up can get you punished even harder than just getting a wrong read.


If they roll, immediately wave dash to where they are. At a mid percent, use DSmash or UTilt to pop them back up, or grab them. Out of the grab you can either chain grab, continue to tech chase with down throw, or try setting up an edge guard.
If they tech in place, you can use the same options as covering the roll, but without wave dashing first. Just grab, DSmash or UTilt.
If they miss the tech and then roll or stand up, do the exact same thing as covering a tech
If they miss the tech and you can react fast enough, hit them with jab or a fireball. This will cause a "jab reset", which forces them to do a normal stand-up in place. Because they are locked into this option, it's much easier for you to punish it. This is a great way to set up Shoryukens at kill percent.
 When your opponent is knocked down on a platform, it is even harder for them to escape than on the ground, as long as you know how to follow up.

If they tech in place, neutral standup or roll into the edge of a platform (which makes them do the roll animation but they don't go anywhere) then you can FH and stick out a Nair. You don't have to try very hard to time this, because the Nair stays out for a long time and will hit them whenever their invincibility goes away. You can do this to getup attack as well, but you actually have to time it to avoid the attack.
In a lot of situations, you can FH Bair and it will cover tech in place and roll one way with the normal hitbox, and hit them with the reverse side of the hitbox if they roll the other way
If you make it to the platform before or just as the opponent hits the surface and chooses their tech option, then you can tech chase them the same way you would on the ground, but here they have even less room to escape. This is a great place to go for a grab. To make it to the platform faster try wave landing in place, and also experiment with timings for normal landing, "aerial interrupts" and "no-impact landings".
 Some people say edge guarding Fox is hard, because they have too many different options for how to get back to the stage. Edge guarding Fox with Luigi is not as hard as people think—and super fun, too. The key is systematically taking away all of the best options they have, forcing them to choose a bad one, and repeating the process until their stock is gone., The first question you have to ask is how far they are from the stage, and whether they still have their double jump. If they do have the jump and are close enough to the stage to make it back without using any special moves or air dodging, you either need to hit them further away before they come back, or find where they jump to and hit them there. If you knock them off so that they're near the stage but below the ledge, you can either DTilt at the ledge or run off the stage and Dair. This will hit them if they immediately try to jump back up and grab the ledge, and if they don't, you should have time to back up and prepare for their other option.

If you get them in this position with no jump, they are forced to use their Up-B to recover. You can punish this by hitting him with Dair or Bair on the way up (depending on the angle), or when they fall back down (if they go above the ledge) with FTilt, FSmash, Dair, Fair, Bair, or maybe Uair if it's the only thing that will reach. If you force them to do a high angled Up-B and put themselves in free-fall and they're at a high enough percent, you can also use USmash or Up-B to kill them off the top. DSmash (easier to land) can also kill if they're at a really high percent, but Up-B (hardest to land) can kill them as low as 60% on some stages.
If they're at a medium distance from the stage, far enough that they can't make it back just by jumping, then they will have to use an Up-B or Side-B to get back on stage. Up-B goes further and can be done at a chosen angle, while Side-B is completely horizontal and shorter but is faster and therefore harder to react to. Both animations have the ability to grab the ledge, but Up-B can only grab if Fox is moving downward.
If they start an up-b too close to the stage, it can be very easy for you to jump or slide off the stage and hit him in the startup animation. Otherwise, you have to hit them out of their angle. If they side-B near you when you are already offstage, then you can hit them in the startup of that, but it's easier to hit them in the middle or end of it.
 This makes it so that they can't choose to grab the ledge out of side-b or up-b unless you release the ledge before they get to it.

If Fox is high in the air above the stage, he can choose to Up-B down diagonally to the ledge, straight horizontally onto the stage, or at a high angle so he can fall back down either onto the stage or a platform or back to the ledge.
 This way, if they go to the ledge, you'll still be holding it and they'll miss.

If they go horizontal, you can WD to follow them and hit them. If they're at a low or mid percent, you can combo them some more to build up damage before trying to hit them off again; otherwise, just try to hit them off the stage again or kill off the top. Fair has a great hitbox above Luigi's head, and Uair works if Fair won't reach. Bair has a good extended hitbox for if they're behind you and should knock them back off if their percent is high enough. At some heights you can jump above them and Dair. If they actually do land on the ground, there's still some landing lag during which you can grab, jab or Ftilt. You can do the same thing if he does a side-b, you just have to react faster.
If you can tell he's doing side-b, and therefore can't angle down to the ledge, instead of doing ledge stand you can do a ledge dash to get on stage faster to catch him. He then might be able to shorten the side-b and then fall down to the ledge, so try to mix it up and predict if he'll go for this.
If he goes high, then you should have plenty of time to hit him while he's falling, but instead of WDing toward the middle of the stage to follow, you should just jump straight up. If he's really high up and double jumping from the ground won't work, jump and WL on a platform and then Double jump from there to get him.


From this position, Fox can sometimes grab the ledge by doing a horizontal Up-b or Side-b, or angle upward, but the downward angle is no longer available. Both a horizontal angle and a slightly up angle can be interrupted by a ledge hop Bair or Uair (depending on the angle).
, Then use a ledge hop aerial to hit him out if he's about to make it onto the stage. Grabbing the ledge and landing on stage are his only options, so you take away the ledge option first then stop him from making it back on stage.

You can sometimes cover these angles by doing a fast fall from ledge-double jump Bair or even releasing the ledge and Bairing without double jumping first. This is for if he's slightly closer.
If they aim high and try to fall back down to ledge, just grab the ledge again and hold it.
If they aim high and try to fall down onto the stage, but aren't close enough to make it to a platform, then stand at the ledge and hit them back off the stage.

