 Photos from your last camping trip can showcase your adventures, or photos from your child’s first year can be a decoration for a first birthday party. You might also choose an inspirational theme, including pictures of strong women, for example.
 Some options are jewelry boxes, storage boxes, table tops, pen holders and so on. Take into account how many pictures you have to work with; making a large collage will require lots of pictures., , These can come from just about any printed material, from magazines, newspapers, old books, or postcards. Even fabric can be used in collages. If you are doing a photo collage, you should select the best photos that represent the event or convey the theme you’re going for. Depending on how large your collage is, you may need to choose 10-20 pictures, or you may need 50 pictures or more.


Consider how large you want your pictures to be in your final collage. The pictures do not need to be the same size, nor do they need to be the same shape. In fact, a range of sizes and shapes will give more dimension to your collage and make it more interesting to the eye. Think about if you want a certain picture to dominate the collage and have subordinate pictures surrounding it, for example.
You don’t need to always choose pictures of people. Adding in pictures of details (a bridge or road, a plate of cookies, a deck of cards from a poker game) can add dimension to your collage. These add to the overall sense you’re trying to convey in your collage. Because you are creating a collage of many pictures, you can afford to include some background or detail pictures.
 Your collage will look better if you have high quality images with sharp resolution (at least 300 dpi; 600 dpi for larger photos).
 Have on hand the following supplies to keep you focused on the artistry of your collage: scissors, X-acto knife, glue or other adhesive, paintbrush, pencil, plain paper, and your pictures.
 Start deciding how you want to place your pictures. What parts of the pictures do you want to include or leave out? Be sure to leave room for a title or name if you want to include that (for example, you might put a title such as “Sage’s First Birthday”). Keep an eye on the colors: are you grouping all the blue-toned photos together? Do you have a big spot of brown-toned photos? Spread the photos out to balance the color across the entire collage. Or, you might want only blue-toned photos in the collage so that it matches the room for which you’re making the collage. Test out different arrangements, patterns, and color schemes.
 Once you have a general sense about where you want the pictures to go, you can start trimming them to fit better. Particularly for pictures that will go along the edge of your collage, you will need to trim them sharply with an X-Acto knife or paper cutter to get a smooth, straight edge.
 Use Mod Podge or another strong craft adhesive. Some glues will not last as long or may discolor the pictures over time. Use an archival quality or glue if you want your decoupage collage to last, or if you are giving it as a gift. Paint on the glue with a paintbrush to ensure complete and smooth coating. Press the picture down onto the backing sheet. Use a credit card to smooth out any air bubbles. Dab a bit more glue or other adhesive at the corners to ensure they stick fully to the paper.


Use stickers, glitter, beads, jewels, or other materials to decorate the object. You can also write on it with markers, pens or paints.
 Apply a coating over the top of the pictures to smooth them all down and to seal them. Use Mod Podge or similar coating to protect the pictures and to smooth down any rogue peeling corners. Alternately, use melted wax to coat the pictures. To melt the wax, choose a container you don’t mind ruining (tin cans work well for this) and heat on the stove. Be very careful! Then paint the wax over the pictures. A thicker wax coating will give a cloudy look to the pictures. Buff the wax with a cloth to give it a bit of a shine.

