


Airlines, including small, commuter airlines will not hire you if you do not have a high school diploma.;
,


Flight crew schedulers spend the majority of their time at work on computers. Good typing skills are essential for obtaining a job as a flight crew scheduler.
Many airlines rely on computerized word processing, spreadsheet and database programs when scheduling flight crews. Expert knowledge in these types of programs is crucial to success as a flight crew scheduler.



The FAA has very strict rules and regulations regarding flight crew requirements and flying times. It is the responsibility of the flight crew scheduler to assess crew coverage and adhere to these rules.
Universities and colleges offer aviation courses that would include information on FAA regulations.



Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Secureflight regulations can be found at the TSA website.
Some airlines require the flight crew scheduler to also assist with the TSA SecureFlight procedure, which is a policy requiring all passengers to provide photo identification so that it may be checked against watch lists before a boarding pass is issued. Although not all airlines include this under the duties of the flight crew scheduler, knowing the regulations could be beneficial should the job description change.



Flight crew schedulers must be able to communicate with flight crews to be sure all regulations are met and all flights have adequate crew members.
Many local community colleges offer courses in communication that will help you develop the appropriate skills to become a successful flight crew scheduler.
In addition, phone skills are a necessity as much of the work done by the flight crew scheduler is by telephone. Being able to demonstrate that you have proper phone communication skills is important to getting a job as a scheduler with an airline.



Airlines are required to keep meticulous records, requiring the flight crew scheduler to do so as well. The flight crew scheduler is responsible for efficiently scheduling pilots and flight attendants, so you will need to show the airline that you will be able to keep good documentation of that information.
Local community schools offer courses in organization and record-keeping, although specific records required for flight crew schedulers will be best learned on the job.

