 Firefox is supported by a number of Windows operating systems, including Windows XP SP2, Windows Server 2003 SP1, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8 and Windows 10. It's also supported by any Mac operating system ranging from Mac OS X 10.6 to Mac OS X 10.11.Windows users are recommended to use a system with a Pentium 4 (or more recent) processor supporting SSE2, 512MB of RAM and 200MB of hard drive space.
Mac users are recommended to use a system with an Intel x86 processor, 512 MB of RAM and 200 MB hard drive space.;
, You can use any browser (including Internet Explorer, Chrome or Safari) to do this. If you're using an older version of Firefox that you wish to update, see the bulleted instructions below.Firefox should automatically update itself to the latest version, but you can also do so manually. Begin by clicking Firefox on the menu bar and then select About Firefox.
Once the About Firefox window opens, the program will automatically detect and download updates. Simply select "Restart Firefox to Update" when they're ready to install.
 This downloads Firefox's installer, and the page will tell you which version of Firefox is best for your system.
 Internet Explorer users need simply click the Run button, but other browsers may require you to save the installer to your computer before opening it. Windows users will then see a window appear and should click Install to complete the process.


Mac users will discover an opened Finder window once the download has been completed. Simply drag the Firefox app to the Applications icon to its right.
If the Finder window doesn't appear automatically, you may need to click Firefox.dmg file in your Downloads. Then drag the app into Applications as explained above.
Upon placing the app in Applications, hold Ctrl while clicking the window at the same time. Then click Eject Firefox from the menu that appears.
You can also drag the Firefox app from your Applications folder to the dock at the bottom of your screen, allowing for more immediate access.
 When you run Firefox for the first time, you will be given the choice to make Firefox your default browser. Click Yes if you want Firefox to automatically serve as your browser. Note that when Mac users first open Firefox, a prompt will appear inquiring about whether you in fact wish to open it. Click Open.
 Firefox should automatically give you the option to import your Favorites, History, or other data from Internet Explorer. This can make your transition from another browser to Firefox as smooth as possible.


To import Bookmarks and other information from Chrome, Safari or another browser, begin by selecting the Bookmarks icon from the toolbar. It's right next to the Star icon and looks like a clipboard.
Then select Show All Bookmarks and click on "Import and Backup" from the Library menu. Choose "Import Data from Another Browser..."
An Import Wizard window will appear, allowing you to select the browser from which you wish to import data. Select that browser and click Continue.
You will then have the option of selecting which data you wish to import, potentially checking the boxes for Cookies, Browsing History and/or Bookmarks. Once selected, click Continue. To complete the process, click on Done.
 Simply click on the magnifying glass icon next to the Search box on the toolbar and then click on Change Search Setting from the menu that appears. You'll then see a dropdown menu below Default Search Engine, allowing you to select which search engine is used when browsing.This first step isn't essential. It's simply a logical starting point for any users that prefer using a specific search engine.
Firefox is automatically equipped to accommodate a number of search engines, including Google, Yahoo, Bing, Amazon.com, DuckDuckGo, eBay, Twitter or Wikipedia (en).
 Your default search engine will display potential results as you type. These results are influenced by a combination of popular queries and searches you've previously performed.You may opt to prevent the display of search suggestions. Click on the magnifying glass icon next to the Search box on the toolbar and then click on Change Search Setting from the menu that appears. Then uncheck the box next to "Provide search suggestions."
If you change your mind and want the suggestions to appear, simply recheck that same box.
 As is the case with most browsers, simply tap ⏎ Return once you've typed the word or phrase for which you wish to search.
 As you begin typing in the address bar, Firefox will suggest pages based on your browsing history and bookmarked pages. If and when your desired destination appears, simply click on it. You can also perform searches from the address bar instead of using the smaller search bar.
 This is the page that first appears when you open Firefox or click the toolbar's Home icon. To change your home page from Firefox's default option, begin by visiting the page you wish to select. Then drag that page's tab to the Home icon and click Yes when prompted., This allows you to easily navigate to your favorite pages by accessing your bookmarks. Upon visiting one of your favorite pages, simply click the toolbar's Star icon—at which point it will turn blue to indicate the page has been bookmarked.


Bookmarked pages will initially appear in under Unsorted Bookmarks. You can find these by clicking on the toolbar's Bookmarks icon (that looks like a clipboard).
Clicking on the Bookmarks icon will also display options like Recently Bookmarked pages and allow you to further organize your bookmarks or—if you wish—select View Bookmarks Sidebar in order to more readily access your saved pages.
 Don't want your browsing information saved on your computer? Begin by clicking the menu button with three horizontal lines on the far righthand side of the toolbar. Then click on New Private Window button on the menu that appears. Note that you can also use this same menu to find shortcuts to opening a new (ordinary) window, printing from a page, copying and pasting, accessing your history, going into full-screen mode or performing other functions.
 This allows you to more easily access any number of functions that you want at your fingertips. Click on the menu button with three horizontal lines on the far righthand side of the toolbar and then select the Customize button at the bottom of the menu that appears. A customization tab will show up and allow you drag and drop your preferred items into either the menu or toolbar. When finished, select the Exit Customize button at the bottom of the menu.
 Autofill is Firefox's default function that displays a dropdown menu of information (from history it's memorized) when you're filling out forms (e.g. name, address, etc.). There are several ways you can adjust settings for autofill.To delete a specific form entry from Firefox's history, click on the form field in question and press ↓. Then highlight the entry you want to delete and press ⇧ Shift+Del.
To delete all of your form history, begin by clicking on the menu button with three horizontal lines. Then click History and "Clear Recent History..." To clear all form history, select Everything rather than a specific time range. Then select the arrow next to Details and ensure there's a check next to Form & Search History. Finally, click Clear Now and then close the window.
If you don't want Firefox to store your form data in the first place, click on the menu button with three horizontal lines and then select Preferences. Next, click on the Privacy option. You'll see a dropdown menu next to "Firefox will," and you should select "Use custom settings for history." Then remove the check from "Remember search and form history," and close Preferences. The changes will be saved automatically.

