 You may be shy in certain situations and more comfortable speaking in others. Choose an area where you would like to improve. Do you want to be more talkative at work? Would you like to talk to new people? Do you disappear in group conversations?


For example, If you were trying to speak more at work, a goal may be to give your opinion in a meeting or make small talk with 2 coworkers every day.
 There are many thought patterns that can cause you to become shy and uncomfortable in social settings. Although these thoughts are not the truth, they can make you feel insecure and less confident. Common thoughts include:You are weird and/or unlikeable.
People will constantly judge you.
People will reject you if you make a mistake.
You are defined by what other people think of you.
Being rejected is the worst thing that can happen to you.
Your opinions are not important.
You have to say the right thing every time.
 As a shy person, you probably spend a lot of time in your own head. You have many thoughts that you do not share with other people, and you are used to being silent. You must train your brain to actually say your thoughts out loud.Whenever you are completely alone (e.g. in the shower, your room, in the car) say every thought that comes to your mind.
Talk to yourself out loud for at least 5 minutes every day.
It will feel weird at first, but you will get used to it the more you do it.
 You may be shy because you are afraid of rejection or looking silly or dumb in certain situations. You cannot overcome your fears overnight. It will take time and practice. Set an overall goal and then take small steps to reach it. Start with the least stressful steps and work your way up.For example, if you are afraid of talking to new people in a group setting, here are the steps you could take:


Smile and make eye contact with a few people.
Ask someone a question such as, "How did you hear about this event?" or "Have you been here before?"
Find an approachable group of people and then join the group. Listen to the conversation and make a few comments if you want to.
Join a group again, but join in the conversation this time.
Do not move to the next step until you have had a positive experience in the previous one. For example, you would not ask someone a question until you have smiled at a few people and received a smile back.
 Shy people tend to do the same activities a lot and hang out with the same group of people. Put yourself in new situations to get out of your comfort zone. One of the best ways to do this is to volunteer or join a club that you are interested in.If you volunteer or join some type of club, you will already have something in common with the other people. It will be easier for you to talk to them.
Trying new things will also give you new topics you can discuss with other people.
 You will not go from being shy to talkative overnight. It is important that you have realistic expectations and be kind to yourself. Just try to make progress each day.If you smiled at one person on Monday, then try to smile at 2 people on Tuesday. If you are consistent, you will make improvements.


You may make a mistake or feel silly sometimes. Try not to be too hard on yourself. Everyone makes mistakes.
Keep in mind that some people may not have time to speak with you or they could just be rude. Do not take it personally if you are not successful.