 Most people cherish gifts if they are hand made because they know you invested time making them; they feel you were thinking of them throughout the entire project. They can lose or break their store-bought gifts, but tend to be more careful with the sentimental things; they also remember who the gift was from.;
, Inspiration can come from anywhere. Watch the person you are making the gift for. See what they need, find out if anything is broken, listen to what they say. Chances are they will tell you what they want.


Remember, you don't have to be original. You can find ideas on Pinterest and other similar web sites. Pinterest, in particular, is a great website to use because you can find many do-it-yourself ideas, and it is free!

, If you are making a gift, you should not wait until the last minute, it will wind up being a mess.
 Choose their favorite charity and make a donation to it, and give them a card with a certificate or other form of recognition in it.


You might also consider purchasing a gift that keeps on giving, such as a goat, cow, water, etc. for a poor family in another country or place. Many charities offer this service. It's a nice way to make a donation and have something to give to the recipient in whose name you purchased it.
 Arrange a vacation stay somewhere instead of giving gifts for Christmas. Spend some time at the beach, in the snow, in Mexico, or wherever else you think your family or friends would like to go.
 Organize a year's supply of cleaning, organic food delivery or snow and yard clearing for the recipient. These aren't "gifts" in the traditional sense but they're extremely useful services that will keep on giving throughout the coming year.
 Give them an experience that they might not otherwise dare to try or might not be able to afford. This could be anything from art and craft to adventure sports and travel.
 Offer to spend more time with people than you have been. If you've been really busy, make a deal to be around a bit more, then keep that promise! Your time is far more precious than any gift you could possibly give.

