 Choose a comfortable top that gives you maximum freedom of movement. Consider long sleeves for warmth or to protect you from the sun when you’re climbing outdoors. If it’s really hot, you might prefer a tank top or short sleeves., Long pants will protect your knees from scratches and abrasions. This is especially important if you’re climbing in a crack, where your knees will constantly be against the rock. Find loose, comfortable pants.Pants can get in the way of footwork so don’t get them too long or too loose.
Roll up long pants around your feet to be safe.
 Find a good, loose, comfortable pair of shorts, capris, or three-quarter-length pants for hotter days or if you prefer the freedom of movement they provide. Capris and three-quarter-length pants will keep you cooler than long pants while still protecting your knees.


Wear longer shorts. Your harness will go around your thighs. Longer shorts can protect your thighs from chafing and irritation from the harness.
 Synthetic materials will wick away sweat and keep you dry. You’ll stay cooler in the heat and warmer in the cold when your clothes are dry. Cotton can stand up better to snags from rocks and will hold up for a long time, but it will soak up sweat, get heavy, and take longer to dry.


Some go-to synthetic fibers include Tencel, Gore-Tex, nylon, and polypropylene., Wear light-colored clothes on hot days. Light colors will reflect light and heat, keeping you cooler than dark colors. You’ll also be more visible in lighter colors, which can make you safer.
 Dress in layers in cold weather. Thin layers are better than one heavy layer because heat will stay trapped between layers. You can remove layers as your body or the day heats up. You can also add layers if the day gets colder.Start with a warm base layer in synthetic material that will wick away sweat.
Add an insulating layer for added warmth.
Top it off with a layer that will protect you from the elements.
Make sure your clothes are loose enough to give you a maximum range of motion.

