 Traditionally, a tea party is held anytime in the afternoon. It is typically held around noon (11:30 AM to 12:30 PM), or afternoon (3:00 PM to 4:00 PM). Really, anytime is good for a tea party. A tea party is even okay late at night after dinner.


Consider your guest’s schedules when planning a tea party.
It may be difficult to have a party during the afternoon during the week when people are working. A weekend would be ideal if you plan to have it in the afternoon.;
, You can send handwritten invitations two weeks in advance. If you don’t want to send an invitation, simply call them on the phone, or send an email to your guests. Try to keep the guest list to around eight people. Tea parties are supposed to be cozy, so the tea party host can easily mingle with each of her special guests.


It is, of course, okay to invite more than eight people. Just make sure to have enough tea and snacks available.
You can ask your guests to bring items, like extra tea or desserts.
 You will need a teapot, cups, and saucers in order to serve tea to your guests. Buy a tea strainer and use a small dish to collect used tea leaves. You can also serve a pitcher of milk, lemon slices, honey and sugar. Make sure you have enough small plates, napkins, and utensils if you are serving food.


It will also be helpful and decorative to set out tablecloths. White linen or lace tablecloths are traditional, but you can also purchase disposable tablecloths if you want to make it easier to clean.
 There are many different kinds of tea that you can serve, but you don’t have to serve more than two or three varieties. Some varieties include: black tea, white tea, green tea, oolong tea and blended teas. You can ask your guests what they would prefer before they arrive or you can just buy whatever you think they might like.


You can serve iced tea if you’re having the tea party during a warm part of the year.
You can also buy drinks life coffee and lemonade for those that don’t like tea.
 Look up tea sandwiches, scone, and pastry recipes online or in your favorite recipe book. You can also choose to purchase the food instead of making it yourself. You will want to serve something light, like cucumber sandwiches, but you also want to serve something sweet, like cranberry scones or fruitcake. You can also serve things like teacakes and buns.Some common types of sandwiches served as tea parties are salmon club, crab, smoked salmon and avocado, and carrot and raisin.
A few classic scone flavors are lemon drizzle, walnut, and cherry.
Cookies and cakes are also nice to have out after sandwiches are served.
Put jams out to pair with the scones. Strawberry, rhubarb and ginger, and jumbleberry are some options for jam flavors.
 Cover a large table with a white linen tablecloth, or any other tablecloth of your choice. Place the tea at one end of the table and make sure to leave plenty of room for yourself. As the host, you will be serving the guests their tea. Place the lemon, milk, honey, and sugar next to the tea, and the trays for food at the other end of the table. It is normal at tea parties for the guests to serve the food themselves.


You should set out tea pots and tea cups for the tea.
Set out trays and cake stands for the food. You should also have plates and cutlery available to either be picked up next to the food, or placed at the tables.
Place napkins, doilies, and name signs out if you want people to sit in certain places.
 Begin boiling the water and setting out the food about ten minutes before guest are scheduled to arrive. When the kettle is whistling, pour the water into the teapot and take the teapot to the table. You can also choose to set out a hot water dispenser next to a tray of tea bags if you want the guests to make the tea themselves.


Set out coffee or any other drinks you anticipate your guests may want.
Take this time to look around the room one more time to make sure everything is ready.
 Wear nice clothing similar to what you would wear to church or to a casual wedding. Tea parties are casual affairs, but don't be afraid to get a bit dressier than you would for a normal gathering with friends. Dress up in elaborate hats and gloves if you are having a “traditional British” themed party.


You can suggest a dress code in your invitations if you wish for your guests to dress a certain way.
 Individually greet each of your guests. Greet them politely with a handshake, or with a hug or kisses if you know them well. Take whatever they may have brought and place it on the table for them. Then, show them to their seat if you have set places, or show them where they can choose to sit if you have not.You may not be available to greet each person as they walk in. If you can’t, greet them as soon as you’re available.
 Once all or most of you guests have arrived, begin to serve the tea. Individually fill the first tea cups and pass them out or serve them to each person. After that, you can leave them the option of refilling for themselves. You can also choose to have the guests serve everything for themselves if you want to have a more casual party.


Make sure anything they would need with the tea, like honey, sugar, and milk is out on the table.

