 If your iPod is displaying a folder icon for the error, then it is having difficulties accessing the hard drive. Oftentimes, this is caused by an ill-fitting hard drive. Luckily, securing the drive is fairly straight-forward.


All versions of the iPod Touch, iPod Shuffle, and iPod Nano use flash memory instead of a traditional hard drive. This means there are no moving parts that can fail or connections that can become severed. There is no practical way to secure or replace an iPod Touch hard drive, as the flash memory unit is built into the circuitry.
 Make sure that the iPod is turned off and locked with the Hold switch toggled on before opening your iPod. This will ensure that you don't accidentally turn it on while working on it.
 It is recommended that you use a specially-designed opening tool to pry the back off, but you can also use a thin flathead screwdriver. If you use a screwdriver, you run the risk of scratching the case.


Some guides recommend a sturdy plastic guitar pick as a good substitute tool.
Insert the tool into the small crack between the metal and plastic parts of the case.
Work the opening tool around the edge, gently prying the back off the iPod.
Press the tabs inside the shell using your tool to help release the casing.
When the case is open, don't force the two halves apart, as there is a small ribbon cable attaching the front to the logic board.
 The large, rectangular metal object in your iPod is the hard drive. Check the cables connecting the hard drive to the rest of the circuitry to make sure that nothing has come loose.


Gently lift the hard drive out of it's housing to reveal the connector cable underneath. It is usually connected to the logic board with black tape. Remove the tape and press the connector firmly into the board. Replace the tape and the gently replace the hard drive. This loose cable is the source of a significant number of hard drive problems., This will create a square that will be thick enough to apply pressure onto the hard drive. If you don't have a business card handy, cutting a square out of a cardboard bar coaster will work as well.
 Center the folded business card on the hard drive, taking care not to disrupt any of the cables.
 With the card in place, push the backing onto the iPod. Push it in with care, and ensure that all of the tabs click back into place.
 After you replace the backing on the iPod, you will likely need to restore it in order to ensure that nothing corrupt remains. See the first section of this article for detailed instructions.


If you are still receiving hard disk errors or hear a clicking sound, then your hard drive most likely needs to be replaced. See the next section for detailed instructions.

