 Bring home some sea shells from your next beach vacation or purchase them at a home decorating store. You could use sea shells to make a variety of decorations such as a glass jar with sea shells, a picture frame or a candle holder.Try creating a glass jar with sea shells. Collect some of your favorite shells and arrange them in a glass jar. Place the glass jar on a mantle place or on top of a shelf. They will remind you of the relaxing smells and sounds of your beach vacation.;
, You can find beautiful furniture made from reclaimed wood. Wood previously used in barns, houses or other architecture is used to make chairs and tables. You can find reclaimed wood chairs and tables at design stores, antique shops or online., You could buy unfinished chairs, tables or other wooden furniture and then apply your own finish. You can find unfinished wooden furniture online or at wholesale shops. Apply natural stains such as linseed oil or paint it to match your color scheme.You can find unfinished wood furniture at online retailers and some hardware stores. Whereas some retailers are focused on more contemporary designs, other retailers sell very traditional designs. You can also piece together the parts you need by going to specialty retailers for table legs or other furniture components, which you would then assemble yourself., Search for driftwood the next time you are close to a beach or lake. When you find a nice piece of driftwood, you can cut it to size and then place it on your coffee table to remind yourself of the place you visited.


If it is covered in dirt or moss, you may need to clean it.
You could wrap twinkle lights around the branches during the holidays.
 You could find or purchase some stones and place them in a decorative bowl. You can purchase stones from a home living store or a precious stones shop. If you go on vacation to a rocky beach, you could collect your own stones. Arrange your stones in a small bowl and place it on your dining room table., Wood flooring is a great option for adding natural elements to your home, especially if you are in the process of renovating. Choose from pine, oak or other hardwood flooring options. You could also add section of wood flooring to a small area of your house.Solid hardwood, engineered hardwood and prefinished hardwood are common options., If you have brick walls, consider exposing them so that you get to see the natural décor of brick. Brick is made from clay, mud and water, which is fired at high temperatures. It has a nice texture and can give a room a very natural feel. You could make an accent wall with exposed brick and then paint the other walls in your house.If you cannot alter the walls in your home, you could make a brick decoration. For instance, you could purchase a few bricks and stack them in front of a wall or use them to make a bookshelf., Install a slate water wall in one of your rooms to add the soothing feel of a waterfall to your home. If a slate water wall sounds too pricey, consider placing a small water fountain on your deck or on your living room table. You can find water fountains in a variety of sizes and shapes.You can find water fountains at home décor, online retailers and some larger hardware stores.
Indoor water fixtures range from approximately $200 to $2500.
There are many different types of fountains such as tabletop fountains, fountains that sit on the floor and water fixtures that hang on a wall.