 If you are building an animal cell for a science fair or as part of a homework project, you will have to know what the rules and expectations are. There is a wide variety of animal cell models you can build, and you want to do the best job you can. Be sure that you are absolutely clear about what is expected of you. Some key questions to ask yourself (or your teacher) include:


Are you supposed to come up with your own design for an animal cell, or are you supposed to follow your teacher's instructions?
Do the cells have to be edible or non-edible?
Which components of an animal cell must be included?
How large must the cell model be?
When must the cell model be completed?
Must the cell model be 3D?
;
, One of the most important parts of an animal cell model is correctly representing each of the parts of a cell. Remember that animal cells and plant cells look very different from one another: they have different parts, and animal cells are not as symmetrical as plant cells are.Be sure that you are familiar with the individual components of a cell, including their function, where in the cell they are located, and what they look like. All of this will help make your model more accurate. The parts of an animal cell you might represent include:


Nucleolus. This is an organelle where RNA is produced. It is contained within the cell's nucleus.It is usually a slightly darker color than the nucleus.Nucleus. The nucleus is in the center of the cell. DNA is contained here, and the nucleus also governs protein synthesis.Nuclear membrane. This is a thin membrane surrounding the nucleus.Centrosomes. These help create microtubules and are located just outside the nucleus.Cytoplasm. This substance is contained by the cell outside of the nucleus and within the cell membrane. It contains the other organelles of the cell that govern cell function, and it has a jellylike consistency.Lysosomes. These organelles digest nutrients, and they are round in shape.Ribosomes. Ribosomes are very small and grain like in appearance. They aid protein synthesis.Golgi bodies. These look like a stack of flat circles, and they help construct membranes for other organelles.Vacuoles. These are asymmetrical sacs filled with fluid and surrounded by a membrane. They are used to store waste material.Endoplasmic reticulum. These are a set of connected, folded tubes within the cell, used to transport material from one part of the cell to another. Endoplasmic reticulum that is covered with ribosomes is referred to as rough endoplasmic reticulum and tubes that are not covered with ribosomes are smooth endoplasmic reticulum. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum branches off from rough endoplasmic reticulum.
Mitochondria. Mitochondria convert glucose into energy for the cell.They can be round or rod-shaped.Cell membrane. The cell membrane is the thin outside barrier of the cell, made out of protein and fat.It allows certain materials though while keeping other organic materials safely within the cell., If you don't have a worksheet labeling the parts of a cell and their appearance, you should draw one yourself. You will need a thorough and complete map of an animal cell to help you plan, design, and execute your model. Be sure that the map is large enough for you to label each cell component clearly and accurately. Keep this diagram with you at all times so that you can be sure that your cell model is correct.
 Depending on the type of model you build, you might require a lot of time to create and assemble your model. For example, clay has to harden, gelatin must be given time to set, and you might have to go shopping for extra materials. Give yourself plenty of time to plan out and construct the best possible cell model you can.

