 Because deaf or hard of hearing teens tend to look like any other teen, it may be hard for others to identify your needs at first glance. A part of gaining a sense of autonomy comes from advocating for yourself and letting others know how they can help.For example, you might communicate your hearing loss in your preferred way (e.g. speech, text or signing). Then, explain your needs. For example, you might say, “Hi, my name is Beth. I am deaf. Can you please provide closed captioning so that I can enjoy the movie?”, As you get older a part of gaining independence is to take an active role in your health and well-being. Stop depending on your parents to remember to replace your hearing aid batteries or schedule audiology appointments. You can exercise autonomy by doing these things for yourself., One of the most exciting, and often overwhelming, periods of a teenager’s life is readying themselves for college. You are probably just as thrilled about transitioning into the next phase of your life. As you think about post-secondary plans, be sure to consider options that best suit your circumstances.Research colleges and plan visits. Stop by their disabilities center to learn about any accommodations they provide.
Of course, you’ll also want to weigh in on whether an institution fits your financial budget and choice of major.
 Your local disabilities office, and eventually your college career resource center, can help you locate jobs that align with your hearing loss. In fact, there are many occupations in which deaf or hard of hearing people can be particularly skilled, such as science or the performing arts. Clarify your interests and find out how to progress towards the job or career you desire., If you feel lonely, unhappy or stressed, you must be willing to seek out help. Living with hearing loss can pose many challenges, but you can get assistance from professional counselors.

Ask your parent, community advocate, or family doctor to help you locate a counselor who is trained to work with deaf people.This professional can work with you to identify your challenges and come up with feasible solutions that help you feel better about life.

