 If you are not eligible to apply for a pardon through a Certificate of Rehabilitation, you can apply by completing an application form. This form is available from the website of the Office of the Governor.You can also obtain a copy of the application form by writing to Governor’s Office, State Capitol, Attn: Legal Affairs, Sacramento, CA 95814., You will need to provide your name and contact information, information about your convictions and the dates of all convictions and sentences, and a written statement describing why you believe the governor should grant your pardon., This form is available along with the application form. You need to complete this form, with your name and a description of your conviction. This form will provide notice to the District Attorney that you are applying for a pardon. Mail the form to the District Attorney for each county in which you were convicted., After you have sent the Notice of Intent to the district attorney, you then need to complete the Statement of Notice to District Attorney and Declaration Under Penalty of Perjury form. This form is available along with the application. The Statement of Notice certifies that you have sent the Notice of Intent form to the district attorney. Complete the Statement of Notice, attach it to your completed application form, and submit them both to the governor’s office.Before mailing, keep a copy of all the completed paperwork for your own records.
The completed paperwork should be mailed to Governor’s Office, State Capitol, Attn: Legal Affairs, Sacramento, CA 95814.
 After you have completed all the steps of the application, your work is done. The governor’s staff will review the paperwork and may conduct a further investigation. You are not expected to call and check on the status of your application. The governor's office will respond when a decision is reached, but there is no required timetable for a response, or even a requirement that the governor’s office respond at all.You should notify the governor's office if you move while you are waiting for a decision on your application.

