 Use a sharp knife to cut 2 large onions in half. Use your fingers to peel away the skin, and set the onion pieces aside.Yellow onions work best for the enchilada sauce.;
, Cut 4 jalapenos in half with a sharp knife. Use a spoon to carefully scrape out the seeds and discard them.Wash your hands immediately after handling the jalapenos. The capsaicin in the jalapenos can sting your eyes if you touch them without washing your hands.
Some people experience burning in their skin after handling jalapenos, so you may prefer to wear protective gloves, such as latex or rubber, while you’re cutting them.
 Once the onion and jalapenos are cut, place them in the slow cooker along with 4 cloves of garlic that have been peeled and smashed, ½ cup (64 g) of chili powder, 3 tablespoons (23 g) of cumin, 2 tablespoons (25 g) of sugar, 2 32-oz. (907 g) cans of tomato sauce, 2 cups (473 ml) of chicken broth, 2 tablespoons (15 g) of chicken bouillon powder, and 1 teaspoon (6 g) salt. Use a wooden spoon to mix all of the ingredients together so they’re fully combined.If you don’t have fresh garlic, you can substitute ½ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of garlic powder.
 When all of the ingredients are mixed in the slow cooker, turn it on and set it to low. Allow the sauce to cook for 8 hours.If you want the sauce to be ready more quickly, cook it on high for 4 to 5 hours.
Stir the sauce periodically as it’s cooking to ensure that all of the flavors are melding.
 Once the sauce is finished cooking, pour it through a colander that’s set over a bowl to strain it. Remove the onion, jalapenos, and garlic cloves, and discard them., After you’ve strained the sauce, add 2 tablespoons (6 g) of fresh, chopped cilantro. Mix it in well so it’s fully incorporated into the sauce.Adding the cilantro is an optional step. If you aren’t a fan of the flavor, you can omit it.
 Once you’ve mixed in the cilantro, the sauce is ready to use with your favorite enchilada recipe. You’ll have enough for 2 9-inch by 13-inch (23-cm by 33-cm) baking dishes of enchiladas, so you may want to freeze half of it.To freeze the sauce, place it in an airtight container and store in the freezer for up to 3 months. The sauce will last approximately 4 days in an airtight container in the refrigerator.

