 You will get a lot more traction with your videos if you've put a little effort into making them look nice. Keep the following tips in mind when shooting and editing your video:


YouTube videos should have an introduction, especially if they are part of a series, but the intro should be no longer than 10 seconds. You should add a little content first it to catch the attention. The intro should identify you and your channel, as well as the content of the video.Use transitions to good effect. Transitions help move the viewer from scene to scene or to a new topic. A transition helps the viewer follow along as they watch.
Remove unnecessary scenes and mistakes. YouTube isn't live, so you should take the time to remove mistakes and reshoot anything that didn't turn out how you wanted it. Avoid "uhs" and "ummms". Practicing a script will go along way towards making a good video.
 When you've finished shooting and editing your video, you'll want to encode it properly so that you don't lose any quality when the video is uploaded. There are a variety of programs that can do this, such as Sony Vegas, Avidemux, and Windows Movie Maker.


Videos should be in MP4 format using the H.264 codec for maximum compatibility and highest-quality compression

, Click the Upload button in the upper-right corner of the YouTube page. Make sure that you are signed in with the correct channel when you upload your video.


When uploading a video for everyone to see, make sure that the video is set to Public sharing, so that it can be searched for and found by YouTube visitors.
The uploading and conversion process can take a significant amount of time, especially if you have a slow connection.
You can record directly from your webcam instead of uploading a video, but it is recommended that you record your webcam video in another program that gives you more editing options.
 Every video needs at least a basic description. It should inform the viewer what the general gist of the video is, and how it might relate to them. The description appears next to the video thumbnail when the video shows up in search results.


Avoid copying the title of the video into the Description field. Spend a few minutes coming up with a unique description.
 Tags are single words or short phrases that help to categorize your video. This will help your video appear as a related video when someone is watching a different video. Make sure that your tags are accurate, so that you are drawing in the correct audience. All of your videos should have at least three tags, if not more.


Make sure to tag your video with your own personal brand. This will help your videos appear when your name or brand is searched through Google or YouTube.
Look at other videos in the same category as you and see how they are using tags. Choose tags that are closely related to your video.
Don't forget synonyms.
 These are boxes that appear overlaid on top of your video. They allow you to add text and comments that you may have neglected during filming, add subscription links, or link to a more up-to-date video that you've created on the same topic.


Avoid filling your video with annotations, as this can drive viewers away. Too many annotations make it difficult for the viewer to see the original content.
 Once your video is uploaded, tagged, described, and annotated, it's ready to share with the world. You'll gather some viewers simply through search results, but it can help to advertise your video else. Link to it in your blog, post a link on Facebook or Google+, and let your Twitter followers know that a new video is available. The more eyes that you can reach, the more likely that your video will increase in popularity.
 If you meet certain criteria, you may be eligible to earn money off the views your video gets. This may entail placing an ad at the beginning of your video, and will require creating an AdSense account.
 A good channel gets updated on a regular basis. All of the best YouTube personalities update their channel at least once a week. Many people will upload one major video per week, with smaller videos peppered in between the major releases.


Check out the release schedules for a few of the more popular channels in your niche. This will give you a good idea about how often you should be updating.

