 Knowing when and how many tiles to exchange can help to maximize your score. If you can't make a word out of the tiles you have, you can exchange any or all of them for new tiles, at the cost of your turn.When exchanging tiles in the early game, you'll want to exchange as many tiles as you can to try to get an S or a blank.
In the middle of the game, you'll want to hold onto to a medium or high-scoring tile to have a better chance of making a high-scoring word.
Near the end of the game, you'll want to discard high-scoring tiles unless you see places on the board you can play them with the right additional letters.
 The distribution and point value of Scrabble tiles are based on the relative frequency of each letter's appearance in English language words. Thus, the more common the letter, the more likely it will appear in a 7-letter word or can be played in a word that will earn double or triple word score value.Hold on to the more common vowels and consonants for later and play the less common ones early on.
The most common vowels, in order, are E, A, I, O, and U.
The most common consonants, in order, are S, R, T, N, L, D, G, C, B, M, P, H, F, Y, V, W, K, X, J, Z, and Q.
Be aware that the above lists are influenced by what other letters you have on your rack. For instance, if you have an C on your rack, you'll want to hold onto an H rather than a G, since CH is a good letter combination while CG is not. Note that not all expert Scrabble players agree on the letter rankings shown above.
Also keep in mind that letters that haven't been played will influence which tiles you should hold on to and which you should play. You'll want to keep track of the number of U tiles and hold on to yours if you see the Q tile hasn't been played (and also memorize Q words that don't use the U, such as QI and QAT).
 The blank is universally considered to be the strongest tile in Scrabble because of its ability to score and form a bingo. (If you have both blanks, you have an 80 percent chance of making a bingo word.)

, Strive to have a mix of vowels and consonants at all times, but your rack should favor consonants over vowels. Try to have 4 consonants to 3 vowels or 5 consonants to 2 vowels. This makeup will make it easier for you to form words that will score bonuses on the board or allow you to play all of your tiles at once.If your rack has 6 vowels and only 1 consonant, you should look to play at least 3 of those vowels on your next turn.
You can improve your ability to keep a good mix of vowels and consonants by memorizing vowel-rich 4-letter words such as AEON, AIDE, and AREA and 5-letter words such as AERIE, AUDIO, and QUEUE.
 It's generally best to play letters such as J, Q, X, and Z as soon as you can play them to your best advantage.You may want to hold them a few turns in hope of being able to play them on a premium letter space or in a word that counts for double or triple points, but this opportunity will decline as more tiles are placed on the board. Near the end, it may be better to play the letter off than risk getting caught with it. Also, the low scoring tiles are more likely to be found in longer words than in shorter ones.


Lean towards playing off high point tiles like the B, F, W, and Y quickly to open up more possibilities for making words with 1- and 2-point letter tiles. Also, note that late in the game, the Q (especially without the U) can be as difficult to play since very few short words contain the Q.
You can remember which tiles are the 1- and 2-point letters with the word DEREGULATIONS, which contains all the letters with those point values.
 Common double-letter combinations such as EE, FF, MM, PP, and TT are more likely to appear in words than are AA, CC, HH, II, UU, and VV. If you have two or more of these less common repeated letters, play the duplicates as soon as you can., It is possible, though rare, to draw seven tiles at once that form a word. The most likely such word, based on the frequency of its letters in Scrabble, is ANEROID, meaning "without liquid," as in an aneroid barometer. Some other words that you can form by playing seven tiles at once include ETESIAN, ISATINE, INOSITE, ATONIES, and ERASION.


In most cases, you'll only be able to play a 7-letter word if you're the first player to play in the first round. Some of these 7-letter words take an -S plural, however, so you may be able to play them on an open S if there are seven open spaces above or to the left of the S played on an existing word.
 Some letter combinations not only make recognizable short words, but you can find them in longer words. You can find the letters in REST and TRAIN in bingos such as URANITE, SOOTIER, and STOURIE. The strongest 6-letter combination is the word TISANE, which can form a seven letter word with any letter other than the Q or Y.


Look for letter combinations within your rack and in places on the board where you can use all of the letters on your rack to form an 8-, 9-, or even 10-letter word.
 It may be difficult to figure out bingo words, or even meaningful words, from the letters on your rack. Sometimes, the best approach is to brainstorm words that include a few of the tiles on your rack and then see how many of the other letters are present, either on the rack or the board. You may need to close your eyes or look away from the board for a moment to do this.

