 This naturally occurring "good bacteria" helps to break down food in your colon and protect against “bad bacteria.” Though you can ingest it through food, you can't get adequate amounts that way. For the best results, you should take a supplement as well to help with various GI issues and other conditions. Though there are many types, Lactobacillus acidophilus is the most commonly used probiotic.It's used to treat many different conditions, including:Traveler’s diarrhea
Antibiotic associated diarrhea
Irritable bowel syndrome
Inflammatory bowel disease
Vaginal infections
Research is currently being conducted to see if probiotics are effective in treating lactose intolerance and helping the immune system.;
, If you're using acidophilus as a general dietary supplement, you should take 1 to 4 billion CFU (colony forming units) per day.The packaging of reliable suppliers will let you know the strength of the probiotic supplements you buy. However, your doctor may prescribe smaller or larger doses if acidophilus is being used to treat a specific condition — yeast infections, for example.When using to treat a specific condition, follow your doctor's recommended dosage rather than general dosage recommendations.


Acidophilus can be problematic if you have a pre-existing gastro-intestinal condition, like short bowel syndrome.Discuss your options with your doctor.
Be careful about using it with children or infants, as bacteria can get into the blood, causing sepsis. It can also cause diarrhea and dehydration, or raise the child's likelihood of developing lactose intolerance.
 However, the most common side effect is bloating and gas, though it usually tapers off with continued use.


Be aware that antibiotics can kill off the acidophilus bacteria, rendering it ineffective. Talk to your doctor about your antibiotic use. To be safe, it's best to give yourself at least a 2 hour window before and after taking an antibiotic.
In rare cases, it can cause arthritis, arterial blockage, diarrhea, esophageal disease, heart, liver, or skin problems, or vaginal discomfort.
Some people are just allergic to the bacteria itself. If you suffer an allergic reaction, avoid all products from the Lactobacillaceae family of bacteria.
 Because probiotics are considered dietary supplements, the FDA does not have to approve these products. They do, however, loosely regulate them. There are standards for the manufacturing of dietary supplements, and the FDA may periodically check the facilities.Still, there's a chance that your dietary supplement is contaminated or does not actually contain what it claims to.It's important to buy probiotic supplements from a reputable supplier who guarantees its products.


Keep cold supplements cold. Remember that if a supplement is meant to be refrigerated, then it must stay that way. Millions of probiotics die when the supplement is left at room temperature.
 A reputable manufacturer will allow an independent organization like U.S. Pharmacopeia, NSF international or Consumerlab.com to test their product. These seals of approval do not necessarily guarantee safety or effectiveness. However, they do ensure that the products actually contain what they claims to, and that they're not contaminated., Most acidophilus supplements contain between 1 to 2 billion CFU. Do not purchase products without CFU count guarantees.
 Acidophilus supplements contain live bacteria, so they should be stored and transported in cool conditions. The ideal temperature is below 40 degrees F (4.5 degrees C).This may be hard to verify, but it is important information to consider.


If the label doesn't require you to refrigerate the product, you probably don't have a good product on your hands. Real acidophilus supplements need refrigeration.
Also check the label for an expiration date. Reputable stores generally pull all expired products from stock.
 Some supplement manufacturers water down their product by mixing slow-growing acidophilus with other fast-growing bacteria. This increases the CFU count and makes it appear like a more effective product to consumers. Examples of fast-growing bacteria additions include other strains of Lactobacillus and Bacillus coagulants.Although these may have some research behind them, most studies use Lactobacillus acidophilus.


For best results, look for an acidophilus supplement that contains only acidophilus.
The probiotic may be listed as acidophilus, lactobacillus or l. acidophilus.
 Acidophilus is naturally produced in the body, and is normally found in the mouth, small intestine, and vagina.However, you can supplement natural probiotic production with a variety of products — you don't have to restrict yourself to a single form! Lactobacillus supplements are available as pills, powders, or enriched foods at most health food stores, pharmacies or online vitamin distributors., Capsules are the most popular way to take acidophilus because you can swallow the pills with water. The general recommended dosage is 1 to 2 capsules taken once a day. The capsules usually have a strength of 1 to 2 billion CFU, so you should get 1 to 4 billion CFU per day. , Just like the capsules, you need to get 1 to 4 billion CFU per day through 1 to 2 tablets.


Some suppliers offer acidophilus tablets that taste like strawberry or other flavors.
Don't give these supplements to children under 3 years unless directed to by your doctor.
 The powder can be mixed with juice or water, or sprinkled over food. It has a slightly sweet and chalky taste. About 1/4 tsp. (1.23 ml) of the powder is equal to 2 capsules or tablets.


Be aware that every time you open the container, the powder is exposed to contamination and humidity, which can cause it to deteriorate.
As opposed to tablets or capsules, you are in charge of measuring the correct dosage with powders. Measure carefully!, The milk has a tangy taste and a slightly thicker consistency than cow's milk. Unlike the advertised CFU strength in tablets, capsules and powders, the amount of the supplement in the milk usually isn't verified. It can be hard to know how much acidophilus you're actually drinking.
 When choosing yogurt for its probiotic value, look for yogurt that contains live l. acidophilus cultures and no added sugars. Some fresh fruits and vegetables, such as carrots, also contain acidophilus. However, the amount of probiotics in food sources do not meet the recommended dosages for acidophilus supplements. Therefore, while yogurt, soy products and fresh produce are helpful in increasing probiotic intake, they are not a substitute for an acidophilus supplement.


Although food sources are great, a supplement is the only true way to consume enough of this. It is a great idea to do both of these methods!

