 Low blood volume in the arteries is usually the result of a blood hemorrhage that can occur for example due to an accident that can cause injury to one of the main arteries in the body. For example subarachnoid hemorrhage of the brain can be triggered and caused in most cases due to a violent traumatic accident that can injure the integrity of blood vessel in the subarachnoid layer of the brain. Usually this type of hemorrhage is serious enough to be a medical emergency that requires immediate intervention of medical personnel. If blood is lost in this type of hemorrhage in large quantities a state of hypovolemia can be occur in the body. This type of hypovolemia that is due to blood hemorrhage is general for all injuries to blood vessels of the body. In the case of hypovolemia due to subarachnoid hemorrhage other clinical symptoms can occur in addition to the hypovolemic state in the body.;
, The most serious clinical symptom that is associated with this type of hemorrhage is the development of intracranial pressure due to increased pressure of the spinal fluid in the ventricles of the brain. This is usually caused due to the blocking of this fluid drainage from the brain cavities through the subarachnoid villi into the subarachnoid space. This blocking of the normal drainage of this fluid can lead to its accumulation within these brain cavities. This can potentially cause an increase in the pressure of this fluid in the ventricles of the brain. The postulated mechanism for the reasons of this blockage is thought to be due to blood clots that form within these brain cavities that can physically block the normal outflow of this spinal fluid out of the brain cavities into the blood sinuses of the brain. Other types of hypovolemia can be caused for example due to the medical syndromes of diabetes mellitus and the medical syndrome of diabetes insipidus. Both of these two medical syndromes have common clinical symptoms of increased urination of body fluids.
 This can cause depletion of the fluids of the body if there is no compensation for the lost fluids to the body through the administration of supplementary amounts of fluids into the body. This can be achieved either through drinking fluids or through the administration of intravenous isotonic solutions of NaCl or glucose. Otherwise state of hypovolemia and dehydration can follow as a result of the water depletion from the body. Also vomiting for various reasons can cause depletion of body fluids which can cause in severe cases hypovolemia and dehydration of the body fluids. Other causes to hypovolemia in humans include the medical emergency of congestive heart failure or CHF. This medical syndrome is characterized by inability of the heart muscle to pump enough blood into the general blood circulation. This can potentially cause low blood supply to the various tissues of the body. The net result is deficient supply of oxygen and glucose to the cells of the body organs. This can cause irreversible damage to these organs of the body due to the hypovolemia.
 Chronic failure of organs such as the kidney and the liver and the pancreas can occur in hypovolemic conditions in the body blood arteries. Hypovolemic conditions in the body can sometimes be caused in the case of hypothermia or low body temperature as occurs in conditions of very cold weather. In this case also the short blood supply to the various organs of the body can lead to its irreversible damage for the same reasons of low oxygen and nutrients supply to these organs. Other causes of hypovolemic conditions in the body include the administration of pharmacological drugs in order to treat hypertensive people. One complication of this treatment is the development of low blood pressure. This is presumably caused due to the excessive dilatation of the blood vessels by the effect of the anti-hypertensive drug. In addition to the aforementioned causes of low blood pressure there are also other causes that are due to hormonal changes in the body. There are three known hormones in the body that have direct effects on the status of blood volume in the arteries. One of them is the pituitary hormone vasopressin. This hormone is a polypeptide hormone that is composed of 10 amino acids.
 It is usually secreted from the posterior aspect of this gland. This hormone has immense effect on the status of blood pressure in the body of humans. Low level of this hormone in the blood is usually associated with hypovolemic state of the blood arteries. This can occur for example due to the medical syndrome of diabetes insipidus. This medical syndrome is the direct result of low level of vasopressin in the blood that is usually the result of surgical procedure to the pituitary gland that can destroy the part of this gland that is responsible for the secretion of this hormone into the blood circulation. The other main hormone that also has very important effect on the status of blood volume in the blood arteries is called aldosterone. This is a steroid hormone that is usually synthesized and secreted into the blood from the adrenal cortex.
 Hypovolemia in this case is caused due to deficiency of this hormone in the blood. This hormone has physiological effect on the level of sodium ions in the body. Usually it stimulates the reabsorption of sodium ions in the kidney tubules. This process of sodium ions reabsorption into the body is also accompanied by the concomitant conservation of water into the body at the same time. Deficiency of aldosterone in the blood can cause depletion of sodium ions into the urine with concomitant loss of equivalent amount of water. The result is the development of hypovolemia. This can occur only if this loss of sodium and water is significant in its value.

