 Your reaction to wet glue depends on the type of glue that's begun to cling to your window. Certain types of glue will peel (mostly) cleanly from glass once they dry; others require scrubbing with hot water and solvents; and still others may never come clean without serious, glass-damaging effort. Check which type of glue was used:


Hot glue should be peel-able when dry. Let it set, then remove it cleanly.
Elmer's liquid glue should also peel free when dry.
Elmer's stick glue might come off with hot water, but it is more resistant than some other types.
Tacky glue is usually peel-able when dry, but you can also try scrubbing it with hot water to head off the problem before it sets.
Superglue is not going to come off without serious chipping. There's a good chance that you will scratch your window if you try to remove this super-adhesive substance.
 Glue can be much more difficult to remove once it sets. If you act while the glue is still wet and sticky, you may be able to remove the majority of the goop before it hardens onto your window.
 Hot water and a washcloth should do the trick if the glue has not dried yet. You can also use a paper towel, an old shirt, or the rough side of a sponge. Scrub the window for a couple of minutes until you remove all of the glue. When the surface is clean, dry it thoroughly with a rag. Inspect the glass, and repeat the process if the spot is still sticky.


Be aware that wet glue may stick to the washcloth, which may be difficult to remove. Use something old that you're willing to ruin.
Scrubbing wet glue may simply spread the adhesive around, further obscuring the surface. If water and washcloth alone do not suffice, try using a heavier solvent.
 Rubbing alcohol, nail polish remover, WD-40, industrial degreasers, vinegar, and lighter fluid should all help you lift still-goopy glue from a window surface. As with dried glue, rub the spot with a rag or paper towel soaked in your solvent of choice until the area is completely free of adhesive.
 First, soak a sponge in boiling water for a few minutes. Ring out the sponge, then press it onto the glue. Leave the hot sponge to soak for a few minutes. By the time you lift it, most of the glue should be gone. Rinse any glue from the sponge, then wipe the remaining goop from the glass until the surface is completely clean.
 Pour a consistent stream of boiling water directly onto the glue patch for several seconds. This should loosen the adhesive enough that you can scrape it away. Try scraping directly after you heat the glue, while the bonds are still loosened., Hold an ice cube against the glue patch for a few minutes to freeze the adhesive. Once the gunk is frozen, scrape it off with a butter knife or the edge of a credit card.

