 It involves much more than a polite voice and good manners. The key here is the same truth applicable in most scenarios in life, education.;
, It would not be suggested that one become a social skeptic and expect that at any moment some mistreat will randomly or deliberately call your number with mischief in mind.
 Therefore what matters is what your mindset is between the time the phone rings and you answer it. With today's technology caller ID is almost universal. It is a vital tool to prepare you to respond appropriately to the caller. Again, we haven't the time here to discuss all the "what ifs" a home phone can present. Let's return to the opening scenario. The one being called simply forget to glance at the caller I.D. We use the phone so often, complacency comes quite naturally.
 The receiver is lifted, a polite "Hello" is spoken, now it is safe to assume that the voice inquiring, "Who am I talking to?" is not so polite. Consider if you will a few of the things we do not know.
 The caller's situation. The caller's ID, by now you've looked at the caller ID on the phone and it provides no ID.
 Now, your reaction. Some might want to become defensive at which point the tenor of the voice will change. Any number of replies immediately come to mind. May I ask that we remember that we know nothing of the caller. Regardless, your reaction should not change.



"I'm sorry, who were you trying to reach?" Expect to be pleasantly surprised to find out anything from a number dialed incorrectly to your oldest sons boss looking for a 30 minute late employee. Remember, continue to be polite but you are still guarded.
 It isn't an incorrectly dialed number, it isn't your oldest son's boss. It is someone intent upon criminal mischief? Do you still remain polite? Yes! However, you have your cell phone and have already dialed emergency services. The dispatcher will likely be intuitive and as you are politely explaining to the caller that you are hanging up now so that you may speak with the police on your cell.

