 Cats cannot use the same toothpaste as humans do. You will need to find a cat-friendly toothpaste. Look for ones that have a flavor that might appeal to your cat, such as chicken or fish. These can bought from your local pet store or even from your vet.


Cat toothpastes often contain ingredients like chlorhexidine, hexametaphosphate, or zinc gluconate.Human toothpastes have ingredients, such as detergents and fluoride, that can harm your cat if they swallow it. Fluoride is toxic to cats., There are special feline toothbrushes that are small enough to fit in cat's mouths. These are safer to use on cats than human toothbrushes. They can purchased at a pet store. Do not use a human toothbrush on a cat.


Another option are finger brushes. These slide over your finger so that you can use your finger to clean the cat’s teeth. Some cats may prefer finger brushes. If you are having difficulty using a feline toothbrush with your cat, you might try a finger brush instead., If your cat is not used to having their teeth touched or brushed, you should start introducing them to brushing very slowly. Start by putting a little bit of the toothpaste on your finger, and let them lick it off. After about a week or two, start rubbing a little bit on the cat’s front teeth. Once the cat is used to this, you can start brushing normally.If the cat doesn’t like the toothpaste, try a different flavor.
The cat may resist at first. If they struggle or try to bite you, stop and try again another day.
 Daily brushing is best to maintain good oral hygiene. It will help reverse the symptoms of gingivitis, and it can prevent future problems from developing. Put a little bit of the toothpaste on the brush, and brush the outside surface of the cat’s entire set of teeth.


You may want to move rather quickly, as your cat may not stay still for long. Spend a few seconds moving the brush around each tooth before moving on to the next one., In addition to brushing, mouth rinses can reduce tartar build-up on your cat’s teeth. These usually contain chlorhexidine. Some cats do not like the taste of this while others do not mind it.If the solution is a gel or liquid, you can squeeze it into the cat’s mouth. If it comes in a spray bottle, however, you can just spray it in their mouth.
Be sure to read the instructions to make sure that you are giving the cat the right dose.
 You can add a liquid solution to your cat’s water dish. These may be called “dental water” or “liquid tartar remover.” While the dosage might vary from brand to brand, typically you will add a small amount of the additive to about a quart of water per day. As your cat drinks from their bowl, this will help keep their teeth clean.