 If you’re wishy-washy or don’t make a clear case for why you don’t feel well, your teacher, the nurse, or a school administrator might not believe you. Particularly if you’re faking sick, the key is to tell them exactly what you need -- to go home as soon as possible. Don’t confuse assertiveness with aggression. Be clear about what you need, but don’t be hostile or angry.
When talking to your teacher, you might want to say something like, “I’m feeling really bad and think I may need to leave. Can I please go to the nurse to talk to her about that?”
When you see the nurse, remember to make your case with specific symptoms. For example, “I’m feeling nauseous and have vomited once already. I’ve also had a headache and chills all day. Could I please go home?”

, If there’s an obvious reason why you might want to skip school that day, and your teacher, the nurse, or an administrator knows that, you’ll want to get ahead of the game by mentioning that yourself. If you’re talking to your teacher, try saying something like, “I feel awful about missing my group presentation this afternoon. As soon as I’m feeling better and back in school, could we please talk about the best way to make that up?”
If you’re trying to convince the nurse to let you go home, try saying, “I know what my teacher’s make up test policy is, so I’m planning to come in and take it during study hall on Friday, assuming I’m feeling better by then.”

, Particularly if you’ve turned in a fake note, there’s a chance that an administrator will want to call home to verify that you really do need to leave early. If your parent or guardian really did write the note, just be sure they’re prepared to keep the lie going for you when they answer the phone. If you faked the note yourself, some possible solutions include


Give a number you know no one will answer. If your parents are at work, you could give them your home number. Be prepared to delete the message before they can hear it.
Have an accomplice ready to answer the phone at whatever number you give them. An older sibling or friend who isn’t in school are good options.
 If you get caught, the best thing you can do is stop lying immediately and accept the blame. Adults are more likely to be lenient on you if you fess up right away, and admit that you were wrong. Explain politely why you did what you did, and say that you know it was wrong. 