 It's better if you can find something that is weatherproof for durability, but any bag you have will do in a pinch.

Get a bag with that retro-appeal or euro-look. You could go an old army bag from a military surplus store.



 


Visit the nearest thrift shop in town. There are no limits here in what style you want. you can even go for grocery canvas bags.





;
, Make sure to measure the length and width of the bag, as well as the base of the bag. base of the bag.


Transfer these measurements to a 1/4-inch plywood.






Cut the wood to the size of your bag.






You should now have wood panels, one for the wall of the bag and the other would be for the bottom of the bag.







Add wood glue for more strength and allow to dry. You now have a board for your saddlebag.
, The holes should be at least 1 to 1.5 inches (2.5 to 3.8 cm) away from the corners.


Get a large screwdriver to make the holes bigger.






These 4 holes will be use to join the wooden board to your bag.
 They should be about 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) in size, depending on the size of the frame of your bike) For a test fit, mount the u-bolts on the bike rear rack. Get the measurements of the u-bolt from the rack and apply this to the saddlebag.


Poke the holes for the U-bolts.
, Using the markings the board got from the sharp object you used to poke the bag as a guide.


You should have 4 holes for you to attach the board to the saddlebag.






Drill another set of holes for the U-bolts so you can mount the saddlebag to the bike rear rack.
 Screw 4 ordinary ¼-20 nuts on to the holes you made accordingly.


Screw the nuts on the 4 corners of the bag, securing together the bag and wooden board.
 Get your u-bolt and place them on the rack. It is better you place the saddlebag on you left side of the bike so it won't interfere with any moving part of the bike like the sprocket.


Insert the u-bolt from the bike rack to the fabric of the bag.
,,,


Cleaning is easy, simply loosen the nuts of the u-bolts and you can even detach the bag and carry it on.
 This saddlebag can carry approximately 4 kilos of cargo.
 Enjoy your own DIY bicycle pannier.

