 Playing and running around is great for you and your chihuahua, but it’s also a great idea to have quiet time with him on a regular basis. This quiet time can be spent simply cuddling on the couch, or you can use it to brush or groom him as needed. Quiet time is great to have just before you plan to go to bed. Not only will it help you relax and unwind, it will help get your chihuahua into a relaxed and sleepy state so everyone can go to bed without any disruptions., You can find all sorts of exercise pens for dogs and other small animals at pets stores and online. They come in different sizes and are made of different materials. One great option is to get an exercise pen that is just fencing with no bottom. This type of pen can be easily folded up and stored, but can also be easily placed inside or outside your house. Depending on what you and your chihuahua are doing, you can put your dog inside the pen to give him limited space to play, to give him a safe place to play, or even to give him a way to be close to you if you don’t want him underfoot., Chihuahuas may be energetic dogs, but they are very small and can get cold very easily. You, as a human, may feel fine at a certain temperature, but that same temperature may be making your dog shiver. In order to make him more comfortable and warm, especially when he’s outside with you, you may want to consider buying your chihuahua a sweater or coat.If your chihuahua doesn’t like his sweater at first, only keep it on him for a short period of time. Over a few days or weeks, increase the amount of time he wears the sweater until he gets used to it.
 Doggy stairs are small staircases that help your dog go from the floor to either the bed or the couch without jumping. In some cases, your chihuahua may not be capable of jumping the distance and this will be the only way for him to get up on the couch or bed. In other cases, this might help save your furniture from scratches if he uses his claws to pull himself up.Dogs stairs come in all types, including set stairs that are carpeted and plastic stairs that fold up.
You can even make your own stairs using wood or other materials, or just place boxes or bins in increasing height so he can use them to climb.
 Chihuahuas love sleeping in the softest and most comfortable place they can find. As such, getting your chihuahua his own doggy bed is a great idea. You can even get your chihuahua more than one bed — one for your bedroom and another for your living room (or wherever you spend time during the day). When you’re in those particular rooms, your chihuahua will have a nice comfy place to curl up and sleep while keeping you company.Doggy beds, in general, are also good because they can usually be cleaned a lot easier than your couch. Chihuahuas, even though they’re small, shed a lot.

