 Consider your relationship with your child since their infancy. Perhaps you enjoyed a relatively smooth childhood with them, but during their teenage years, you began to have trouble. Maybe you were not present in their life for a while but have recently desired to connect. Thinking critically about your past together will help you as you move forward.


Consider who cut who off or whether the estrangement has been mutual.
Take some time to write out the thoughts you have when you think about your relationship with your child.;
, Perhaps you have enjoyed a relatively smooth and meaningful relationship with your parents over the years, or maybe it has been rocky at best. Consider how your relationship with your own parents may mimic that with your child in negative ways.


For instance, if your parents were very critical of you growing up, consider whether you have transferred that behavior onto your own child. This could have contributed to the estrangement.
 Talk to a loved one or a friend about the estrangement, especially if they know your child as well. They will likely be able to give you some insights into your relationship that you may not have considered. Outsiders can often give a fresh or larger perspective that you may be blinded to seeing.You might considering saying something like “You know that me and my child have had a lot of differences over the years and it really wears on me when we don’t speak for a while. I was wondering if you had any advice or thoughts on how to improve our relationship? Or if you’ve noticed any behaviors in me that you think has caused these problems? Please be honest.”
Talk to friends who also have estranged or rocky relationships with their children.
If you and your child’s other parent are married or still in touch, talk to them about it as well. If your child is estranged from them too, you can support each other; if they are not estranged, they may be able to assist you in reconnecting. However, ex-partners can also sometimes contribute to the estrangement.
 Your child is likely dealing with the estrangement as well, even if they have not expressed that to you. No one enjoys being disconnected from their family. Acknowledge that your child is also hurting in their own way in dealing with this distance between the two of you.


Try putting yourself in their shoes. For instance, if you have been abusive to them in the past or overly critical, think about how that must have felt for them and perhaps you will understand their behavior more.
Remember that adult children will often respond out of their childhood experience with you, rather than to who you are now. They often will not even know who you are now.
 You may feel that you have done nothing to contribute to your falling out, but that is unlikely. Think about the situation and how you could have behaved differently.Perhaps you did something horrible to your child. Maybe you have been addicted to drugs for years or neglected, abused, or abandoned your child. In these instances, you need to work on yourself to deal with those issues within you. Seek therapy to help you work through it.
You can also seek community with others who have had similar issues. For instance, there are support groups for former addicts.
 Call or text your child if you have their number. You can also email them or even reach out through a message on social media if necessary. Try to start out with more casual forms of communication, and work towards a deeper conversation. If your child doesn’t respond, continue to reach out.


You could start by sending birthday and holiday cards to let them know that you remember these important times and you miss them.
If you are friends with them on social media, then you can comment on their pictures. For example, you could let them know how much you liked seeing pictures of them and/or their partner and/or children.
Write a letter. A call or text may not be enough to elicit a response from them. Take some time to write out a thoughtful letter to them apologizing for the things you have done, telling them how much you miss them and want a presence in their life, and promising them that you will do all that you can to be a better parent to them.
You may want to begin the conversation by saying something like “I know we haven’t spoken in a while, but I want to say that I am sorry and I love you. It is a strange feeling to be so disconnected from the person you love the most. I am hoping that we can talk now though and build a better relationship. I’m willing to do whatever it takes.”

, Though it can be difficult to consistently reach out to someone who may not want to talk, don’t give up on your child. Whether it has been months or even years since you last spoke, you will regret if you don’t do all that’s within your power to connect with them.


Reaching out consistently to your child will show that you are dependable. If you have not been dependable in the past, this will be particularly important.
 After thinking deeply on the issues that are present and once your child agrees to see you again, offer a sincere and genuine apology. Apologize for the exact ways that you have hurt them and avoid making excuses for your actions. Assure them that you have thought about how you have caused the estrangement and you feel guilt, but that you want to repair your relationship.


You can begin the conversation by saying “I know that I hurt you when I said those mean things to you and I want you to know that I regret them and I’m sorry. I miss you very much and I hope we can move forward but I know it will take time.”
Choose a quiet, neutral space to apologize. They may not feel comfortable coming to your home, but perhaps you can choose a park or a coffee shop.
 Take some time to listen to your child. They likely have some pent up emotions that they are dealing with in regards to your relationship. Listen not to respond, but to understand, to hear, and to know. They may offer a perspective on the relationship that you had not considered even in your time of reflection. Take some time to hearken to your child’s hurt.


Resist the desire to defend yourself.Recognize that your child’s viewpoint is valid., After you have spoken your peace and your child has as well, begin to address the issues that created your estrangement. If you feel that these have been addressed within the context of your apology, this step may be unnecessary, but if the estrangement was mutual, then further clarification may be needed. Use this time to create a plan moving forward with how to avoid future issues.


For instance, if you got into a fight because your child was disrespectful to you and then you were rude back, you may need to discuss how to avoid fights escalating in the future. Begin the conversation by saying “how can we establish mutual respect moving forward?”

, Work with your child on developing your communication skills with them. Some tactics you can begin employing immediately are to not raise your voice when having a disagreement, to avoid name calling or insults, and to use “i” statements rather than placing the blame on them.


One other way to communicate effectively when having a serious conversation is to use a talking stick. You can select any object to use as your talking stick when having a conversation and only the person holding it can speak, while the other has to listen and can talk only when the stick is relinquished. This method encourages active listening because you are not allowed to interrupt or talk over someone. It also empowers the speaker by giving them a designated invitation to talk., You may find that your issues with your child are so deep-seeded that working on the issues alone may not be enough. Many families have used counseling as a tool to restore and repair their relationships, and you can do the same. There are many different kinds of counselors to consider who specialize in work with families; there are also spiritual counselors who you could consult as well if you and your child are both religious.


You can go to counseling together or separately.
 After this talk, your child will likely be feeling very emotional. Give them some time to process their feelings alone and tell them you will talk to them soon. Assure them that you love them and are willing to wait the necessary time to have them back in your life.


You might say to your child “I understand that our relationship has been difficult and that so much time has passed since we last spoke. This conversation has also been pretty heavy, as well. I’m sure you’ll need some time to think about everything but I want you to know that I am here and I will never leave you and I will never stop being your parent. I hope you will reach out to me soon, but if not, I will reconnect with you.”

, Remember, that it will take time to repair your relationship. More often than not, this will not happen naturally, especially if you have not spoken in a while. You must be willing to do the necessary work - whether this involves counseling, regular phone calls, or even being ignored, sometimes.Be willing to do all that you can to get your child back in your life.
 When you do see your child, focus on the similarities between the two of you. Often times, our differences cause us to fight, but if you can put those aside and instead focus on the ways in which you are alike, you will see improvements in your relationship.


For instance, if they tell you they got a promotion at work, tell them that their work ethic is similar to yours when you were their age and talk about the strides you made in your career, while still seeking to learn more about their job.
 If your child is young, or even if they are an adult, they are often looking to you for cues on how to respond. If you are positive and genuine, they will want to be, too. Remember that the negativity you sow will often be reaped so do your best to put your best face forward with your child.


For example, even if they raise their voice when arguing, respond by being calm. They may realize how inappropriate their behavior seems compared to yours and they may calm down.
 Take some time to sit with your child and reflect on the good times before your estrangement. Break out the photo album and revisit these times visually, as well. This will help both you and your child remember the times when things were less complicated and will renew your love for each other.


You might say to your child “remember the time we went to the beach and go so sunburnt because we stayed out for hours? Man, that hurt, but that was one of my favorite days because you were there.”

, Invite your child to come over for dinner or to go to a movie with you. Don’t allow the estrangement to fester. You must reclaim this relationship with your child, and spending time together is a great step towards reconciliation.


You can do other things together like cook, go for a walk, and even exercise together. Have fun!

, Your child may also have children of their own that you have not seen in a while, or that you have never met. Work towards becoming a staple in their life so that you can enjoy every part of them again. Work towards also communicating regularly and not letting much time elapse between contact, so that you don’t slip back into estrangement.


For example, call them and update them about your life and ask for updates about theirs on a regular basis. You don’t want to be out of the loop about important developments in your child’s life.
 If you know in your heart that you have done everything possible to make amends with your child and reconstruct your relationship, then it is time that you forgive yourself for any wrong you have done. You are not defined by the worst things you have done and each day provides an opportunity to become better and reinvent yourself. Forgive yourself just as you want your child to forgive you as well.Though you have likely thought about all of the wrong you have done to you child extensively during this process, take some time to think about what you have done right. There is no such thing as a perfect parent, but a parent who is trying to have a good relationship with their child deserves some credit. Give some to yourself.
If you are having a difficult time with this, consider consulting a counselor or therapist.

