 If you have the space to do so, approach the hill in 4th or 5th gear. Give the car about 80% of its full power, and stay in 5th for as long as possible. If you have enough momentum coming up the hill, you may not even need to downshift.Do not go dangerously fast, and be especially cautious if you aren't familiar with the contours of the hill. If you know that there is a sharp turn at the top of the hill, plan accordingly and give a little less gas in anticipation.;
, When you drive uphill, your car needs to supply more power to the wheels to counter the force of gravity pulling it down the slope. If your engine roars and whines, it is struggling, and you're probably in too high of a gear. You may notice that your car slows down dramatically, even though you're in a high gear and you've been applying constant pressure to the gas. The moment you feel that the car is slowing down, shift into the next-lowest gear (probably 3rd or 2nd) and step on the gas pedal.Drive fast enough that your engine can handle 3rd gear—the threshold varies between vehicles, but 30-45 mph should do the trick. Make sure to switch gears quickly to avoid losing momentum.
If the engine is still unable to keep up with the incline, downshift into 2nd gear. In some circumstances with very steep inclines, you may need to shift back down into 1st gear. Be aware that many cars don't downshift very smoothly into 1st gear; if you haven't done it before, you may notice some grinding or jerking when you do this.
 The higher the gear, in theory, the more efficiently your car will run. Upshift to keep gas consumption low, if you can, but make sure that you have enough power to climb the hill.
 You may need extra power to make it through sharp turns when you're driving uphill. Downshift to the appropriate gear—usually 2nd—before you enter the turn. This way, you can power through the turn, if needed, and maintain that power while ascending the hill., The parking brake can keep you from drifting backwards when you start up again. When you're stopped on a hill with the transmission in neutral, pull the handbrake. When the light turns green, step on the clutch. Put the transmission into first gear, then slowly let out the clutch. When the clutch starts to engage, gradually release the parking brake.Since you are using the handbrake, your feet are free to operate the controls that move you up the hill: the clutch and the gas.
You'll need to give the engine a little more gas than usual so that you don't roll backwards. Accelerate steadily, not all at once. If you floor the gas, your car will jerk forward, and you might lurch into the car ahead.

