 A minimalist garden design suits a a person who is looking for a clean, smart, low maintenance garden. Young urban professionals, minimalist house enthusiasts, people who travel frequently, the weeding-phobic etc. are likely to find this type of garden ideal. It should feature sculptures, architectural planting, and great vistas. All this adds up to an area you can both entertain and relax in.;
, A well designed minimalist garden can effectively provide you with an extra room. The need for plants is minimal as you are aiming to create a structure as much as a garden, so use artificial materials to create a bold, crisp landscape.
 Plants are indeed key to a minimalist design, but it should be the hard landscape features which tie it together.
 Allow these to be echoed in the paving.
 Perhaps set lighting into the patio, to alter the garden's mood as you enter the twilight hours. This enables the garden to serve as both a day and evening garden.
 Water can be used, but it should be calm and sedate which helps to create great reflective qualities. This photo shows a design based on the unfurling frond of a tree fern; it bisects the garden.
 It is important to work with a good professional gardener and landscaper in order to realise your are ideas. Do not be afraid to provide any professional with your own input and inspiration.
 Steel, glass, and concrete are all materials heavily featured in many minimalist gardens. This "industrial" basis does not mean it has to be stark and unwelcoming, though a good knowledge of how to utilise these materials is essential. For example, use:


Wood for functionality






Corrugated iron swirls for drama






Mirrored panels for an ever-changing play of light and space enhancement in the garden







, A coarse and sharp plant, it is really low-maintenance and has a great fragrance when the sun heats it. It is not only a great feature bush in a minimalist garden but it also acts as a living mulch. It keeps the water in the ground and it suppresses weeds. This means that it is acting as a barrier. It makes a good foil against a tree, such as a Eucalyptus tree.
 The front garden should always mimic the back, perhaps carrying on any features such as sculpture or water. This photo shows the use of box (buxus) balls that have been planted very tightly together at the front of the house. They are very low maintenance plants and easy to look after.


The water design is also carried on in the front garden; minimalist water feature on shale and slate. This is a very effective, subtle water feature with no fish or running water, just very simple.







