 One of the easiest ways to help an average guy look more attractive is by encouraging him to take better care of his skin. Help him create a daily skin care routine that’s easy to follow.He should use a cleanser and moisturizer every day. He can use a simple soap and water combination before applying a moisturizer, or he can use an actual facial cleanser.
He should also use a facial scrub one to two times per week for a deeper clean. If he has frequent acne breakouts, he can bump that up to three or so times a week.;
, It’s amazing how much more attractive trimmed and groomed facial hair can make a man look. Help him pick a new look for his facial hair by looking at examples online or taking him to a salon to speak with a stylist., Smelling good can go a long way toward making someone attractive. Help him pick out a new cologne, but make sure he knows not to overdue the amount he uses. One or two sprays is plenty.When you're talking about this with him, you can say something like "I was thinking you could maybe try a new cologne. You've been wearing the same one for a long time and something new could be good!"
To tactfully suggest he not wear as much cologne you could say something like "Have you ever noticed how some people wear so much cologne or perfume? Why don't people know that one or two sprays is enough?" This way he gets the information without becoming embarrassed.
 Most guys think that manicures are for women, but that’s not true. Manicuring your nails is just about keeping them trimmed and neat. Having nice looking hands is an easy way to look more attractive.


You can take him to a salon for a manicure or, if he’s leery about getting his nails done in public, you offer to do them for him at home (or ask one of your friends to do them for him).
You should also encourage him to get a pedicure, particularly if he likes to wear sandals during warm weather.
 A new haircut can do wonders for making a guy looking more attractive, especially if the haircut he’s got is the same one he's had for a long time.Most guys will just go to their local quick cut store and ask for their hair to be trimmed. Try taking him to an actual salon to talk with a stylist, who can recommend the best cut for his face shape.
Encourage him to bring pictures of haircuts that he likes to his salon appointment.
He should also be open to the idea of using hair products if necessary for his hairstyle., Well-tailored clothing that is not too baggy or too big can make a huge difference in how attractive someone looks. Wearing well-tailored clothes also makes it clear that he pays attention to his appearance.The shoulder seam of his shirts should sit at his shoulder joint – the part of his shoulder where it begins to roll down to his upper arm.
Dress shirts fit well if you can slip two fingers inside the collar comfortably and if the cuffs of the shirt don’t pass his wrists.
Pants should sit as his natural waist, about three finger-widths below his belly button. The legs of his pants should sit at the top of his shoes, not cover them.

