 In public places, you may often come across people who stand on a street corner preaching beliefs at passers-by. If they have not directly targeted you, just keep walking.


Try to avoid making eye contact with the person. If they are simply preaching to whoever will listen, they will seek out eye contact with people. If you make eye contact, they are more likely to approach you.
To keep the situation from being awkward, you could take out your phone and pretend to be answering it, talking, or texting. This may deter them from interrupting you. This will also keep the situation from being awkward if they try to stop you as you can simply act like you didn't realize they were trying to gain your attention.
 You can try to explain that you aren’t interested in converting, or that you are very happy with your current set of beliefs. Be aware though, that this is unlikely to deter them. They likely have several arguments prepared against many different rationales.For example, you can say, “It seems like you really know about your religion, and that’s great. However, I am as convinced about my own religion as you are yours, so I’m not really interested in converting.”
If you are interested in engaging in conversation with them then do so. However, don’t expect that you can change their mind.
Don’t try to reason with them. If they are standing outside talking to strangers, they are probably quite convinced of what they believe. Trying to be rational about how everyone is entitled to different beliefs probably won’t make much sense to them.
 If the person has singled you out and is trying to tell you about why you should convert, tell them you have an important meeting that you are about to be late for, or that you are rushing to pick up your child/younger sibling from school.For example, you can say, “I’m sorry, but my little brother is waiting for me to pick him up from school and he’s all alone. I can’t hang around chatting anymore.”
Don’t wait for a response. It’s possible, but unlikely that the person will say something like, “OK, have a nice day!” More likely is that they will ask you to hang on so they can give you a bunch of different pamphlets and other information on who you can get in touch with to learn more about their religion. The easiest way to get out of it is to offer your excuse and then walk away quickly. It may not be the most polite route, but it will get you out of the situation.
 If the person persists and doesn’t seem to be put off not matter what you say, simply walk away. Realize that they may still say things to you as you walk away and they may even start to be rude. Ignore these things. Realize that you are under no obligation to stand around listening to something you aren’t interested in hearing.


You may feel rude doing this, but you should remember that they are being rude by trying to force you to stand around listening even though you have already tried to politely decline.
 If the person seems to be acting unnecessarily aggressive towards you or towards others, notify the police. While it is not illegal in the USA to talk about your beliefs openly in public, it is illegal to harass people.If this person is threatening people or following them persistently even when they try to get away, this is harassment.
If the person physically assaults you or someone else, call 911 and inform them of the situation right away. If you can, try to get a picture of the person or video footage of the incident on your phone.

