 With this method, we'll use a sheet of paper to give our textbook a quick, easy, and affordable cover. To start, lay your paper on a flat surface, then open the book and lay it cover-down on the paper. The paper should extend beyond the book's edges. If it doesn't, your paper isn't big enough.


There are a wide variety of papers that are suitable for your cover. In general, thicker papers (such as construction paper) will provide the most protection, though decorative papers (such as wrapping paper) can be more visually appealing. (Later in the article there will be a discussion on how to decorate and strengthen paper covers.)
You can also use materials that are paper-like, such as wallpaper, Tyvek (often used for packaging), and duct tape (see below in the article).;
, Using a ruler, cut the paper so that it extends one to two inches or so to past long edges and about two to three inches past the short edges. This gives the cover enough material to stay seated around the book, but not so much that it will be awkward to work with., The "spine" is the hard part of the book in the middle of the cover where all the pages meet. Make two wedge- or triangle-shaped cuts in the middle of the long edges of your paper sheet that stretch to the edge of the book. These cuts should line up with both ends of the book's spine.


If you don't do this, you will run into problems in the next step when you fold the extra paper material over the edges of the cover. It is physically impossible to fold the paper over the pages themselves, so your paper cover will scrunch and eventually tear as you open and close the book.
 Pick either the front or back cover of your book to start making your cover. First, fold the longer edges of your paper over the book's cover so that they sit against it reasonably tight. Then, fold the four corners of the paper in so that they're aligned with the edges of the folds you just made. Finally, fold the shorter edge of your paper in to complete the cover.


Use pieces of tape to hold your work together as you go and to secure the cover once you are done folding.
 When you have finished taping one side of your new cover, close the book to hold it in place, open the opposite cover, and repeat the folding procedure exactly as above. Tape each fold as you go.


Congratulations! Your book cover is now complete. Anything you do to your cover after this point is completely optional.

One thing you may want to experiment with is laying a strip of tape along the spine while the book is closed. Generally, the spine is the part of the cover that receives the most wear, so protecting this with tape can prevent it from wearing out prematurely.
Taping the corners likewise helps eliminate a common wear point. It also has the advantage of making the cover stay on more securely to the book.


Sturdy tapes like packing tape or duct tape are best, though layered scotch or masking tape can work surprisingly well.
 Before taking your textbook to class, you may want to spruce up your plain, old boring cover. How you do this is up to you — as long as whatever you choose doesn't mark or damage your book, it's probably fair game. Below are just a few ideas — feel free to go wild with your own.


Drawings and doodles (take care not to use pens or markers that bleed through your cover)
Stickers
Duct tape designs
Negative-space designs (i.e., cutting some of the cover out in a decorative shape)
Cut-outs from magazines, advertisements, etc. Just cut and paste.
 Label your textbook on both the front and on the spine. Make each book cover distinctive in some way, such as different colors, decorations, or however works for you. When you are in a hurry, it is easy to confuse one textbook with another in your locker, backpack, or at home.

Include a way of reaching you if the book is lost, such as your school, a phone number or e-mail. If you leave your textbook somewhere, it is more likely to get to you or the school if the do-gooder who finds it can know how to get it to you.
Just be sure not to include any sensitive identifying information like an address or a student ID number.

