 Most orthostatic hypotension is mild and resolves on its own. When you feel lightheaded, sit or lie down until it passes. You can also get into a squat position and then slowly go back to a standing position. This is often the easiest way to ease your symptoms.Stand up slowly from sitting, lying down, or crouching.;
, Dehydration is a common cause of low blood pressure.In general, men should drink around 13 cups of water and other fluids daily (about 3 liters), and women should aim for 9 cups (2.2 liters).Drink more if you sweat a lot, work out, or live in a hot climate.

Drink extra fluids if you have diarrhea, vomiting, or a high fever. If you’re really nauseated, try sucking on ice chips or popsicles.
If you’re dizzy, quickly drink 2 8-ounce glasses of cold water., When you exercise or go outside in hot climates, you can sweat enough to get dehydrated and lower your blood pressure.Other than hydrating well, keep yourself cool when exercising or outdoors in the heat. Try the following:

Wear light-colored, loose-fitting clothing
Take frequent rest breaks to drink water and cool down
Acclimate yourself to hot environments by starting slow and increasing your activities gradually

, Salt raises your blood pressure, so if you don’t have high blood pressure, you can increase the amount of salt that you eat to 6-10 grams daily.Only do this with your doctor’s help, because too much salt can raise your blood pressure too high.

The ideal blood pressure is 120/80.
 This is especially helpful if you tend to get dizzy after you eat.Refrain from eating large amounts of bread and pasta, and focus on eating lean meats and fresh fruits and vegetables. Eat several smaller meals throughout the day instead of large meals., Alcohol can increase your risk for orthostatic hypotension.If you currently drink multiple alcoholic beverages in a day, start to cut back your drinking. Consult a doctor for help or gradually limit your consumption on your own., Getting at least 30 minutes of aerobic exercise 5 days a week has many health benefits, including lowering your risk of having orthostatic hypotension.Aim to walk, run, swim, bike, play a sport, or do another physical activity on most days of the week.

Talk to your doctor before starting a new exercise regimen if you’re not used to being active or have any medical conditions.
 Compression stockings are tight, knee-high socks that limit how much blood can pool in your legs. It can be helpful to wear them if you’re on your feet a lot, or if you often sit for a long time. Your doctor can probably give you a prescription for compression stockings.Abdominal binders can be used to accomplish a similar goal., Exercise your calf muscles before you get out of bed or stand up – squeeze the muscles tight and release them several times to improve blood flow. If you have to stand for a long time and start to feel dizzy, cross your legs like scissors and squeeze your thighs together to push blood from your legs to your heart.Try to avoid bending at the waist. Squat down to pick items up, instead.
Avoid crossing your legs when you’re sitting down., This can help if you have chronic orthostatic hypotension. Raise the head of your bed by 10-20° or about 4 inches (10 cm)., If you’re stuck in bed for a while due to illness or injury, you’ll probably get weaker. This can cause orthostatic hypotension when you try to stand up.Prepare for this and have someone help you stand and walk for a while, or keep something sturdy near your bed to hold onto. Try sitting up in bed regularly if you’re not allowed or able to stand.Consider working with a physical therapist who can help you regain your strength.

