 In addition to having regular sex, there are other things you can do to make your body more receptive to conception. You can take these steps regardless of how often you and your partner see one another. When you are trying to conceive, it is important to eat a healthy diet.A diet composed of fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, and grains can help ensure that your body functions properly. This includes your reproductive health.
3 months to a year before you plan to start trying to conceive, review your diet to see if you need to make any changes. Ask your doctor to help you if you have questions about proper nutrition.
Folic acid is an important nutrient for women. This nutrient is found in leafy greens (spinach), citrus fruits, and whole grains.
You should also aim to get plenty of calcium. Try to consume 1000 mg a day by drinking skim milk and eating dairy products such as low-fat cottage cheese.
Males should consume plenty of antioxidants, such as those found in berries. This can increase sperm health.
 Keeping your body healthy can increase your chances of conception. Make sure that you are exercising regularly to stay in good shape. Work with your doctor to determine your ideal weight.Try to get at least 30 minutes of physical activity in each day. Take a brisk walk or enjoy a yoga or spinning class.
Be careful not to overexercise. Women who have regularly exercise vigorously may stop ovulating. This usually only occurs with extreme regimens, such as training for a marathon.
Regular exercise can also benefit sperm health. Both partners should aim to be physically active in order to increase the chances of conception.
 There are many things that males can do to increase the odds of conception. Consider ways to make your sperm more healthy. For example, maintaining a healthy body weight helps your sperm be more productive.Avoid smoking and alcohol. Both of these can lower sperm counts, which decrease your odds of conception.
Cool off. Try to keep your scrotal area from being too warm. Avoid hot tubs and sitting too long. Loose fitting underwear may help mobility.
Avoid using lubricants during sex. Further research is needed, but it is possible that some products can impede fertility.
 When you are trying to conceive, that can seem like the most important thing in the world. But try to remember that your relationship with your partner is important on many levels. Make sure to continue to have conversations that don't revolve around ovulation.Conception can be stressful. If one of you needs a break from trying or discussing trying, that's ok. Just be open and honest about your needs.
Keep the romance alive. Try to schedule fun activities when you are together. For example, go to a movie or go bowling. Spend time doing things that don't involve sex.
Check in with each other. Make sure that you and your partner emotionally support one another on this journey.
 If you are having trouble conceiving, remember that you have options. Talk to your doctor and your partner about things that you can do. It is entirely possible you just might need more time.If you are having trouble conceiving naturally, your doctor can recommend several types of treatment. She might offer a course of drug therapy, for example.
There are other options available to you, such as surgical procedures and Assisted Reproductive Therapy.
There are many ways to grow your family, including adoption and foster care.

