 If it's almost square and about 5-inches (140 mm) long, it's obviously a CD. If it's sealed tight, don't try to open it—wrapping paper can tear very easily. Just think about saying anything to your parents about your favorite CD that you want, and that's probably what it is.


If it's a long rectangle that's not too deep, it might be clothes. If there is any gap in the paper, you might be able to see the color of the box, and at least figure out where they were shopping.
A box that is larger on the bottom, and has a really skinny top, is usually a game of some sort. If there's a second, smaller box taped to the the outside, it's probably batteries for the game.
If the box is about the size of a shoe box, the way to make sure is to feel around the sides of the box, near the top. If there's a lip, you can be pretty certain you have new shoes.
 Does it make any rattly noises, or can you feel something move inside when you shake? If it does, try to describe what you hear. If you hear chime sounds, it might be a music box; if you hear thumps, it could be something inside something else. If you hear broken glass, put the box down!

, Parents are tricky—often times, they will put a small box inside a larger box, especially if the shape of the small box would give up the secret of what's inside.


If the box is large, but is not very heavy, you can be pretty sure it's not packed with clothing, books, or other weighty things.
Truly clever parents will nest smaller boxes inside larger boxes if they catch you snooping. You'll open one box, and find another and then another. Your Big Present may actually turn out to be a gag gift, like a magic decoder ring, or some other silly stocking stuffer.
 If the paper wrapping the present is slick and shiny, you can try peeling off the taped ends. Take great caution with this—wrapping paper tears easily, and unless you have more, you could ruin your sleuthing expedition.


Peel off one end only, if you can. If you manage to loosen up one end, you'll be able to get a peek at the sides of your present.
 Referring to your snapshots, return everything to its original position, seal up any presents you opened and have a Merry Christmas!

