 Habits like smoking, excessive drinking, and shopping are all behaviors that can burn a hole into your wallet if you don't monitor your spending. If you're serious about saving, cut down on store-bought coffee too – limit it to say, once a week. It is said that the habits you form in college set the tone for the rest of your life.Cigarettes and alcoholic drinks are expensive. If you can manage to cut these lifestyle choices, you will find saving much easier. To do this, you may have to surround yourself with like-minded friends.
Remember – your friends influence how you behave, and vice versa. If you want to form healthy habits, apart from having a strong will of your own, you'll also need good friends to encourage you along the way.;
, Whenever you have several bills of small denominations, try to exchange them for one larger one – for instance trade out twenty one-dollar bills for one twenty-dollar bill. This may help remind you that you're spending real, significant money. Many people are happy to hand off dollar notes, but think twice before coughing up a twenty. Thus, dealing in larger notes can help you be aware of your spending., Learn to cook. Try to buy food in bulk – grains and vegetables are great staples. Eating out can quickly eat up your savings, even if you're just living off of fast food. Do what's best for your health and your wealth.Consider preparing the week's meals in advance. Set a "food prep" day—say, every Sunday—on which you make a large amount of something that will keep well throughout the week. Soups, rice dishes, and breads are good for this. If you cook it and store in a fridge, it will last longer than it does fresh.
Groceries, especially fresh fruit and vegetables, are sometimes sold at lower prices at certain times: stores try to get rid of food that is not fresh enough to sell, but still has a few days in it. Learn when those times are, and stock up on good, healthy stuff.
Dine out as an occasional treat, not as a matter of course. Spend your money on a truly worthwhile dinner every now and then, rather than fast food every night.
Fill up on free samples when you go to the grocery store. Learn which stores (Costco, for instance) have daily samples, and take this opportunity to treat yourself to a free meal while you shop.
 It can be expensive to buy gifts for all of your friends and family on birthdays and holidays. If you're in a relationship, you may be expected to give even more gifts. Save some cash by getting creative and making gifts, instead of buying them.
 Check they are not damaged or unsuitable for open book exams, and make sure that each textbook is the version that the rest of the class is using. Your school bookstore might sell used textbooks, or you can browse used textbook retailers online. Try checking Craiglist for textbooks deals in your area. Sell back your textbooks when you're done with them.Consider simply borrowing textbooks. Share with a friend or use a library copy. You won't have the same unrestricted access that you would if you bought the book, but it will be much cheaper!
Some textbook shops have membership discounts. Get those if they appear cost effective, i.e. $10 lifetime membership for 10% of all textbooks, and your first textbook is $100 or more, membership has paid for itself.
 This is not to say that you shouldn't splurge on a once-in-a-lifetime show – but most college towns are full of interesting events, shows, and gatherings that won't cost you a cent. Look for coupons, Groupons, and discounts. Read bulletins about local bands and shows. Join student clubs that offer opportunities to explore your interests on a budget. Many campus events offer free food.
 If you live very far from your college, and you need to commute, consider whether you can carpool or take public transportation. Consider buying a bicycle (you can often get them used for much cheaper!) or walking to class. Some colleges include a local bus pass as part of the price of admission. Find out whether your school offers any transportation subsidies, and use them to your advantage.


If you have a friend who goes to school at the same time as you, try to set up a ride-share situation. Split gas and burn less fuel. You can also use a number of carpool websites to find fellow commuters online.
Consider which of these options will be most sustainable in the long term. Draw your cues from how other people get around your college. If the area is very bicycle friendly, you may want to buy a bike.

