 You can raise your voice, but avoid yelling at your children. You will find that you are becoming more upset than they are. Instead, use a stern but level tone that indicates you are not pleased. This will demonstrate that you are in control.If you are upset, angry, or unable to keep calm, do not discipline your child yet. Find a quiet, safe room where you can become level-headed first. With very young children, however, you may need to discipline them immediately.
 Effective discipline shows children that their actions have consequences. This will prepare them for the difficult choices they may have to make later in life. There are two types of consequence-based punishment. These are:



Logical Consequences: When your children break a rule, you create a consequence by punishing them.This is effective on young children under the age of five who might not yet realize the effect of their actions.For example, if your toddler throws a tantrum, put them in time-out.

Natural consequences: In non-dangerous situations, you let your children make a mistake and learn from the consequences that occur as a result.You can start doing this when your child is a toddler up through their teens. For example, if an older child does not do their homework, do not help them with it. Instead, let them get in trouble at school. After school, discuss with them the effect of their actions, and let them know that you expect better from them in the future., If your children consistently break the rules, you should take away something they enjoy for a brief period of time. Do this immediately after they break the rule.Only take away the privilege for a certain period of time. When you return it, make it clear that if they do not behave, it will be taken again.


For younger children, you might threaten to take away a bedtime story or morning cartoons.
Older children might respond better if you temporarily take away a video game console or TV time.
If you have a teenager, you might want to take away their phone, chargers, or internet access for non-school related matters.Never take away something the child needs. For example, do not take away meals.While you might sometimes put your child in time-outs during special events, make sure that your child can still socialize, even when they misbehave. Childhood is an important time to learn social skills.
 Set a certain area in your house to be the official “time out” spot. Warn your children that they will be put there if they do not follow the rules. When they do get sent there, set a time limit. One minute per year of age is a good measure. Do not let them leave before the time is up., For teenagers, being grounded is the social equivalent of time out. You have taken away their ability to go out with friends. This can be effective to discipline your teenager if done correctly. Set a reasonable time period that they will be grounded for. They should not be grounded for more than a few days.If your teenager has a birthday party or a dance coming up, warn them that their bad behavior may prevent them from going.If they want to go, they will have to make it up to you, either by taking on more chores or writing an apologetic letter to you.
Do not strip away all of their privileges at once. You may find your teenager is acting out more because they have nothing left to lose.