 If your partner criticizes or belittles you frequently, you might suffer from lowered self-esteem and depression. In a healthy relationship, both partners encourage one another and respect each other’s feelings.For instance, if your girlfriend makes fun of your job and never talks to you before making decisions that affect both of you, you’re likely to become depressed in your relationship.
 Ask yourself whether your partner loves and accepts you the way you are, or if you have to pretend to be someone you’re not around them. A relationship that robs you of your identity can contribute to the development of depression.If your partner expects you to watch the same shows, listen to the same music, and share the same opinions as them, it may be time to re-evaluate whether your relationship is good for you.
 Do you and your partner go new places, try new things, and make new memories on a regular basis? A stagnating relationship with no room for growth can make you miserable.One sign of a stagnant relationship is that you and your partner no longer have anything to talk about.
 Compare your goals for the future with your partner’s and consider whether your plans are compatible. If they’re not, or if you and your partner never get around to talking about the future at all, your relationship might be negatively impacting your happiness.For instance, if you want to move in together and your partner doesn’t, you might become depressed about the relationship.
 Look back over the last few months and assess whether or not your or your partner's interest in sex has decreased. Loss of libido is a sign of depression and can have a major effect on your relationship. In addition, some depression medications can cause you to lose interest in sex.If something is up with your sex life (loss of interest in sex, loss of pleasure, or taking longer to climax), it may be a sign of depression.


On top of that, sexual difficulties within the relationship may cause you to feel depressed — if your partner is depressed and not interested in sex, for instance, you may feel as though they no longer desire you. This can put a serious strain on the relationship and your emotional wellbeing.
 If you’re worried about an aspect of your relationship, bring it up with your partner. Explain your feelings and ask if they’re willing to help you resolve the issue. An honest discussion may put your mind at ease — or it may make you realize that you’d be happier if you moved on.Avoid making accusations or putting your partner on the defensive. Keep in mind that they might not perceive the problem the same way you do, or even realize you’re unhappy.
Adopt a constructive attitude. Focus on working together to find solutions, instead of just presenting your partner with a rundown of relationship problems.
 If your relationship is marked by codependency and/or abuse, it can be making you depressed without you being aware. It's important to know the signs of codependency or emotional abuse in relationships and get help.



Codependency basically describes one-sided relationships in which one partner constantly gives at the expense of self in order to fulfill the other partner. This may be marked by clinginess, emotional manipulation, the absence of boundaries, and poor self-esteem.Abuse in relationships doesn't have to involve physical assault. Emotional abuse is an often overlooked problem in relationships. It can be spotted by one partner persistently criticizing or belittling the other, failing to respect privacy or personal boundaries, being jealous of other relationships like close friendships, blocking productive communication and using guilt trips to get one's way.
If you notice signs of codependency and/or emotional abuse in your relationship, you should see a mental health therapist right away.
If you are in an abusive relationship and fear for your safety, reach out for help from friends and family. You can call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-SAFE (7233) or 1-800-787-3224, who will help you find support and a safe place to stay if necessary.
 If you and your partner are both committed to fixing the problems in your relationship, attend a few counseling sessions together. A counselor will help you work through your issues and learn to communicate with each other more effectively., If you are in an unhealthy relationship and there are no signs of things changing, or if you have tried counseling and it has not helped, then it may be time to end the relationship.

