 The first matter you must pay attention to even before learning any part of the Qur'an is your intention,(remember- good intentions have good outcomes). Make sure that your intention is solely to obtain the pleasure of Allah SWT, and that with His glorious mercy you will be rewarded in the Hereafter, InshaAllah. If you are memorizing the Qur'an so that you can receive the title 'Hafiz' and be respected in society's eyes then this act of memorizing the Qur'an will harm you rather than do you any good. So correct your intention and during the course of memorizing the Qur'an continue to remind yourself that you are doing this to please Allah.;
, The more frequently you sit down to learn the Qur'an, the easier it will become, InshAllah. It is very essential to be consistent to the extent that you should try not to skip even a day. There should be no Weekend or break in worship if you find pleasure in learning. During the initial stages of memorizing the Qur'an one should memorize about 3 lines, 5 is ideal. If you continue like this and build up slowly then InshAllah you will be able to learn a page and thereafter two pages a day. It is also recommended that one join a class where other students to gather to memorize the Qur'an and where a teacher is present to listen to your memorized recitation. Being in this environment helps in many ways; it will keep you on track and motivate you when Shaitaan tries to lead you astray.
 Write down suitable times for you when you can sit down to memorize. It is preferable to sit at Fajr when you awake for Salah as at this time your mind is fresh making it easier to learn. Also, you are starting your day with the blessed deed of reciting the holy book of Allah so InshAllah, your actions too will be blessed for the day to come.
 Have a specific place where you go. Memorize in a quiet place so that you are not distracted. The best place is at a Mosque.
 Get a friend, a family member to listen to your recitation every day if you do not attend a class. Ideally, get someone who is also memorizing to create a peer pressure system.
 It is extremely necessary to know that while being a Hafiz has many benefits and rewards, it is a grave sin to memorize a portion of the Qur'an and then to forget it. To stop this from happening continue revising recent passages you have learned. Also revise from the beginning so that whilst you are learning ahead you do not forget the first parts.
 Do not jump from one surah to another. Learning the Qur'an in the order it is will give you the satisfaction of completing a para. This will push you forward and help you in overall completing the Qur'an memorization.
 Try practicing and repeating your ayahs for a few minutes rather before or after prayer times.