 It usually takes three to six days after being initially infected before you begin to show symptoms of infection. While symptoms do not always present themselves in this order, fever is often the first sign of HFMD infection.If you believe you have been exposed to the virus, look for signs of fever over the course of the next week.
Seek medical attention if your fever exceeds 102 degrees Fahrenheit.
Fevers can be particularly dangerous for young children. Check a child's temperature often to ensure it doesn’t get too high.
 After the fever, you may develop painful blister-like lesions inside your mouth. This is usually the most significant evidence of HFMD infection, though there are other illnesses that could feasibly cause similar lesions.Blister-like lesions will appear on the tongue, gums, and inside the cheeks.
Skin lesions may also appear on your hands, feet, legs, arms, and buttocks. Much less commonly, there may be skin lesions on your torso and face.
Lesions may make swallowing painful, but it’s important to stay well hydrated.
Do not pop the blisters or let your children do so if they’re infected. The fluid inside is contagious and may spread the illness.
 While the fever is usually the first to present itself, it is not the last indicator of HFMD infection. There are a number of other symptoms associated with the illness and though they may not all present themselves, noticing any of these symptoms is good reason to make an appointment with your doctor:Sore Throat
Loss of energy and feeling generally unwell
Loss of appetite
Red rash that doesn’t itch on the palms, soles of feet and buttocks.
 Sometimes HFMD infection can cause more serious health issues so it’s important to keep your eye out for more significant issues if you believe you or someone you know has been infected with HFMD. Seek immediate medical attention if you see or experience any of the following:Inability to urinate
Trouble moving a portion of or your entire body
Coughing up pink, foamy spit
Unusually high heart rate for an extended amount of time

