


When going to school you want to be comfortable in your body. This means being healthily active and exercising. Please don't mistake this step by going on crazy starvation diets. Don't do that. Go outside play sports, run, do yoga/Pilates or anything active. Do a bit of everything every day. This way you will look good and healthy.;
, Stop drinking carbonated drinks and cut out the gum chewing. Research shows that there are ingredients in bubble/chewing gum that give cancer. Also chewing gum leads to bloating which is not attractive or healthy. Water is the best thing you can drink. Every 45 kg you weigh, 27 kg is water; that's more than half.
 The more sleep you get the better. Take a bath/shower around 20 minutes before you go to sleep as that will help you get a better night of sleep. The worst thing you need when you go to school is puffy dark circles under your eyes. No matter how much product you put on the best natural thing is sleep.
 There is no point to start off the year by not completing any homework. Not good. So finish it off and make sure it's at its best quality. You'll get extra points by giving in good home work. Remember, first impressions count.
, This stands for Cleansing, Toning and Moisturizing. These steps are incredibly important. Cleanse by using a mild and refreshing face wash. Never use bar soap or shower gel. This is too harsh for the face. There are a lot of good brands like Clean and Clear, Neutrogena or Nivea etc etc. However a really simple mild wash would be Johnson's Baby Wash. That soap is incredibly mild and very gentle to the face yet gives it a very refreshed feeling. Toning is really important as well. Find a toner that matches your skin type. This method is usually skipped out but is actually very important. Buy a good moisturizer as this is the part which keeps your face not feeling dry and smooth.
 Never ever go into a tanning bed. Tanning beds can lead to skin cancer and all sorts of pigmentation. Experimenting with different self tanners can be fun but remember to do this a couple of weeks before. You don't want to stink or look like an Oompa Loompa. The best way would be to get a sun tan but remember to slap on Sun Cream that has around SPF 40. You could try putting on some tanning oil to get a nice even tan.


For girls with a darker complexion, try lemon juice over your face and darker areas on your body like your knees, elbows and arms.
 Wax or shave your legs or arms/underarms. For your face, it's best to thread or bleach. You could also use hair removing creams, but make sure you read the instructions on the packet. When shaving, try putting on some oil to avoid cuts.
 Sexy styles for school could be great. You don't want to get a cut that's hard to manage or extremely complicated. Go for something different yet simple. This shows that you don't spend hours to look good yet gives you a feminine touch to show you care about the way you look. Try to stay in your natural hair colour but if you must try a colour that is slightly similar to your natural hair colour. For example if you have brown hair go for a deep red colour. Don't get blonde highlights in black hair or anything that bold.
 Or you could go out now. On the other hand you could call a friend or ask some one else to give your nails a professional treat.
 Your spa time for school can be awesome. Do this the day before school starts. Naturally giving yourself a little bit of pampering is no crime. All organic and nothing chemical or product-y, can make a better difference then going to expensive spas and using rare products.
 When taking the bath do not wash your hair yet.
 Then use the body brush to gently massage of all the dead skin. While you're in there shave quickly to get rid of anything that would have grown. Be gentle to your under arms though. Pluck your eyebrows/chin/upper lips as well as the steam would have opened your pores; then it won't hurt as much.


A good toner for the body would be rose water. Apply some to your body and moisturize.
 Using a wide tooth comb, comb your hair back and turn on the kettle.
 Take a blanket and put it over your head and the bowl. The steam should clear the pores and turn your face a healthy shade of red, like you have just been exercising. After 15 minutes take off the blanket and discard the water.
 NEVER RUB. Then make a natural facial only. Don't use any products. Make a facial out of honey and banana or search one up for your skin type. Keep it for around 10-15 minutes. Put cucumber slices on your eyes and listen to music. Wash it off and plump your face by putting ice in a sealable bag and gently massage.
 When you finish wait 5 minutes and brush your teeth with a fluoride toothpaste.
 Rub it all over your lips and try not to eat it. Rub the sugar granules all over the lips and wipe it off with a damp tissue. Rub the lips with a bit of Vaseline Jelly.
 It sounds really gross, but it actually works. Keep it on for one hour and wash it off with Shampoo and Conditioner. Use a nice medical shampoo and conditioner like Thursdays Plantation or Rausch to really get rid of every thing and clean the hair. Then use a conditioner of a really nice smell. For example you could use Herbal Essences or L'oreal. When you get out of the shower finish it off with a burst of cold water to close the roots and give a nice shine.
 Shopping 3 weeks before can be better than doing it the day before, as it could get extremely busy and uniform shops might be out of stock. So it's best to do this before.
 Make sure the shirts are comfortable sized and looks a little bit tight to flaunt out your figure. Buy everything properly; if your list says black socks make sure its black and not navy blue. The perfect uniform can make you look like a proud student and teachers will approve that. This does not mean you buy every little thing that's for school. Less is more as in a simple jumper and normal socks and maybe just simple pumps or dabs will do. Don't go for the nursery looking school shoes or anything.
 Small eye-catching studs, thin bracelets and a fashionable watch should do. Don't go for anything else like a neck lace or anything or you might get into trouble.
 Here is a very detailed list of things you will need:


HB pencils/ 1 mechanical pencil, 1 eraser, 1 sharpener, 1 pair of scissors, 1 glue stick, 1 15⁄30 centimeter (0.6 in) ruler, 2 ball pens, 1 ink pen, 10 paper clips, Mini Stapler, Post Its, Binder, Highlighters,Calculator, Geometry Set, Labels, Felt Tips, Colour Pencils, All Books, Text Books, School Planner and Reading Book, School Bag, Pencil Case. Or your school should give you a list of things you will need to buy.
, Eat a healthy dinner including starch. (athletes usually eat starch before they do their thing so that they will have energy the whole day)

, When you have checked, make sure your alarm is on at the right time and have a good nights sleep.
 Once you've woken up do a couple of stretches to get make sure your body is fit for the day. Once you've finished go brush your teeth and take a shower. Wash every inch of your body and wash your hair in cold water the whole way. Don't shampoo or condition your hair as you did that yesterday.
 Go make breakfast and EAT IT. Don't forget that. Once you've finished make sure your lunch is made and start to get ready. Make sure you have not put on your uniform on yet. Blow dry your hair if you are. Make sure you use a heat protectant. From there decide what you want to do. While you think put on your uniform. If you are going straighten/curl/crimp/whatever your hair do it carefully to make it perfect and not burn your self.
 Now it's school, not a fashion show, so always think neutral. No funky colours or anything. This is just to redefine your looks. So start by applying tinted moisturizer (better than foundation). Make sure its evenly applied not only on your face but your neck and a bit of your decolletage. then take a concealer and apply it under your eyes, around the nose and at the end of your lips.
 Take a big make up brush and just blend it all in perfectly. Starting with your eyes, apply some light brown or charcoal grey eyeliner on your waterline. This helps to bring out a bit of definition on your eyes. Instead of applying eyeshadow, put on some bronzer lightly on your eyelids and blend well. Then curl your lashes and apply 2 thin coats of mascara. That's the eyes. Take a bit of bronzer and apply to your cheeks and very lightly on your T-zone. If you would like apply a little bit of blusher as well. A cream blusher would be the best. Last but not least add a bit of flavoured lip balm to finish of.


Applying this much makeup would be good just for a couple of the first days. Then you can narrow it down just to mascara, concealer, bronzer and lip balm.
 In a small bag keep lip balm, wipes and mints to keep clean and happy. Put on your jewelry. Check around and make sure you have taken everything. This can include your phone/iPod etc.
 You want to do well in class and participate. Not only is school there for looking good a impressing boys but also to learn something new, make friends and be happy. So be friendly say hi to everyone be polite and try to do this until the very end of the year. It won't take that much of hard work just a bit determination and will-power.

