 Making a man feel like he has a great sense of humor is sure to boost his ego. You might have different senses of humor, but don’t resist laughing when he does or says something genuinely funny. Don’t force fake laughter because that may make him feel like you pity him. Also, don’t laugh at him when he falls or does something unintentionally funny.


Say something like “you’re hilarious” when he cracks a joke.
 Make your man feel like you can’t take your eyes off of him. This works especially well when you’re in a room full of people that could easily get you attention. Don’t stare at him the whole time. This might make him feel like you’re tracking his movements. Instead, smile at him or wink at him a couple of times when you’re separated., Outside of complimenting his appearance, show him what qualities he has that you find attractive. Let him know when he’s doing something that turns you on. Tell him that he’s looking too good to resist. Don’t be afraid to show your desire for him.Before he leaves for the day, say “Wow! You’re looking extra handsome today! But I also said that yesterday because you always look great.”

, It will make him feel good to know that you can’t stop thinking of him when you’re apart. Don’t bombard him with texts all day because that could get annoying. One or two texts will be enough. You can say something as simple as “thinking of you.” Or, you could tell him how much you want him.Send him a text that says “Can’t wait until I see you tonight.” Suggest that you’re going to help him relieve the stress of a long day.
You could send a text telling him that you can’t stop thinking about the amazing time you had together last night.
 Physically show your man that you can’t resist him by being the one that initiates intimacy. It doesn’t necessarily have to be sexual. You could give him extra kisses, hugs, and cuddles. But, it’s also a good idea to seduce him if you feel comfortable with it.You could take this up a notch by wearing lingerie or indulging in one of his fantasies.

