 Dogs that have painful hips take shortened steps and tend to hold their rear legs farther forward under their bellies. This can lead to ‘bunny hopping’, which means your dog is holding his back legs together and hopping rather than running in long strides like normal. Watch your dog to see if he:


Swivels his hips a lot when he walks.
Holds his back legs together so that when he walks his back legs hop in a bunny-like fashion.
Limps or has other abnormal movements.
Tips over easily.;
, Pain caused by hip dysplasia can get worse the longer your dog remains in a resting position. This is particularly true in the morning after your dog has slept all night.Because of this, you might notice that your dog:


Hesitates to lie down if he is standing up.
Has a harder time getting up if he is lying down.
Seems stiffer in the morning or when the weather is cold.
 A reduced amount of physical activity is one of the most common signs of pain caused by hip dysplasia.All dogs slow down as they get older, but a decrease in activity should not occur until your dog is an advanced age. If your dog is not ill or overweight, he should maintain roughly the same activity levels from when he turns one to well into his mature years. Look for:


A lack of interest in going on runs or doing other physical activities with you.
Lying down rather than running around in the backyard.
Getting tired more easily when playing fetch.
Preferring to sit rather than stand and walk when on the leash.
 The term ‘creaking bones’ can be applied to a dog with hip dysplasia. You might notice a clicking sound when your dog moves. This is his bones clicking and loosening up. Listen for this noise when:


Your dog gets up after lying down for a while.
Walks.
Runs.
 You might notice that your dog suddenly has a harder time, or is hesitant to climb, stairs that he has never had a hard time navigating in the past. This is because hip dysplasia makes it harder for your dog to climb up stairs or walk up slopes, as his back legs are stiff and he can’t control them as well as he used to.
 Inactive dogs who can’t move they want to can get bored. To pass the time, they tend to lick and groom themselves more often than normal. If you notice that your dog is spending more time grooming himself, check him for rashes or hair loss, as both of these things can be caused by excessive grooming. In particular check:


Your dog’s hips.
Your dog’s flanks.
Your dog’s legs.
 Inactive dogs often develop bed sores or calluses in areas on their body that bear the most pressure and have the least padding. This problem gets worse if the dog is constantly lying on hard floors. Check your dog’s:


Elbows.
Points on the hip.
Shoulders.
 As your dog stops using his back legs as much, it is likely that he will lose some of the muscle mass in his back legs. This condition is called atrophy. Feel along your dog’s back legs for things like:


Being able to feel his bones more easily.
Less muscle definition and tone.
Sunken-in hips.

