 The rod will need sturdiness in the lower half to handle the weight of a pike, but be nimble in the top half for accurate casting.;
, Monofilament strength should be at least 20 pound test. For braid, you'll have to go up to 50 pound test.
 They are dependable whether you're fly fishing near the shoreline or casting from a boat.
 Wire leaders are essential to prevent a pike's numerous, sharp teeth from severing your line.
 Pike are predators and seek out live fish. Small fish such as minnows are good for smaller pike. If you're fishing for large pike, increase the size of your bait accordingly. Pike like to feed on fish that are 1/3 the size of their length but can and will feed on smaller fish.
 Pike are also scavengers and will feed on dead fish. For best results, use fatty fish such as herring, sardines and mackerel. Or, insert or inject your bait with fish oil.
 If you don't want to handle live or dead bait, or they just aren't working, a spoon lure is a very effective alternative.
 They all work well for pike, and open up your baiting strategies.
 The mouth of a stream or river, or channels between islands are also popular pike habitats.
 Walleye are one of pike's favorite prey. Find the walleye and pike will be there, too.
 Big pike move into the shallows in the spring to spawn in weedy areas. The quick motion and bright flies of fly fishing are conducive to a pike's aggressive nature, making them more likely to strike.


Be far enough from your target area that you can cast without alerting the fish of your presence.
Be prepared for a strike at the last second. Pike have been known to break the surface of the water going after a fly.
 Larger female pike move to deeper waters during the less active months of summer.


Keep checking for rod vibrations. They indicate a pike has or is about to bite the bait.
When the line vibrates, give the rod a fairly good tug. This "sets" the hook in the pike's mouth.
If the hook does not set, let the bait sit. Pike are know to hit and let go several times before the bait is taken.
Be prepared for a fight. Pike are very quick, strong and aggressive. Combined with their weight and size, landing a pike can become quite physical.
 Hold it firmly between your knees.
 Let them slide towards the chin, following the triangular shape of the gill and jaw.
 Once you have it, gently lift the pike’s head upwards. The pike's mouth will open naturally.
,,, This usually takes a few minutes.
 Be absolutely sure it is fully recovered before releasing it.

