 If you do not have a peanut allergy, peanut butter has a number of health benefits. Peanuts boost your metabolism and help keep you satiated after you eat, which can help you avoid weight gain. They are also a great source of protein, which boosts your energy, keeps you going all day, and regulates your blood sugar.Peanuts are a great source of B vitamins, copper, manganese, protein, molybdenum, phosphorus, and vitamin E.However, these health benefits only apply to peanut butters that do not contain added sugars or fats.
 Although less common in your grocery aisle, walnut butter is one of the healthiest spreads you can eat. Walnuts have the highest amount of omega-3 fatty acids among the nuts, which will help ease the pain and discomfort of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, such as Crohn’s disease, lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. Walnut butter also has high levels of antioxidants that improve your heart health by decreasing blood cholesterol, improving blood flow, and reducing inflammation.Walnuts are a great source of copper, manganese, molybdenum, biotin, B vitamins, protein, and monounsaturated fats., Among the nuts, almonds are the highest in fiber and the lowest in saturated fats. Because of this, almond consumption is linked to a reduced risk of coronary heart disease. Almonds also contain fifty percent of your daily value of Vitamin E, which helps keep your heart healthy, along with your skin and hair.Almonds are high in B vitamins, vitamin E, manganese, copper, phosphorus, magnesium, molybdenum, monounsaturated fats, fiber, and protein., If you suffer from diabetes, eating pistachio butter may help decrease glucose spikes. Because pistachios are high in the antioxidant lutein, consuming them is also linked to decreases in bad cholesterol (LDL and triglycerides) and an increase in good cholesterol (HDL). Decreased levels of LDL cholesterol lowers your risk of developing heart disease.Pistachios are a great source of copper, vitamin B6, manganese, phosphorus, and thiamin.
 Cashews contain high levels of monosaturated fats that have been linked to low levels and LDL and high levels of HDL cholesterol. This is associated with a decreased risk of heart disease. However, cashews are high in calories, which make them a less appealing option for those looking to lose weight.Cashew butter is great source of manganese, potassium, copper, iron, magnesium, zinc, and selenium.

