 To do so, just hold down the laptop's power button. If the liquid touches the circuits on the laptop while they are active, your laptop will most likely short out, so time is very much of the essence.To disconnect the laptop from a power source, simply remove the charger cable from the laptop. It's typically on the left or right side of the laptop's housing.;
, This will both minimize your laptop's exposure to more liquid and decrease the risk of electrical shock.
 You can typically do this by turning your laptop upside-down, sliding a panel off of the bottom of the laptop, and gently tugging on the battery.


This step is not possible on a MacBook without first unscrewing the bottom of the laptop from the rest of the housing.
 This includes the following items:


USB devices (flash drives, wireless adapters, chargers, etc)
Memory cards
Controllers (e.g., your mouse)
The laptop charger

, This is where you'll place your laptop for the next couple of days, so make sure you choose a warm, dry, unobtrusive area.
 Depending on your laptop's flexibility, doing so will result in anything from a tent-shaped laptop to a completely flat one.
 Places to wipe include the fronts and backs of the screen, the laptop's housing, and the keyboard.


Make sure your laptop is still partially facing down while you do this so that any excess liquid continues to drain.
 Grounding yourself will remove any static electricity from your clothing or body. Static electricity can easily kill circuitry, so performing this step before touching the RAM cards or the hard drive is crucial.
 If you're uncomfortable or unfamiliar with the notion of removing RAM, your computer's hard drive, and other detachable internal components, consider taking your laptop into a professional repair service instead.


You can typically find manuals for your specific computer that detail hardware replacement and removal online. Simply search for your computer's make and model number followed by "RAM removal" (or whichever component you need to remove).
For a MacBook, you'll first have to unscrew each of the ten screws holding the base of the housing together.
 To do this, you will need a microfiber cloth (or an otherwise lint-free rag).


If there is excess water in your laptop's internal areas, first drain it.
Be extremely gentle while doing this.
 Use a lint-free cloth to gently buff out any non-water stains, or use compressed air to blow away dust, grit, and other non-liquid residue.
 You'll want to leave it alone for at least one day.Consider storing your laptop in a dry, warm place. For example, a dehumidifier may improve drying time.
Never use a hair dryer to speed up your laptop's drying process, as a hair dryer's heat concentration is intense enough to harm your laptop's internal parts.
 If it doesn't boot up or you notice distortion in the sound or display, you'll need to take your laptop to a professional repair service (e.g., a Best Buy tech department).
 Even if your laptop is up and running, you may have to contend with sticky or greasy substance left over. You can remove this residue by gently buffing the afflicted area with a damp, lint-free cloth like you used earlier when drying the laptop.

