 Federal financial aid is almost always a better option than private lending, and this is especially true if you have a bad credit. The government does not consider your credit score for most forms of aid; rather, they award you grants and loans based on need alone. They do look at your credit history, but are much more forgiving than a private lender. If you have already borrowed as much as you can from the federal government, and you cannot cut your costs, you may have to look into private funding.


Some programs, such as study abroad, may need to be paid for partially through private loans if they cost significantly more than a semester's tuition at your college.
 Although requirements may vary from lender to lender, most institutions require you to be a U.S. citizen, a U.S. national, or a U.S. permanent resident. Additionally, you typically need to attend an accredited institution at least half time; lenders won’t usually loan you money to take only a course or two each term.
 Under federal law, you are entitled to request one free credit report every year from each of the three main agencies: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. Rather than contacting these agencies directly, you’ll need to go to annualcreditreport.com and submit the Annual Credit Report Request Form.If you want to review your credit reports from these agencies more than once per year, you’ll have to go to each individual agency’s website and purchase the extra reports.
 As long as you submitted the Annual Credit Report Request Form online, you’ll be able to view your reports right away (you may have to wait up to 15 days if you ordered by mail or phone). Read your reports carefully; if you notice any errors, you can dispute them by contacting the appropriate agency or even better, the store or bank you originally did business with., The free credit reports you get from annualcreditreport.com do not include your credit score, but it's important that you have this information before applying for a private loan. If you want to obtain your credit score, your bank may offer this service or for other sources visit Check Your Credit Score.


Credit scores range from 300 to 850. In general, a credit score over 750 is excellent and will qualify you for loans and lines of credit with the best terms. If your score is under 620, you are considered a high-risk borrower, and you may have trouble securing private student loans without help.
If your score is lower than you expected it to be, check your credit reports. Sometimes errors are made that unfairly impact your credit score. You can contact the credit bureaus to resolve these errors.
 Private loans are, in the long term, more expensive than federal financial aid, and you’ll have fewer options for deferring or consolidating your payments after you graduate. You don’t want to risk further damage to your credit by borrowing money you will never be able to pay back. Resist the urge to apply for more than you need.
 There are a variety of private student loans available from banks, credit unions, and other lenders, but you don’t want to start applying without doing some research. Consider using websites like Student Loan Analytics to compare products, and beware of advertisements telling you that you can qualify for lots of money regardless of your credit – these tend to be scams or, at best, loans with terrible interest rates.As you shop around, pay particular attention to interest rates, repayment terms, credit requirements, the amount of money you can borrow, and regulations concerning how the money can be used.
 If your credit is less than stellar, it will be very difficult to get a private student loan in your own name – and almost impossible to get one with decent terms and a moderate interest rate. Therefore, consider finding someone with better credit (a parent, perhaps, or another relative) to cosign the loan with you.


Make sure that your cosigner is fully aware of his or her obligations. Cosigning involves a very high level of responsibility. If you don’t make your payments after graduation, the cosigner could wind up having to pay or damage his or her credit.
Private student loans are almost never discharged by bankruptcy. Borrowing more than you need could mean your elderly parents are paying the loans well into their retirement. Exhaust all other sources of financial aid before borrowing private student loans, and then, borrow only what you truly need.
 Once you’ve found a lender who seems promising, apply for the loan. In most cases, you can fill out all the necessary paperwork online.


Be sure you are applying for a designated student loan, not simply a personal loan. In most cases, you can wait to make payments on a student loan until after you are finished with school. This isn’t the case with personal loans – you’ll have to make payments right away. If your budget won’t allow for that, stick to loans for students.
 If you qualify for the loan, don’t accept it until you have read the fine print. Know what the interest rate is, when you’ll have to start making payments, and how the money can be used.

