 Consent means that she can legally agree to sexual activity.Sexual activity includes anal, vaginal, and oral sex, as well as touching, watching porn, kissing, or showing parts of the body. She can only give consent if she is sober, awake, and mentally able. Someone who is drunk, high, passed out, or mentally incapacitated cannot give consent.


Consent must be freely given. Someone who is being pressured cannot give consent. If she is scared of you, or someone else is pressuring her, or if you are older, or if you have any power over her, she cannot give consent.
If you are more than two years older or younger than her, it may be illegal for you to make a move on her, or for her to make a move on you.Check the laws of age of consent in your state before you make a move on someone who isn't your age.
 Once she has given verbal consent (from "yes!" to "absolutely! yes! totally! that's what I want!"), check for physical signs and listen to her tone of voice. She should initiate sexual activity, respond to your touch, and seem relaxed and excited. If she does not respond, she might not actually be into it. If she turns away or moves away from you in any way, she might be telling you "no."Stop immediately if she gives any signs of withdrawing consent.
If she seems hesitant, but says she is ready, try going slowly.
Make a game of it. Take turns initiating touch, or have her tell you what to do.
 Before you kiss, touch, or otherwise make a move on someone, ask if they would like you to do it. This can be awkward, but it can also be fun, and it can save you both from a really bad experience. Once you know she likes you, you can ask in a sexy way.


For instance, say "May I kiss you?" "Can I hold you?" "I'd like to touch you there. Would you like that?"
Remember, consent can be withdrawn any time. If she said "yes" to one thing, it doesn't mean "yes every time" or "yes to everything else." Keep checking in.
 Once you have done something new, ask how it feels. Say "does that feel good?" or "do you like that" or "should I keep going?" Even when you're doing something you've done before, it's good to check in. Something that feels good one day might not feel good the next., Take no for an answer. If she says no, back off. If she says something like "not now" or "maybe later," that also means no. Back off if she doesn't say yes.Once you've made your move, and she doesn't encourage you, back off. She'll tell you if she changes her mind.

