 You can use numerous online resources to gather names of attorneys near you who represent plaintiffs in class actions and specialize in cases like yours.You may want to begin your search on the website of your state or local bar association. Bar associations typically have searchable databases of their members, which often allow you to search by practice area.
You also can try national databases such as FindLaw or Lawyers.com, which may have listings of class action attorneys near you.
Nonprofit organizations, especially consumer rights organizations, also may be a good place to get recommendations for class action attorneys.
If you live in a small town or rural area, you may have to expand your search to include the nearest large city or metropolitan area.
When you find attorneys or law firms that look like possible matches, thoroughly review their websites. An attorney's website typically will have information on the types of law that attorney practices, areas in which he or she has attained certification as a specialist, and news about the progress of major cases.
Make sure you also are checking bar records with the state bar association to make sure the attorney hasn't been the subject of complaints or disciplinary action.;
, Ideally you should have initial consultations with at least three possible attorneys before you make a decision on which one to hire, so you can compare and contrast and find the best attorney to help your lawsuit succeed.Class action attorneys typically give free initial consultations, so don't worry about having to spend any money out of pocket to interview multiple attorneys.
Additionally, class action attorneys take cases on contingency, meaning they take a portion of any settlement or award you win as payment, and to cover the costs of the lawsuit. This means your attorney will be just as motivated as you are to win – but it also means you should carefully evaluate the law firm and its ability to cover the costs of a class action that could be in litigation for several years.
Come to your initial consultations armed with questions about the types of cases the attorney normally takes and his or her success rate in those cases. If the attorney lacks experience litigating your type of case, he or she may not be your best choice.
Similarly, you want to look for an attorney who has experience going up against companies similar to the one you want to sue, if not experience suing the same company. Especially with large corporations, if you file a class action lawsuit you can expect to be facing a top-notch legal team with plenty of money to drag the case on indefinitely.
 During your initial consultation, each attorney should briefly review your case and provide his or her assessment of how likely you are to succeed and a settlement range you could expect depending on the size of the class.


An attorney with experience litigating cases similar to yours will already have ideas in mind for potential strategies and your chances for success.
Expect attorneys to be candid about your odds of winning your lawsuit and the difficulties you might face. Winning a class action is not easy, so be skeptical of any attorney who tries to convince you that he or she always wins, or that getting a good settlement will be quick and easy.
 Although being the lead plaintiff may mean you'll have more control over the lawsuit and get more money if you win, the role also comes with significant responsibility and time commitment.If you are the lead plaintiff, you must work closely with the attorneys and appear in court, which can mean taking time off work and having to forego vacations while the case drags on for years. Make sure you're ready to make that commitment before you take the leap and agree to be the lead plaintiff.
There are benefits to being the lead plaintiff as well. In addition to having more control over the litigation strategy and the ultimate outcome of the case, you typically will get paid first – and get a larger share – of any settlement or award.
If you decide you don't want to be lead plaintiff, ask the attorneys you've interviewed if they're still willing to represent you or file the lawsuit without using you as the representative for the class. 

, After you've finished your initial consultations, take some time to compare and contrast the attorneys you interviewed and decide which one you think is best able to successfully represent you.Ideally, you want an attorney with the resources to fight the lawsuit as well as the passion to fight for you and the other plaintiffs.
You also should keep in mind that litigation of a class action lawsuit can take years, and if you're the lead plaintiff, that means you're going to be spending a lot of time with your attorney. The one you choose should be someone with whom you feel comfortable and can establish a strong rapport.
Make sure the attorney you choose has the financial ability to fight your lawsuit through to the end. If you're going to win your lawsuit, you can't hire an attorney who is going to run out of money halfway through the pretrial discovery process.
 While you don't have to find everybody who could potentially join the class at this early stage, you must be able to demonstrate a sufficient number exist and are willing to join the lawsuit before a judge will certify the class.You must be able to show that there are so many potential members of the class that it would be impractical to join them all as plaintiffs in a single lawsuit, and wasteful if they all filed individual lawsuits.
While there's no magic number that will guarantee certification of a class, it is generally accepted that 40 or more potential plaintiffs is sufficient.
Since you can't exactly ask the company you want to sue for a list of potential plaintiffs, you have to rely on a little bit of logic. For example, suppose you were injured by a defective product. You learn from news and industry reports that the company sold 200 of those products before the defect was discovered and the product was recalled. This means there are at least 200 potential plaintiffs who suffered the same injuries you did.
 As with any civil case, you initiate a class action lawsuit by filing a complaint that lists your allegations against the company you're suing and the injuries or financial losses you've suffered as a result. Strong, active language sets the stage for the rest of the case.Your attorney will collect information from you regarding your injuries or losses and develop a legal theory as to how the company you want to sue is liable for those injuries or losses. He or she will then draft the complaint setting forth the allegations against the defendant and a calculation of the damages to which you and the other plaintiffs are entitled as a result.
You must be able to demonstrate that all the members of your class suffered similar injuries or losses as a result of a common set of facts or legal interests.
When you read through the complaint before it's filed, make sure the language used is strong and confident, painting an unmistakable picture of the company's liability.
 Once you and your attorney have filed your complaint, it will be served on the company you're suing so the company has notice of the lawsuit. The company then has between 20 and 30 days to file an answer or other response to the lawsuit, which typically will include a motion to dismiss.You must work with your attorney on the response to the motion to dismiss, which typically includes your attorney drafting a written response and then preparing for the hearing.
The hearing on a motion to dismiss can become like a mini-trial. This is the first time your allegations will be in front of a judge, and you can't win your lawsuit unless you survive the motion to dismiss.
Especially if you are the lead plaintiff, you should be prepared to testify as a witness in this hearing. Your attorney will work with you on how to respond to questions and prepare you for cross-examination from the company's attorneys.
 One of the most important parts of class action litigation is having your class certified. If the judge doesn't grant your motion and certify the class, your complaint may be dismissed.In some states, the court will initiate the certification process for you – all you have to do is check the class action box on the cover sheet you fill out when you file the complaint.
Other states and federal courts require you to file a motion asking the judge to certify your class.
 Typically the judge will schedule a hearing on your motion to have the class certified. If you are the lead plaintiff, you must show up for the hearing along with your attorney to argue that the judge should certify the class.If you've opted not to be the lead plaintiff, you typically won't need to attend this hearing unless your attorney intends to call you as a witness. However, you may want to attend anyway to help present a united front against
Since the trial has not yet started, the judge assumes all the allegations in your complaint are true. This hearing concerns whether a class action is the best way to resolve the numbers disputes, not whether the company is liable for any injuries or losses the class of plaintiffs suffered.
 To win your class certification motion, you must show the judge that a class action is the best and most efficient way of resolving all of the plaintiff's claims. You also must show that your claims are virtually identical to the claims of the other class members.Your class must meet federal requirements as well as any additional requirements in the state where you've filed your lawsuit, or the judge won't certify the class.
To prove your argument and get your class certified, you may need to include the stories of other plaintiffs as well as your own. Affidavits from other potential plaintiffs can help demonstrate that other people have suffered injuries or losses identical to yours.
Typically it's easier to have a class certified in a consumer law dispute involving financial losses than it is in mass personal injury lawsuits. Individual injuries may differ substantially, and the size of the class can be all but impossible to determine.
Since you don't have to prove the truth of your allegations, it may be tempting to shrug off the class certification process. However, this often is the most important part of your case – especially given that most class actions never make it to trial.
When the judge certifies your class, the defendant may become truly interested in negotiating a settlement for the first time. This is when you send a message to the company you're suing that you're not going away.
 During the discovery process, you and the defendant will exchange information. You can use this process to your advantage, particularly by uncovering proof that the defendant knew about the problem that caused your injuries or losses and failed to take action.Generally, discovery consists of written questions called interrogatories, requests for admission, requests for production, and depositions.
You probably will be submitting significant requests for production to the defendants. In response, the company will send boxes and boxes of documents that your attorney and his or her staff must sift through in search of information that would be helpful to your lawsuit.
There also typically will be numerous depositions, which are interviews conducted under oath and recorded by a court reporter. Since class action litigation can take years, deposition transcripts become extremely handy, since people often forget details about events after a significant period of time has passed.
If you are the lead plaintiff in the lawsuit, you can expect to be deposed by the defendant's attorneys at some point during discovery.
In some cases, the discovery process may begin before the judge has certified your class. In these situations, the defendant often will seek to limit discovery solely to issues related to the certification process.
 One of the largest parts of class action litigation involves identifying all the people who potentially suffered the same injuries or losses as you and telling them about the lawsuit so they can choose whether to take part. The larger your class is, the more the defendant will pay attention – and the larger the settlement offer will be.You may find a list of prospective class members through the discovery process. For example, if you're suing a debt collector because it violated federal law by calling you at unreasonable times, you may ask the debt collector for a list of the names and phone numbers of all the people who were called during the same period of time you were called. All of these people potentially are members of the class.
Similarly, if you're suing an auto manufacturer for injuries you sustained as the result of a defective part, you can get a list of everyone who has purchased that car from the manufacturer. All of those people potentially were injured in the same way you were, or would have been if the defect wasn't discovered.
Once you notify potential class members, they must evaluate their own situation and determine if they suffered injuries or losses similar to yours. If they did, they can choose to stay in the class, or they can opt out.
Typically, your attorney also will run an advertising campaign on television, the internet, and in print media to notify the public about the lawsuit and give potential plaintiffs who may not be on your list the opportunity to join the class. The goal of these mass media campaigns is to reach as many people as possible.
 If you are the lead plaintiff in the lawsuit, you likely will have to attend a number of hearings and conferences during pretrial litigation as a representative for the entire class. Your attorney must advocate for actions that give your side the upper hand during the litigation process.Because litigation in class actions can get out of hand quickly, many judges will call periodic status conferences to keep the parties on track and set a schedule for completing various litigation tasks and moving on to the next phase. Your attorney will find ways to benefit your case through the scheduling and pacing of the litigation.
Discovery also can get contentious, resulting in many motions in which one party asks the court to order the other to produce documents or answer questions. Delays can be costly, and typically benefit the defendant.
Some of these conferences and hearings are relatively procedural in nature, and won't require your presence personally. Your attorney will let you know if your attendance is expected – otherwise he or she will send you a brief letter summarizing what happened.
 As lead plaintiff, one of your major responsibilities is to review any settlement offer from the defendant and decide whether to accept or reject it on behalf of the entire class.While your attorney will advise you on whether you should accept a settlement offer, the final choice ultimately is yours, and only the lead plaintiff has the power to accept or reject a settlement offer.
This is a huge responsibility that shouldn't be taken lightly. When you evaluate a settlement offer, you must be certain that accepting it would be fair to everyone in the class – not just you.
At the same time, any settlement offer has the benefit of being immediate (rather than potentially years later, after extensive litigation) and certain. With a settlement, you can calculate exactly the amount that would be available for each plaintiff in your class. However, you never know what you'll get at trial – or if you'll even get anything at all.
This lack of certainty, coupled with the length of time class actions typically take to litigate, means that the overwhelming majority of class action lawsuits ultimately settle.
Keep in mind that even though a settlement often doesn't mean the company you sued has to admit fault, it still means you won your lawsuit to the extent that you got money out of the company – and maybe even got it to change one of its policies or stop selling a dangerous product.

