 H1N1 is now considered by organizations like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to be a seasonal flu. The major difference is that H1N1 is a variant influenza virus, meaning it is a variation of the influenza A virus that most commonly circulates among pigs and is rarely found in humans. H1N1, just like any other flu virus, can be very dangerous for at risk populations, but is no more or less dangerous than a regular seasonal flu virus.H1N1 cannot be spread by eating pork or pork products. H1N1 is spread from pigs to humans or from human-to-human contact.
If you show signs of the flu after contact with pigs, tell your healthcare provider.;
, Use a thermometer to assess your temperature. If you have a temperature of between 100.4 – 104°F (38 – 40°C) and some of the other flu-related symptoms, you may have the flu. About 80% of cases of H1N1 involve fever.It is important to note that sometimes people with the flu do not have a fever., Both influenza and H1N1 can present as very similar constellation of symptoms. If you are coughing, have a sore throat or a runny or stuffy nose, you may have H1N1. Chest discomfort can also be more severe with H1N1 than with seasonal flu.Sneezing is more common with a common cold and not the flu.
 As with any flu, body aches and headaches are common, as is fatigue. The level of discomfort varies from person to person whether they have seasonal flu or H1N1 flu.If on a scale of one to ten, with ten being the worst you've ever felt, you feel like you have pain levels from four to six, it is likely moderate pain. If it is above that range, it is likely severe., Chills are common with both the seasonal flu and H1N1. If you are experiencing chills along with other symptoms of H1N1, you may have H1N1. These are not readily distinguishable from the chills associated with seasonal flu., Gastrointestinal symptoms are common with both the seasonal flu and H1N1. Such symptoms include vomiting and diarrhea. If you have these symptoms, along with other symptoms, you may have H1N1., Only people who are hospitalized, are pregnant, or have weakened immune systems should get tested for H1N1. Because the type of flu you have does not usually change its treatment, there is little need for the H1N1 test specifically. Treatment does not differ whether you have seasonal flu or H1N1. Additionally, around 99% of cases of the flu during the 2009 season (when H1N1 was at its height) were H1N1., Most rapid test results are unable to distinguish between H1N1 and the seasonal flu. For more accurate results, it is necessary to wait for the lab test that takes several days; however, unless you are hospitalized, you may be well before you get the results., The more people who get the vaccine, the more immunity in the human population. So in other words, your vaccine helps prevent you and others from getting sick. It's best to get the vaccine early in the season if it is available, but even if you eventually get it toward the end of the season, it still helps., If you have an abrupt onset of fever, headache, chills, body aches, cough and fatigue see your healthcare provider as soon as possible. If you are diagnosed with the flu, antivirals are only effective if you start treatment within 48 hours of your symptom onset.
 CDC recommends that people with influenza-like illness remain at home until at least 24 hours after they are free of fever or signs of a fever without the use of fever reducing medications. This recommendation only applies to camps, schools, businesses, mass gatherings and other community settings. If you work in the healthcare setting, it is recommended that you should stay home for seven days from symptom onset or until the resolution of symptoms.Going out can spread the disease to vulnerable individuals, who could be hospitalized or even die. H1N1 isn’t unique in this: the regular flu harms the same vulnerable populations.
 Use warm water and antibacterial soap. This is especially important before you eat and after you sneeze or cough. Again, your actions help keep you and others from getting sick., It is important not to get dehydrated if you have the flu. It can lead to complications. You should stick to beverages that are easy on the stomach like water or herbal tea., Make sure you take it easy while you are healing. You will need your strength to get better. Don't push yourself to work while you're sick with the flu. It will likely extend the period of time you're sick.