 If you've done your homework and chosen a good tattoo artist, he or she will provide detailed instructions on how to care for your new tattoo, which you should follow carefully. Every tattoo artist will have a slightly different opinion on the best way to care for a new tattoo, but don't worry, most reputable artists have had years of experience in caring for new tattoos, so their methods have been tried and tested.Think of your tattoo as having a warranty; if you don't follow the artist's instructions, you might void the warranty, and he or she won't give you free touch-ups.
Remember: tattoo artists want your tattoo to heal correctly and look good just as much as you do, so they shouldn't give you any poor advice.
The following instructions may vary slightly from what your tattoo artist tell you, but should serve as a good guideline.;
, Once the tattoo is complete, your tattoo artist will clean the area, apply an anti-bacterial ointment and cover the tattoo with a bandage or some dressing. Once you have left the tattoo parlor, resist the temptation to open the bandage. The bandage is there to protect your tattoo from airborne bacteria, which can penetrate through your broken skin. The bandage should be left on for a minimum of two hours before you remove it.


Thick, absorbent, non-stick ABD wound dressings are the most common type of bandage used by tattoo artists. These are very effective as they allow the tattoo to breathe while also being thick enough to protect the skin from bacteria and bumps. They are also extremely absorbent.There are many tattoo artists out there who are firm believers in wrapping new tattoos in plastic wrap, while there are many more who believe that this is the worst possible thing you could do for your tattoo.
Proponents of plastic wrap believe that it is the best way to wrap a new tattoo as it is easy to apply and remove without sticking to the skin. It also forms an effective shield that blocks any bacteria from getting near the tattoo.
Those who oppose plastic wrap do so because it prevents oxygen from getting to the tattoo, and oxygen is essential for healing. It also seals in moisture and raises the temperature of the skin, creating a perfect breeding ground for bacteria.Whichever type of covering your tattoo artist uses, be sure to follow his/her advice carefully. Both types of bandages have been used successfully before. Just remember that plastic wrap will need to be changed, and the tattoo cleaned much more frequently than with other bandaging, to prevent the build-up of bacteria.
 The jury is still out on how long a bandage should be left on before it is removed. Most artists agree that you should keep your tattoo covered for a minimum of two hours before removing, but the recommended maximum amount of time varies between 4 and 6 hours. Tattoos covered in plastic wrap are the exception; plastic wrap should never be left on a new tattoo for longer than two hours.In reality, the amount of time will vary according to the size and placement of the tattoo, along with the level of tattoo seepage and the type of bandage used. In most cases, it is best to follow the advice of your tattoo artist, but you should also use your judgement and common sense.
To remove the bandage, soak it with warm water to prevent it from sticking to your skin. It should come off easily once wet. Discard the used bandage.
 Most artists recommend lukewarm water and mild, unscented liquid antibacterial or antimicrobial soap. Use your hands to rub the tattoo gently, removing all traces of blood, plasma, or leaked ink. This will help to prevent the tattoo from scabbing too soon. Do not use a washcloth, loofah or any sponge to clean the tattoo, as these may harbor bacteria.Do not hold the tattoo directly under the water. Wash it indirectly by splashing the water over the tattoo with your hands. The stream of water from the faucet may be too harsh on your new tattoo.
If your new tattoo is covering a large area of skin, it may be easiest to wash the tattoo in the shower.
 Once you have thoroughly washed the tattoo, you should gently pat it dry with a little paper towel. Do not rub the tattoo, as this may cause irritation. Once the excess moisture has been removed, you should leave the tattoo uncovered for 20 minutes to an hour. This will allow the tattoo to breathe and any excess moisture to evaporate.


You should allow your tattoo to breathe like this after each time you wash it or get it wet.
 Once your tattoo is fully dry, and the skin begins to feel tight you can apply a little ointment, such as Bacitracin, to the tattoo. Make sure to apply only a very thin layer and rub it in gently until it's absorbed by the skin. It's very important that you don't apply too much ointment, or else you'll suffocate the tattoo and encourage the growth of bacteria.You should continue applying the ointment after each time you wash the tattoo, at least twice a day, for 3 to 5 days or until the tattoo starts to peel. When it does you can switch to a regular, fragrance-free lotion.
Don't use lanolin or petroleum-based products, such as Vaseline, as these are too heavy and may clog the pores, causing breakouts on the tattoo. They also draw the ink from the tattoo to the surface of the skin, causing the tattoo to fade before it's even fully healed.
There are some excellent specialist products on the market that are a little pricey, but work wonders for healing tattoos. Once such product is called "Tattoo Goo" which is non-greasy and is made from natural ingredients. Another great product is "H2Ocean", which is a foam rather than an ointment, that uses a salt concentration to prevent infection."After Inked” is also an excellent product as it's non-petroleum based and mainly uses grapeseed oil that is known to have more antioxidant value than vitamin E. This helps the healing process and has great moisturizing properties.
 You should continue to wash your tattoo with anti-bacterial soap and warm water until it is fully healed. This can take anywhere from 3 to 6 six weeks, depending on the size and location of the tattoo. You should wash the tattoo approximately three times a day, though you should wash more often if the tattoo is on your hand, wrist, foot, or any other area that is more exposed to germs.After applying special anti-bacterial ointment for the first 3 to 5 days, you can switch to regular lotion after each wash. Most tattoo artists will recommend that you avoid using lotions that are scented, colored or contain glitter. Remember only to apply a light layer of lotion, as over-moisturizing can negatively affect the tattoo.
The initial healing of the tattoo will take up to two weeks. During this time, you can expect the tattoo to start peeling or flaking, in a similar way to sunburn. Some colored skin may come away as the tattoo peels, but this is entirely normal.
After the skin peels, your tattoo will look glassy and feel tight. It may also have cloudy or white patches of skin that you will be tempted to peel off, but try to resist. This is referred to as "onion skin" and will fall off by itself within a couple of weeks.
If you have taken proper care of your new tattoo, you can expect your tattoo to be healed and your skin to have fully regenerated in about four to six weeks.