 Approaching the victim of abuse is not always necessarily the right thing to do. The survivor may be trying to put the abuse behind them. Before you talk to them, consider how well you know the survivor and whether or not they may be willing to talk to you.


If you are strangers with the survivors, it may not be appropriate for you to reach out to them. As you are unaware of their situation, you will not be able to determine if they need or want your support.
If the abuse happened a long time ago, you might carefully consider whether contacting the survivor would bring up bad memories for them. If you know the survivor is still struggling, you might reach out.
If the survivor is a young child in your family, you should let them know that they have support. Young children will need to learn that what happened to them was wrong and that they can trust their family to protect them in the future.If the victim is an elder in your family, they may be reluctant to talk about the events. You do not have to push them to share, but you should make it known that you are available and willing to talk at any time.
 Some people may not want to revisit the abuse. Having a discussion with them should be beneficial to them, and if they are unwilling to speak, you should respect their boundaries.When you first approach someone to talk about the deceased, do not ask them to tell you what happened. Instead, you should simply tell them that you are willing to listen to them whenever they want to talk. For example, you can say, “I want you to you know that I am here for you. If you want to talk, I am always willing to listen.”
If you were also abused by the deceased, you may want to reach out in solidarity with the other survivors. You can say, “I know what you went through. I went through the same thing. I want you to know that I am available to talk at any point. You do not have to be alone.”

, The survivor of the abuse should be able to talk about what happened without interference. Let them control the conversation. Listen to their story without interrupting.Use active listening techniques to reaffirm what the other person is saying. In active listening, you occasionally repeat back what the person is saying to convey that you understand what they are going through. For example, you might say, “I understand that you were frightened and alone.”
Understand that questioning might be difficult for the survivor to answer. The survivor may not be able to provide explanations for why your loved one was abusive or why they did the things that they did. If you have questions, ask them first, “Do you mind if I ask a few questions, so that we can work through this together?”; or, “Please let me know if you prefer not to discuss any of these questions.”, It can take a long time to recover from abuse, but all people heal differently. Let the survivor know that if they ever need to talk again, you are there for them. Give them space and privacy, but let them know that you are always available.


You can ask them what they need or want from you in terms of support. You can say, “What is there that I can do to help you heal?” It may be helpful to ask this again later down the line and not just after finding out about the abuse. This lets them know they can talk to you at any time.
You can ask them if they want resources or outside help. You can say, “I know of some places that offer support and safe zones for survivors. Would you like me to connect you?” Understand that they may be hesitant to tell others.Do not tell the other person that they should “move on” or forgive the abuser. These statements, while well-intentioned, can make the survivor feel isolated, and it can invalidate their feelings. Instead encourage them to express their feelings whenever they are sad, upset, angry, or frustrated., You may have good memories of your loved one that conflict with the survivor’s account of the abuse. Avoid questioning the survivor’s account or blaming them for the abuse — not only when you are talking to the survivor, but if you are discussing it with someone else. Sometimes even well-intentioned statements can cause the victim to believe that the abuse was their fault.To avoid this, never say the following statements:


“Well, they were a difficult person, and you have to take the good with the bad.”
“Do you think there was anything different you could have done?”
“Was it really abuse though, or are you being too sensitive?”
“You shouldn’t speak ill of the dead.”
“It could have been worse.”
“They’re not with us anymore, so you don’t have to worry about it.”

