 Fill the pot halfway full with water, or more if necessary to cover the burned area. Add a couple drops of dish soap. Turn on the heat until the water boils. Turn off the heat and let cool enough that you can safely touch the pan and water.


You can replace the dish soap with a small spoonful (or crumbled tablet) of dishwasher detergent.This may discolor aluminum.Try a different method first when cleaning a cast iron pan, since soap will remove most of your hard work seasoning.;
, If necessary, add more hot, soapy water whenever the old water cools down. Scrub using a tool that won't damage your pan's material:


Enamel, anodized aluminum, or Teflon pan: Use a sponge, nylon brush, or Dobie pad (sponge with protective plastic netting).
Stainless steel, copper, or non-anodized (shiny) aluminum pan: Start with gentle options above, then move on to a scouring pad or copper wool. Use a light touch and scrub under the water level to minimize scratches., If there's still burnt gunk in the pan, cover the pan with a layer of baking soda. Add just enough water to cover it and simmer for 15–30 minutes.Let cool and scrub the stain away.


Baking soda will react with and ruin aluminum.Because of its abrasive properties, it is not recommended for Teflon or other non-stick surfaces either., Boil white distilled vinegar in the pot. Let cool and scrub off the stain. Vinegar won't dissolve grease like soap does, but it's acidic properties can eat through some stains that the methods above won't remove.
 This will probably scratch your pan, but at this point you're running low on options. Pick up some cream of tartar from a grocery store's baking aisle if you don't have any. Sprinkle it over the pan and stir in a few drops of vinegar until you get a thick paste. Let sit for ten minutes. Scrub hard to remove the stain, or add more vinegar and bring it to a boil yet again.Many people use baking soda and vinegar for cleaning, but despite the dramatic fizz, this mixture quickly turns into neutral water.Cream of tartar has similar abrasive cleaning properties to baking soda, but stays stable in vinegar, letting you benefit from acidic cleaning as well.
 Make a thick paste as before, rub it on with a rag or sponge, and let it sit at least ten minutes. This one has been going around the internet for a long time, but actual results aren't always promising.It seems to get the best results on burned sugar, but this is only based on a few anecdotes.

