 This should be done with sharp scissors. Make sure that younger children do not open this package by themselves, especially when you have already made a slit; it has very sharp edges. Also make sure to not cut too far into the box, as the instructions are hidden behind the cardboard!;
, Once you have the box open, reach your hand inside (be careful of sharp edges!) and pull the Tamagotchi out. It should be cradled in a small plastic mould., 'Untabbing' your Tamagotchi means pulling the tab on the left side of it, activating the Tamagotchi. Simply pull it out, and it should make a short beeping noise and show a small egg on the display screen., To do this, you must press what I'll refer to as the B button (the middle button). In a few seconds, it will display the time and date screen. To set it, press "A" (the left button) to select the next number, and "B" to confirm. If you made a mistake, just go back with the "C" (right) button.
The things you will enter in order are:


Date

Month (or Day for European/Asian models)
Day (or Month for European/Asian models)


Time

The hour
The minutes


Birthday

This is where you enter your birthday. Your Tamagotchi will celebrate for you on that day! Make sure you set it correctly, as you cannot change it.


Username

This is for use on TamaTown, a website where you 'log on' with your Tamagotchi! You should also set this correctly, as you cannot change it.
Your Tamagotchi should now show the same egg, bouncing up and down.
 It should only take about a minute. Think of some names while you wait, it can pass the time quickly.
 Once you hear your Tamagotchi hatching, it will show you if it is a boy or a girl. Afterwards, it will ask you to name your Tamagotchi. It can only be five characters long, so make it short and sweet!

, The attention icon should light up, and your Tamagotchi will be needy for this first hour. It may be needy, but people have discovered that it CANNOT die as that little baby.
 It should evolve after the first hour or so of care. Just wait patiently, and make sure to take care of it, and it will evolve into something cute.
 The Tamagotchi's life cycle takes around a week until it is ready to mate and start a new generation. Be patient, persistent, and remember to take care of your Tamagotchi!

