 There are only two states that contain spring training games, and those two states are Arizona and Florida.;
, There are some American League teams as well as National League teams in Arizona along with National League teams mixed in with American League teams in Florida.


Also realize that the league that plays it's game in Florida is called the "Grapefruit League" while the other that plays in Arizona is called the Cactus League.
 With 30 teams (as of December 1, 2013), it's impossible not to find one to be playing a single game during the spring training season.Philadelphia Phillies at Bright House Field in Clearwater, FL.
Minnesota Twins at CenturyLink Sports Complex in Fort Myers, FL.
Atlanta Braves at Champion Stadium (formerly called the Disney's Wide World of Sports Complex) in Lake Buena Vista, FL.
Tampa Bay Rays at Charlotte Sports Park in Charlotte County, FL.
Baltimore Orioles at Ed Smith Stadium in Sarasota,FL.
Toronto Blue Jays at Florida Auto Exchange Stadium in Dunedin, FL.
New York Yankees at George M. Steinbrenner Field in Tampa, FL.
Boston Red Sox at Jet Blue Park in Lee County, FL.
Detroit Tigers at Joker Marchant Stadium in Lakeland, FL.
Pittsburgh Pirates at McKechnie Field in Bradenton, FL.
Houston Astros at Osceola County Stadium in Kissimmee, FL.
Miami Marlins and St Louis Cardinals at Roger Dean Stadium in Jupiter, FL.
Washington Nationals at Space Coast Stadium in Viera, FL.
New York Mets at Tradition Field in Port St. Lucie, FL.
Chicago White Sox and Los Angeles Dodgers are at Camelback Ranch at Glendale in Glendale, AZ.
Cincinnati Reds and Cleveland Indians are at Goodyear Ballpark in Goodyear, AZ
Oakland Athletics (A's) are at Hohokam Stadium in Mesa, AZ.
Milwaukee Brewers are at Maryvale Baseball Park in Maryvale, AZ.
San Diego Padres and Seattle Mariners are at Peoria Sports Complex in Peoria, AZ.
Arizona Diamondbacks and Colorado Rockies are at Salt River Fields in Scottsdale, AZ.
San Francisco Giants are at Scottsdale Stadium in Scottsdale, AZ.
Chicago Cubs are at Sloan Park in Mesa, AZ.
Kansas City Royals and Texas Rangers are at Surprise Stadium in Surprise, AZ.
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim are at Tempe Diablo Stadium in Tempe, AZ.
 Most of the games will be held during the month of March, while some games and player-reporting dates end up being in mid-to-late February.
, As you explore the teams MLB web page, you'll see the rates most seating sections in the park for some of these games.
 Although not everyone can get front-row seats, try to stay as close to field level as possible.
 Pack your travel bags accordingly, and make sure to pack at least one rain poncho for every person who will be attending the game. Especially in Florida, storms can strike up without notice and the game might be postponed during this time, leaving your behind sitting in this (becoming wet) seat during the raining period.
 Know how you get to and from the stadium game to and from the hotel (or house, if you live nearby and are likely to take your car without needing to fly in an airplane).
 Obtain your tickets from the ticket booth, and admit yourself once the stadium allows people to go through their turnstiles.
, You may have a small wait, but that will depend on how soon after you arrive, will your game begin.

