 If you are just beginning to learn English, it is best to begin by taking a class. A qualified teacher can guide you through the basics of English and help you understand the way the language system works.


If you cannot take a class, try to find an online language acquisition program.;
, Find a dictionary or online app that offers translations of words from your native language to English and from English to your native language. This can help you in the early stages of learning English as you master your vocabulary acquisition.
 Once you have a basic understanding of the way that English works, spend some time expanding your vocabulary.You may want to find English flashcards in your language.


If you feel that you have a mastery of everyday vocabulary words but wish to learn more, try finding some advanced vocabulary flashcards, such as those used by American students studying for the GRE, an exam required for entrance into graduate school.
Reading in English and circling words that you’re unfamiliar with, then looking up the words and making an effort incorporate them into your vocabulary is a great way to increase your vocabulary.
 Many public libraries offer resources for English Language Learners. They may even host free classes for community members who wish to improve their language fluency. This is more common in areas with a large community of language learners. The library also may have books or audio books that you can check out for free.
 The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) can help you learn how to pronounce words that you see in writing but don’t know how to say. The book should provide a guide to interpreting the IPA symbols, but you can also find videos online that tell you how to say each of the IPA letter sounds., Try to find a mix of more and less formal writing, so you can get a sense of both formal and conversational English.If there is an English newspaper available in your area, pick one up every day and read through it. This will give you a source for learning new words and common sentence structures on a daily basis.
Also try reading novels in English. If you find that novels are challenging, try finding books meant for children or young adults, then build up to more complex works.
Circle words that are unfamiliar, look them up, and write the definition in the margins of the paper or book. Then try to use a few of the new words in English conversation.
 English news reports are a great way to begin exposing yourself to English because reporters frequently speak clearly without any significant accent.However, diversifying the types of English videos you watch can help you develop fluency in conversational English so that you do not sound overly formal or stiff in your speech.Watch movies. Movies that are directed towards children or teens may have less complex vocabulary and sentence structures and may be easier if you are just developing proficiency.TV shows may be a good option as well because they are shorter than movies and can give you a sense of comic timing and humor, which can be part of fluency as well.
Turn on subtitles for anything you watch if they are available. Watching the words while you hear them can improve your pronunciation and vocabulary.
 YouTube and other video streaming sites have a nearly endless supply of videos in English. If you wish to improve your work-related English fluency, be sure to watch videos in your specific field so that you can master the vocabulary and details unique to your professional needs.
 You need to practice speaking English to build fluency, so having a friend who is also learning English will give you both the opportunity to learn and practice together.Alternatively, you could try to find a native English speaker who wishes to learn your native language and work out an exchange deal (see below).
 Having access to a dictionary that offers clear definitions of unfamiliar words can help you understand words and figure out how to use them in the appropriate context.Most dictionaries will provide the word, a pronunciation guide, a definition, and the plural form of the word, which can usually be made by adding an –s, but can also take on unusual form such as –es, -en, or changing the vowel from –us to –a, depending upon the origin of the word.

