 Before you take action against the breach of a reciprocal nondisclosure agreement, you need factual information demonstrating that a breach of the agreement has occurred. You don't want to send a letter based solely on conjecture.Pull your copy of the agreement and read it thoroughly, paying close attention to the information specifically listed as confidential and the measures the receiving party is required to take to avoid either intentional or accidental disclosure.
If you received information about the breach of the agreement from someone who works for you or for the other party, talk to them and attempt to get their statements on record.
Any documents you might be able to access that would demonstrate disclosure of confidential information should be compiled and safeguarded.;
, While you can draft and send a cease and desist letter on your own, having the letter come from an attorney can be more intimidating to the other party, and sends the message that you're serious and prepared to take legal action.If you already have a business attorney, or if the reciprocal nondisclosure agreement at issue was drafted by an attorney for you, call them.
Even if you're drafting the letter yourself, you might want to talk to an attorney to get their take on the situation and what you should do about it.
Keep in mind that most attorneys are willing to draft a cease and desist letter for a relatively small flat fee. However, if you anticipate having to take the other party to court, you want the attorney who writes your cease and desist letter to be willing and able to take on that litigation.
 Your letter should remind the other party of the agreement both of you signed, summarize the facts you know that you believe constitute a breach of that agreement, and demand the other party stop disclosing confidential information immediately.State up front that you are writing because you believe they have breached the reciprocal nondisclosure agreement you both signed. Include a copy of the agreement for reference.
Remind them of the reciprocal nature of the agreement, and lean on the fact that you've gone to great lengths to keep their information confidential according to the agreement.
List the facts that point to their breach of the agreement. If you have documents that prove that breach, you should attach them to your letter.
Close your letter by demanding an immediate end to any activity that constitutes a breach of the reciprocal nondisclosure agreement.
Keep in mind that once confidential information has been disclosed, it may be difficult to undo the damage. You may want to request a list of any individuals to whom the information has been disclosed, so you can talk to them and have them sign agreements as well.
Provide a firm and specific deadline for the other party to respond to your letter. A week to ten days should be long enough, although you may want to allow two or three weeks if you're expecting actions such as an upgrade to computer systems that may take more time to implement.
 Once you're satisfied with your draft, sign it and make a copy for your records. Then send it to the other party using certified mail with returned receipt requested, so you know when they've got it.Keep your copy, along with any documents related to the agreement and the breach of that agreement, secure in the same location.
Consider making a phone call or sending an email to let them know they should expect the letter, particularly if there's someone with whom you're on reasonably good terms.
 Mark your deadline when you receive the green card letting you know that the other party has received your letter. If you don't hear from them by that date, you may need to take other action such as filing a complaint in court.From here on, make sure all communications you have with the other party regarding the reciprocal nondisclosure agreement are in writing. If they call you after receiving the letter, draft a summary of the conversation you had and mail it to them to confirm it.
If the deadline passes and you don't hear anything, you might want to consider making a phone call to find out what the hold up is – but don't wait too long.
Any follow-up call should be made either the day before or the day of the deadline, but no later. Waiting any longer signals that your deadline wasn't firm, and may send the message that you aren't serious about the situation.
 Generally, you want to request an injunction in the same court where you would file a lawsuit for monetary damages. For example, if you have a lawsuit for violation of your patent, you would need to request an injunction from the nearest federal district court, because only federal courts can hear patent lawsuits.Keep in mind that most small claims courts do not have the power to offer injunctive relief, only monetary damages. Due to the difficulty in quantifying monetary damages for the breach of a reciprocal nondisclosure agreement, small claims court typically won't be your best option.
You want to decide whether you intend to request an injunction as a preliminary to filing suit, or whether you want to file both at the same time. An attorney can help you decide which would be the better strategy based on the circumstances.
In some courts, you may file a civil complaint for monetary damages coupled with a motion for injunctive relief. If the court awards your injunction, it may hasten an end to the main lawsuit.
 A petition is used to ask the court to enter an injunction against the other party, prohibiting them from continuing to violate the agreement. A temporary injunction is designed to limit the damages that would accrue as a result of continued disclosure while your lawsuit was pending.If you've decided to request an injunction in tandem with your lawsuit for monetary damages, you will be drafting a motion instead of a petition, but the ultimate content of the documents is roughly the same.
If you're representing yourself, check with the clerk of the court where you want to file your petition to find out what the procedure is and whether a form or template is available. You also can get copies of similar petitions filed in the same court that you can use as a guide to format your own.
Generally, your petition will reference the reciprocal nondisclosure agreement and list facts about it, including when it was signed and what confidential information it covered.
You then must list the facts that you allege constitute a breach of that agreement.
Conclude your petition by telling the court what you want to happen as a result. This should include specific actions that you want the court to order the other party to stop doing.
 Once you've finished drafting your petition, you must take the original and at least two copies to the clerk of the court that will hear your case. The clerk will stamp your originals "filed" with the date and give the copies back to you.Keep in mind that if you're representing yourself you'll have to pay filing fees when you take your petition to the clerk. Expect these fees to be several hundred dollars.
One of the file-stamped copies is for your own records, while the other must be served on the party against whom you're seeking the injunction. The court may refer to them as the "respondent" or as the "defendant."
The other file-stamped copy must be served on the other party. Typically this is achieved by hiring a sheriff's deputy to hand-deliver the court documents.
At this point, the court may issue you a temporary restraining order (TRO). This order only lasts until the judge can hold a hearing to decide whether to issue a more permanent injunction against the other party. The TRO will be included with the petition that you have served on the other party.
 The judge will hold a hearing and listen to both sides of the case so he or she can decide whether to issue a temporary injunction barring the other party from continued disclosure of information in violation of your reciprocal nondisclosure agreement.You may be eligible to receive an injunction automatically if the other side decides not to show up for the hearing.
If the other party violates the order, they may face stiff fines or even jail time.
If you choose to file a lawsuit seeking monetary damages, you also can request a more permanent order be put in place.
The permanent order typically includes requirements that the breaching party return all confidential documents to you, or to erase or destroy any confidential information they received from you.
 Before you draft your complaint, you need a copy of the reciprocal nondisclosure agreement as well as information regarding what the other party has done or is doing to violate that agreement.You should already have the file you began when you gathered information before sending your cease and desist letter. You can use all this information for your lawsuit.
If your claims are based on statements from other individuals, contact them to explain the situation and get them on board as potential witnesses.
 Your complaint includes a list of factual allegations that you believe add up to a breach of your reciprocal nondisclosure agreement with the other party. It states that you are entitled to a specific amount of monetary damages as a result of this breach.If you haven't retained counsel, contact the clerk of the court where you plan to file your complaint and find out if there are any forms or templates you can use. You also may be able to get ahold of a complaint filed in a similar case before the same court.
You must begin by referencing the agreement itself, the circumstances surrounding the signing of that agreement, and the confidential information it was designed to protect.
Include as many details as you can, including dates and times, but make sure that information is true and correct to the best of your knowledge.
If you're asking for monetary damages, you need to have a method for calculating the amount to which you believe you're entitled. If the reciprocal nondisclosure agreement includes specific damages, you can use that amount – otherwise be sure you can prove that your losses are worth the amount you've demanded in the complaint.
 Once you've finished your complaint, make at least two copies of it and take them all to the clerk of the court that will hear your lawsuit. The clerk will file the originals with the court and return the copies to you.If you have an attorney, they'll take care of this for you. However, if you're representing yourself, you typically have to travel to the clerk's office and file your documents in person.
You'll have to pay filing fees of several hundred dollars before the clerk will file-stamp your documents or take any other action. After you've paid, they'll stamp your documents and assign your case to a judge.
One file-stamped copy is for your records, while the other must be served on the other side. Typically you'll hire a sheriff's deputy (or a U.S. marshal in federal court) to hand-deliver the documents. However, some courts allow you to complete service by mailing the documents using certified mail with returned receipt requested.
 After the other party has been served with the complaint and summons, they have a limited period of time to file a written answer or other response with the court – typically less than 30 days.If they file a written answer, don't be surprised if they deny all or most of the allegations you listed in your complaint.
Additionally, given that the agreement contained mutual promises, the other party may file a claim against you alleging that you also breached the agreement.
If the other party files a counterclaim, you have the same period of time to respond that they had to respond to your lawsuit. If you don't respond to the counterclaim, the other party may be eligible to win that claim by default, so pay attention to your deadlines.
The other party also may file a motion to dismiss. In this situation, you typically must attend a hearing to argue why your case has merit before you can proceed to the next phase of litigation.
 Some courts require litigants to at least attempt mediation before a trial is scheduled in court. Even if your court doesn't require it, mediation can provide a less expensive, non-adversarial way for you and the other party to resolve your differences.The non-adversarial nature of mediation makes it a good option if you want to continue to do business with the other party despite the hiccup of this breach.
Another key benefit of mediation over a trial in court is that mediation proceedings are confidential. Given that this dispute concerns the disclosure of confidential information, you should ask yourself whether you're willing to face the possibility of that same information becoming a matter of public record in a courtroom trial.
If you and the other party are able to come to a compromise through mediation, make sure you get that agreement in writing and that both of you sign it.
If you are unable to reach a settlement, you'll have to continue litigating the lawsuit. But keep in mind that just because you weren't able to resolve the situation through mediation doesn't mean a settlement won't be reached before trial.

