 While at level 40 below you’ll be quite fine just using the equipment you get from dungeon diving or completing quests, once you hit the higher levels, you’re better off crafting equips from the Refining Blacksmiths. To do so, you’ll need to have some materials and Cores, which you can also craft this way. Your materials can be found by killing monsters in Instance Dungeons, by mining things (patterned rocks, crystals, mineral rich dirt, etc.) with a pickaxe, by foraging here and there, and trading Ethereal Crystals to the Gathering Association of Navea for Gathering Tokens, which you can use to buy your materials in packs of 100.;
, To make better equipments, you can go and buy Fusion Formulas from the Masters in Navea’s Military Hall. They can be found at the far northeast of the map, up the stairs leading to the huge building. You can learn the Formulas you get by heading to any Blacksmith anywhere and clicking the “I want precise casting and forging.” This will open a menu with some drop-down options and a button that says Learn New Recipes.


Select the “Learn New Recipes” tab and find the Formula you want to learn here. Drag the Formula you want to learn into the Special Recipe slot, and click the “Pay” button below to learn it. Obviously, you need a certain amount of Gold to learn most of them. It's best if you bring at least 10 Gold with you, just in case. Afterwards, you just need to search for the right materials, or to craft them if you already have them.
 You can also learn equipment recipes from the Blacksmith themselves by clicking “Recipes List,” then exploring their selection of equipments.
 Simply select your chosen item on the drop-down list of the main window of the Fusion menu. When you pick whichever item you need, it will show you the minimum requirements on the right. Now, either select the “Refine” or the “Refine All” button, and it will craft your item for you and drop it in your inventory!


You can also use Recipes (the item) to craft your equipment. They’re basically lower-leveled Fusion Formulas you can get from fishing or by tackling dungeons and world bosses, and you can learn them the same way as the Formulas. You can buy a couple starter ones in Canadeo Marsh’s Blacksmith, but better Recipes are found when dungeon diving or fishing.

