



b - Pronounced "Bay"

c - Pronounced "Say"

d - Pronounced "Day"

f - Same as in English, "Eff"

g - Pronounced "Gay"

h - Pronounced "Ha"

j - Pronounced "Yote"

k - Pronounced "Car"

l - Pronounced "Ee" (Same as saying the letter E in English)

m - Same as in English

n - Same as in English

p - Pronounced "Pay" (A way to remember is that German's pay to pee in most public places.)

q - Pronounced "Coo," the Q is almost always used in combination with U (similar to English), and is pronounced "KV"

r - Pronounced "Air"

s - Pronounced "Ess," when speaking German S tends to sound similar to the English Z. Except:

double S (ss or ß): a long S sound, like in fussy or messy

after äu (oy): sounds like English Z. So a word like Häuser is pronounced hoyzer .



t - Pronounced "Tay"

v - Pronounced "Fow," occasionally like the English V in voyage, especially in words borrowed from other languages

w - Pronounced "Vay" (German words with Ws tend to sound as if they start with Vs)

x - Pronounced "Ix" (Sounds similar to "Icks" in English)

y - Rarely at the beginning of a word; Pronounced "Oopsilong" (Usually sounds different in the middle of a word, depending on the word)

z - Pronounced "Tsett" (In English it sounds like "Tet," you don't pronounce the S);
,



sp - Pronounced SHP, like the SH P in fish pond (if you say it quickly).

st - Pronounced SHT, like the SHED in wished


sch - Pronounced SH, as in the English word "shoe".

ch - Not an English sound. CH is similar to the English H sound, but pronounced at the back of the throat (a bit like the sound a cat makes when it hisses).

pf - Pronounced PF, like the PF in the English word Pfooey


ß - the strange letter that looks a bit like B, but is actually a combination of s and z. Pronounce as a long double S.

Because of reforms in German spelling rules, some words that were once spelled with ß are now spelled with SS.
 Vowels are short when they are followed by a double consonant or followed by two or more consonants.



a - Pronounced "Ah," like the A in father; for example: Mann (man, husband) - mahn

e - Pronounced "Ay"

i - Pronounced "Ee"

o - Pronounced "Oh" (softly, similar to saying the letter O in English)

u - Pronounced "Ooh"

, Vowels are long when they are doubled, followed by an H or followed by a single consonant.



a - like when you say Ahh at the doctor's; for example: Saat (seed) = sahht

e - like the AY in bay; for example: Beete (beet/beetroot)= bay-teh

i - like the EE in the English word greet; for example: Stil (style) = shteel

o - almost like the OA in coat (careful: single sound - not a diphthong!); for example: rot (red) = roht

u - almost like the double OO in hoop or the U in dune (but a little shorter, and not a diphthong), for example: Kuh (cow) = kooh

y - although classified as a consonant, when within a word is used as a vowel and pronounced like the German U above; for example: Typ (type, character) = toop

, As in English, the pronunciation of vowel combinations is different from the vowel on its own.



ie - long E sound, as in see.

ei - long I sound, as in find; for example: Ei (egg) = eye

au - pronounced like the English word ow


, Umlaut vowels are a little more advanced in terms of German pronunciation. They show up when words undergo a vowel change and do rarely show up as capitalized. Similar to non accented vowels, umlaut's can be short or long as well.



ä - Pronounced like the AY in the English word face (but as a single sound, not a diphthong) or the A in the word "lacy

ö - Pronounced "Ooo" (Sounds similar to ü, try to not confuse the two)

ü - Pronounced "Euw," Similar to the English O in movie


äu - like the English OY in noise


