 With these events, parents can get a few hours rest and quiet by getting the kids out of the house for awhile. Have teachers and parent volunteers chaperone as parents pay a fee to drop off their kids for a few hours or the whole night at the school’s gym, cafeteria or other large room. Feed the kids dinner, play games or screen a movie, and be sure that parents bring sleeping supplies if it’s a sleepover. Charge $10 per child and you’ll make a lot of money very quickly!

, You can hold a talent show for teachers and the principal, but said employees must first get funding by asking their students for donations, like a walk-a-thon. Any student that pays gets free admission to the talent show for them and their family. Alternatively, you can have the principals or teachers agree to do entertaining acts in response to how much money is raised by the student body.


For example, at $500 the teachers all have to wear silly hats for a week, at $1,000 the teachers have to wear their underwear on the outside for a week, at $1,500 the Principals will have a bad-singing duel, etc. Your students will fall over themselves at the chance to make their superiors look silly.
 Get a donation from a sponsor or create one to use as a grand prize. Then sell small rubber ducks to families or students over the course of a week, a month, or just in one evening. These families will be given a number which will be put on the duck (they can even customize their duck, if you want). Now hold a race, where the ducks are placed on any body of flowing water. Whichever duck gets to the finish line first wins a prize for the family who purchased it. Everyone else can take their ducks home, so no one goes home empty-handed.


You can do an alternative duck game where all of the ducks are floated on top of a large water surface, such as a kiddie pool. One duck will have a star drawn on the bottom. People pay to pick a duck and whoever picks the star wins the prize. This can be played multiple times, so long as you have prizes to hand out.
 Get donations of empty soup cans and remove all labels and sand down rough or sharp edges. These will serve as a flower pot. Then, have kids paint or decorate the outside of the cans. Once you have your flower pots ready, fill them with dirt and help the kids plant and grow herbs, flowers, etc. Once they're decently sized, hold a sale for everyone in the community to come and buy the plants.
 Auction off or sell the chance to paint or decorate the student seats. Families will pay to create a totally custom chair that their child can sit in and will act as a symbol of their donation for years to come. Way better and less boring than brick engraving! You can even get local hardware stores to donate spray paint and other appropriate paints, as well as stencils and other tools that can be used to customize the chairs.

