 This is a not-so-subtle way of letting your guest(s) know the limits. Consider doing so before the guest overstays their welcome, so they know their boundaries in advance. If they persist, offer a sly "you're being a little like right now" to really drive the point home.
 If able, have a friendly guest scoot the impolite guest towards the door. Invite a good friend over the day the house guest is meant to leave, and have them leave simultaneously. Have her repeat your hints about the time, or about how "we really should get going," etc. It always helps to have an example of a good guest to show the bad guest just what they're doing.


If you're especially worried about an overstay-er for a party, get a friend to give them a ride. This way, when the friend knows its time to leave, the overstay-er has no choice but to leave with them.
Know that the friend has to leave as well. Don't recruit someone else to show a bad guest the door (unless they're just that bad) and try to keep them around--booting the overstay-er will usually be an all-or-nothing affair., For overnight guests who test your hospitality, suggest they visit a hotel instead. If it's a guest to a party, and is someone who just insists the party never stop, offer an alternative venue where the party doesn't have to stop. Suggest a bar or a dessert place to end their night.


Be careful not to become responsible. Play the host who, unfortunately, cannot host any longer, but don't apologize for setting limits. Don't pay the cab fare (unless you're desperate), don't buy the hotel room, just be direct and get them elsewhere.
 The final act of a kind host is to see that their guest makes it comfortably out the door. To assure your guest that time has come, gather their things and put them by the door. Ask them questions about their leaving on the day of, or things such as "Are you sure you left nothing behind?" These are just more unambiguous signs that their stay is over.


For party guests, offer them a last drink or piece of dessert. If the latter, suggest they take some home with them--and meet them at the door with the bag.
 If a guest has truly overstayed their welcome, let them know they ought to start pitching in around the house. Have them pick up after themselves, and suggest they do a fair share of the dishes and the tidying up. At worst you've a new helper around the house. However, most house guests would be reaching for reasons to leave once doing dishes entered the itinerary.