 Many businesses specialize in either 1 or the other. If you buy refurbished laptops, they are likely to be cheaper, but they may also be older with no warranties.;
, These are prevalent, because the majority of the wholesale electronics market has moved online. Watch out for these common scams as you look for bulk laptops.


Don't use any website that charges a membership fee, monthly fee or annual fee to buy electronics in bulk. Setup or other superfluous fees are likely to be a sign that the company is trying to get your financial information. You should not be paying them unless you directly purchase goods. One caveat is that if a wholesale distribution center is finding bulk laptops for you, they may ask for a deposit, which will later be used to pay part of your balance. Sending a check or PayPal payment will ensure they don't have your bank account details.
Beware of drop shipping scams. In this practice, you believe you are communicating with a wholesaler, but you are actually talking with a middleman who plans to use you to get clients, and arrange payment with themselves directly. Many people are fooled with "work from home opportunities" that leave them paying service fees and not making any money.
Sites that claim to be independent review sites are rarely independent. Companies pay to put up these sites that rate the products that earn them the highest commission as the best. Do not base your purchase on these sites.
 To avoid price mark-ups by middlemen and drop ship scams, you can vet your wholesalers according to independent verification. This should help you choose a wholesaler who sells straight from the manufacturer.
 On Dellauction.com, they auction off a high number of previously leased and used laptops. They are refurbished to Dell specifications and there is a 30-day money back guarantee on all purchases.
 Wholesalers and middlemen create accounts on this site. They offer products that often have a minimum order amount, and you can conduct your transaction in escrow.


In an escrow transaction, the money or bond is kept by a third party until the transaction is successfully completed. This is usually kept by banks or lending agencies who hold a bond for the wholesaler.
DHGate is another wholesaler that connects worldwide laptop suppliers. Although they don't advertise escrow transactions, some products come with a 7-day return or exchange guarantee. Look for this guarantee before purchasing in bulk.
 If you have chosen a specific laptop computer that you want to buy, then you are likely to get at least a 10 percent discount for buying more than 10 computers. Rates will vary between computer companies.
 This auction site often sells lots of 4 to 10 laptops to the highest bidder. Try to price out what you think older laptops are worth, so that you make a good bid.


eBay conducts transactions through PayPal, which can hold off some purchases for up to 2 weeks while you await shipment. If you have a problem with your order, you can submit a complaint through PayPal to have a judgment made on a return and refund.
 These Better Business Bureau accredited businesses may be able to supply bulk computers from a number of different companies. Make sure you learn about their return policy and any safety checks they have in place to ensure they have trusted sellers.

