 Many people read the newspaper so, you'll increase the chance of finding your dog. It comes with a small fee, but it will get your pet some extra exposure. Additionally, many newspapers post lost pet advertisements to their websites, as well.Include a description of your dog such as size, gender, age, breed, and any distinct characteristic of your dog in the add.
Include a picture if the paper allows.
Remember to include your phone number for someone to contact you if your dog is found.
 Many radio programs will let you call in to announce that you have lost a pet. Call and let them know, “I’ve lost my pet and I would like to make an announcement to see if someone has found them.”The radio show might let you speak directly, or they might take down your information and have the host make the announcement. Be prepared for either eventuality with a description of your dog and your phone number.
 Let everyone in all of your social media networks know that your dog has gone missing. Post not only to your own profile, but also look for local groups or networks dedicated to lost dogs or simply dogs in your area.Include a description of your pet and multiple photos to your social media post.
Let people know the best way to get in contact with you if they have any information regarding your pet, whether that is via phone or through the social media application.
Ask people in your own network to share your posting, as well, to get your information out to more people in your area.
 There are a number of websites, such as Fido Finder, that are dedicated to reuniting lost pets and their owners. Other websites, like Craigslistalso have areas of the site specifically designated for pet postings.


Posting to these sites is often free, so it helps to get your ad up on as many of them as possible.
You may create a new ad including a description of your dog, or you may be able to upload your existing flyer.
Send the link from your posting out to everyone you know in your area, and request they pass it along to anyone else they know in the area.

