 Cosmetic tattooing is done with an electric needle that rapidly deposits ink pigments into the dermis layer of skin.Cosmetic tattooing is also known as permanent makeup. These procedures are often used to create the appearance of fuller eyebrows, permanent eyeliner, or permanent lipstick, but using it to create freckles has become more popular in recent years.


A hollow, vibrating needle will pierce through the top layer of skin and release a droplet of pigment.
While cosmetic tattooing is possible to remove, it is very difficult to do so, and your skin may never look the same again.
 To reduce the risk of negative side effects, like infection, make sure that the professional you hire knows what he or she is really doing.


Check each tattoo artist's credentials. Make sure that he or she is a properly trained and licensed aesthetician.
Get a recommendation from a plastic surgeon or former client. Speak with former clients, and ask to see before-and-after photos of freckle tattoos.
 The professional may have suggestions, but in order to get the look you really want, you need to have an active voice in the matter. If possible, go over a few photographs to determine which freckled look is right for you.


The tattoo artist will help you determine the best hue and shade of color for your freckles.
You should also discuss the placement of your freckles.
 When the time comes, schedule an appointment and get your freckles tattooed on. Before the procedure, the technician will sketch out the area that will be tattooed using a sterile surgical pen. Anesthetic gel will then be placed on the area to numb it. During the procedure, you can expect to feel a little stinging sensation.


Make sure that the aesthetician uses sterile gloves and sterilized equipment during the procedure.
 You will need to reduce the swelling with a cold compress and apply an antibiotic ointment to minimize the risk of infection.Follow the tattoo artist's instructions about how to take proper care of the area while it heals.


Note that immediately after the freckle tattoo is applied, the color will look dark. This should not be a cause for concern, though. The color will fade to its final shade after about three weeks.
If the area seems unusually swollen, painful, or red after the first few days, however, there is some chance that an infection or allergic reaction may have been triggered.

