 Everyone knows that an even number is divisible by 2, but in magic squares, there are different methodologies for solving singly and doubly even squares.


A singly even square has a number of boxes per side that is divisible by 2, but not 4.The smallest possible singly even magic square is 6x6, since 2x2 magic squares can’t be made.
 Use the same method as you would with odd magic squares: the magic constant = / 2, where n = the number of boxes per side. So, in the example of a 6x6 square:


sum = / 2
sum = / 2
sum = (6 * 37) / 2
sum = 222 / 2
The magic constant for a 6x6 square is 222/2, or 111.
All rows, columns, and diagonals must add up to this number.
 Label them A (top left), C (top right), D (bottom left) and B (bottom right). To figure out how large each square should be, simply divide the number of boxes in each row or column by half.


So, for a 6x6 square, each quadrant would be 3x3 boxes.
 Quadrant A gets for the quarter of numbers; Quadrant B the second quarter; Quadrant C the third quarter, and Quadrant D the final quarter of the total number range for the 6x6 magic square.


In the example of a 6x6 square, Quadrant A would be solved with the numbers from 1-9; Quadrant B with 10-18; Quadrant C with 19-27; and Quadrant D with 28-36.
 Quadrant A will be simple to fill out, as it starts with the number 1, as magic squares usually do. Quadrants B-D, however, will start with strange numbers — 10, 19, and 28, respectively, in our example.


Treat the first number of each quadrant as though it is the number one. Place it in the center box on the top row of each quadrant.
Treat each quadrant like its own magic square. Even if a box is available in an adjacent quadrant, ignore it and jump to the “exception” rule that fits your situation.
 You have to swap some boxes between the top left and bottom left quadrants to finish your magic square. We’ll call those swapped areas Highlight A and Highlight D.


Using a pencil, mark all the squares in the top row until you read the median box position of Quadrant A. So, in a 6x6 square, you would only mark Box 1 (which would have the number 8 in it), but in a 10x10 square, you would mark Boxes 1 and 2 (which would have the numbers 17 and 24 in them, respectively).
Mark out a square using the boxes you just marked as the top row. If you only marked one box, your square is just that one box. We’ll call this area Highlight A-1.
So, in a 10x10 magic square, Highlight A-1 would consist of Boxes 1 and 2 in Rows 1 and 2, creating a 2x2 square in the top left of the quadrant.
In the row directly below Highlight A-1, skip the number in the first column, then mark as many boxes across as you marked in Highlight A-1. We’ll call this middle row Highlight A-2.
Highlight A-3 is a box identical to A-1, but placed in the bottom left corner of the quadrant.
Highlight A-1, A-2, and A-3 together comprise Highlight A.
Repeat this process in Quadrant D, creating an identical highlighted area called Highlight D.
 Once you’ve done this, all the rows, columns, and diagonals in your magic square should add up to the magic constant you calculated.
 In addition to the swap for quadrants A & D mentioned above, you also need to do a swap for quadrants C & B. Highlight columns from the right side of the square toward the left one less than the number of columns highlighted for highlight A-1. Swap the values in quadrant C with the values in quadrant B for those columns, using the same one-to-one method.

Here are two images of a 14x14 Magic Square before and after doing both swaps. Quadrant A swap area is highlighted blue, Quadrant D swap area is highlighted green, Quadrant C swap area is highlighted yellow, and Quadrant B swap area is highlighted orange.


14x14 Magic Square before making swaps (steps 6, 7, & 8)







14x14 Magic Square after making swaps (steps 6, 7, & 8)









