 The defendant must file an answer to the complaint within 20 days. An “answer” is a legal response to each of the allegations that the plaintiff has made in the complaint. The courts do not have a specific form for this. The defendant will need to create it, either alone or with help of an attorney. If the answer is not filed within 20 days, then the plaintiff may automatically receive judgments that he/she requested in the complaint.


For example, if the plaintiff stated in the complaint that the children should live with the plaintiff alone and that the defendant should have no visitation, this could become the order if the defendant does not file an answer.
Also, any statements the plaintiff made about alimony or child support payments could be granted automatically if the defendant does not file an answer on time.
 Even in a contested divorce, there may be several items that the parties can agree on. For example, if they cannot decide on child custody, they may still be able to agree on property division. It is important for the parties to meet and settle as many issues as possible. The primary issues that arise and need to be decided are:child custody and visitation
division of personal property
division of the marital debts and obligations
child support payments.
 Any matters that the two parents cannot decide will have to be decided by the judge. The way to get an issue to the judge’s attention is to file a motion. Any motion must be written (there are no specific forms), filed in the clerk’s office, and then served (delivered) on the other party.
 For most issues, when one party files a motion, the court will hold the papers for a period of time, usually 15-20 days, for the other party to file an answer. The answer is your response, with any legal reasoning or argument to support your side of the issue. If you do not file an answer, the court may decide the motion in favor of the first party, without considering your side., After a motion and answer are filed, the court will schedule a time and date for a hearing. Both parties will need to attend and present their arguments. After hearing both sides, the judge will issue a decision. Sometimes the decision will be made right there on the spot, and sometimes you will leave and receive a written decision in the mail.
 Mediation is a process that involves a neutral third party. You and your spouse will meet with this person, individually and together, to try to resolve your differences. A good mediator may be expensive but can often help you reach a final resolution that you can both agree on., It is generally better for the parties involved in any divorce to reach decisions on their own. If you can reach agreements, then you can report to the court that the divorce has been settled and is ready for a final divorce decree. You will present your settlement to the judge. The judge will review it, and if it appears to address all the disputed issues, the judge will sign it and finalize the divorce.
 The court will mail you the final divorce decree soon after the final decision is made. When the divorce decree is signed by the judge, it becomes a binding order that dissolves the marriage. It also serves as a lasting order regarding any of the disputed issues, such as child support, alimony, visitation, etc.

