 If you see a violent act or believe that a child is in danger, call the police immediately. Calling a child abuse hotline will not result in immediate action, which may be necessary in a severe case. Once you call, a police officer will investigate the situation and make a report.


Call 911 to reach emergency services if you are in the United States or Canada.
Call 999 if you are in the United Kingdom.
Call 000 if you are in Australia.
Follow up this call to emergency services with a hotline call to child protective services. Every call that is made to child protective services is documented and used as a reference for further ongoing investigation.Police and child protective services often work very closely together. If there are reports made both with the police and with child protective services, there is a better trail for them to follow to help save more lives.;
, If a child is in immediate danger, then do not hesitate to act. Otherwise, however, it is important to think about what you are witnessing and consider all the facts you have — and don't have. Consider that what you are witnessing is a fraction of someone's life and you do not know or understand everything that is happening in the lives of your neighbors.


If it seems like the parent is stressed out and lashing out at the child, think about what might be the most appropriate way to approach the parent. Make sure you approach them with compassion and and are open to hearing the full story of what is going on.
If you feel this is a situation of possible verbal, mental, or psychological abuse, it might be best not to intervene personally. Instead, contact the police and/or child protective services. This is for your own safety, as well as the safety of the children.
 When you overhear you neighbor yelling at their kid, it may be appropriate to make an effort to do something at the time. If you can, try to intervene in the moment and defuse the tense situation. If you cannot, make a point to talk to your neighbor in the future. Try not to be accusatory and let them know that you are willing to help them out if they are feeling overwhelmed.


You might say something like, “Hey Doris, I heard things get a little heated with Tim the other day. Kids are great, but they can be difficult at times.”
Avoid approaching your neighbor in a confrontational manner. This will likely cause them to shut you out and limit your ability to intervene in the future.
 If you observe your neighbor yelling at their child, slowly approach the two of them. In a friendly tone, strike up a conversation with the parent and try to defuse the tension. If they are performing a task like bringing in the groceries, offer to help them out. Although the situation may be tense, try to keep a smile on your face and maintain a friendly tone.For example, if the parent is trying to bring in the groceries, you might say something like “Hey Jim! Want some help with those groceries?”
You might also try to defuse the situation by saying something like “Hey! How are you guys doing?” or “What are you guys up to today?”

, You can also ease some of the tension out of the situation by connecting with the parent. Make eye contact with them and say something that is positive and connects the two of you. Try to make the situation feel as non-confrontational as possible.You might say something like “Isn’t parenting hard sometimes?” or, “You must be so stressed. Kids are great, but they kind of seem like a handful sometimes.”
Remember that you are do not know what is going on in your neighbor's lives or what events were leading up to the yelling. As concerned as you may be, it is important to try and gather all the facts before you intervene (unless the child is clearly in danger).
If, however, you constantly hear the parent bullying or being verbally aggressive with the child, then it may be helpful to try to connect with the parent to try to find out what is going on — it may be completely unrelated to their child and they are unknowingly taking their stress out on the child. Feeling into the world of another parent and trying to work with them to problem solve will take some time.
 After talking to the parent, say something nice to the child. It is important that you convey to the child that you are not there to join in on the berating. Try to make a comment that is specific to the child and positiveYou might say something like “Hey Todd! That’s a pretty cool shirt you’re wearing!” or “Julie, you played awesome in that basketball game the other day.”

, If a parent has lost their temper at a small child, you might try distracting the child with a toy or trick. Once you approach the parent, try being friendly and playful with the small child. If you are familiar enough with parent, you might offer to hold the child for a bit.For example, you might play peek-a-boo or make funny faces at the small child to help them calm down.

