 Regardless of your own personal experiences with grief or loss, don’t try to console your friend by talking about yourself. For example, if you lost a grandparent and your friend lost her mother, don’t attempt to make her feel better by talking about how you coped after your own loss. Your situations are not the same, and you each probably have different coping mechanisms., One of the worst ways to try to console a friend is to tell them how to easily fix their problem. If your friend is inconsolable, chances are that they’ve already considered possible options or scenarios before they got to this point. Even if you think you have a clear solution, they need to come to it on their own., It’s imperative that you don’t tell your friend that you think their reaction to their grief or loss is silly or irrational. Regardless of how you might deal with a similar situation, you must not tell your friend that their response is inappropriate.Simply telling your friend that whatever they're feeling is completely valid will go a long way in comforting them. Validating their feelings will help them emotionally and help them feel like someone understands what they're going through.
 Don’t avoid your friend. Avoiding contact with a friend that is hurting does not help their situation and will likely hurt their feelings even more. Going through a loss can be an isolating, lonely experience. Be sure that you are there, even if you don’t live near your friend.


A phone call, Skype call, or text message can go a long way to let them know that you’re thinking of them and care about their grief., People don’t always want to talk about what’s upsetting them. Sometimes, if you live close enough to your friend, simply being physically near someone can be comforting.


If appropriate, a hug or arm around a friend can speak volumes. Sitting quietly in their presence might be difficult, but just being physically present and sitting with them while they cry is a positive form of consolation.

