 There are many different types of service dogs, all trained to deal with different emotional and physical needs.Search online for service dogs who can help you with your daily needs. You can consult with a vet, doctor, or physical therapist for recommendations.


The American Kennel club offers a listing of approved service dog organizations.
 Each organization will have a unique set of procedures for adopting a trained dog from them. You should contact as many of these organizations as you can to find a dog that is best-suited for your lifestyle and needs. Furthermore, many organizations have waiting lists, so you should factor time into your decision.When you contact them, you should ask:“How long is your waiting list?”
“Do you offer training programs to the new owners to help them bond with the service animal?”
“Why type of certification and documentation do you offer for the dog?”
“How are the dogs trained? Are they housebroken? Crate trained?”
“How much will it cost to buy a service dog from you?”
“How old will the dog be when they are released to me?”
“What are the procedures for adopting?”

, Once you have determined which organization you want to adopt from, you will normally have to fill out an application. You may be asked to do a background check before being placed on the waiting list.Once you have submitted the application, you will have to wait for your turn to receive a dog. In some cases, it can take up to two years to receive a dog.
 It is very expensive to train a service dog. Some organizations do not charge for service dogs while others may request several thousand dollars to cover training and costs.Once you are given an estimate of the cost for your service dog, you can begin saving your money and looking for financial assistance.



The Assistance Dog United Campaign is a charity that helps raise funds so that eligible people can afford their service dogs.
You may have some luck using a crowdfunding website, such as GoFundMe or YouCaring, to help raise the money.You can claim any expenses toward buying or taking care of a service dog on your taxes.