 This question defines the remaining steps and is the most important.


Is the tablet only needed for watching videos, Instagram, and Facebook? If so, most tablets today can handle that. Users can save money by purchasing lower-end tablets for these purposes.
Is the tablet going to be used for multimedia and gaming? Then a higher end tablet will be in order. These tend to have more storage for taking HD pictures and video, as well as higher level processors and cameras. For more multimedia and gaming use, tablets with expandable storage, such as the Samsung Galaxy Tab or Nvidia Shield, are useful.;
, There is a lot of information out there about processors, but a few basics can help a user to make the best decision.



Cores. The more cores a processor has, the faster it will be (dual core, quad core, etc.) Many tablets today run quad core processors; however, great deals can be found with dual core tablets, as they contain older technology but are perfect for basic tablet tasks. Dual is two, and quad is four. However, the majority of tablets in the stores have quad core processors.

Clock speed. On most advertisements for tablets, there will be a number that is listed alongside the number of cores in the tablet. These should be listed with the Ghz next to the number (2.2Ghz, 2.7 Ghz, etc.). The higher the number, the faster the device, at least for the most part. If you use a lot of apps and games that require a faster device, you will want to look for a tablet with a higher clock speed.
 Without getting too deep into different memory sizes and what not, here are some basics. There are two basic types of memory on a tablet: main storage and RAM.


The main storage is where applications, media (pictures, videos, etc.) are permanently stored.
RAM is always the smaller of the two memory types. RAM is basically live, active, memory that the tablet uses to run multiple apps all at once. Higher end tablets run high amounts of RAM for so that they can run multiple processes at once.
The average tablet today comes with about 16GB (gigabytes) of storage; however, the amount of RAM can be different. It ranges from 3GB on the high end to 512MB for older, more basic tablets. (1GB is 1,000 MB.)
A lot of memory is necessary if you plan on downloading lots of applications, taking and storing lots of pictures, or loading videos and music to your tablet. However, if you plan on using Cloud based storage systems mainly, you may be able to get away with smaller amounts of storage.
 The camera in a tablet is going to be digital and, therefore, will measure the picture quality based on megapixels (MP); this is called the resolution. While this should not be the only factor, it is an important one. iPads generally come with an 5MP camera (sometimes called a shooter). For Androids, this is more mid-range. Android tablets can come with a 2MP–16MP shooter.


With tablets, most people don’t find the camera to be a big selling point as the size of the tablet can be 7+ inches and can be awkward to use.
The more MP, the more space will be taken up in storage for each picture or video taken.
Many newer tablets come with two different cameras, one facing the user (front-facing) and one facing away (back camera). The front-facing camera will have a lower resolution, usually around 2MP or so. It is mostly used for selfies and video calls.
Video quality is also important. Most tablets with an 8MP back camera will shoot in HD (high definition) video, giving clear, crisp video. However, a few tablets with lower MP front-facing cameras are capable of this as well.
 The screen on today’s tablets is a very important feature for many users. Lower-resolution screens can make many pictures, videos, and games look grainy. There are a few basic things to understand when choosing the right screen.


Is it HD or not? There are two different numbers associated with screen resolution, and they should be displayed like this: 1280 x 720. This particular resolution is the lowest HD screen available. Anything lower is not considered to be HD.
Generally, the higher the resolution, the more expensive the tablet.
Today, high-end flagship tablets can come with QHD screens. These can have resolutions as high as 2560 x 1440.
Another important determining factor is the actual size of the screen itself. Tablets generally come in size of 7+ inches, with one of the largest being 24 inches (Nabi Big Tab).
A final important factor is the pixels per inch (PPI) measurement. The PPI of a screen determines how sharp the display is when zoomed in. Edges of text and the like can become grainy even on HD screens that have a low PPI. However, this number is not very important for basic tablet functions. Facebook, email, texting, and pictures all still work fine. They are more important for photo editing and graphics.
 There are many different places to purchase an Android tablet. A few are online stores, mobile carriers, and electronics stores. These will all have different ranges in deals and packages for different tablets. Make sure to compare pricing differences between each market.


Online markets can be unsafe. However, places like Ebay have user protection to safeguard user information and ensure that returns and refunds are enforced.
Online markets are also much more likely to have older, or more basic, tablets available than other markets.
 Do not simply pick up a tablet and buy it. Make sure to compare tablets to each other. Especially if price is important make sure not to jump at the first tablet that catches the eye. Here is a side-by-side comparison of two very different tablets. One will be an example of a budget/basic tablet, and the other will be high-end.


Allwinner A13

CPU: AllWinner A13, 1.0GHz(up to1.5GHZ) Single Core
LCD: 7 inch Capacitive Touch Screen, 800x480
RAM: 512MB DDR3
Storage: 4GB
Camera:Front camera, 1.3 Megapixels
Battery :2300mah (Use for about 4 hours or so)
Price: $47.16 USD
Use: Facebook, Instagram, Youtube, Web Browsing, Video Chat.


Lenovo Yoga Tablet 2

CPU: Intel Atom Z3745 Quad-core 1.86 GHz
IPS LCD: 13.3 inch QHD Capacitive Touch Screen, 2560x1440 (4x HD Resolution)
RAM: 2 GB (2048 MB) LPDDR3
Storage: 32GB (Expandable to 64 GB)
Camera: 8MP Main Camera, 1.6MP Front Camera
Battery: 9600mAh (Use for 15 hours)
Price: $469.99 USD
Use: Gaming, Projector for movies, subwoofer, all of the above.
 Some good deals can be passed over when searching for the perfect tablet. Having a technologically inclined friend who respects the buyers point of view can be a of great help. Buy that new Android tablet and enjoy!

