 Different supplements will be absorbed best at different times of the day, when your body is in different states. For example, nitric oxide works well when you take it when your stomach is empty. However, it is important to keep in mind that everyone’s body is different, so you need to figure out what times work best for you.


Creatine and glutamine may compete in your body, so it you are taking both of these supplements, consider splitting them up so that they work as effectively as possible. Try taking creatine a half hour before your workout, and then again immediately after your workout. Then, before you go to bed, take your glutamine supplement.
The time that you take protein will depend on your preferences. The four times that protein will generally be most effective include when you wake up, a half hour before your workout, after your workout, and before bed.
 Many supplements designed to be taken before your workout contain synthetic stimulants. Weight-loss and fat burning supplements also contain a lot of stimulants. If you use both types of supplements, do not take them at the same time, as combining these stimulants could cause overstimulation. In extreme circumstances, this could lead to a heart attack.


If you are using both a pre-workout stimulant, like a caffeine supplement, and a fat burning supplement, separate them by at least half a day.
 Keep in mind that taking these supplements are only part of the weight loss process. Losing weight is really about eating healthy and exercising often. Once you have created a healthy diet for yourself, you can then supplement your diet and exercises with this stack:


Protein, multivitamin, and a thermogenic supplement like guarana or green tea. The protein helps you to keep your muscle mass high while still losing weight. The multivitamin can ensure that you get the nutrients you need when you cut back on the food you eat. The natural caffeine supplement can speed up your body’s metabolism. It may also help to suppress your appetite a little.
This stack promotes an increased metabolism that can help you to burn your way through the calories you consume.
 Muscle building stacks are designed to speed up your muscles’ recovery after an intense workout, while also promoting muscle growth and weight maintenance. An example stack would be:


Protein to help you build up your muscle mass. As mentioned above, you can take protein in the morning, at night, before your workout, or after your workout..
Nitric oxide to boost your strength and muscle size. You split up your daily intake of nitric oxide so that you take it three times a day before meals (your stomach should be relatively empty). You can combine this supplement with creatine and a caffeine supplement for an energy boost before your workout.
A creatine supplement taken at least 30 minutes before you take your protein supplement.
A glutamine supplement taken after your workout to help your muscles recover and repair themselves. You can also add glutamine to your pre-workout drink.
A multivitamin to make sure you are getting your daily nutrients.
 Like any lifestyle change you make, it may take a couple of weeks or months before you see the effects. Some people recommend that you only take certain supplement for a maximum of eight weeks, then take a break for four to six weeks.


The supplements that you can take continuously include a multivitamin, your protein powder, and fish oil (or omega-3 supplements).
 Each person has different needs. Because of this, you should do your research regarding what supplements achieve the effects that you are looking for, given your medical history, body type, and gender.


The stack that your gym buddy says works well for him or her, may not have the same effect on your body.
 When in doubt, it is always a good idea to talk to a professional who can help you to create a healthy stack.


Talk to a health trainer at your gym. It is helpful if you have worked with the trainer before because the trainer will then have an idea of your routine, which can help him or her to figure out when you should take your supplements.

