 If an Australian company offers you a job, you can get a work visa and eventually leverage this into permanent residency. Apply for residency once you've spent two years working for the same employer. Make sure to pay your bills, integrate into the country, and stay on the right side of the law.You may also be able to do this with the General Skilled Migration program.
This approach only works for certain approved skills. The employer must also convince the government that no Australian worker is available for the job. For highly-skilled jobs like doctors, nurses, and medical technicians, it's even possible to come straight into the country on a permanent visa.
 This subset applies if your partner, spouse, child, or parent is already a citizen or permanent resident of Australia. You may be able to secure a migration visa based on your connection to this person.Partner and Spouse Visa: You must be the spouse, fiancee, or interdependent partner of an Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident, or an eligible New Zealand citizen.Parent and Child Migration: You might be able to migrate to Australia if your child is already a citizen or permanent resident of the country. Likewise, minors can migrate to Australia as the dependent child, orphan relative, or adopted child of a citizen or permanent resident., This visa will allow you to live and work in Australia for up to 12 months, although you cannot spend more than six months working for any one employer.The WHV is not an option for permanent residency, but it can be a great way to live in Australia for a while.


You must be aged 18-30 to qualify for a WHV. You must have a valid passport with at least six months left until its expiration. You need to prove that you'll be able to financially support yourself once you arrive in Australia.You must also meet several health and character requirements. You cannot have any serious criminal convictions on the record, and you cannot have any serious (especially contagious) medical issues.