 Believe it or not, charging in madly with your favorite far fetched  is not going to win you a battle. All Pokémon have strengths and weaknesses, but some have overpowering strengths and some are mind-numbingly weak. Battle simulators, such as Pokémon Online, are also necessary for learning. Beware: It can take a lot of time to get the perfect team on Pokémon Online or any other simulator. Also, you may decide that simulators are just as fun as real battles (which in many ways they are) and that training Pokémon for battles is too much work. If that's your opinion, it's fine; however, if you still want to train Pokémon in the actual games, continue on.;
, If there is only one of your Pokémon in your game, like most legendaries, you'll probably have to soft reset for IVs. Otherwise, just capture them and worry about stats later. (If one of the Pokémon you want on your team is unobtainable (event Pokémon whose events you missed or Pokémon only available in games you don't have) you'll probably have to rethink your team or trade on the GTS for it. Sorry!) Optionally, you can also try to capture a shiny Pokémon of your species in order to give a daunting first impression. However, the effort required to capture a shiny is phenomenal and usually not worth it.
 IVs, or Individual Values, are numbers that each individual Pokémon has that affect its stats; likewise, natures boost one stat and lower another. Pokémon that lack IVs in certain stats will be easier to defeat than Pokémon with maximum IVs. Unfortunately, generations of IVs and natures are entirely random and require a good deal of breeding. Guides to breeding for IVs can be found everywhere, and is by far the easiest in 5th generation games.
 When you have a perfect hatchling with the nature and individual values you want, STOP! First of all, training it at the daycare for the first few levels will make this far easier. EVs are obtained when a certain Pokémon is defeated. (For example, defeating a Pidgey gives one Speed EV.) Four EVs in a stat raises the stat by one, and a stat's EVs max at 252, whereas a Pokémon's EVs max out at 510. Certain areas are very useful for training in certain stats, and can be found online. Battle simulators should give you a good idea of EV spreads to choose.
 This step, compared to the others, is much easier. Use the move relearner to learn moves you or the Day Care may have skipped over; move tutors and renewable generation 5 TMs are also very useful. Some moves are event only, and cannot be learned normally.
 In order to win battles against regular trainers, levels are necessary. High-levelled Pokémon can rematch the Elite Four over and over again; VS. Seekers and rematchable Pokémon Breeders are useful to train weaker ones.
 Regular Wifi Battles against friends or Random Battles all serve to to help you see any flaws in your team. If there are major, unfixable flaws, you may need to take drastic measures or train a new Pokémon.

