 Wrap the lace around each finger first to find a bit of pattern you like for that nail. Trim down the lace so that it will fit the width of your nail, and be slightly shorter than the length of your nail.








You can use small fabric scissors or nail scissors to trim down the lace.
You have should cut two bits of lace for each of your five fingernail sizes (thumbnail, pointer finger, middle finger, ring finger, and pinky finger) – ten in total.
 For example, if you’re using black lace, paint a black base coat. This technique will help to visually blend the edges of the fabric you’ll be putting on your nails. Let the polish fully dry.








This shade will only show in the “U” where your nail meets your skin. Aim for even coverage, but don’t worry about applying multiple coats if your nail plate isn’t uniformly concealed by the base coat.
 Leave the base coat showing in a “U” shape. The bottom of the “U” should rim your cuticle, with the sides of the “U” on the edges of your nail wall. Use the contrasting color – not the base color – for the free edge of your nail. Apply a second coat, if more coverage is needed. Allow the polish to fully dry.








For example, if your base coat and lace fabric are black, you may want to use taupe as your top color. That way the lace fabric will really stand out on top of the nail.
 Wait several minutes, so that the topcoat is still tacky but not freshly wet. This time may be shorter if you’re using a quick-dry topcoat.









If you’re doing both hands, you’ll want to completely finish one hand at a time at this stage, so that your topcoat doesn’t dry on one hand while you’re placing the fabric on your other hand.
 Match the round end of the lace cutout to the half-moon of base coat showing near your cuticle. Use scissors or tweezers to press down the lace by dabbing the edges of the fabric lightly.








Small, curved nail scissors work well for pressing down the fabric.
 Let your polish dry first. Then use the point of the scissors to carefully snip off any bits of thread around the edges of your nail.
 A quick-dry topcoat will work best, since you’ll need to let each topcoat dry completely before applying another. Make sure to cover all of the exposed lace with the topcoats.








If you prefer a matte look, finish up with a matte topcoat.

