 Orbeez should be available at any major toy or big box store.You can also buy them online from most toy store websites or general retailers. They come in a wide variety of colors. While you might want to attempt a trial run with just one package, many people enjoy mixing colors together.


Different colored Orbeez can be used for team games or in art projects.;
, Use a pair of scissors to open the packet, making sure not to spill any of the tiny Orbeez on the ground.


The Orbeez should look like large grains of colored salt.
 You will not see any changes immediately. Don't worry, it takes some time before the Orbeez start to grow.


If your Orbeez aren't fully round you may not have used enough water, or you may need to wait for more water to be absorbed.
Use pure water to make your Orbeez grow bigger. Distilled water will get you the best results., They will grow 100 to 300 times their original size if you wait long enough, with a maximum diameter of 14 millimeters.If your Orbeez are not entirely grown but are running out of water, feel free to add more. Too much water won't hurt the growth of your Orbeez.
 There may be extra water at the bottom of the container in which you soaked your Orbeez. Drain it so that it doesn't spill when you start to play.
 Run Orbeez through your fingers. People seem to enjoy the smooth sensation. There are a wide variety of other things you can do with your Orbeez, here are a few suggestions:


Take them outside and have a bouncing Orbeez contest with a friend. See how high you can bounce them!
Play mini bocce ball, where you and your friends try to get your Orbeez close to a target ball, like a marble. You can use different color Orbeez for different teams, and each team can take turns rolling the target ball.
Try playing bullseye with a friend and two different colors of Orbeez. Simply draw a bullseye on a sheet of paper and take turns with your friend trying to roll a Orbeez into the center of the bullseye.
Play Orbeez croquet with your friends. You can fold pieces of paper or use paper clips to create your course "hoops."
Create an Orbeez obstacle course, like putt-putt golf. Challenge your friends to get Orbeez through the course in as few tries as possible.
Use different colored Orbeez to play classic games, like marbles or Chinese checkers.
 When you are finished playing with them put them into a container with a lid. This will make your Orbeez last up to a week.


If your Orbeez accidentally dry out, don't worry. You simply need to resoak them to reactivate them.
Do your Orbeez smell musty or moldy? This is likely because of impure water you used. Try using purified water, and if you still smell mold, dispose of them.
 If you are sure you don't want your Orbeez anymore or they've become moldy, it's time to dispose of them. Orbeez are not intended to be disposed of through plumbing, so you shouldn't rinse them down a drain. Instead, throw them away or mix them into the soil of your potted plants, where they will help the soil retain moisture.


Orbeez were originally developed to slowly release water into soil, watering plants gradually. They will help the soil retain moisture, thus helping water the plants you are growing. If you mix them into the soil, you won't have to water your potted plants as often.