 Positive self-talk refers to the positive way that your inner voice talks to you and views yourself. This inner voice impacts your motivation, outlook, self-esteem, and overall well-being. Positive self-talk is a way to talk to yourself that will help you gain confidence, build a healthier lifestyle, and reduce negative thoughts.Positive self-talk can also help keep a health perspective on your emotions. Remind yourself that emotions and the urge to want to cut are just emotions and not fact. They will pass or can be improved. The feelings you are having that make you want to cut will not always be there., One way to incorporate positive self-talk into your everyday life is to leave visual reminders around. Use post-it notes or taped pieces of paper to leave positive phrases about yourself around your living areas. You can also write messages on your mirror, on a window, or on dry erase boards. This way, you will see the reminders every day and it will help improve you mood. It will also help you see positive messages when you are thinking about cutting. Good examples of positive phrases include:


I am lovable.
I am special.
I am confident.
I can achieve my goals.
I am beautiful/handsome.
My feelings are just are feelings.
My emotions will not last forever.
Emotions are not facts.
Harming myself does not solve me problems.
Harming myself might provide quick relief, but not long term relief.
I can overcome my anger/sadness/anxiety without harming.
I can trust someone with my feelings right now.
I can seek support.
I’m going to make it., Positive self-talk will help you acknowledge and understand thought patterns that impact urges to self-harm. The first step is to learn to acknowledge your thoughts because they are often a habit. Some people find it helpful to create a journal to help record the daily thought processes. Writing them down allows you to critically think about your feelings and thoughts as well as process how to handle things differently.


The goal is not to change your thoughts but to become aware of the thoughts. This will help you acknowledge them, which will help you not passively act on these negative thoughts that lead to self-harming behaviors.Try to write down the situation, thought, feeling, or emotion you have as well as any physical sensation such as energy, tightening of the stomach, and actions you do.
 Assessing your thoughts and thought process can help lead to more positive self-talk and less harmful thoughts that lead to cutting. Are your thoughts true? Look at your thought record and assess any similar situation you ended up in. Did you learn anything from these situations and what were the long term consequences? Did you handle any situations differently than other days? Did you act on negative thoughts?


A good way to assess negative thoughts is to look for statements with words like should, ought, or must. These types of statements lead to messages of all or nothing. These negative, often harsh thoughts about yourself can lead to self-harm.
Looking at your thoughts journal, what were some alternative thoughts you could have had? Write down the alternative and positive statements that undermine the negative thoughts you had.Ask a friend or trusted family member if you are unsure if thoughts are true.

