 An action to “quiet title” asks the court to determine the legal rights in a piece of property. You can typically file a quiet title action in the following circumstances:Someone is using your property without your permission. For example, someone might have encroached on your property, or they could regularly trespass on your property to reach their own parcel of land. In these situations, a quiet title action can establish that these people do not have an “easement” or other rights in your property.
There is uncertainty about where the boundary should be located.
You are unsure if you own the land. If the title report shows a break in the title, then you don’t know if someone might have transferred the property without the legal right to do so. In this situation, a quiet title action can conclusively establish that you are the owner of the property.
You want to challenge a lien because you do not think it is valid.
 You would benefit by meeting for a consultation with an attorney to discuss whether you should bring a quiet title action and who you should join as defendants to the suit. A qualified attorney can listen to you explain your circumstances and offer tailored advice.


To find a qualified attorney, contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral.Once you have a referral, you should call the attorney and ask to schedule a consultation. Ask how much he or she charges.
 Many courts have created “fill-in-the-blank” forms you can use.Stop into the court for the county where the property is located. Ask the clerk if there is a form.


You can also check on the court’s website.
 There might not be a form available. In this situation, you need to draft your own. Begin by opening a blank word processing document and setting the font to a size and style that is readable. Times New Roman or Arial 14 point is generally acceptable.


Also set one-inch margins and get a copy of your court’s local rules to see if there are other formatting requirements. You can get local rules from the court’s website.
In some courts, you need to print your petition on “pleading paper,” which is paper numbered down the left-hand margin. You should read your local rules to check., At the top of the motion, you need to insert the “caption”: the name of the court, the names of the parties (you and any defendants), and space for the case number.The court’s name goes at the top of the document, centered between the left- and right-hand margins.
Insert the names of the parties beneath the court name and on the left-hand side of the page.
Put “Case No.” and then a blank line to the right of the names. You will get the case number when you file your lawsuit.
Be sure to name as a defendant anyone with a potential interest in the property. You can also name “John Does 1-100” if you think there are unknown people who might have an interest in the property.
 You can insert the title beneath the caption. You can title the complaint “Action to Quiet Title” or “Verified Complaint to Quiet Title.”Center the title between the left and right-hand margins.
 In the introduction, you should identify yourself and the defendants. If you are representing yourself in the lawsuit, then you should identify that fact as well.


Sample language could read: “Comes now, Plaintiff, Lisa Jones, representing herself pro se, and files the Complaint to Quiet Title against the Defendants and states the following.”, You need to explain where the property is located. You should get your legal description of property. You can attach the legal description as an exhibit and refer to the property in your complaint by the street address.


For example, you could write: “This is an action to quiet title to real property owned by the Plaintiff in fee simple, which is located at 755 East Erie, Southern Town, Florida, and which is described more fully in Exhibit A.”Remember to number your paragraphs. The description of property would be number 1.
 One important fact is how you came into the property. You can briefly explain who you bought it from and the date that you took possession. In a series of numbered paragraphs, relate the following information:The date you took possession of the property and how. For example: “2. Plaintiff derived title by purchasing the property on or about June 12, 2003 and owned in fee simple.”
How the transfer was made: name the party who transferred the property to you, the type of deed (e.g., warranty deed, quitclaim deed, etc.) and state the volume and page number where the deed can be found in the Recorder of Deeds office.
 You should identify any named defendants who are claiming an interest in your property. If any defendants are businesses, then identify where they do business., Go into sufficient detail so that the judge understands what interest the defendants claim in your property. You should also explain why you own the entire property. Refer to any documents that help your case—emails, letters, photographs, surveys, etc. Attach them as exhibits.


For example, there may have been a gap in your chain of title. You should explain the gap and also point out that no one has come forward to claim ownership in the property.
If you are involved in a boundary dispute, then explain the dispute. Also explain why the disputed parcel actually falls on your side of the land.
 Repeat that you want the court to quiet the title to your property. If you can sue for attorney’s fees in your state, then mention that as well.Sample language could read: “Wherefore, Plaintiff respectfully moves this Court for an Order to Quiet Title of her residence at 755 East Erie, Southern Town, Florida.”

, You may have to verify that the statements in your petition are true and correct. Alternately, you could sign your own affidavit to this effect.You may also need to sign in front of a notary public. If so, insert an appropriate notary block and wait to sign until you appear before the notary.
 Once you have completed the petition, you should make several copies. Take your copies and the original to the court clerk. Ask to file.


You will probably have to pay a filing fee. The amount and methods of payment will differ depending on the court, so call ahead of time and check.
If you can’t afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver form and fill it out. You will have to provide information about your monthly income and expenses., You need to provide notice to anyone who might claim an interest in the land. This will include anyone who claims a lien, easement, or other interest in the property. You can serve notice by having someone 18 or older, who is not a party to the lawsuit, hand deliver notice.


Read your state law. In some states, you have to give notice to your neighbors and other people.
You might also have to post notice on the property itself and publish notice in a newspaper., If someone with an interest in the property wants to dispute the quiet title action, then they will probably file a response. You should receive a copy before your hearing date. If no one contests the quiet title action, then ask the judge to decide in your favor.

