 It is easier to bond with someone when you all have similar interests. Join a club or an organization at your school that aligns with your interests. This is a great way to meet people who like the same things that you like. You will always have things to talk about with people who like the same things that you do. Joining a club will also give you an opportunity to talk to people outside of normal school hours.

If you are not sure about the different organizations at your school, ask a teacher or a guidance counselor. They will be able to point you in the right direction.
 Become familiar with your classmates and other people in your school. Take the time to identify the different cliques and which students seem to be friendly. Are there students who seem rude or make fun of other people? Are you drawn to certain groups of people or particular students? Once you understand the school better, you identify where you would like to fit in.Take your time figuring out your place. It can be hard to change groups once start hanging out with a particular group.
 When you have sat with each group you are interested in becoming a part of, choose a group that you most enjoy being around. Not all groups will accept you; sit near a group and they may invite you to sit with them. If they don't, go up and introduce yourself. If they don't seem to like you, or are mean or negative towards you, they're not worth making friends with and you can find better people to be around.


If you walk by a table and see an empty seat, you can say, "Hi, is anyone sitting here?" or "Do you mind if I sit next to you?"
Bring your lunch to school to make things a little easier. You can avoid waiting in line or walking around trying to find somewhere to sit. If you bring your lunch, you can immediately sit down when you walk into the cafeteria., There may not be only one group for you. Many people hang out with different groups at school or only hang out with a couple of people. Figure out what you are most comfortable with. You may eat lunch with one group and talk to different people in the hallway or after school. It is important for you to be happy and have a sense of belonging at your school. So associate with all the people that you want to.
 Your teachers are a great resource at your school. They know the school and students better than you do. Your teachers can suggest some students that you can talk to or even introduce you to some people you can be friends with. Get to class early or stay a little later to introduce yourself to your teacher.Your teachers can also help you deal with conflicts that you may have with other people at school.
Having a good relationship with your teachers will help you to have a more positive experience at your school., After a few weeks of getting to know these people, invite a few of them over to your house to hangout or do homework. Spending time outside of class can help you develop deeper friendships and really get to know people.Having real friends will make fitting in at school much easier.
 The best way to make new friends is to be a good friend yourself. Be loyal, honest, and fun to be around.Think of all the qualities that you look for in a friend and the things that attract you to certain people.Well, those are the same things that will help you fit in with people at your school.


Show genuine interest in other people. Ask someone how their day is going or what did they do over the weekend. Ask questions that will require more than just a yes or a no. For example, say "How was your weekend?" instead of "Did you have a good weekend?"
Share with other people. If you have some food, ask your friend if he or she would like some.
Help other people. If you see someone trying to carry something and open a door, go hold the door for them.

