 Always look around to see what is around you.


Look ahead for cyclists and walk on the other side to give them room to pass.
When you're crossing a road and a driver about to turn is allowing you to walk first, thank him/her by making eye contact and giving a polite smile and wave. Remember that in marked crosswalks, pedestrians have the right of way when the respected signal is for them.;
, Avoid walking in the middle or changing sides if you do not need to. This allows people moving faster than you (like bicyclers and joggers) to pass you. If you live in a country where people drive on the right side of the road, walk on the right side of the sidewalk, and vice versa.
 It's okay to answer an occasional text or change a song, but don't go updating your Facebook status or uploading a picture on Instagram. Not only is it dangerous (because you'll lose your focus and inadvertently walk into hazards), but it's quite inconsiderate when you're walking more slowly than the people behind you (you might run into them or something).


If you're waiting to cross an intersection, use that time to check your messages before you start walking again.
Make a playlist of the songs you want to listen to during your walk before you leave to avoid constantly changing songs.



Keep the volume level so that you're still able to hear external sounds, like bicycle bells and car horns. Many people use one earbud, but this may carry a hazard (see Warnings).
Resist the urge to sing along. Unless you're a superstar, the people behind you are probably not going to want to listen to you.
Don't play loud, eardrum-blasting music. You may be a metal-head, but people around you may not want to hear the faint guitar riffs coming from your headphones.



Don't stare at them as you walk by. Similarly, don't look at them and then look away as if you're trying to avoid eye contact. It makes them feel very uncomfortable and insecure.
If someone in a wheelchair is in your path, shift to the other side a good amount of length before they pass you. Never wait until the last minute or wait for them to make the move around you.
Even though it's not a disability, treat people with strollers the same way as people in wheelchairs.
 Avoid getting into conversation as the other person may be running late; just smile politely and continue walking.
 Get their attention by saying "Excuse me" and/or lightly tapping them on the shoulder. It doesn't hurt to do a good deed once in a while... that person may be especially grateful if it's a wallet that they dropped!

, This might inconvenience people walking behind you, who might bump into you by mistake. Instead of just stopping, "pull over" like you would in a car. Find a spot where there's not foot traffic and stop there.
 If you notice someone behind you is walking at a faster pace than you are, pull off to the side when you get a chance so they can pass you and go on at their pace in front of you., Walking too close might lead to you stepping on the other person's heels, which is not acceptable.



Keep pets on a tight leash. Lengthy leashes can quickly become a menace, as they trip pedestrians.
Train your dog not to go wild if he sees a cat strolling by, or get distracted by any other kind of distraction.
Remember to train your pet not to poop on the sidewalk. Obvious as this may seem, sidewalks in some countries are littered with dog poop.

