 Although you can always file a report at your local police station, each state has a specific department or task force that deals exclusively with illegal gambling.To find the right law enforcement agency, try searching the internet for the name of your state and "gambling" or "gaming." The two words typically mean the same thing legally, and may be used interchangeably.
Your state may have separate boards or commissions for issuing licenses than for investigating illegal gambling activity. Once you find a related website, you may have to poke around a bit to make sure you've got the one you need.
If the activity itself is legal, but requires a license, you would need to file your report with the licensing board. However, gambling activity that violates state law should be reported to law enforcement.
 Before you file your report, you want to have as many factual details as you can to provide to law enforcement so they have something to go on when investigating the crime.You should be able to describe the type of activity taking place. You may want to check your state's law to make sure the activity you've observed violates state law.
Record the dates and times the activity took place according to your observations, or the date and time you first observed it if it is a continuously ongoing activity, such as the presence of a slot machine in an unlicensed location.
You also want as much information as possible about the people involved, including names and physical descriptions. #Decide whether you want to remain anonymous. Many states allow you to report illegal gambling without revealing your own identity. However, remaining anonymous may limit your options and your ability to follow up on your report.Typically if you submit an anonymous report, you're limited to calling a hotline. By doing so, you have no way of knowing if the agency follows up on your tip and you can't provide additional information efficiently.
Keep in mind that when you include your name and contact information, it will be treated confidentially and won't be disclosed, except to law enforcement agents or officials who need to contact you directly about your report.
Including your name and contact information typically allows you to check up on the status of your report or easily add to it if you acquire additional information. You may even be eligible for a reward if an operation is shut down and people are convicted of conducting illegal gambling activity.
 When you're ready, contact the law enforcement agency you've chosen and provide the information necessary to complete and file a report about the illegal gambling you've witnessed. If you include your name and contact information, you may be contacted by an officer.If you're concerned about the threat of possible violence, you may want to consider going to your local police department and filing your report in person.
Before you report operations in which you were involved, you probably should consider talking to an experienced criminal defense attorney. He or she may be able to assist you in gaining immunity in exchange for your informant and testimony, but you risk prosecution if you go in alone.

