 All professionally made, legal fireworks should have igniting instructions on the packaging. Read these carefully, making sure each step is understandable. Take extra care to follow each step for less-typical fireworks such as tanks, boats, and pinwheels.
 Avoid using cigarette lighters or matches to light fireworks, since wicks sometimes emit sparks that can burn your hand if it is too close. Instead, light fireworks with a punk or an extended butane lighter that gives you at least 5 inches (12.7 cm) between your hand and the fuse. Light the fuse only at the very tip to prevent the piece from igniting too soon.If you are igniting fireworks in the dark, use a headlamp, flashlight, or other non-flammable light source to help you see clearly what you’re lighting.
 When lighting aerial fireworks such as rockets, repeaters, and mortars, do not lean over the top of them when lighting the fuse. Fuses have been known to malfunction and ignite fireworks immediately, without any delay. If this happens and your head is near the path of the projectile, you could suffer serious injury.


Never look into a mortar tube. Sometimes wicks burn unevenly and can ignite the shell after a longer-than-usual delay. Don’t approach the mortar or look into the tube for any reason after a shell fails to ignite.
 Wait at least 30 minutes before approaching any fireworks that don’t go off.Wearing utility gloves, place the unspent fireworks in a bucket of water.Don't try to re-ignite any fireworks that don’t go off soon after you light them., Never ignite more than one shell, rocket, firecracker or other fireworks at a time.They are designed to be lighted individually, and any attempt to light more than one at a time could cause them to malfunction.


For example, do not try to twist or tie fuses together, or light one rocket or mortar shell just after lighting another.
 Don't attempt to launch bottle rockets from your hand, or light and throw firecrackers. Always light any fireworks from a flat surface, or in the case of rockets, a pipe or bottle., Most fireworks’ fuses should be long enough to allow you to get at least 20 feet (6.1 m) away from the launch area. Staying any closer increases your risk of getting injured when the fireworks go off. Be sure to clear the area of obstructions, such as tree branches or rocks, that you could trip over when walking or running back from the launch area.
 Ask anyone who will be watching your fireworks display to stand at least 50 feet (15.2 m) away. And pay attention to wind direction. Sparks from live fireworks, or spent but still-burning rockets can be blown into spectators by winds. Be sure to position spectators where the wind will be blowing in the direction they’re facing.For example, if the winds are blowing to the north of the launch area, position the spectators to the south of the launch area.
Don't light fireworks during strong winds. If it’s too windy to ignite your lighter, it’s probably too windy to set off fireworks safely.

