 Expect weight loss of about 1 lb per week by lessening daily food consumption by 500 to 750 calories. More drastic weight loss may be difficult and unhealthy. For example, there are about 3,500 calories in 1lb of fat. To lose 2 lbs in a week, you would have to cut 7,000 calories from your weekly diet., Try a few simple approaches to shave off calories wherever you can.Eat slower to reduce calories. It takes about 20 minutes before your brain tells your body it is full. According to some studies, eating slower results in feeling full quicker.Substitute a salad to drop daily intake. Salads have low calories but still aid in losing weight. Try to make it your lunch-time choice every day.Be sure to use a low-calorie and low-fat dressing option, such as oil and vinegar.
Use almonds to satiate hunger and drop calories. About 15 – 20 almonds can make for a quick snack, but 50 or so could be considered a meal replacement. One study showed a six-month diet that included almonds as snacks resulted in 18% body weight loss.Increase your protein intake to lose fat. Some studies showed that people who double their protein lose more weight via fat. To determine the amount of protein you need, weigh yourself then multiply by 0.36, then multiply that number by 2. The result is the amount of protein you should get in grams.An added benefit is more protein intake has been shown to increase metabolism. Substitute salsa for unhealthier options. At only about 4 calories per tablespoon, it’s a 20 calorie savings versus sour cream or guacamole, a 70 calorie saving versus ranch, and it’s also an extra boost of vegetables to boot., For less calories, aim for proteins lower in fat. Try to maximize the protein grams in the amount of calories. Here are a few examples of foods packed with protein.


Milk – 149 calories for 8 grams of protein
Eggs – 1 egg has 78 calories and 8 grams of protein
Greek yogurt – 15-20 grams of protein for 100 calories
Cottage cheese – 14 grams in 100 calories
Edamame – 100 calories contain 8 grams of protein

, Carbs are sometimes thought to be "the enemy" by people trying to lose weight, but they play an important role in your health, especially in providing you with the energy to get through your day. Choose complex carbs that are lower in calories to get the most value out of your foods.


Complex carbs: Carb-containing foods that are in their whole, unprocessed form. Foods in this category include fruits, vegetables, whole grain breads, and legumes.
Simple carbs: Sugars and starches that have been refined and stripped of their natural fiber and nutrients. Includes white bread, white rice, white pasta, etc.Lower carb diets help with not only weight loss, but they have been shown to help lower blood pressure, blood sugar, and triglycerides.