 In addition to defending against actions brought against you, you might consider taking an offensive approach to protect your use of a mark. No matter which proactive approach you take, you should start by searching the USPTO database in order to learn about the other person's (possible) trademark. If the other person's trademark has been federally registered, or is in the application process, you will be able to find it using the USPTO Trademark Electronic Search System (TESS).


If you know the person's application serial number or registration number, you can use the Trademark Status and Document Retrieval (TSDR) system to access records.
The use of TESS and TSDR is free but complicated. USPTO offers online tutorials that can help you through the search process.If someone's mark has not been federally registered, it does not mean they don't have trademark rights. The trademark owner may still have common law rights in the mark. These rights arise when someone actually uses the mark for particular goods or services., If you find federal registration or application records, analyze them to determine the type of mark he or she has, the extent of their trademark rights, and if you think you are infringing.


If you feel confident that you are not infringing on someone's trademark, or that he or she is actually infringing on your trademark, then you should consider taking appropriate steps to stop the ongoing dispute.
 The Trademark Trial and Appeal Board (TTAB) is the administrative tribunal of the USPTO. They are tasked with hearing and deciding cases pertaining to issues of trademark registration. They do not have jurisdiction to hear infringement or unfair competition cases. If you think someone's application for federal trademark registration should not be granted because you would be damaged if the trademark was registered, you can file an opposition to prevent its issuance.


You must file this opposition within 30 days after the application is published in the Official Gazette.The TTAB conducts proceedings in a manner similar to federal courts, so there may be pleadings, discovery, motions, settlements, and trials.For information about requesting a TTAB proceeding, contact the TTAB., In addition to hearing oppositions to applications, the TTAB can also hear cancellation proceedings. During this proceeding, you will have to show that an existing registration should be cancelled because you are, or will be, damaged by the registration.These proceedings may look very similar to federal court proceedings so you need to prepare to file pleadings, take part in discovery, draft motions, attempt to settle, and go to trial.For information about requesting a TTAB proceeding, contact the TTAB., If you do not think taking part in administrative proceedings will solve your problem (i.e., if your dispute is not about trademark registration), you may need to file a lawsuit to resolve your dispute. You can file a declaratory judgment lawsuit in order to ask a court to declare that your use of a mark does not constitute trademark infringement.


If you are already the defendant in a lawsuit, you can assert a number of affirmative defenses or counterclaims against the other party in order to challenge the validity of the other party's trademark.