 You need food, and so does Pou! Make sure you feed it around four times a day, split into Breakfast (Toast, Waffles, Pancakes etc. and a fruit), Lunch (Sushi and a drink), Dinner (Junk food and a Vegetable) and Dessert (Cakes, Ice-Cream, Donuts etc.) When you don't feed your Pou, the Food status and the Health status decrease rapidly, so make sure your Pou gets plenty to eat and drink!;
, Pou often poos after eating, and this makes him or her dirty. Tap the poo to get rid of it (and receive 5 coins) then wash your Pou with soap and water. When Pou is left dirty, or you don't get rid of the poo, the Health status decreases, so keep Pou clean!

, Sometimes if you don't take care of your Pou, you can spend coins on Potions to instantly restore Stats. One you may regularly need is the Health Potion, and this comes in Small 25% bottles and Large 50% bottles. Depending on how poorly your Pou is, choose the necessary amount. There are also lots of other potions such as Energizer; Fat Burner; Adult Potion and Baby Potion.
 There are many mini-games to play which are super fun! Playing games benefits you in three ways- Coins, Achievements and Fun status. Collect coins while playing the games; these can go towards customising your Pou and Pou's house and buying food. Reach Achievement goals (like "Reached 50 metres in Sky Jump" etc.) to unlock special items. Pou's Fun status gets low when you don't play with him/her so make sure you keep them entertained!

, Pou may need a nap during the day as well as going to sleep at night-time. To put Pou asleep, go to the "Bedroom" and turn off the lamp. This puts Pou to sleep. If Pou wakes up while the lamp is off, he'll remain in 100% Energy status until you turn the lamp on again.
 Outside, there is a flower patch which needs watering regularly. To water them, drag the cloud over the top of the flowers and hold there until the flowers bloom. You will receive 5 coins for doing this.
 There are four stats; Food, Health, Fun and Energy. Whenever one is low you need to do the relevant activity to improve it. Also, your coin amount is shown here, where you can add coins for a small fee or just check how much you have.

