 Though your parents will be overwhelmed by your news no matter what, you can ease the blow by sounding as articulate and mature as possible when you tell them. Here are some things to think about:Prepare your opening. Don't scare your parents by saying, "I have some really bad news." Instead, say, "I have something very difficult to tell you."
Prepare how you will explain the pregnancy. Do they know you're having sex, or even that you have a boyfriend?
Prepare how you will share your feelings. Though you will feel upset and may find it difficult to communicate, you should hold off on the tears until the end of the conversation, when they will surely come. You should tell them that you're shocked, and that you are so sorry to have disappointed them (if that's the case), that you're going through the hardest time of your life and that you'd really like their support.
Prepare to answer any questions. Your parents will have a lot of questions for you, so it's best to know what to say so you're not caught off guard.;
, Once you've figured out how to best communicate how you feel and what you'll say, you need to start thinking about how your parents will respond. This will depend on many factors, including how they have reacted to difficult news in the past, if your sexual activity will be a complete shock to them, and what their values are. Here are some things to consider:


Do they know you're sexually active? If you've been having sex for months, or even years, and they don't have the slightest clue, they will be more surprised than if they suspect, or even if they know, that you are having sex.
What are their values? Are they liberal about premarital sex, or do they think you absolutely should not have sex until you are married, or close to being married?
How have they reacted to bad news in the past? Though it's unlikely that you've delivered such dramatic news to them previously, you should consider how they've reacted to disappointing news in the past. How did they react when you told them you failed a class or dented their car?
If your parents have a history of reacting violently, then you should not tell them alone. Find a trusted relative who is more open-minded to join you, or even bring your parents to your doctor or a school counselor to deliver the news.
You can even practice having the conversation with a close friend. If you're pregnant, it's likely that you've told your best friend about it, and she may not only have some insight into how your parents will react, but she could also rehearse the conversation with you so you'll have a better sense of how your folks will react., Though it's important to deliver the news in a timely manner, it's also crucial to pick a good day and time so your parents are as receptive to the news as possible. Here are some things to consider:


Don't be dramatic. If you say, "I have something incredibly important to tell you guys. When is a good time to talk?" then your parents will likely want to have the conversation right then and there, and you may not be prepared. Instead, try to be as calm as you can when you say, "There's something I want to talk to you about. When is a good time to talk?"
Pick a time when your parents can give you their full attention. Pick a time when both of your parents are home and when they're not planning to go out for dinner, to pick up your brother from soccer practice, or to entertain friends later. They should ideally be free after the conversation, so they can take the time to let the news sink in.
Pick a time when your parents are the least likely to be stressed. If your parents are usually very stressed or tired when they get back from work, wait until after dinner, when they've loosened up a bit, to have the conversation. If they seem to always be stressed during the week, talk to them on the weekend. A Saturday may work better than a Sunday, because by Sunday evening, they may already be worried about their work week.
Pick a time that works for you. Though you should pick the best possible time for your parents, don't forget to factor in your own feelings. Pick a time when you're not too exhausted after a long week of school, and when you're not worried about a big exam the next day.
If you want anyone else to be there, pick a time that works for that person too. If you want your significant other to be there, this is a very big decision and you should make sure that this will make the situation more comfortable instead of even more unpleasant.
Don't delay the conversation for too long. Picking an optimal time will help the conversation go as smoothly as possible, but delaying the talk for weeks because everyone is too busy and stressed will only make things worse.

