 You can get an idea of what expectations might be. You can also get ideas for your own event.;
, You can apply for funding through Wikipedia if you want to make a really large event of it. You can also apply for reimbursement for certain parts of your event.
 You might also find out if there are any locations in the area that need images and/or articles. This will take a little bit of research on your part.
 Do this by contacting photographers in the area through various ways, such as photography clubs or however you can contact photographers in the area. Other ways that you can do this are:


Check out social media. Facebook, Twitter, Reddit are some good places to start.
Post a message at your local photography shops.
 Depending on the location, you might want to choose 'fact' vs. 'art'. If the images of 'factual' buildings and locations are numerous, you might consider taking 'artistic' shots.
 They will need to know what is expected during the event. Some of the information that they will need is:


Hours of the event. Most especially the end of the event (because they obviously already know when it is starting).
Expectations. Is this a photo scavenger hunt, a free for all, a certain theme, etc?
Any potential costs. They should know about this before the event, but you will want to reiterate it at the event and be sure the photographers are aware of it.
Uploading. Be sure that the photographers know when they are expected to upload them. You can let them go home and upload them...eventually. It's a good idea, though, to make it part of the event and have a social/network evening to end the event and provide everyone with what they need to upload their images.
 This is a card (usually a 3 X 5 notecard) with information on it, such as: The location code/Name of the location and any other information that you consider necessary. Be sure to hold it between you and the target so you will have a visual point of reference.
 You want to be as safe as possible. Some things that you can do are be sure that everyone travels in pairs or small groups, and possibly periodic check-ins.

