 An aquarium can be a good choice to keep mice. If you opt for an aquarium, make sure it's at least 10 gallons (about 38 liters) and has a mesh lid to prevent a mouse from escaping. If you have more than one to three mice, a bigger aquarium is necessary.Four to five mice need at least a 15 gallon (about 58 liters) aquarium. Five to six mice need a 20 gallon (about 78 liters) aquarium.
In general, however, bigger is better for any mouse. Get as big of an aquarium as you can fit in your home.;
, A wire cage is also an option for mice. While an aquarium is usually a better option, you can opt for a cage if you cannot find an aquarium. If you get a cage, make sure to select one that's safe for mice. The size of the cage should be at least 24 by 12 inches (about 61 by 30 centimeters). There should be no more than a quarter inch between wires, as this will prevent mice from escaping., Substrate is the material lining the bottom of the cage. For mice, opt for shredded paper that does not contain ink. Line this on the bottom of the cage. A few centimeters of substrate is adequate for a mouse., Mice are sensitive to heat and cold, so it's important to keep them in an area that's consistently room temperature. Do not put your mouse's enclosure next to heaters, furnaces, or other sources of heat. You should also avoid cold, drafty rooms., Certain types of houses are dangerous for mice. Never keep a mouse in a cardboard box or a wooden enclosure, as mice may chew through these materials. You should also be careful about mice habitats, with a lot of tubes and accessories, sold at pet stores. Mice can get trapped and injured in these kinds of enclosures., A mouse's enclosure needs daily cleaning. Each day, use a cat litter scoop to remove soiled bedding. Once a week, you should give the enclosure a thorough cleaning.Place your mice in a separate container. Remove all the bedding, any cardboard toys, and food and water bowls.
Use dish washer detergent and water to wash the insides of the enclosure, as well as food and water bowls and plastic toys. Allow everything to dry completely.
Replace all the bedding with new material. Place food and water bowls, as well as plastic toys, back in the cage. Discard old cardboard toys and replace them with new ones.

