 Don't distract the buyer with confusing, unnecessary information. Include the positive points of your product but don't exaggerate.;
, Note any tears, dents, nicks, scratches, bumps or fading and don't play down any problems. The listing may not be as appealing, but a buyer who gets unwanted surprises is almost sure to leave you a bad seller feedback. If possible, include a clear photo.
 Charge enough to cover your shipping and handling, but don't inflate your costs, as doing so leaves buyers feeling ripped off.
 If you're unsure how to spell a word, use an online dictionary. Do your best to use proper punctuation. Properly written listings present well and indicate a level of professionalism. Write emails carefully and spell check before you send.
 State in your description that you'll answer questions promptly, then do so. Answer questions from potential buyers as soon as possible, as a prompt response displays good customer service and a slow response will annoy your buyer. Be polite and appreciative. Give clear, direct answers. Good customer service is always appreciated, and is the most important way to receive positive seller feedback on Ebay. Bad customer service won't be forgotten.
 Let your buyer know when his item has been shipped and the expected arrival time. Always say thank you.
 If the auction ends on a weekday, ship on the same day. Never wait more than two business days to ship. Pack the item neatly with adequate protective padding. Packages are often handled roughly, and a customer who receives damaged goods is unlikely to leave positive feedback. Spend a few extra cents and purchase tracking, which will enable you to answer questions if shipping is slow, eliminating possible headaches for both you and your buyer.
 Leaving a short note only takes a few minutes of your time, and is a simple way to provide good customer service. Send a polite email asking your buyer to repay the favor, but don't pester your buyer if she doesn't leave you feedback. If your experience isn't good and you honestly can't leave your buyer positive feedback, it's best not to say anything. Leaving mean, negative feedback only makes you look bad.

