 Crate training your dogs is a great way to help them learn to get along and to keep them from hurting each other at the same time.Keep in mind that a crate should never be used to punish your dog. Your dog should go into the crate voluntarily and view the crate as a safe, secure place.


Each dog will have his own crate, preferably in a separate room or at least out of sight of each other.
The crates should be large enough for your dogs to stand up and turn around without hunching over.
When you first get the crates, place a thick towel or blanket or a crate pad into each crate to give your dogs something comfortable to lay on.
Never leave a dog in a crate longer than 8 hours or for puppies never more than 3-4 hours.
 Keep the crate door open and call the dogs to their crates. Let them see you throw in a few tasty treats and allow them to go inside to eat them and explore. Then, at feeding time place your dogs’ food bowls in their crates and say “kennel.” Then let your dogs eat while leaving the crate door open.Repeat this process every day, but after a few days, begin shutting the door while your dogs are eating. When they are done eating, let them out to go potty.
After a few more days, do the same thing but after your dogs are done eating, leave the door closed for a few minutes. Only let your dogs out if they are calmly sitting or standing. If they are scratching or making noise, then wait for your dog to calm down first before opening the door.
Make sure before you put the food in the crate you are saying “kennel” so your dogs associate that command with going inside the crate.
Over the course of a week keep your dogs in the crates for longer periods of time. Eventually you will be able to skip the treats and feeding inside the crate after they have learned the “kennel” command.
 Just like cats, dogs may go to war with each other over food and water resources. Feed and water your dogs in separate rooms with either closed doors or a barrier like a baby gate separating the two animals so each one can eat and drink in peace.
 There are also special dog appeasing pheromones which can create a chemically enhanced calm environment for your dogs. These come in the form of sprays, collars, wipes or diffusers. Try placing a dog appeasing pheromone collar on each of your dogs to help relieve some of the anxiety that your dogs may be experiencing.
 Dogs sometimes get jealous if they feel like they are not getting enough attention from their owners. In a recent study by researchers at the University of California-Davis, it was found that dogs experience jealousy when their owners showed attention to a stuffed animatronic dog while ignoring their pet.Consider whether you might be giving preferential treatment to one of your dogs. Does one of your dogs get more attention, treats, or talks than the other? If so, you may be contributing to the “not getting along” problem.
Work on paying equal amounts of attention to your dogs. If one gets a treat, give the other one a treat as well. If you pet and praise one dog, make sure that you pet and praise the other dog as well.

