 Writing your life’s story can tell you a lot about who you are as well as how you view your life’s challenges, joys, opportunities, and struggles. Writing out your personal story can give you insight into what you have learned through your experiences and how those experiences have affected you.In this way, you can analyze how your experiences helped shape who you are, which encompasses your values, attitudes, beliefs, biases, reactions, and the way you interact with your world.
 Once you’ve written the story of your life, analyze yourself by asking the following questions:


What are the themes that are present in your story? Are you always being saved or are you the person who saves others? Does your story have a theme of helplessness or ability? Is your story a love story, a comedy, a drama, or something else?
If you titled your story, what would the title be?
Divide your story into chapters. Why are the chapters divided where they are? What changed? What did you learn? What are the titles of your chapters?
Did you label yourself in your story? Did you label others? What do those labels mean to you and what do they say about how you see yourself, others, and the world?
What kinds of words do you use to describe yourself, others, and the world? What do these descriptive words tell you about your story and how you lived it?, Once you write your story, you need to decide what it means. The interesting thing about writing your own story for analysis, which is called narrative therapy, is that is shows you what you think is important or crucial to your existence. It showcases those moments in your life that you feel are important or worth note. It also shows you how you view yourself and the trajectory of your life so far.


For example, if you write your life as a drama, you may feel that your life is more dramatic and intense. If you wrote it as a comedy, you may think your life has been fun and upbeat to this point. If you wrote your life as a love story, maybe you are a hopeless romantic who either has great love or is hoping for one in the future., Even when you have followed all of these steps, you need to realize that it can take time. It is important to understand that becoming more aware of who you are, or analyzing yourself, is also an ongoing, lifelong pursuit. Who you are today or what you believe today may change in the future.