 You will want to be somewhere without distractions when you decide to think about and remember what you need to do. Turn off TVs, close windows and remove or shut off anything that makes noise, such as a clock. Make sure you have all the tools that you will need at your disposal, such as paper or a recording device.


Get rid of everything that could be visually distracting like very colorful pictures on the walls, shiny or reflective objects and mirrors or excess clutter.
If you are a kinesthetic encoder, then make sure there is enough room for you to move around.
 Don’t work on remembering something for longer than 2 hours.Take a 30 minute break after you practice memorizing what you need to do. Focus on something completely different that doesn’t require much mental effort and that you enjoy doing. Take a walk, paint, eat something or call a friend.
 When your break is up, try to recall everything you have to do. If you are able to remember, then you have been successful at encoding, storing and retrieving that information. If you haven’t quite gotten it yet, focus on what tasks you are forgetting, take another break and try again.
 You probably really need to get the things that you want to remember done. Think about the consequences of not remembering to do them. Try to focus on how important each task is. This can help prime your brain to remember tasks that you are emotionally connected to in some way and find important to complete.
 Call your friend and tell them what you need to do. Then ask them to quiz you. Have someone come over and show them the methods that you are using to remember what to do. Explain any pictures, maps, diagrams, stories or tell them what a memory tree is.


When you teach someone else these concepts and let them know what you need to do, it helps you to remember everything better., You need to be rested in order to be able to encode, store and access your memories.Additionally, how long and well you sleep can affect your ability to remember information. During sleep, memories are consolidated, so be sure to sleep 8 hours a night of uninterrupted sleep so you can recall what you need to do the next day.