 In order for Bluetooth technology to work properly, the two devices need to be within range of each other.


If your iPhone and speaker end up too far apart, you may have to reconnect them.;
, After powering on the speaker, put it in "pairing" or "discoverable" mode, which typically involves pressing or holding down a button on the outside of the speaker.


Consult your Bluetooth speaker's manual if you do not know how to invoke "pairing" mode.
 This is a grey app with gears on it; you'll likely find it on the Home Screen.
 It's near the top of the "Settings" page.
 Doing so will enable your iPhone's Bluetooth feature; you should see a list of Bluetooth devices with which your iPhone can pair emerge below the "Devices" heading.


Your speaker will appear here. Their name will likely reflect the brand name, the model number, or a mixture of both.
 Doing so will begin pairing your iPhone with your speaker. The pairing process may take up to a couple of minutes.


If you don't see your speaker's name in the list of Bluetooth devices, disable and re-enable Bluetooth on your iPhone to reset the devices list.
Some speakers come with a default password. If prompted to enter a password after pairing, consult the speaker's manual.
 Any audio you listen to should play on your Bluetooth speaker.
 iPhone 4S and more recent are equipped with Bluetooth technology; if you have an iPhone 4 (or older), it may not work.Likewise, attempting to use an old model of Bluetooth speaker with a newer iPhone (such as 6S or 7) may cause synchronization issues.
 If your iPhone isn't updated to the latest version of iOS, you may run into Bluetooth issues on newer Bluetooth speakers.
 You may have turned on the speaker too late while your iPhone searched for available devices, or there might just be a bug in how they are working. Try restarting the speaker to see if this helps., Doing so may reset your phone's Bluetooth settings and make it possible to connect again. To restart your phone:Press and hold the Power button on the side (or top) of your iPhone until slide to power down appears.
Slide the power icon at the top of the screen right.
Wait for a minute, then press and hold the power button until the Apple icon displays.
 If all else fails, bringing your iPhone and Bluetooth speaker into the store from which you purchased the speaker to have staff members look at it might fix your problem.


If you bought your speaker online, you can usually still bring it into a retail store like Best Buy to have them take a look at it.

