 These will allow your baby to see the action going on around them, as well as a comfortable place to fall asleep if they get tired during the day. Try to get seats which bounce in response to your child’s movement and swings that can swing themselves. These will help keep baby entertained while you get things done. Just don’t leave them unattended!

, Once babies are old enough to hold objects, you can give them toys to play with. Get age appropriate toys that they can put in their mouths, as this is baby’s favorite way to play! Toys that make sounds or have lights are particularly fun for your baby.


It is easy to make many toys that your baby can play from objects you find around the house. You do not need to spend a lot of money. For example, you can tie a bunch of plastic bags into a clean sock so that you have a soft ball which crinkled when you squish it. Baby will be fascinated!

, Sing your baby lots of songs. This will make them very happy, help the two of you bond, and will also help their brains develop. Sing songs that you like or children’s songs that you know! You will create memories to last a lifetime if you choose a song that is just for the two of you.
 Read your baby lots of books. This will accommodate them to the idea of reading early on and will help their brains develop by exposing them to the rhythm and sounds of language. Make your reading entertaining by moving your hands across the page and using your “exciting” voice.
 Your baby will need to spend time around other children of a similar and different age. This will help your child learn to interact and be around others. Set up play-dates so that your baby gets to spend playtime with a friend. Play with others in small groups. Your baby will become easily overwhelmed unless they are naturally very, very social so try to schedule play-dates with only one or two other children at a time.
Let your baby watch you socialize. Your baby will learn a lot by watching you interact with your friends and other children. Relax while you are around other people, as your baby can pick up on your tension and may feel that other people should be feared. Be friendly and open and smile as you talk with other people. Hug them when it is appropriate. Your baby will learn that this is how we interact with others.
Don’t be too protective. Your baby should be allowed to get into arguments with their friends. Even a little physical fighting is not unexpected. Try to let your baby sort these things out on their own, as this is how they learn to interact with other people. If you pick them up at the slightest sign of trouble then they will never learn.

