 You've already decided that you don't want to get into a romantic relationship at work. Now, you need to figure out how to actually implement that in specific terms to set boundaries for your and your co-workers.For example, maybe one of your boundaries is to never accept an invitation for socializing outside of work from a member of the sex you're interested in. Once you've established that, you can make it a hard and fast rule. Alternatively, maybe your boundary is to never be alone with a person you feel attracted to.
Discuss boundaries with your partner, if you have one. Sometimes, your boundaries can be determined in part by what your partner is comfortable.;
, Establishing what your boundaries are is only the first step. Next, you need to make sure you follow through with those boundaries. Part of following through is making a boundary clear when it comes up, so people don't get upset or hurt.For instance, if someone invites you out for a drink and you've decided that's one of your boundaries, say, "I appreciate the invitation, but to keep my work relationships professional, I don't go out alone with colleagues of the opposite sex."
On the other hand, if it's you just don't want to be alone, invite other coworkers along when someone you're attracted to invites you.
 Sometimes, you just need to acknowledge the elephant in the room. If you spend a good deal of time with one person at work because of traveling and schedules, you may just need to acknowledge that attraction with each other and establish boundaries you're both comfortable with.For instance, you could say, "I think we've both noticed we have a certain chemistry between us. I hope it's not just one-sided. However, I think we need to lay some ground rules. For example, I have no problem with some flirting, but I wouldn't consider having an affair because I think it would get too complicated. What are your thoughts?"

, Any time you're alone for extended periods with a co-worker who you find attractive, there's the possibility of romantic entanglements. If you have another person around, when possible, that cuts out the possibility of romance to a large degree. Of course, you may not be able to limit this type of interaction, but if you can, that may cut down on your romantic feelings., Workplace romances can be tricky. Anytime you date someone at the office, you're opening up the potential for drama and post-breakup emotional fallout. Consider what would happen if a relationship or fling went south., If you need to, bring a potentially problematic situation up with your boss. If you think something could develop between you and a coworker, you could ask to switch teams or work with other people, if possible.You could say, "Is it possible for me to work less with John? I just feel like there's a bit too much chemistry there, and I don't feel comfortable working on his team."

