 Each state typically has specific criteria that must be met to claim your use qualifies as incidental use.


Your state's definition of incidental use may be found in law or described in court cases decided by your state's appellate courts. Ask the librarian at the public law library in your local courthouse to help you research the law on incidental use of someone's name or likeness.
The key to remember here is that there must have been some meaning and purpose behind your use of that particular person's name or likeness. If no such intent exists, you may be able to argue incidental use.For example, if you post a photo of someone along with a news article or commentary related them, and then that photo appears in an advertisement for your website, it typically would be considered an incidental use. The photo is advertising your website and its content with the intent of bringing readers to your site and is unrelated to the person who appears in the photo.However, keep in mind that this line isn't always clear.Sometimes this use could be considered exploitative, such as if you intentionally use a photo of someone in your advertisements that you know is provocative or will draw attention to your website, but have little or no content related to that person on the website itself.
Some states such as Florida offer a similar exception, in which the plaintiff appears in a photograph solely as a member of the public.For example, suppose you use a photo of the crowd from a baseball game to illustrate a blog post about your town's baseball team, and one of the members of the crowd happens to be a local celebrity. If the local celebrity sued you for appropriation of her likeness, your use most likely would fall into this exception – provided the exception is recognized by your state's law., An experienced media attorney can help you craft your incidental use defense.


Typically you can go to the website of your state or local bar association and search a directory of licensed attorneys. Look for attorneys who list media law or privacy law as among their areas of practice, but focus on defense attorneys rather than plaintiff's attorneys.
In addition to checking your local bar association's listings, you might check on websites of organizations such as the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, which are dedicated to assisting with First Amendment issues., Typically you can claim incidental use if the plaintiff's name or likeness appeared in connection with advertising of your own work.


Other uses also may be incidental, such as a photo of the plaintiff accompanying a news article or commentary in which he or she is featured.For example, a photo of the owner of a local grocery store would be considered incidental if it accompanied a blog post discussing plans to demolish the store to make way for a new shopping center.
 You can claim the defense of incidental use in your answer to the complaint.


Emphasize the lack of intent behind the use that the plaintiff claims constitutes misappropriation of his or her name or likeness. Even if you did benefit from using the plaintiff's name or likeness, you typically aren't liable for compensation to the plaintiff if that benefit wasn't your primary motivation in using his or her name or likeness., You have the burden of proving your defense that your use was incidental and not appropriation of the plaintiff's name or likeness.


When arguing incidental use, evidence of the context of the use will be key. For example, if you used a photo of the plaintiff in connection with a news article, copies of the article demonstrate that use of the photo was incidental to the article itself.

