 For a proper martial arts education, find a qualified coach or instructor.


Do your research on the instructor themselves. Get references and check out his or her social media site. A lot of times, you can get a good idea of how “intense” a Taekwondo instructor will be based on their online presence. Check out yelp.com and other online sites where parents and students can post comments about a Taekwondo school and its instructors. Taekwondo is supposed to be a peaceful, defensive martial arts.
Make sure that the instructor is World Taekwondo Federation (WTF) certified in Taekwondo.
 The very first thing to learn when you start Taekwondo is the bow. The bow is a respectful greeting to your teacher and opponent. It reaffirms the notion that Taekwondo is a disciplined and respectful practice.


Stand still on the ground with your feet close and your heels touching. Clench your fists in front of your body and then open your arms. You need to do this when you hear the command "Charyeot" (차렷).
Lean forward when you hear the command "Gyeongnye"(경례)., Instructors and others in the Taekwondo community use specific names for stances and moves. Each technique has its own name. Some places use the original Korean name and others adopt an English equivalent.
 One of the most important skills a martial artist needs to master is their footwork. Stand in front of a mirror and practice shifting your feet forwards and backwards and from side to side. Make sure that you are taking quick compressed steps as opposed to long and slow steps. When in an actual match, your opponent will be looking for weaknesses and long, slow movements is a dead giveaway.


When you feel comfortable with your footwork, throw in some fakes. Shift your weight in one direction and then quickly move in the opposite direction. When your opponent is watching your movement, this slight shift can make a big difference. After you’ve mastered fakes, try some kicks. All movements should be fluid and quick., Taekwondo is set apart from other forms of the martial arts, because of its focus on footwork and kicks. In order to kick properly, you must pay close attention to both of your feet. One foot will be for striking. You need to have excellent aim, follow-through, and strength, but if your other leg doesn’t provide the base needed, your kick will be ineffective. Make sure that your non-kicking leg is firmly placed. You must be able to balance on that leg and to shift balance while you are kicking.


Practice standing on one leg in front of a mirror. Hold that position for 1 minute. Then extend your other leg out as far as you can — either forward, backward, or to the side. Hold that position for 1 minute. Then switch legs. Balance on your other leg and extend the other out as far as you can. Hold for the same amount of time. A great Taekwondo artist needs to have the ability to kick with both feet, which requires excellent balance with both legs.
 While Taekwondo emphasizes leg work, you need to learn how to punch properly as well. Always keep your thumb on the outside of your hand. If you tuck your thumb inside, against your palm, and then make contact, you run the risk of breaking your thumb.


Like with your legs, you need to pay attention to your base. Most martial artists will tell you that the real strength behind a great punch is not necessarily arm strength, but leg and core strength. As you throw your punch, be sure to set a solid base with your legs and twist your core in tandem, adding extra force behind your arm.
 Everyone wants to break boards on the first day of Taekwondo practice, but it takes time, patience, and practice to do so. You must concentrate on the exact spot you plan to hit. Then strike and follow through. Practice your form and technique outside of class (if you are taking one). Ask a friend to hold a board for you. Either just hit the board and have your friend pull it back at the last second or actually try to break it.


Hang a kicking board attached to a bungie chord from the ceiling and practice kicking or hitting it in a particular spot. You won’t break it, because it will recoil and swing around, but you’ll be able to hone your accuracy and increase your strength., So much of Taekwondo is about maintaining peace. Some even say that Taekwondo is synonymous with self-defense. There are numerous self-defense strategies you should practice.


If someone has you in a “bear-hug” from behind and your arms are immobilized, stomp on the attacker's foot to distract him and then step back aligning your hips next to his and then bend forward quickly. This should break the attacker's hold over you and even possibly flip them over, giving you time to escape or to prepare to fight.
If your attacker has you by the wrist, start with a front kick to the body or groin and then quickly turn your wrist until the attacker’s thumb and fingers are facing you. The attacker’s grip will be loosed at this angle and you should be able to pull away easily.
There are numerous other self-defense techniques that a Taekwondo teacher can show you. "Bear-hugs" and wrist grabs are just two of the most common self-defense situations., Forms, also known as "hyungs" in Korean, are sets of offensive and defensive maneuvers performed on imaginary opponents. They are basically choreographed martial arts moves that people use to practice basic techniques and transitions. At most Taekwondo dojangs, you will need to show mastery of several forms before you can progress to the next stage or receive your next belt.Remember that forms are all about form. Make sure that you are not simply moving from one move to another. Pay close attention to your footing and arm and leg movements., Once you have achieved a degree of mastery, you will be able to start sparring. Find a partner, who has achieved a similar level of training. You should spar in a controlled and safe setting. At first, sparring will be like practicing your forms with another person. Later, you will really spar. This will entail attacking each other and countering each other’s moves.