 There would be no point in reading this article if you think that this kind of music is "too loud," "makes you scared to sleep at night," or "gives you a headache." Some good band to listen to in order to help you get influence from would be Porkfarm, Internal Suffering, Nile, Origin or Brain Drill. These are some of the most brutal death metal bands out there. Please also check out Disgorge(US) and Dying Fetus, they are also the legends of utilising complex riffs and PH in their riffs. Also, do not confuse Grindcore music with Brutal Death Metal, they are totally different thing too.;
,, They are part of a genre known as "deathcore" which, while similar to death metal, it is not the same thing. You must be able to appreciate the music.
 This article is going to focus on guitar specifically. Now, let's get started. You are going to need a guitar meant for death metal in order to play that genre correctly. You do not need an expensive guitar. a decent guitar with good pickups and a decent amp will give you a good enough sound.


Brands you should look for would include Ibanez, Jackson, B.C.Rich, Schecter, ESP, or Dean. If you really want to spice up your tone you can get one of these guitar with EMG pickups.
 In order to play in these low tunings comfortably, you need to have your strings set to a heavy gauge. This basically means that the higher the gauge, the heavier the strings. A good gauge to start on would be 10 gauge. As you get more experienced, you can and must go to higher gauges. The average gauge for the experienced player is usually 12 gauge. REMEMBER, every time you switch to a higher gauge, you MUST have your truss rod adjusted. This is a metal rod in the neck of the guitar that keeps it straight. If your neck is bent improperly, then your guitar will keep going out of tune and prevent you from playing properly. The higher the gauge gets, the more pressure is put upon your guitar neck. You can get this adjusted usually, at any guitar shop, just ask.
 The best brand would be line 6. A good starter amp would be a 15 watt spider 3 line 6 amp. It gives you good distortion for those punch in the face Chuggs and also gives you a good amount of cool effects.
 Watch their techniques and learn their songs. Do not struggle to sound perfect. You Will get better as time passes if you put effort into it. Most people say " you HAVE TO learn these scales, you MUST know these chords, you HAVE TO learn this before you learn that, blah blah blah..." well, others say, SELF TAUGHT IS BEST. Just learn as many songs as you can and learn how to play them accurately and you WILL get better and learn many skills. But here are some essential skills:


natural/pinched harmonics
palm muting
tremolo picking
sweep picking
tapping
alternate picking

Some of these techniques WILL take a while to learn and are quite a challenge.
 Think about everything you hate (the kids who bully you in school, chores that your parents make you do, friends who back stab you, the people who play cruel, mean, awful pranks on you and say the meanest things to you for no reason ) and incorporate it into your riffs. When you come up with enough riffs and get into the habit of it and actually ENJOY the wonderfully art of making music JOIN A BAND! get all of your friends and tell them your plans. its guaranteed that someone will want to play drums, someone will want to do bass, someone will want to play guitar alongside with you, and someone will want to do vocals. if not then look for people. search the internet, or set up fliers around your neighborhood. once you and the guys (or girls) get a couple of songs together start to play somewhere. Play in the subway or at block parties. If you're old enough, play at bars and little public get together places like that.