 A good place to start when designing a game is with understanding what has worked before. Play a lot of a varieties of games to see how they work and what makes the interesting. Find which ones you like and figure out what it is that you enjoy about them.


Try different categories of games to determine what your options are.
Remember, card games don't necessarily just need to be about cards. You can throw in dice and a board as well.
 Good examples of strategy games include "Risk" and "Settlers of Catan."Strategy games are meant to test intelligence. They often last for an hour or more and involve slowly accumulating an advantage over your opponent by making astute choices.


While strategy games are typically about gathering strength over time, to make things interesting you should have a method of winning that is quick and unpredictable. So, for example, in chess you can gain a huge strategic advantage over your opponent by taking their pieces. However, one wrong move can always put you in checkmate, so it is possible for a player to come from behind to win.
 In many betting games, like blackjack and poker, you have very little control over whether you win or lose. The point is to calculate how high your probability of winning is and bet according. Sometimes you can scare your opponent into giving up their hand by betting more than they are willing to pay, effectively allowing you to win on the basis of your interactions with the other player, rather than your actual hand.
 Fishing games, like dominoes or casino, give each player a set of cards that they need to lay down. Sometimes there is a deck that is pulled from randomly to create uncertainly. The objective is usually to find a card that matches one that has already been laid down and thereby either allowing you to get rid of or add to the cards in your hand., Often, small changes in rule systems can alter a game significantly. Many games are based on such small variations from other games. Common ways to change games include making certain cards wild, taking some cards out of the deck, and adding or subtracting cards from your hand.

