 You should think long and hard about why you really want to end the friendship. Before you communicate this to the other person – and you should – you should understand yourself why you don’t want to be the person’s friend anymore.


Be very clear. It’s important that you provide clarity. However, you don’t need to revisit every single past problem or negative detail. But if you aren’t clear (and firm), the person may keep trying. However, do come prepared with specific reasons. If the friend has truly done something to warrant the break – or if you’ve just grown in different directions – they deserve to know, clearly, the reason why. But you should say it in a kind way. Instead of saying, “you are interested in frivolous things while I’ve developed an interest in more intellectual pursuits” you could say “as we’ve gotten older, we just seem to have less in common.” In other words, frame it positively.
Be honest with the other person – and with yourself. Is there a hidden reason that is really bothering you that even you are avoiding?

, It will lessen the hurt if you explain the break in person. So ask the person you don’t want to be friends with anymore to coffee. Ending a friendship over text message or email will ensure the hardest of feelings.


Be aware the friend may try to bargain with you and save the relationship. If this is not something you’re willing to entertain, stay extremely firm in the conversation.
Start your sentences by explaining how you feel rather than castigating the friend for what he or she has done to you. This will make the conversation feel less like an attack to the other person. You could say something like, “I feel like my life has moved in another direction, and this is what’s best for me.”
You don’t need to stay around for very long at this meeting. They are either going to get angry probably or try to get you to change your mind. So it’s best to give them your reasons and make your statement, and then excuse yourself nicely and say you have to go. , Ending a friendship is bound to cause negative feelings in the other person, such as hurt, confusion, and anger. Whatever your grievances, you should recognize this, and show empathy and kindness.


Don’t gossip about your former friend after you end the friendship. Your grievances against the friend are no one else’s business, and gossip is just not nice.
Show some sympathy and patience. Let the friend explain how he or she feels and acknowledge that their feelings are hurt. Explain that you are sorry about causing them bad feelings. This can go a long way.
Find a way to allow your friend to preserve his or her dignity. Instead of saying, “I don’t want to be your friend,” you could say something like, “I can’t be the friend you want me to be.” This puts more of the responsibility on your own shoulders and will make it easier for the former friend to accept. Try to avoid assigning blame. It’s not really necessary and will make the confrontation worse (unless there was a deep betrayal. Then, it’s probably a good idea to articulate that). But if your friend just annoys you or you don’t find them interesting anymore, why hurt their feelings by saying so?

, There are going to be pros and cons when it comes to any method you choose for ending a friendship. It’s not an easy thing to do. That’s true of the formal method too.


One of the negatives to the formal method is it’s uncomfortable and awkward. There are bound to be hard feelings in this meeting, and you will probably dread it.
If you’ve known a friend for a very long time, though, this approach is probably the best. It’s basically giving them the courtesy of a formal ending. If the friend is not as close of a friend and you’ve known them a short time, there’s less need to go this route.
This approach will end the friendship the most quickly. It provides clarity and is more considerate to your former friend in the long run, even though they may not recognize that at the time.
 You will increase the chances that the formal ending will go badly if you don’t choose the right time to confront your soon-to-be-former friend. Timing is everything.


Calling the friend when they are at work, are going through a crisis, or are in a public situation may not work very well. A public place, like a restaurant or coffee shop, is probably a better idea. It allows for some airing of grievances but will likely prevent the worst kind of reaction, such as screaming or excessive tears.

