 To do this, simply place one end of the measuring tape on the end of the barrel and measure straight up along the widest part of the circular barrel. This will give you the most accurate measurement of the diameter of the gun's barrel.;
, Use measuring tape or a ruler to measure the entire distance across the barrel. In other words, do not just measure the hole.
 The inches refer to the width/diameter of the pipe, not the length. These pipes will create the framework for the suppressor.
 You can cut the pipe using a handsaw, a hacksaw, a plastic pipe cutter, or a miter saw. Simply measure from one end of the pipe until you reach ten inches, mark the spot with a pencil, and then cut the pipe accordingly. Remember that if you measure twice, you'll only have to cut once.
 Just measure out until you've found the 12-inch mark, and mark it with a pencil. This will be your suppressor's barrel.


Note: These lengths may be adjusted for different size paintball guns. Longer suppressors are more unwieldy, but may increase dampening effect. The suppressor's barrel should always be 2 inches (5.1 cm) longer than the other PVC pipe, no matter which measurements you use.
 Using magic marker, draw a line of drill holes down the suppressor barrel, evenly spaced with 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) between them. Use measuring tape to evenly measure the holes, and make sure to keep the line straight.
 Now, turn the suppressor barrel 1/4, or 90 degrees, and draw another line. Use the same technique you used to mark the holes the last time.
 Do not stop when you drill through the first surface. Drill through to the other side, so that you can see straight through. When you are finished, you should have four lines of parallel drill holes.


You can use a hand drill, but a drill press is preferable.
Use a drill-bit of size appropriate to the size of your projectiles. The holes should be smaller than the projectiles. Consult a permitted manufacturer to ensure that your drill-bit is the correct size.
 Use a rotary tool or sandpaper to smooth out any imperfections.
 If you have a jigsaw or scroll saw, you can make end caps from a piece of wood. If not, you can use thick cardboard or another sturdy material. Here is how you make the end caps:


Trace a circle on the wood or cardboard around the 2 inch (5.1 cm) PVC pipe.






Within this circle, trace around the suppressor barrel, creating a donut shape.






Cut out the end caps. The end caps should fit securely around the barrel, and within the 2 inch (5.1 cm) PVC pipe.
 The barrel should extend straight through the 2 inch (5.1 cm) PVC pipe to the other side.
 It should snugly fit in place.
 Give the glue time to dry before you touch the end cap again.


The barrel should extend two inches out of the 2 inch (5.1 cm) PVC pipe, and the end cap should be on the other side.
 This will secure the two pieces of pipe, which are the two main parts of the suppressor, firmly in place.
 Secure it with crazy glue or caulking.
 Neatly place the suppressor over the barrel of your paintball gun. This is why the suppressor has to be wider than the barrel of your gun, so that it can fit over it neatly.
 Just use the clamp to secure the barrel in place, and use a screwdriver to turn the screw that keeps it in position. You're all done! Again, just remember that this is an illegal suppressor unless it has been properly registered.

