 Reputed online survey sites pay $5-$10 per survey. You could supplement your income by just taking one or two surveys per day.
 Universities, researchers, and pharmaceutical companies are in constant need of participants for studies. Depending on the study, you could be paid up to several hundred dollars! Most studies are looking for people who are in good health, although some have poor-health criteria they need participants to fill.


Visit the websites of local universities or the department of health to find out what studies are being conducted near you.
Participate in the NASA sleep study. This requires you to stay in one of their beds for three months straight with minimal physical activity. The payment for this study in particular is a whopping $10,000! Although the payment is due after months of forced bed rest.
Participating in medical studies always puts you at risk for certain side-effects, although these are always very unlikely., Companies want to hear what the general public thinks of the services or products they provide. To find out these opinions, many give online surveys which anyone can take and subsequently be paid for.


Try visiting opinionoutpost.com, which gives dozens of different surveys to take, each being worth a few dollars.
Join a focus group. These may be online or in-person, and require you to give feedback on a particular product or idea. You may be paid a few dollars, or up to a hundred depending on the time and effort needed for your group activity., If you were thinking about switching bank accounts, getting a new credit card, or recommending a company you like to a friend, for example, shop around for cash-back bonuses before making your decision.
 Businesses and corporations want their products and services to reach as many people as possible. To do this, they employ the services of everyday citizens to spread their word for them. You may be asked to advertise for them online or in-person.


Have your car wrapped in advertisements. Depending on the product or service, you may be required to have the wrap placed on your car for several months or years. This, however, adds up to hundreds of dollars over time. Removing the wrap when you’re finished does no damage to your car.
Sell your status updates for your Twitter, Instagram, or Facebook accounts. You will be given your choice of certain advertisements that will show up as a status update posted by you on your favorite online social media. You get paid more for the number of ads you post and followers you have. Visit ad.ly.com for some introductory advertisements., Many cities have local food co-ops in which the workers are volunteer only. What’s the plus side of volunteering then? You will often be given free groceries and food in exchange for your work services. This is essentially money paying for groceries you would have to buy anyway!, Apps like Field Agent, CheckPoints, WeReward, MyLikes, and Gigwalk allow you to complete small tasks (anything from snapping a photo of yourself at a cafe to scanning a barcode) for a few dollars. These are great ways to make money while you’re out to lunch or going about your grocery shopping.
 Go to unclaimed.org to be linked to the official pages of US states or Canadian provinces you have lived in, then follow the instructions to search for and, if necessary, claim funds owed to you. If you ever had a deposit or check that went unclaimed because you couldn’t be found, this is the place to go.