 You can make many changes to your life and your overall outlook. Take some time to think about what would help you better manage your emotions. It is likely that finding a different way to respond in tough situations will be high on your list of priorities.Once you have identified your triggers, you can work on finding more positive ways to respond to those triggers. For example, maybe you typically raise your voice when your child complains about eating broccoli for dinner. Next time this happens, actively choose to keep your tone neutral.
Maybe you tend to burst into tears when you are criticized. When you feel the tears coming, choose to take deep breaths and voice your frustrations calmly instead.
 Small changes can make a big impact on your emotional health. Try altering your living space to make it a more calming place. For example, try buying some fresh flowers to put in your living room. Look at them and think calming thoughts when you are feeling stressed.If your negative emotions stem from feeling out of control, try organizing your work space. Getting rid of clutter can make you feel on top of things.
Try adding more light. Natural and artificial light can help ease anxiety. So open your curtains and add some higher wattage bulbs to your lamps.
 Staying physically fit can have positive benefits for your emotional health. Exercise can boost your mood and decrease stress, which can help you retain control of your emotions. Aim for 30 minutes of physical activity most days of the week.Choose an activity that you enjoy. If you've always wanted to learn to play tennis, take lessons or join a league for beginners.
Add more B12 to your diet. This vitamin has been shown to improve emotional well being. Look for salmon, chicken, and lean beef to add to your dinners.
 There are multiple mental health benefits that come from writing in a journal. Writing down your experiences and your reactions can help you learn to identify your emotional triggers. It can also help you to see patterns in your reactions, which will allow you to think about how to modify those behaviors. Journaling can also reduce stress and anxiety.Make it a point to write in your journal each day. Set aside at least five minutes to write down anything that's on your mind.
At the end of each week, read through your recent entries. Reflect on anything significant that has happened in your life.
 Managing your emotions does not mean that you need to ignore or repress your feelings. It is normal and healthy to feel a wide array of emotions. Learn to express those feelings in healthy ways. Talking about your emotions is very productive.Try talking to friends or family. It is a good idea to let your loved ones know how you are feeling. Try saying, "I've been really stressed out lately. Do you have time to talk things through with me?"
Be calm and rational while you are talking. It's fine to express anger or frustration, but do so without yelling.
 Hormones can cause significant mood swings, and are also related to many emotions, such as sadness, irritability, and even depression. Women typically deal with a lot of hormone-related emotions during pregnancy, menopause, and menstruation. Track your emotions to figure out if they are related to times when your hormones are in flux.To help deal with these intense emotions, there are several things you can do to try to regulate your mood. Eat healthy foods and get some exercise. The endorphins will help.
Talk to your doctor about medication. For example, if you're dealing with severe PMS, medication might be helpful.
 If you are prone to unexpected tears, that can have a negative impact on your day to day life. Often, unpredictable crying is related to hormones. But it is also a symptom that you are experiencing anxiety. Crying is not necessarily a bad thing. It is your body's way of releasing emotions.When you cry, don't force yourself to stop. Trying to block your emotions like that can take a lot of unnecessary energy.
Instead, try to prevent the tears from ever starting. Take positive steps to manage your emotions, such as journaling and meditation.

