 Some ad-ins might have a separate pane while some might be located under a general word setting option, like the "Insert Object" button. The add-in you have decided upon will determine where you will find your add-in interface.



For the purposes of offering a guided example, this process will be outlined with the barcode add-in StrokeScribe, which is available to individual users for free.To access StrokeScribe's interface, click on the "Insert" tab, then click the "Insert Object" button and select "StrokeScribe Document" from the list provided., Barcodes have many different types, and these are referred to as symbologies. There should be an extensive list of barcode symbologies in a submenu of your add-in interface. Search through this until you find the symbology that best suits your purposes.



Continuing with the guided example, you should right-click the barcode image after selecting "StrokeScribe Document" and from the following menu choose StrokeScribe Control → Properties.
Be sure that your barcode reading software/equipment has the capability of reading the symbology you have chosen for your code.
Some common symbologies: UPS, Code 39, Code 128, QR

, You'll need to input the text that you want to be converted to barcode format and the Alphabet you want the text to be converted into, which will be the same as the symbology you've already decided upon.



In the guided example, after clicking "Properties" you should see the Control Properties window, in which you can type your data to be converted into barcode by the "Text" field, and you can select your symbology with the "Alphabet" dropdown menu., Some add-ins might have a specific Insert Barcode button, or you may only need to press Ok. With most add-ins, the barcode you create will be treated like an image.



For the guided example, you only need to click Ok to insert the image. To make the barcode a floating image, right click it, select "Format Object," and change the text wrapping under the "Layout" tab.Right-click the barcode, select the "Format Object" option, and click the Layout tab in the following menu. This should list different styles in which your barcode will be wrapped with in-document text.
 Using the white manipulator boxes occupying the corners and midpoints around the border of your barcode, alter the size of your barcode until it is satisfactory. You may also be able to change the size within a "Properties" window associated with your barcode add-in.



To complete the guided example, use the manipulator boxes to adjust width and height until it is positioned and sized best for your purposes.

