 When pouring, pour slowly and gently so the powder does not explode into your face or counter top.;
,


The corn muffin mix most likely already contains salt and flour in the pre-made ingredients. When adding extra salt and/or flour, you may not want to add too much.
 You can decide of course whether or not you will be using the egg whites, yolk, or the entire egg.
 As shocking as it may seem, mayonnaise is a perfect substitute for milk when making cornbread for the lactose intolerant. You won't really notice the difference in taste in the cornbread; it's mainly for holding your cornbread together so it doesn't crumble apart.


It's a myth that all mayonnaise contains milk/aged milk, but some brands will have milk added to it. Pay close attention to the ingredients listed on the mayonnaise bottle.
 Pull out your whisk and/or electric mixer and stir the wet ingredients for about 10-20 seconds.


If your mix ends up too thick, simply add a tablespoon of water and stir it in. Repeat this until your mix is at your desired thickness/thinness.
, Preheat your oven to 400°F while your cornbread mix sits out.
 Make sure that the pan you are using is "Deep Dish" as if you were about to bake a layer of cake. Using thin cookie sheets may result in your cornbread cooking entirely too fast thus breaking apart, and then you'll have burnt cornbread cookie-looking things. That doesn't sound tasty, right?

, Spread out the cornbread mix evenly in your pan so all sides will cook evenly.


Avoid overfilling the pan though; the cornbread mix will rise in the over and if it's over filled, it will rise over the sides and make a complete, lactose free, mess!

, Periodically stick a knife into the middle of the cornbread mix and lift up the knife, If the cornbread mix is still wet and sticks onto the knife, it must cook longer.


This baking process may take 20 minutes maximum. Always remember to constantly check on your food because it will cook fast meaning it may also burn fast.
Different oven racks may make the cooking time a few minutes longer or a few minutes shorter, always keep a watchful eye on the mix.
 Let it cool before cutting it up and enjoying the results of your hard work!

