 Instead of choosing the first cigar you'll see, you should know how to recognize each different type of cigar, and even ask a salesman for help when you're deciding on a type of cigar. Being aware of the different types of cigars will make you feel more knowledgeable when you actually start smoking them. There is a variety of cigars to choose from.


The Corona. This cigar measures 6 inches (15.2 cm) by 42-ring gauge -- this refers to the diameter of the cigar. This cigar has an open foot (the part that is lit) and a closed and rounded head (the part that you smoke).
The Pyramid. This cigar has a pointed, closed head.
The Torpedo. This cigar has a bulge in the middle and a pointed head and closed foot.
The Perfecto. This is like the Torpedo, except it has a bulge in the middle and two closed ends, making it a rounder cigar.
The Panatela. This cigar measures 7 inches (17.8 cm) by 38-ring gauge and is longer and thinner than the Corona.
The Culebra. This cigar is made of three Panatellas braided together. It looks like a thick rope.;
, To get started, you'll need to start sampling a few different kinds of cigars. Don't get too eager and buy an entire box of the same kind of cigar only to find that you can't stand the first one. Instead, find several varieties of cigars that may suit your needs. You should start with a mild cigar, which will not only be less expensive, but will have less of an intense flavor and will be better for beginners.









The longer and wider a cigar is, the more intense it will be. If you're a beginner, you should start with a longer and thinner cigar instead of a small stubby one, which will make you more likely to cough.
 Before you buy the cigar, you should gently squeeze it to make sure that there aren't any spots that are too hard or too soft. This may indicate that the cigar will give you a bad draw or that it won't even be smokable. You should also look out for lumps in the cigar, and make sure that the tobacco at the end isn't discolored, and that the wrapper isn't discolored either.
 If you own or have purchased a humidor, a box for storing cigars, then make sure to store them in the box immediately. If you don't own one, then don't buy more than a few cigars because they will dry out in a couple of days. Do not take them out of their cellophane packing either. Don't leave a cigar unprotected. Store them in Tupperware or another sealed container.







