 If your parents have a solid credit score, becoming an authorized user on one of their cards is perhaps the easiest way to build up a positive credit history – especially if you're a college student.Your parents' payment history will be reflected on your credit report once you become an authorized user, so before you do this, you'll need to have a frank talk with them about how they use their credit card.
Keep in mind that if your parents carry a significant balance on their cards from month to month, becoming an authorized user on that card may do you more harm than good.;
, Your goal is to get one credit card to start out, not a half a dozen. Plus, too many inquiries in a short period of time can hurt your credit score. For this reason, you should only fill out one application at a time.If you've done your research, you should be able to find a card for which your odds of acceptance are pretty good. If you're accepted for a card, don't apply for any more.
If you're turned down, wait a month or two before you fill out another application. Do a little more research so you can find a card for which your approval odds are higher.
You can sign up for a free online credit report service, such as Credit Karma or Credit Sesame, that will estimate approval odds and provide recommendations to help get you started on your research.
 A number of credit card companies offer student credit cards or starter credit cards that are designed for people with no credit history. These cards typically have lower credit limits and may charge an annual fee.They also typically have higher interest rates, so shop around before you commit to a starter card. However, keep in mind that you'll typically have higher approval odds with these kinds of cards.
Many of these cards also are secured. If you have no credit, you're guaranteed approval with a secured card – although you'll have to have the money up front to deposit. The way a secured card works is that you deposit money to cover the total credit limit. You still must pay your bill, but your deposit secures the risk to the credit card company that you won't pay your bill.
 Not all credit cards are created equal, and many have perks or benefits that may be very useful to you. Typically you have to have a solid credit history before you'll be eligible for these cards, but it doesn't hurt to look into them.For example, if you travel a lot, you may want a card that has some travel benefits such as travel insurance on plane tickets, accommodations, or purchases made while you're away from home.
There also are a few cards that offer a small amount of cash back on certain types of purchases. Make sure those are things you purchase often and then you can use your credit card for those things. For example, you may find a card that offers cash back on gasoline purchases.
Use a free credit report website to evaluate your approval odds on cards that you like. However, keep in mind that those approval odds are merely an estimate, and not any guarantee that you'll be approved.
 Even if you plan on paying your balance in full every month (and you should), you still need to pay attention to the interest rate. if something happens and you find yourself carrying a balance on your card, a high interest rate can be costly.The interest rate you have on your first credit card may impact the interest rate other lenders offer you in the future, such as if you apply for a car loan.
There is a chance the credit card company may lower your interest rate after you've demonstrated responsible use of the card for several years, but don't count on it. Credit card companies typically are more likely to raise your credit limit than to lower your interest rate.
After you've had your first card for several years, you should consider applying for another that does have a lower interest rate.
 Many department stores and retail chains offer credit cards that can only be used in that store. These cards typically have relatively high interest rates but are fairly easy to get.If you decide to get a store card, go for a store where you normally shop a lot. Stores such as Wal-Mart or Target are good choices because you can buy groceries and other items you actually need.
 A written budget will help you manage your expenses so you don't get in over your head with your credit card and are able to use it responsibly. Include details about the income you have coming in each month, as well as all your regular expenses.Identify expenses for which you can use your credit card. These should be things that you would normally pay for using cash or a debit card, so you won't have any trouble paying your credit card balance in full at the end of the month.
For example, you might decide to use your credit card at the gas pump. This is especially smart if your credit card gives you cash back for gas purchases.
 Once you have your first credit card, you can't just let it sit around collecting dust. To build a good credit history, you need to use your card on a semi-regular basis.Keep in mind there also is the possibility that a credit card company may cancel a card that goes unused for a significant period of time. That cancellation can negatively impact your credit score and make it more difficult for you to get another card.
Not using your card once a month also may affect how your payment history gets reported.
 Once you get your first credit card, set up your account online to enjoy real-time updates to your transactions and allow you to easily make payments. You also can set up electronic billing so you don't have to worry about waiting for statements to come in the mail., If your card has any special perks or benefits, make sure you activate them and use them before they expire. When you get the welcome packet from the credit card company, it should come with a full list of member benefits – read them carefully.Once you know your perks, you know what purchases are best for using your credit card to reap the maximum rewards from the card.
 Generally speaking, you don't want to use more than 25 to 30 percent of your available credit. Even if you end up carrying a balance over to the next month, make sure you never rack up charges of more than that proportion of your credit limit.Carrying an excessively high balance on your credit card can have a significantly negative impact on your credit score. This can be especially damaging if this is your first credit card and you have little to no credit history.
 Credit cards offer significant consumer protections when you make a purchase using them, particularly when compared to debit cards. For this reason, if at all possible you should use your credit card anytime you're making a large purchase.You also want to use your credit card anytime you're making a purchase you think you might want to dispute later. For example, suppose you're paying in advance for car repairs. If the repair fails to correct the problem with your car and you want your money back for the service, you'll have better luck with that if you used a credit card.
 To build a strong credit history, you need to pay all your bills on time – not just your credit card. Other companies, such as mobile phone and utility companies, may report late payments or other negative history.It can be helpful to set up a calendar with due dates so you know when all your bills are due. You also might want to set reminders on your mobile phone to alert you a couple of days before a payment needs to be made.
 Automatic payments are the easiest way to ensure that your bills are paid on time. With an automatic payment, you don't have to worry as much about when the bill is due, as long as you have enough money in your bank account to cover it.Most companies enable automatic payments to be set up through your online account. Your bank also may give you the ability to set up automatic payments from your checking account.
Make sure you're keeping close watch on your bank account balance so you know the money is there to cover your bills when they're withdrawn.
 Generally speaking, the best way to be responsible with your first credit card is to pay the entire balance in full each month. If for some reason that's not possible, due to an emergency or an extraordinarily large expense, you still should pay as much as you possibly can and avoid carrying a large balance from month to month.If you use your card for a large purchase, you might consider making two payments in the month instead of just the one if that makes it easier for you to pay it off quickly.
When paying your balance in full, check your credit card information carefully to make sure you won't be charged a fee. Some credit card companies charge fees to users who routinely pay off their balance in full each month, so the credit card company can still profit off of your usage.
 When you get your credit card statement each month, whether in the mail or digitally, make sure you read over it. Check for any unfamiliar charges and reconcile it with receipts you've saved.If you see an unfamiliar charge or a charge that you believe to be fraudulent, call your credit card company immediately to dispute it. You may lose valuable benefits if you delay, so it's best to call as soon as you notice the discrepancy.

