 A basic closing with the word "Sincerely" can be safely used with almost any kind of letter. When you're done writing the letter, the basic closing is appropriate for almost all kinds of letters. Similar basic closings that do the same work as "Sincerely" include:


Sincerely
Yours
Truly
Warm regards
With appreciation
Thoughts and prayers;
, Closings are usually sentence fragments, not full sentences. If you're writing a formal letter, it's good to use a shorter construction. In other words, use "Looking forward" instead of "I am looking forward," or your closing will sound awkward.
 The only time it's inappropriate to sign off with "sincerely" would be if you're writing to a lover, a very close family member, or a very close friend. For personal letter endings with other options for sincerely, you may create your own closing. Use an inside joke or just write your name to finish off a letter or a card with sincerity.
 Whether you are asking a favor, applying for a job, or writing a Thank You note, elaborate a little more into why you are grateful. With personal letters, don't be afraid to go into detail on your feelings. Here are some examples:


"Thank you in advance for taking my dietary restrictions into consideration. I understand the extra effort it takes to provide alternative options at such a large public function, and it makes a huge difference for myself and for other attendees that may have a gluten intolerance."
"Thank you for taking the time to consider me for this position. I know there are many applicants, and I hope that you agree that I am a highly qualified candidate."
"Thank you for being so thoughtful and visiting me during my recovery. I feel very cared for and loved, and it meant all the world to me that I have your support during these difficult times..."

, Everyone wants to know why they are loved. Remind them what you value about your relationship. This goes for family, friends, or romantic partners. Here are some examples below:


"Our bond as mother and son has provided me with the support I needed to forge my path in life. I value all that you have done to raise me and shape me into the man I am today. I love you very much. Happy Mother's Day."
"My life would be incomplete if I didn't have you to share it with. You are the best companion I could have ever asked for, and through the ups and downs, I am eternally grateful to have you by my side. Happy Birthday. With all of my love..."

, In general notes, a good closing can remind someone of your relationship or your feelings:


Instead of "Your friend," you can elaborate on exactly the nature of your friendship: "Your companion in bookstore hauls," or "Your confidant and biggest supporter."
You can close with the exact emotion you mean to express: "With my deepest admiration," "With my most sincere apologies," "With a heavy heart and a shoulder to cry on..."

, Even in a less sentimental letter, you can make your intentions seem genuine and clear with the correct closing. If you want to make sure that your message has gotten across, here are a few possibilities:


When trying to assist someone, let them know exactly how much you are able to help. "Please don't hesitate to contact me on my business line if you have any more questions or concerns. I'm here to help. You can reach me at (855) 736-9257 ext. 3514 during normal business hours."
When writing a resignation letter, you can still maintain rapport with your soon to be ex-employer. "I have valued my time at Hancock Conglomerates, and I will continue to speak of your company's work with acclaim. I hope that in the future, you will recommend me and the skills I have show during the past 3 years in your employment."

, There are a variety of appropriate closings, depending on who you're writing to and how well you know them. Here are a few general rules of thumb to follow in letter-writing:


If you know the name of the person you are addressing, or if you started the letter "Dear Mr./Ms." then you should end the letter "Yours sincerely..."
If you do not know the letter of the person you are addressing, or if you started the letter "Dear Sir/Madam" or "To Whom It May Concern," you should end the letter "Sincerely..."

