 To prepare your body for this new position, you’ll first need to work on improving your flexibility. Try focusing, primarily, on the muscles in your lower body.Improved flexibility in the hips, quads and hamstrings is the primary goal, as you prepare to do a split.
There are many different ways to improve flexibility including yoga and stretching.
Get into the habit of always stretching before you attempt to do a split. This will help to prevent injuries.;
, Leg stretches are important for improving flexibility in your legs. By doing so, you'll help to prevent leg injuries while doing splits. There are simple ways you can stretch your legs before you attempt a split.


You will need to lay down faceup on a yoga mat or another comfortable surface. Keep your legs straight. Now slowly lift your right leg into the air keeping it as straight as possible. Bring your fingers towards your toes and hold the position for at least 30 seconds. Slowly lower your leg back to the ground.Do this with your left leg as well. You should feel the stretch in your quads.
Stretch both legs simultaneously. You will need to use stairs or another slightly elevated surface. This stretch requires a slightly elevated, sturdy surface. The bottom step of your stairs could work well.
Start in a standing position facing the stairs. Place your right leg on the stair or other elevated surface. Make sure to keep your legs straight as you lean forward with both hands to place them on either side of your foot. Make sure your left foot is straight and firmly planted on the ground.Hold the stretch for 30 seconds and then repeat on the other side.
 To prevent injuries in your hamstrings, remember to include hamstring stretches in your pre-split workout.


An easy way to get blood flowing to your hamstrings, is to run in place for 10 minutes or so. You can also jump rope.A simple hamstring stretch is to begin with your feet shoulder width apart. Now bend to your left and try to bring your chest to your thigh. Make sure to keep both of your legs straight. Hold the stretch for 10 seconds and repeat on the other side by bending to the right and bringing your chest to meet your right thigh.
 Give yourself enough room to spread out and make sure you’re dressed comfortably. Don’t attempt to do a split if you’re wearing jeans or other restrictive clothing.


Using a yoga mat will help to keep you from sliding as you get into the split position.
Despite what you may think, attempting to do a split on a slippery surface such as a hardwood floor will do more harm than good as you could injure yourself by moving too quickly into position.
 To do a forward split, slide one of your legs forward. You can use either your right or left leg. Use the one that feels most comfortable to you. For a side split, both of your legs should slide out to your sides. Initially, they should be shoulder width apart, but then they need to slide further out as you begin to lower your body.


Slowly lower your body to the ground. Keep your hands out to your sides to both keep balance and to catch yourself if you start to fall.
Make sure to keep your hips squared for the forward split. This should force your body to stay straight and not sideways.For both types of splits, your chest should also stay nice and straight.
 Hold the pose for only a few seconds. Get your muscles used to being in this position. Don’t worry if you can’t go all the way to the ground. That will come with time.


If you start feeling pain in any part of your body, get out of the position immediately.
 Once you’ve held the position for a few seconds, stop for the day. You will want to work up to doing a full split.


Try doing this every day. However, if you feel pain in your muscles, always wait a few days before going back to it.
 To help your joints stay limber, try doing yoga on a regular basis. You don't need to join a class in order to do yoga. There are some simple positions you can try from home such as the warrior pose. Additionally, there are split poses in yoga, which can help with additional split practice.


To do the warrior pose stand on a yoga mat with your feet together. Keep your core tight as you extend your left foot behind you, towards the back of your mat. Once the leg is fully extended, plant your heel and turn your toe out to a 45 degree angle. Your hips should still be facing forward. Now raise your arms slowly and hold the pose for 45 seconds. You should feel the stretch in your legs.
Doing poses such as the warrior pose will help to improve flexibility in your leg muscles, which will help to prevent injuries when you're doing splits.
You can also do split poses in yoga, which will help to give you extra split practice. Try the monkey pose. You will need to kneel on your yoga mat. Now extend your right leg out in front of you, but keep your heel on the ground. Keeping your core tight, lean forward and press your fingertips to the floor. Your right leg should now be straight, but be careful not to hyperextend the knee. Slowly press your right heel forward and rotate your right thigh such that your kneecap is facing upward. While you're doing this, slide your left knee back behind you making sure that the top of your left foot is firmly planted on the ground. Your hips should still be squared as you gently flex your right foot. Hold this pose for 30 to 45 seconds.
 Watching your weight is important to your overall health and flexibility, particularly when it comes to avoiding injuries while exercising. Excess weight puts added pressure on your joints and doing splits will only further exacerbate problems.Exercise regularly and try to include healthy alternatives when cooking. For example, you can substitute olive oil for butter and vegetables for starches.
Cut back on the junk food and stock up on healthy snacks like apples and yogurt.
 An additional step you can take to help keep your joints healthy is to take a natural supplement.


Purchase fish oil. While there are many benefits to fish oil, an important aspect for your joints is that it helps to get your blood flowing.
Vitamin D is another helpful supplement, as it keeps your bones strong by absorbing calcium into your system. Vitamin D can also be found in some of the healthy foods you eat including milk and salmon.

