 Don’t feel like you need to jump into the gym for an hour tomorrow – rushing into difficult workouts only makes it more likely that you won’t stick with the habit. Instead, find something you love, whether it is yoga, biking, disc golf, or just walking the dog, and start incorporating it into your daily schedule. Even 10-15 minutes each day is a good start, and as you get stronger you’ll naturally start exercising for longer periods.


Don’t exercise solely to lose weight, though it helps. Exercise is also proven to release stress, improve mental health and clarity, and improve feelings of self-esteem.
Try to do 10-15 pushups and situps during commercial breaks of your favorite shows. Grab the stairs over the escalator. Anything that gets you heart pumping through the day will help.
Picking an exercise habit you actually enjoy doing is key to sticking with it., We are what we eat -- and that is not just a cliche, it is the truth. Even if you struggle to cut junk food, adding in more fruits and vegetables will give your the vitamins and minerals needed to feel great every day. Furthermore, it can help you replace the occasional junk food to feel more full. Instead of eating ice cream, have frozen yogurt of sugar- free ice cream (it's not bad at all). Instead of having chips of any kind, have pretzels or nuts or healthy popcorn. Instead of having fountain drinks loaded with sugar, try diet kinds.
 This is one of the few cases where “retail therapy,” is not just a joke. The clothes you wear have a significant impact on how you look and feel, accentuating your favorite qualities and downplaying those that make you self-conscience. The only way to know what you like is to go try stuff on, and the experience alone is a great way to have fun in your body and look at yourself in a sexy new light., Being happy with your body doesn't mean you don't want it to change -- and even the happiest people are comfortable enough to say, "I know I can improve." That's because working on something and seeing growth is one of the best ways to improve your self esteem. Maybe you want to cut some belly fat, or clear your skin up, or work on your posture. This seems daunting all at once, but by themselves each goal is much more manageable. And, once conquered, the other goals will only get easier, too.Having a plan makes all issues and worries much easier to get your head around.
 Thoughts like “I’m lazy and useless,” “no one will ever find me attractive,” or “I hate my body” are not only hurtful and wrong, they create traps of self-doubt that it is very hard to climb out of. The first step to being happy with your body is to stop being your own worst enemy, which means countering these thoughts with far more realistic ideas. For example:


”I’m not lazy, and I’m certainly not useless. I’m already finding ways to work on my body image, being proactive where most people are not.”
”Saying ‘no one will ever find me attractive,’ is selfish and untrue – I can’t control others, but I can control myself, and that is one very, very attractive quality.”
”I am my body, and I don't hate myself. I may be unhappy right now, but I've done great, fun things, and that will only continue.
 Don't let the media and photos from the internet put you down. Facebook and the media are notorious for creating an unrealistic standard of beauty that does not exist -- it is simply the culture of only sharing what is beautiful, even if that means Photoshopping real people to look more attractive than they really are. Try cutting your social media diet down if you're having trouble with this step.Comparing yourself with others is a fool's errand, because you can never really be or understand them and their own faults. More often than not, you're simply projecting your insecurities.

Everyone is insecure about their body once in a while. You're not alone, and that should be comforting. If even the people you call "attractive" get unhappy about their body every now and then, then you can't put too much stock in your own self-criticism.
 Your weight is only one small, small measure of your body -- and it is not a very good one, at that. The number of pounds you weigh not only fluctuates 3-5 pounds throughout the day and month, making an accurate reading difficult, but weight is necessarily tied to muscles, height, and body type. As such, it is not a great single indicator of your health or body image -- but people still get obsessed over that little number. Focus more on body health, not the image on a scale, to both look at feel healthier.
 Gratitude and thanks will make you appreciate what you have, even if you don't feel happy about it at the moment. Remember that you have a wonderful, working body, internet access, and the desire to make yourself better -- none of which should be taken for granted. If you can't get yourself to be happy with your body just yet, try to be appreciative of your opportunities first. The happiness will soon follow.