 If you wake up in the middle of a dream you wish to revisit, lie perfectly still. When you move around upon waking up, the sensory stimuli of your surroundings begins to interfere with the remnants of the dream lingering in your mind. This will quickly cause the remembered elements of the dream to dissipate., It is much easier to return to sleep if you keep your body in a sleep-ready state. This means you should remain still, your body should be relaxed and, most importantly, your eyes should be shut. Light has the effect of waking up the brain, which is the last thing you want: if you’re to have any chance of recreating a dream environment, it has to be done fast, before the impression left by the dream fades.Keeping your room as dark as possible while sleeping can minimize unwanted light stimulation.
 Keep your breathing under control. Try to take the same long, slow breaths you would when stretching after a workout. The sooner you can return your breathing to the cadence of rest, the better chance you have of falling back to sleep while the components of the dream are still buzzing in your unconscious mind.Regulated breathing techniques, like the 4-7-8 breathing method, might help you nod off faster if it tends to take you a while to get back to sleep.
To perform 4-7-8 breathing, all you have to do is inhale slowly to the count of 4, hold your breath for 7 seconds and then exhale forcefully and completely to the count of 8. As the brain is oxygenated, the body will naturally enter a relaxed state and become more receptive to the hormones that induce sleep.Many people claim that by regulating their breathing, they are able to fall asleep in as little as one minute.
 Try to remember as much as you can about the dream you were having when you were jolted awake. What was happening? Who were the players involved? What did the environment look like? How did you feel about what was going on? Let yourself lie in that unthinking, emotionally receptive state until you manage to get back to sleep.Dreams are essentially random combinations of sensory reactions, feelings and thoughts that are mined from waking life. If you remain focused on resuming an aborted dream while falling asleep, there’s a greater likelihood that your next string of dreams will contain the same images and events.
Many sleep researchers believe that the emotional response is the most influential factor in how much we remember of dreams.

