 Depending on where you live, you'll need to get an associates or bachelor's degree, or compatible, in nursing to make sure you have sufficient knowledge and experience to continuing on to become a nursing consultant.;
, You'll need to earn your master's degree in nursing, healthcare services or administration, or public health, as well as a minimum of 2 years of practical nursing experience, depending on your location.



Legal nurse consulting enables you to work with legal firms and professionals to locate, define, and interpret medical facts pertaining to legal cases, oftentimes in worker's compensation or medical malpractice cases, and sometimes even in forensic matters. In addition, nursing consultants can support legislative matters pertaining to healthcare policies. In the United States and other countries, associations for legal nurse consultants provide training and certification, as well as a code of professional ethics to which all members must adhere.
Corporate nurse consultants support corporations in a number of fields, from developing medical devices, drugs, and software pertaining to the healthcare industry to designing and implementing corporate wellness programs to enhance the safety and user-friendliness of work spaces, as well as to offer workers a healthy working environment.
Healthcare and healthcare education consulting allows nursing consultants to work within the healthcare industry to either assist healthcare professionals and organizations with the development and implementation of healthcare programs, or to assist in the development of new nursing training programs at educational institutes.



As an independent nursing consultant, you'll have more freedom to choose your clients and the projects you work on. However, you'll also need to understand all of the intricacies of running your own business, from client acquisition to financial management.
If you work as a nursing consultant for a company, you'll have a salaried position that requires you to work on projects your employer chooses. Though it may be more limited in scope than working independently, you'll also have the potential of working on big accounts and acquiring in-depth knowledge of the specific system you're working with.

