 Sometimes, your marriage problems seem too big for you to deal with yourself. Fortunately, marriage counseling from a trained professional can help you learn how to handle conflict and disagreement, talk productively without fighting, and show your love and appreciation for your spouse.If you experience any of the following issues, you will likely benefit from professional counseling.Criticism. Criticism is a personal attack on someone’s character, such as “You always do this wrong” or “You never remember to do this.” Counseling can help you learn to express your needs with kindness.

Defensiveness. Defensive tactics include indignation (“I can’t believe you’re saying that!”), counterattacks (“Well, you’re just as bad at X as I am at Y”), or whining (“It isn’t my fault!”). The antidote to defensiveness is validation, such as “I can see where you’re coming from” or “I could have done better at X.”

Contempt. Contempt is abuse and has no place in happy relationships. Eye-rolling, sneering, insults, or condescension kill a relationship. Instead, express love and appreciation.

Stonewalling. Stonewalling happens when the listener has stopped listening because s/he is flooded with adrenaline and can’t focus. Counseling can help you learn how to process conflict so that you’re able to listen and learn from each other.
Several types of professionals can offer marriage or couple therapy. Common providers include psychiatrists, psychologists, licensed clinical social workers, and licensed marriage and family therapists. Make sure that your provider is licensed and has experience in marriage counseling.
Retreats and weekend workshops can be expensive, but they could be a helpful way to “jumpstart” some new habits. Just don’t rely on a weekend to fix all of your issues. You’ll need to continue to work and learn.
 Researchers are beginning to understand how much of a complication past trauma can be in a marriage. If one or both of you is carrying around trauma that you haven’t processed, it can trigger rage or anxiety and make communicating in a healthy way very difficult. Seek help from a mental health professional.


PTSD can cause particular difficulties for couples, especially those in the military.However, marriage and family therapy has been shown to be an effective treatment in helping couples and individuals deal with this trauma. , Addictions, including alcoholism, gambling, and substance abuse, do not mix well with marriage. Addictions are progressive diseases, and will get worse with time. Seek help from a medical professional and/or professional counselor. If your spouse’s addictive behavior puts you or your family in danger, you have the right to be safe. Take steps to protect your health and safety, and don’t allow your spouse to make you feel guilty for protecting yourself.
There are several programs available for the family of loved ones suffering from addiction. If your loved one is refusing to get help, these organizations may help you. Al-Anon has “family groups.”The National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence has a range of services for family members.
 In some cases, it wouldn’t matter how well you implement the skills and tactics in this article. If your spouse is abusing you, it is not your fault. You did not “make” your spouse abuse you, and you cannot “fix” it by staying. Seek help. Abuse can be emotional, mental, and/or physical.Contact a hotline or trusted person you can confide in. If you are in an abusive relationship, you must be careful about your personal safety. Abusive partners will often monitor their spouse’s activities very closely, so search for resources at a public library or use a friend’s phone.
The National Coalition Against Domestic Violence is a good place to start. You call call their hotline 24/7 at 1-800-799-7233. A list of international numbers is available at HelpGuide.org.Domestic abuse is about as common in gay and lesbian relationships as it is in heterosexual relationships.