 Many teenage and older women find that their skin gets worse right before their menstrual cycle, usually about 10 days before the period begins. Any acne that can be aggravated during different times of the menstrual cycle can be called hormonal acne.In the first half of the menstrual cycle, the prominent reproductive hormone is estrogen, and in the second half, the prominent hormone is progesterone, which stimulates the production of sebum. Additionally, the relative levels of testosterone increase, which stimulates even more sebum production.
In some young girls and women, the balance between these hormones is such that acne can flare up in those days before the period begins. In some, that balance can signal significant problems with the reproductive system while others will re-balance without using any hormonal treatment., Hormonal acne has a specific pattern so that you know when it’s going to pop up. This breakout usually occurs around the time of the menstrual cycle. Hormonal acne usually appears under the cheekbones and around the chin and mouth.Hormonal acne is generally painful, large, with pockets of pus. It’s usually resistant to any type of treatment.
 It is not always clear why acne occurs. Hormonal acne can be caused by an underlying condition, such as Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS). A few common reasons for acne include reactions or sensitivities to chemicals in cosmetics or personal products, smoking, or sensitivity to dairy products and highly processed and sugary foods. It may also be due to inflammation from an underlying condition or bacterial infections.High levels or excess activity of the male hormone testosterone can cause acne. This can occur during the second half of the menstrual cycle. It is not necessarily a problem of too much testosterone; it may just be a matter of too much testosterone as compared to the levels of estrogen and progesterone.
Reduced fatty acid levels in the skin due to not enough essential fatty acids in the diet may also cause acne.
Acne commonly occurs in both male and female teens and young adults, but more women in their 30s, 40s, and 50s are getting acne

