 If you have a style you like now, keep it. If not, get some advice on changing it. We all need a change now and then, not just because we've turned 40 but because it does us good to look good and to update when we're feeling frumpy.;
, Old fashioned nonsense about not wearing this and not wearing that just because of your age is out the window. If you've got great legs, you're not about to saw them off are you? Think Desperate Housewives, think Elizabeth Hurley, think of all those great women in their 40s wearing what they know looks good on them and not listening to a 16 year old or a 26 year old telling you what to wear. Respect comes from what's inside, not from the clothing.
 Split yourself in two - top and bottom. Now add two categories - tight and revealing. If your top is tight or revealing, keep the bottom plain. If the bottom is tight or revealing, keep the top modest. If low cut, wear it with a jacket. Also, if you have exceptionally nice calves, a knee-skirt can look good. Keep suits in conservative colors if that is your daily requirement, but add interesting quirks. A black business suit, with a high-quality, silk, black and turquoise top, can be paired with turquoise heels.
 Heels are good if they work for you and low-pumps are acceptable attire. Consider the kitten-heel; enough heel to be business like, but also very trendy. By now, though, telling you how to wear a shoe is a little on the side of bad mannered. You know by now what works best.
 One thing many women do get into a bad habit with is hair - forgetting it has outgrown current needs. Seek an honest appraisal from a good hairdresser and set things straight. You'll feel like a new woman.
 Never stop exercising. This will not only help your physical appearance by making you look younger, but you will also have improved emotional health. It also helps to guard against potential oncoming problems such as osteoporosis and breast cancer.
 You're in your 40s and you're beautiful. You're also wiser, often wealthier (and if you're not, start saving now) and you're still the wonderful woman you've always been. Don't let the media, misguided youth and outdated notions tell you otherwise.

