 Penalty fees are capped or constrained under the new rules, to prevent excessive charges from being passed on to you. Penalty fees include late and over-the-limit fees.


Penalty fees will be capped at $25 for most customers.
Penalty fees will not be permitted to be any bigger than the minimum payment due.

This means that if you are late paying a $15 minimum payment on your card, the late fee cannot be any more than $15.
It also means that if you go over your limit on your credit card by, say $10, the over-the-limit penalty fee cannot be more than $10.


Multiple penalty fees cannot be charged for the same violation.
Inactivity fees are banned. This means that if you decided not to use your credit card, you cannot be charged for this inaction.;
, This can occur where a consumer shows a "repeated" pattern of violations on very large minimum payments, or if the credit card issuer can show that charging a higher fee will offset its costs to chase up the violation that brought about the penalty.


If you are late or over your credit card limit two times in a period of six months, the card issuer can hike the second penalty fee to $35. If the card issuer can justify an even higher increase in the penalty rate to regulators, you risk an even higher rate.
For you, this means don't be a chronic late payer or over-spender of your limit. If you are, the bank still has plenty of leeway to charge you higher penalty fees.
 This means that if you spend over your limit, while your penalty fee is limited, you might receive a permanent penalty increase on your interest rate under the terms and conditions of your credit agreement. And, worse still, this will remain the interest rate for your future purchases.


Review the terms and conditions of your credit card provider to see what applies to you by way of interest rate penalty increases.
 Credit cards are a great means to manage your money flow when used prudently and paid sufficiently, always on time. Credit cards let you earn bonus points and rewards, they give you the freedom to purchase when you need cash flow, and they allow you to "float" money for up to a month provided you're paying them up on time. Responsible credit card usage includes:


Paying at least the minimum balance on time. The $25 limit is still a lot to pay for something you could have done by paying the minimum amount on time. If you let this slip, say three times a year, that's $75 that could have been paying off debt, going into savings, or paying for something you'd rather enjoy.
Knowing your card limit and the extent that you've already charged it, at all times. This includes keeping track of regular payments that you've set up to be charged automatically.
Not falling into the mental trap of thinking you'll "get around to paying" a large lump sum down the road rather than paying the minimum amount by the due date required each month. If you don't pay up repeatedly, this can sufficient to represent a "pattern" of repeated violations but it also sets you up for a "pie-in-the-sky" attitude about owing money. If you can't pay it now, what makes it more likely that you can in a few months time?

