 You should give these dogs a moderate amount of exercise. They enjoy playing and walks. Give your terrier at least one walk every day. You can also play with them inside or in a yard that’s fenced in.Unless your yard is entirely fenced in, you should not let your Cairn Terrier “run free.” They should always be on leashes because, if not, they might run into a dangerous place chasing after a squirrel or chipmunk. Cairns are also confident (perhaps sometimes over-confident) dogs., Start training your dog as soon as you bring him home. There are several parts to training him, including teaching him tricks and making him respect your authority as his owner. There are many ways to train a dog, but here are some tips specific to Cairn Terriers.


Start training early. These dogs are smart and independent, so you want him to immediately respect you and see you as someone he must obey.
Avoid repetitive training techniques. Many dog trainers will tell you that repetition is key, but Cairn Terriers will often be bored and not respond well to extremely repetitive ways. For example, telling them to sit ten times in a row is not as effective as telling them to sit, and then to lie down, and then to play fetch.
Be positive, and don’t be afraid to give your Cairn Terrier a hard task. They are smart dogs!You can also take your Cairn Terrier to a puppy kindergarten class, where an instructor will teach you how to train your dog and help you with any issues you might be having.
 You should definitely start house-training your Cairn Terrier as soon as you obtain them. There are two main ways that you can in combination house-train your Cairn Terrier:


Make sure that your dog does not go to the bathroom in the wrong place. This means confining your dog from the wrong places unless you’re supervising him constantly. Unless you’re playing or interacting with him, put confine him to a place where it’s either okay for him to go to the bathroom or where you can see when he looks like he needs to relieve himself.
Take your dog to the right place to relieve himself frequently, and praise your dog for relieving himself in the correct place. The sooner he realizes that the praise is associated with going to the bathroom in the right place, the sooner he will become house-trained.