 Umbilical hernias are bulges at the belly button. They occur when the intestines, abdominal lining, or fluid protrudes beyond the abdominal muscles.


Between 10% to 20% of all children experience umbilical hernias.
Rates of umbilical hernia are higher in African Americans.
Infants who are premature or suffer from low birth weight have higher chances of having an umbilical hernia.
Umbilical hernias often do not demand immediate treatment and may close on their own by age 3 or 4., While umbilical hernias share several symptoms with other types of hernias, taken together, a number of symptoms are a good indication of umbilical problems. Without paying attention to your child’s discomfort, you will be unable to properly diagnose an umbilical hernia.


An umbilical hernia is characterized when a bulge or swollen area appears around the navel region. The bulge may vanish when the child lies on their back.
While it is rare, children may experience pain emanating from the abdomen. This pain may increase when the child coughs or strains.
The child may vomit or complain of nausea., As a type of hernia that is potentially less dangerous, your doctor might prescribe different types of treatment for an umbilical hernia. Thus, you should evaluate different treatments with your physician.


Some large or painful hernias may require surgery. Surgery is also usually recommended if the hernias persist after age 4, are larger than half an inch (12.7 mm), or block the intestines.
The surgery requires making a small incision below the navel. Afterwards, the hernia is secured back behind the muscle into the abdomen with stitches., Without proper care after surgery, your child may suffer serious complications that may require further medical treatment. As a result, attend to their needs.


Keep the site of incision clean. In addition, the site should be kept dry for 48 hours.
Do not remove tape, stitches, or steri-strips. They will come off on their own or will be removed by your physician 1 to 2 weeks later.
Your child should limit their activity for several days. After a few days, they can usually return to almost all of their normal behaviors.
The child should not engage in strenuous physical activity for several weeks.
Watch the site of incision for signs of infection or bleeding. If you notice any signs, contact your physician.
Follow all of the instructions of your physician.