 When you reinstall OS X, all of your files will be deleted. Make sure you copy all of your important documents, pictures, videos, and other files to a safe location, such as external hard drive or cloud storage service. See How to Back Up Data for instructions on backing up your important files.
 Release the keys once you see the Apple logo.
 You may be prompted to select the network you want to connect to. If you don't have Wi-Fi, you'll need to connect via Ethernet. You'll need an internet connection to reinstall OS X.


You can also click the Wi-Fi icon in the upper-right corner and select the network you want to use.
 This will open a new window displaying all of the installed drives on your computer.
 You can leave the settings that appear at their default and give the drive a new name if you'd like. Click "Erase" to confirm. Close Disk Utility once the erasing process is complete to return to the Recovery menu.
 This will open the OS X installer. You will be notified that your computer will be verified with Apple.
 You'll need to confirm that you accept this to proceed with the installation.
 Choose the drive that you just erased in Disk Utility.
 You'll be prompted to enter your Apple ID to verify that you own the license for your operating system.
 The installer will begin downloading the files necessary to install OS X. The time this takes will depend on your connection speed.
 These should be selected correctly by default.
 Select your wireless network and enter the password to connect to it. If you are connected via Ethernet, you won't be prompted to select a network.
 You can restore a Time Machine backup or transfer files from a Windows PC. If you choose either of these, follow the prompts to transfer the files. To set up as a fresh computer, select "Don't transfer any information now."

, This will give you access to the Mac Store and your iTunes purchases.
 By default, OS X will use your Apple ID as your computer account. You can choose to create a local account instead.
 You'll be taken through a few more minor setup screens before you are taken to your fresh desktop.