 In some cases, you might need to do nothing more than sit down, gather your thoughts and put all of your ideas on paper. Other times, your topic will be unfamiliar enough that you must do research in order to speak about it knowledgeably. Most times, you'll fall somewhere in between the two extremes.
 The internet can be a great source to find out more about your speech topic, but don't necessarily stop there. If you're a student, use your school's library or library databases. Many public libraries subscribe to databases that house thousands and thousands of articles. If you have a library card, you have free access to those databases. Think about interviewing someone who's an expert in your topic or conducting a survey. The more ways you go at gathering the information you need, the more successful you're likely to be. Plus, using various research sources gives your speech breadth.
 When you do use information you got from an outside source in your speech, plan to give credit to that source. To do so, keep track of where you're getting your information so that you can cite it later on.
 Narrative, informative and persuasive speeches lend themselves well to being outlined while ceremonial speeches are best written out.


Outline. When you outline, you're simply organizing and structuring your speech as a series of points. For example, if you were giving the speech mentioned above: "I want my audience to learn the four things they should look for when buying a diamond," you might designate one point for "Cut," one for "Color," one for "Clarity" and one for "Carat." Under each of those points, you'd offer your audience more information and detail.

Outlines can be written in complete sentences or they can be a series of abbreviated phrases and reminders. Another approach is to begin by writing complete sentences and then transferring your outline on to note cards on which you abbreviate those sentences using just the words and memory prompts you need.


Script. One reason that it makes sense to write out ceremonial speeches is because the words you choose to express yourself in these kinds of speeches are particularly important. You're meant to inspire or entertain or pay tribute to someone, so saying exactly what you mean and have prepared increases your chances for success.

Pull out your old English textbooks and review things like similes, metaphors, alliteration and other kinds of figurative language. These kinds of devices can add to the impact of a ceremonial speech.
Beware one pitfall of the scripted speech: having a page full of words in front of you can cause you to fall into the trap of simply reading from your script without every looking up, making eye contact or engaging with the audience in any way. Thorough practice should help to eliminate your chances of falling into this trip.
 A speech includes three basic pieces: an introduction, a body and a conclusion. Be sure your speech contains all of these elements.


Introduction. There are two things that most good introductions include: an attention-getter and a preview of what's to come in the speech.

Give an attention-getter. The most important thing you must do in your introduction is to grab your audience's attention. You can do this in a number of ways: ask a question, say something surprising, offer startling statistics, use a quote or proverb related to your speech topic or tell a short story. Take the time to figure out how you'll grab your audience's attention--it's easier to get them hooked in the beginning than to try to get them interested as your speech progresses.
Offer a preview. Think of a preview as kind of the "coming attractions" of your speech. Plan to tell your audience the main points you'll talk about in your speech. There's not need to go into any detail here; you'll get to that when you come to the body of your speech. You can write a preview that's simply one sentence in length to cover what you need to say here.


Body. The body is where the "meat" of your speech resides. The points you outlined or the information you scripted make up the body. There are several ways to organize the information within the body of your speech--in time sequence, in step order, from most important point to least important point, problem-solution, to name just a few. Choose an organizational pattern that makes sense based on your speech goal.
Conclusion. There are two things to accomplish in your conclusion. This is not the place to introduce any new information; instead, the idea is to wrap things up in a way that's memorable and definite.

Give a summary. One of the ways an audience remembers what a speech was about is through intentional repetition. In your introduction, you gave a preview of what you'd be talking about. In your speech body, you talked about those things. Now, in your conclusion, you remind your audience what you talked about. Simply offer a brief review of the main points you touched on in your speech.
End with a clincher. A clincher is a memorable, definitive statement that gives your speech a sense of closure. One easy way to do this is to write a clincher that refers back to what you said in the attention-getter of your speech. This helps bring your presentation full circle and provides a sense of closure.



