 Filters and labels mark emails with a little tab on the left side of the screen, right under Inbox. You can click it to reveal all mail. With this search open, Find the "Create filter with this search" option located in the bottom right corner of the advanced search window. Click once on this option.Remember to use "From:sender@gmail.com" to effectively search for the right email address.
This method will send all mail from a certain address to a tab on the left of the screen, sorting them in one place for you. It will not, however, sort your actual inbox.
 Find the "Create filter with this search" option located in the bottom right corner of the advanced search window. Click once on this option.Once you do, you will be redirected to the filter creation window. The various options in this window will tell Gmail what to do with current and future e-mail messages from this sender upon receipt.
 Find the "Apply the label" option. Check the box, then choose a label from the selection box located at the right side of the setting. Click on this box to choose your label options. You can select a currently existing label if desired, but if you don't already have a label to use for this sender, click on the "New Label" option.


Type the label name under the "Please enter a new label name" field, then hit the "Create" button. You likely want the label to be the name of the sender.
 After setting the label, hit the blue "Create filter" button at the bottom of the filter creation window. Note, however, that leaving things as they are will only apply the filter to future messages. If you also want to include current messages in this filter, you will need to check the box beside the "Also apply filter to matching conversations" option.


Once you create the filter, Gmail should apply both the filter and label to e-mail messages from your indicated sender.
 Return to your Inbox. Locate the name of the newly created label from the left side panel, then left-click on it once.


If you do not see the label automatically, you may need to search for it under the "More" category.
As soon as you click on the label, Gmail should display all e-mail messages from your chosen sender.