;
, This should be the person with the most experience. The Team Leader should be the final decision and out in the field as another role.
 This person will assist the Team Leader in making tactical decisions. The Tactical Officer can also play any other role.
 Here are the roles in no particular order:


Rifleman - The basic unit. They are normally a large unit that engages the enemy together. They should know basic battle tactics and be able to trust each other. This unit should be able to provide plenty of firepower and support.






A basic Assault Rifle like an M16 or an AK-47
Sidearms are recommended
Medium armor
Walky-talky / Radio


Recon - This is the faster, more versatile unit. They are the pawns of airsoft, normally the first people to go in and the first to get eliminated. This unit can be assigned to lead a charge, clear rooms, be an anti-sniper, cause a distraction, and gather information. This unit should be able to charge into enemy territory and not be afraid of getting shot.






A pistol, a sawed off shotgun, or compact airsoft rifle (MP5, AK74U, Shorty M4, etc.).
Ammo for the other infantry
Light armor for fast moving
Walky-talky / Radio


Sniper - This unit usually gets the least amount of kills because they are normally a stationary unit. They eliminate targets and, like recon, can be used to gather information. This unit should be able camouflage with their surroundings and hit targets at least 200 feet (61.0 m) away.






Sniper Rifle
Side arm is essential
Camouflage
Light armor
Walky-talky / Radio


Heavy Infantry - Also called the support gunner. They have the heaviest armor and heaviest weapons. The person/people chosen to play this role should be guys that have some scare factor in them. They shouldn't be afraid of being hit and should be comfortable without being able to use cover. This unit should be able to come when called and lay down a blanket of continuous fire that keeps the enemy's head down so teammates can move forward.






Heavy weapons like a SAW
Very heavy armor for front line defense
Walky-talky / Radio


Medic - When someone is down, the medic must come to aid them. Recon will normally assume this unit when necessary because they already have the same skill and equipment a medic needs. This unit should be able to run in swiftly and heal another player without getting hit.






Any light MG/SMG
Any armor
Weapons Sling or Holster is essential
Deck of cards or something small to tap and "aid wounded"


Grenadier - Also called explosives expert. This unit basically loves to watch things explode so they get as close as they can in airsoft by getting tons and tons grenades and other things that go boom. This unit should be able to clear rooms and alleyways simply by throwing grenades in it.






Heavy grenades
Heavy armor
Short - Medium range rifle w/ underbarrel launcher or a Stand alone GL(M79, AT4, RPG7, MGL)
Walky-talky / Radio


Squad Designated Marksman - SDM or DMR is the long range non-sniper unit. This unit shoots from long range but is not a sniper. This means their gun should be able to go semi-auto as well as full-auto. This units rifle/s should be able to get a ranges close to a snipers but have the capability of being a Rifleman if necessary.






Long range rifle
Light armor
Walky-talky / Radio



,,