 Once you are accepted to become a beta tester, appreciate the unique demands that hardware testing faces. Remember that software can be shared with nearly countless people all at once, updated to address issues almost immediately, and then shared again for further testing. Expect hardware to face much more limiting logistics. Because of this, aim to meet the company’s expectations of you as a tester to ensure that they select you for future tests. Remember:Only so many units of the hardware can be manufactured and set aside specifically for testing.
Because of this, fewer testers can be utilized, which means there is a greater chance that issues with the product may be overlooked.
Hardware tests are usually shorter than software tests, which means there is less time to spot and resolve problems.
 Provide as much feedback as possible to the company and impress them with your thoroughness. With each product, concentrate on one feature or function at a time and try to use it in every way possible. Explore as many as you can, if not all, in the time allotted by the company.For example, if you are issued a smartphone, don’t limit yourself to how it functions as a phone. Test the following and more:


Wifi and cellular connectivity
Camera functions
Battery power
Video playback
Installation, performance, and upgrades of apps
Durability

, Understand that the company is most likely working on a tight timeline to complete this beta test. Regularly check their preferred form of contact (phone, email, texts, forums) for any updates and changes to the test’s schedule and/or focus. Update them about your progress frequently. Explain your results clearly and in full to prevent unnecessary back-and-forths to clarify this or that point.Send digital photos or screenshots so they can see the issue for themselves without anything being lost in translation.
Take note of any clarification they ask for after you submit reports. Refer to this when writing future reports so you know what info to include in order to save them time.
 Bear in mind that you are testing a piece of hardware that is most likely protected by proprietary rights. Expect to have to sign a nondisclosure agreement (NDA) or similar paperwork that legally binds you to silence about some or all of the testing process.Bite your tongue and refrain from sharing any information about the test. When in doubt about whether or not a certain aspect is protected by the NDA, assume it is and zip it.Keep this in mind when applying to test hardware with new companies. Refer to any previous NDAs that you have signed before listing your prior experience as a beta tester. Don’t shoot yourself in the foot by breaking that previous contract and advertising yourself as untrustworthy to your potential new employer.

