 Coffee grounds will help to absorb spoiled odors that come from old milk and leave behind a coffee scent that will help mask unpleasant smells.Fill plastic containers with coffee grounds and slide them under your car seats. Let them stay there for about two weeks., Apply a layer of baking soda on the affected area to absorb moisture and spoiled milk odors. Baking soda works to filter the air and remove bad odors.Allow the area where the milk has spilled to dry completely before sprinkling baking soda directly on the area. Let it sit for three to four days, and then vacuum it out of the upholstery.
 Vinegar has strong, odor-fighting powers, so try using it if spoiled milk odors are present. This will help break up enzymes from the milk trapped in the car's upholstery and reduce the odors. Best of all, it is safe to use and does not contain any dangerous chemicals.Mix one part white vinegar with four parts water into a spray bottle. Spray the vinegar mixture directly to the affected area until it is completely drenched. Let it soak for about four to five hours, and then blot the area dry with a white wash cloth.Leave your car windows open to allow air ventilation., Purchase an enzyme cleaning product at your nearby home improvement store and spray any milk affected areas. The enzyme spray will eat away at the odor residues and leave a fresh scent behind.Let the enzyme spray to set in for one to two days, and then blot the area dry.
Do not use an enzyme spray on leather or suede.
 Carpet cleaners have strong chemicals in them that work to clean deep into fabrics. Just be sure to remove any moisture left behind after you have finished using the carpet cleaning.


Read the instructions to determine how long you need to leave on the product and then vacuum it out.
 One of the reason spoiled milk odors develop are because the moisture becomes trapped in the car and start to grow mildew. After a spill, or during a cleaning session, leave you car windows open and in the sun so the upholstery can dry out, and new air can flow in.

