 In the U.S., The National Weather Service website posts rip current predictions for select beaches. In most other countries, the weather forecast near popular beach destinations will include a surf forecast. Rip currents can appear even on a calm day, but they are more dangerous when waves are high.


Distant hurricanes can contribute to "flash rip currents," short-lived and unpredictable events.Hurricane warning centers may post rip current warnings for some areas, even if they do not experience any other effects of the storm.
Consider checking the tide forecast as well. Rip currents tend to be strongest within a couple hours before and after a low tide.;
, When you arrive at the beach, look for posted warning signs. If you are a weak swimmer or if there are no lifeguards on duty, you may want to avoid the water entirely on high risk days. Rip currents can occur in any conditions, but the warning signs give you a good estimate of risk. Some warnings are posted using this international flag system:Yellow: moderate surf or currents. Weak swimmers discouraged from entering water.
Red: strong surf or currents. All swimmers discouraged.
Two red flags: beach closed to swimmers.
Red and white checkers: emergency evacuation.
Two flags, each one half red and half yellow: the area between these flags is supervised by lifeguards. Swimmers should not leave these bounds.
 Lifeguards may know where rip currents are likely to form, and whether there have been any today. Don't hesitate to ask for advice.


Lifeguards may also issue warnings when a rip current is sighted, or ask swimmers to steer clear of a dangerous area. Pay attention to them.
 There are a number of ways you can identify a possible rip current without actually getting in it. A rip current is a relatively narrow channel of water, seldom more than 50–100 feet (15.2–30.5 m) in width, usually running from the beach straight out to the sea. Since you cannot see the whole shape of the current from the shore, look for a streak of water with one or more of these suspicious characteristics:A dirty or muddy appearance from churning up the seabed. You might sea seaweed or debris moving rapidly away from shore.
An unusually calm area of water, including a gap in the line of breaking waves.
Water with a different color than its surroundings, or a foamy surface.
Lower waterline on shore at that spot.
 One easy way to familiarize yourself with a rip tide is to look up videos and images of rip tides. Look for perspectives from the shore for a more accurate idea of what to look for.
 Permanent rip currents often develop near piers and jetties, so try to stay at least 100 feet (30.5 m) away from these structures. Long-lasting seasonal rip currents can also form around natural sandbars and rocky outcroppings that extend perpendicular from the beach., It should go without saying, but learning to swim is the single most important thing you can do to stay safe in water. Remember, swimming in surf is very different than swimming in a pool or lake, so don't test your limits if you're not accustomed to surf conditions.
 Rip currents can occur in the water near any beach where breaking waves are present, including on large lakes. While it's a good idea to avoid swimming without a lifeguard nearby, it's especially important in these bodies of water.
 Swimming alone is risky, since no one will be able to help you in an emergency. Swim with a buddy or at least near other people.
 Many people have drowned attempting to rescue another rip current victim. A lifeguard may be trained to swim into a rip current, but only the strongest and most experienced swimmers should attempt it. Instead, throw any floating object to the person so they can hold on and wait for rescue. Notify a lifeguard immediately or call emergency services if a lifeguard is not present.
 While rip currents are usually avoidable, you should still learn what to do if you get caught in one. Read this article for full instructions, or start with this quick summary:


Never swim directly against the current. This will only exhaust you.
Traditional advice tells swimmers to swim parallel to shore, to escape the narrow channel of the rip current. Everyone agrees this is a good tactic for strong swimmers to try.
Recent, controversial research suggests that weak swimmers may have better odds if they relax and focus on staying afloat. The rip current will either take you to calmer waters, or circle back to shore.