 Take a square sheet of origami paper and valley fold it in half horizontally. Crease well, then unfold. Valley fold in half vertically, crease well, and unfold.









A valley fold is a type of origami fold in which the edge you work with is folded inward toward you, creating a "valley" or depression along the fold.
At the completion of this step, rotate the paper by 45 degrees. It should now be in a diamond position, with one corner at the top and another at the bottom.
 Bring the bottom tip up so that it meets the center of the paper, marked by the intersection of your previous creases.









When done, turn the model over to its other side.
 Valley fold the bottom edge of your model up so that the crease falls along the imaginary line connecting the left and right corners of the paper model. Crease well, then unfold.
 Mentally divide the bottom half of your model in half again. Valley fold the bottom edge up and inward, dividing this section in half. Only grab the front layer, though, and leave the back alone.









Note that your bottom edge will meet the pre-crease made immediately prior to this.
 Make a vertical valley fold along the vertical center of the model. Crease well, then unfold.
 Look at the model in front of you. There should be a distinguishable upper triangle portion. Valley fold the upper right edge of this triangle down so that the bottom right corner of the triangular section is folded into two equal angles. Crease well, then unfold.









For your second pre-crease, repeat this same procedure with the left side of the triangular section.
 Look at the upper tip of the model. It should be visually marked in half by your vertical center pre-crease. Valley fold each half of this top tip so that the resulting angles are equal in size. Crease well, then unfold.









Note that the bottom edge of each crease in this step should stop at the lowest visible diagonal pre-crease made previously.
 You will need to make a series of valley and mountain folds along your pre-creases to add dimension to the model. These folds should be used to crease the paper model permanently, but do not fold the edges flat. Also note that a mountain fold is the opposite of a valley fold: fold the edges outward, creating a mountain-like peak along the fold itself.









Note the distinguishable downward pointing triangle at the bottom of the model. Valley fold this piece in half vertically.
Mountain fold the top part of the model in half vertically.
Valley fold the top two diagonal pre-creases and the bottom two diagonal creases.
Example the remaining pre-creases, which were made from your first set of pre-creases. Valley fold the inner portion of both creases, stopping when you hit other creases. Mountain fold the rest of these two pre-creases.
When done, turn the model over.
 Bring the top-most tip of the model down, folding it so that the crease connects the inner corners just below this tip.









At this point, you should compress the model by taking the triangular side flaps and pinching them in.
Rotate the model by 90 degrees before continuing further.
 Note the flap of paper sticking out to the right side of your model. Mountain fold along the lower left corner of this flap, separating the angle into equal portions.









Note that the true lower corner of this flap lies beneath the visible surface of the model. You will need to use this corner and not the visible corner when folding.
 While working with the same flap as in the previous step, note the bottom outside corner of the newly created triangular portion. Valley fold at this corner, effectively separating this angle into equal parts.









When done, rotate the model by 90 degrees.
 Disregarding the folded flap hanging off the top left side of the model, look at the main body of the model, including the flap hanging off the right. Create an imaginary line between the right-most corner and the left-most corner. Valley fold along this line.









Turn the model over to its other side when done.
 You should be able to distinguish a clear tip on the left side of the model. Fold the model horizontally, dividing this tip in two equal halves.









When done, rotate the model by another 90 degrees. You should be able to distinguish two clear wing portions and a body portion. Spread the wings apart by gently pushing them down and away from the body.
 Along the body section, you should see what looks like a "W" pattern of folds along the top and a single peak at the bottom. Gently press this bottom peak in, creating a blunt edge at the top of model.









Note that the newly created flat region should look triangular in shape.
Turn the model over when done.
 Note the two loose sections at the top of the wings. Make a mountain fold along the lower outside corner of each section, then unfold the main fold previously keeping the wings together.
 Look at the bottom two semi-triangular sections of the body. Make a gently curving valley fold connecting the bottom tips of these sections to the outside each section's own upper outside corner.









After this, you will need to make another more dramatic set of curved valley folds. These folds should connect the outer-most corners of either wing to the innermost bottom corners of each wing. The curve should go inward at a gently angle.
After making your curves, tuck the lower flaps produced by those folds into the upper flaps lying underneath.
Turn the model over when done and rotate it by 90 degrees.
 Gently pull the head down, bending it along its natural crease.









The head should be on the right side of the model.
When done, rotate the model again by another 90 degrees.
 Make a mountain fold to the right of the hanging head flap and another one connecting the bottom of this fold to the body. Create a valley fold splitting the resulting intersection of your two mountain folds in half.









The head should be on the right during this step.
Turn the model over when done. Repeat this same procedure on the head from the other side, and rotate the model until the wings are spread out flat in front of you and the head faces toward the top.
 You should be able to note a natural crease near the head section of the model. Valley fold along this crease.









This step completes the model. Examine it from all sides and redefine any creases that appear loose, if desired, to strengthen the overall shape.

