 A great way to prepare yourself for writing in the stream-of-consciousness style is to practice a type of brainstorming called freewriting. This usually involves forcing yourself to sit and write for a predetermined amount of time on a certain topic – though content, grammar, and style should be mostly ignored.The main idea is to keep writing for as long as you can and never take the pen off the paper until the timer dings. This allows you to write more than you think you can and to see how your brain works connecting various thoughts and topics.
This makes for great practice for stream-of-consciousness writing because it will give you a model to follow when writing the inner monologues of your characters in the stream-of-consciousness form.
 Freewriting is much better done with pen on paper than on a computer – computers greatly restrict the format of your writing and the flow of your thoughts.Freewriting requires a kind of natural rhythm that is hard to replicate when typing on the computer.
Make sure you have extra paper, a pencil sharpener if you’re using a pencil, or an extra pen.
If you are on a touchscreen, then try to activate software for drawing writing and test a few actions for comfort and tool sets.
 If you’re describing something, you should probably have the item in question visible. You should be comfortable – find a spot with the proper lighting, a comfortable seat, and few distractions.


The most important thing is to find a place where you can sit comfortably and not be disturbed.
 Once you’re ready, just write for a preset amount of time – 5 minutes, 10 minutes, whatever. You don’t have to stick to any particular format. Write backwards, upside down, or in a shape. You could do a spiral starting from the center of the page, or a starburst of phrases, or any other shape that seems to work.Use different colors of pen or pencil. You could change colors every letter, or every word, or in a way that makes the overall work look pleasing. This can be done at any time.
Keep writing until you run out of words. But try to push yourself to keep writing until the time is up.
 It’s not necessary to stay on topic. Freewriting gives you the freedom to write whatever comes to mind, or at least to appear to be doing so. If you start writing about the weather and end up talking about what you had for dinner last night, that’s okay.Freewriting lets you track how your mind roams freely without the constraints of normal writing (thought filtering) processes.
 By letting your brain wander, you allow it to access information you may have forgotten you knew. Or things you didn't realize you connected to this topic. Your brain houses an enormous amount of knowledge. Letting yourself engage in freewriting is a great way to tap into that internalized knowledge.If you are writing methodically in the freewriting practice, this is also a great way to show how surprising connections can be made between obscure or seemingly unrelated topics. Flowing between ideas allows the connections to be made clearer.

