 This is the first hurdle––convincing your parents that having a Wii is worth the cost and the time you'll spend on it. Some reasons might include:


There are exercise games you can play, which will help to keep you fit indoors during the colder months. You can tell them it is better than most game consoles because you exercise a little. It also helps with hand-eye coordination.
It's more affordable than some of the other game consoles.
Find some of the games you plan to play on it to show your parents. This may help convince them that the games are suitable and not too violent or too mature, depending on what you select.
You see having a Wii as one option among other activities, and that you will still participate in sport, playing outdoors, reading, doing hobbies, etc. Reassure them that you won't spend all of your time on the Wii.;
, This is a chance to show your parents that you're responsible and willing to help either pay for some of the Wii or to do things in return for being given a Wii. When negotiating, first offer your parents the conditions possible fair options for you to contribute toward a Wii. These could include:


Paying for part of it yourself. This will show your parents how much you want the game system.
You could also offer to treat the entire purchase as a loan and pay it back over time.
Promising to pay for the games and other add-ons to the Wii out of your own funds.
 These could include:


Improving your grades.
Doing extra chores.
Quitting doing something that aggravates your parents.
Any other incentive that would make your parent happy.
 Do your chores, take out the garbage and clean your room without being asked to do so. Get good grades, do your homework as soon as you arrive from school, behave in class, etc.
 Don't whine or beg, ask them maturely, as if you were an adult. If they say yes, read no further! But, if they said no, you will have to begin negotiations.
 This may be the most important step. Agree on how many hours you can play the Wii before you even get it and what days you can play it on. Give them the right to take away the Wii if you fail to fulfill the conditions you offered them. Promise that you will get off when they tell you to. Tell them they can play it whenever they want to.
 You can work out a new deal once you have the Wii and your parents see how responsible you are.
 Put a deal on the contract and have both you and your parents sign it. Make a copy of it so both parents have one.
 After a week or two, you can try to re-negotiate again if you choose to.

