 The plant proteins available as protein powders are generally complete proteins. Some are gluten free and all can be considered vegan. They have lower protein content than animal sources, but still have many benefits.

Plant protein powders usually require more processing and tend to be more expensive than animal protein powders.
 Soy-based protein powders are the most widely used plant-based protein. This protein powder is generally recommended for women, as soy contains phytoestrogen, a plant sterol that can mimic the hormone estrogen. Phytoestrogen can decrease the ability of the hormone lipase to break down body fat. In the past, soy was thought to aggravate breast cancer, but new studies are showing that it may actually help to shrink tumors.


Soy protein comes very close to animal protein in protein content and quality. It has a PDCAAS value of 0.92 to 0.99.
Studies have shown that soy protein lowers LDL cholesterol and affects fat metabolism.
Soy protein also promotes satiety, which can help to keep you fuller for longer, so that you lose weight.
There have been limited studies showing soy protein having positive effects on cognitive function.
 In fact, hemp is considered a complete protein, as it contains all 20 essential amino acids. It is considered a good protein powder for people hoping to lose weight because it is high in fiber, which can help to fill you up and keep you fuller for longer.


Hemp also contains phytoestrogen like soy. Hemp protein is usually sold in blends with other proteins and is not widely available. It is a relatively expensive protein powder to use.
 Flaxseed is not a protein powder, but does contain high amounts of protein and can be used as a protein powder or with other protein powders. It is high in fiber and contains essential omega fatty acids, including omega 3’s.


The protein content and quality can vary with flaxseed. It is gluten free. Flaxseed powder is sold in most grocery stores.
 Brown rice powder is gluten free and easy to digest. It contains many of the essential amino acids, but not all of them, which means that it should be consumed in conjunction with other protein foods or powders.
 Pea protein made from the yellow split pea and is easily digested, as well as gluten free. It contains a well-balanced amino acid profile and a high amount of protein, though it does not have all of the necessary amino acids. It has a PDCAAS rating of 0.93.


Pea protein is especially good for people looking to lose weight, as it can keep you feeling full for long periods of time.

