 The most straightforward way to lose your voice is simply to use your voice box until it can't be used any more. Vocal activities like talking, shouting, singing, etc. require the vocal cords of the larynx to vibrate smoothly - with overuse, these cords can become inflamed, interfering with your ability to do these things. Try talking constantly at as loud of a volume as is reasonable for wherever you are. With persistence, your voice should eventually begin to fatigue.


If you're looking for opportunities to talk loudly and at great length, try signing up for a public speaking class or simply holding conversations in a crowded bar or club.;
, Singing can put serious demands on the vocal cords - singing at a high volume or in a very low or high register, even more so. These dangers are amplified if you're not a trained or experienced singer. So, for a sure-fire way to ruin your voice, try singing at full volume in a vocal register that's difficult for you.


Obviously, you'll want to make it a point to avoid performing warm-up exercises before you sing.
If you're embarrassed to sing loudly, try singing in the car with all of the doors closed and the windows rolled up. Other motorists will assume you're just singing along to the radio.
 Though it's not uncommon for people with colds to cough until they lose their voice, you don't necessarily have to have a cold to cough. Any kind of repeated coughing will irritate your larynx and eventually cause inflammation that can lead to losing your voice. Try combining your coughs with one of the other methods in this article for maximum effect.


As with shouting and singing, excessive coughing in the long term can cause lasting pain and damage to the throat.
 As discussed above, a dry throat is a throat that's easy to wear out. To speed up the process of losing your voice, allow your mouth and throat to dry out by keeping your mouth open throughout the day. This will work especially well if you live in a dry climate.


If you're worried about how you'll look after adopting a "slack-jawed" look, try sleeping with your mouth open instead so that no one will see you.
 Well-lubricated vocal cords are the enemy of anyone who's aiming to lose his or her voice. In fact, people who speak or sing in a professional capacity often keep a glass of water onstage to protect their vocal cords. If you're trying to lose your voice, do the opposite! Don't ease your worn-out vocal cords with a refreshing sip of water after you've been talking, yelling, or singing.


Be reasonable when it comes to this rule - don't avoid any source of moisture to the point that you become dehydrated.
If you're looking for a water alternative that will wear your throat out further, try a drink that's acidic or contains dairy (see below for more info).
 Certain types of food and drink, especially foods that are very acidic (lemon, vinegar, etc.) and dairy products cause most peoples' throats to produce phlegm. While phlegm won't irritate your vocal cords on its own, it does promote coughing, which can. So, if you're looking to lose your voice, try consuming these types of food and drink in conjunction with one of the other methods in this article.
 Some people find that very cold drinks can have a similar phlegm-producing effect to dairy and acidic foods and drinks. Try drinking an ice-cold glass of water to test its effects on your throat - if you find that you produce lots of phlegm after a cold drink, you may want to use this method to motivate yourself to cough.

