 You want to make sure the cat will start having a reason to stay around the area, and then will have a reason to take the food that you've set into the trap.


After making an appointment to have the cat treated at the vet, withhold food for a day or two leading up to the appointment, before you set your trap for the cat.Use regular dry cat food from the store, or canned cat food to feed the cats. In a pinch, a small amount of tuna or other canned fish will also attract cats if you’d rather not buy cat food.Don’t feed cats milk. Contrary to popular belief, cats have difficulty processing dairy, and you can end up with a mess on your hands by feeding cats milk. Feed strays solid cat food.
 Use the same variety of cat food or treats that you’ve been using to feed the cat. Set down paper or a pillowcase to smooth out the wire floor of the cage, and place food at the back of the cage so the cat has to walk all the way in to eat it, put a small amount of food at the entrance of the trap as a teaser, then set the spring on the trap.


Each trap will be operated slightly differently, but all are fairly basic. For the most part, you only need to open the trap door and secure it in place with the wire release bar. When the door closes, the animal will be trapped inside.
Cover the trap with a towel or cloth without obscuring the entrance, to help obscure the trap and make it look less conspicuous. Some hard to catch cats prefer to be able to see through the back of the trap. If you are having trouble catching a cat try removing the cover or leaving the back exposed.
Don't use a bowl to keep the food in. The cat might thrash around once caught and could hurt itself on any objects stuck inside the cage.
 Live traps are very safe, but you don't want to leave a cat outdoors and exposed in an unattended trap for a long period of time. This means it is important to check up on it regularly and see whether or not you've made the catch. If so, bring it indoors to your prepared area, or take it to the vet immediately if it's time.
 Once the cat is trapped, cover the trap with the cloth and promptly move it to the holding area. The cat will be more calm if kept in the dark when you are moving it, so lower the light and keep a cover over the cage.


Leave the cat in the trap. Don't let the cat out of the trap or try to transfer it to a cat carrier, or you're just going to have to start the whole process over again. After being caught and moved around, cats will want to hide in a small, cramped space, anyway, making the cage the ideal location for them at this time. The cat will be fine!

