 Before you put together every aspect of your outfit, there are a few rules of thumb that will help you achieve the right look.


Remember to bring lots of layers, whether it's a on old sweater for men, or a long cardigan for women. Old people are always cold and love their layers.
All of your clothes should look like they've been through the wash about a hundred times. Achieve a convincing and faded look for your clothes.
Either gender should wear a white wig or sprinkle baby powder in their hair to achieve a gray look. Men can consider getting a "wig" that makes them look bald. You can at least add highlights to the roots of your hair by rubbing white/gray eyeshadow.
You should think thoughtfully about your outfit, but it should have the appearance of just being thrown on.
 If you want to look like an old person, you'll have to dress the part and to know where to look. The right clothes will make the difference between people loving your outfit and asking what the heck you're supposed to be for Halloween. Here are a few tips:


Ask your grandparents. The first and most obvious place to get the right clothes will be to raid your grandmother or grandfather's wardrobe. A real old person will have real old person stuff.
Only ask your grandmother or grandfather if he or she has a good sense of humor about you wanting to look old. And even if they only let you look and their clothes, the clothes you see can give you inspiration.
Check out thrift stores or garage sales for "old people" stuff. You may be able to find a real treasure for almost nothing.
 Dressing like an old man can be easy, but it will require some work for you to find the perfect old man outfit. To look the part, you'll have to think carefully about everything you're wearing, from your hat to your shoes. Here's what to do:


Put on a thin white t-shirt or a t-shirt that mentions their retirement community or bingo league.
The right knitted vest will tie your old man outfit together.
Wear tan, gray, or brown slacks that are way too short, and hike them up even further with a pair of suspenders.
Wear a hat such as a fedora, worn baseball cap, or straw hat. Just a pair of loafers or orthopedic shoes will look great on your feet. Wear brown socks.
 To be the best old lady you can be, you have to have the right outfit, shoes, and accessories. Here are a few things to wear to make your outfit come together:


Wear pants, skirts, or dresses that are a size too big. Their tops should be a little loose and should not fit perfectly. Look through your old house dresses to see what fits.
Wear pantyhose, and shouldn't expose their legs, even if it's ninety degrees outside.
Put on orthopedic shoes or old sneakers. Or if you're going to be a "spiffy" old lady, wear a pair of low high heels with a thick heel. Lots of velcro will do the trick.
If you're a woman, wear chunky jewelry and an old reasonably-sized purse. Put foods like muffins and bananas in your purse and periodically offer then to people.
 Your clothes will help you achieve your old person look, but the right accessory or prop will tie your outfit together and will help people recognize your costume quickly. Here are some tips for finding the right props or accessories:


Wear thick, clear glasses.
Bring around a walker or a cane if it doesn't annoy you.
If you're really ambitious, consider getting a hearing aid, or making an earplug look like a hearing aide.
Carry around a bottle of vitamins and offer them to people.
Old people love gardening. Carry around an empty watering pot.
