 This game requires at least five players to work well.


One person is the Doctor, who has the imaginary antidote to the zombie outbreak.
At least two people will be Humans, who help the Doctor get to home base. They can run.
At least two players are zombies, who cannot run., You’ll need a space with plenty of room and at least one landmark to act as home base. Parks, rec centers, or gyms would be great places to play., The object of the game is for the Doctor to make it to home base with the antidote. Choose a visible landmark to act as home base, like a tree, a sign, or a sidewalk., You can choose a Doctor by any method you want--elimination games, picking a number, or simply volunteering.
 The Doctor chooses at least two zombies by tapping them on the head. The zombies can open their eyes and look at each other, but everyone else must keep their eyes shut.
 If you have more than ten people, you can have the Doctor choose a runner zombie and an angel zombie as well. The runner zombie can run, unlike the other zombies. The angel can turn zombies back into humans, but only once for each person. The angel also is unaffected by zombies. This step is completely optional, but it might make the game more fun!, Everybody, including the zombies, should close their eyes and wait one minute for the Doctor to hide. The game begins when the minute is up! You can count to sixty, or set a timer on your phone.
 If you are a zombie, wait an extra minute before you start playing your role. This will give the humans a chance to get further away from you, which will help the game last longer.


Show the other players that you’re a zombie by walking slowly with your arms out in front of you, groaning the word “Brains!” over and over again., If you are a zombie, tagging the humans or the Doctor will turn them into zombies. Your goal is to turn all of the humans into zombies before they can bring the Doctor to home base., If you’re a human (or the Doctor!), your goal is to bring the Doctor to home base. If you’re turned into a zombie, you can start tagging others.

The Doctor can only get to home base alone if all the humans have been turned into zombies.
 If the humans bring the Doctor to home base safely, then it's a human victory! If everyone has turned into a zombie, then it's a zombie victory!

