 You can banish thoughts of failure as a mother by focusing on the things you are good at as a parent. You may write down a detailed list of all the things you are good at doing, from the very small to the very big. Refer to this list whenever you have a weak moment or feel you are not doing your best. It can serve as a good reminder of how many things you can do well, even on days when you don’t feel like the greatest mother in the world.


For example, you may write down on your list, “good at cooking my kid’s favorite meal," “good listener," “good at attending my kid’s soccer games," and “always there to pick up my kids after school.” Try to focus on specific things you do well, ranging from the everyday to the major life events.
 It’s important to remember that no mother is perfect and that we all have flaws as individuals. You may struggle with certain aspects of being a mother and feel you are failing in some aspects. Rather than feel bad about your weaknesses, you should try to view them as strengths. Think about how your weaknesses actually contribute to your strengths as a parent and a mother.


For example, you may acknowledge that you struggle with being stricter with your children, but you realize it is because you love and want them to have what makes them happy. You may realize you are too strict with your children, but only because you care about them and want to protect them.
 As a mother, you should also recognize that you are doing your best to be a good role model to your children. Recognize that you are someone your children can emulate and respect. If you are a decent, kind person, you are likely acting as a good role model for your children.


You may think about how you set a good example for your children every day, from encouraging them to be responsible and polite to showing them the value of hard work and perseverance. You may show them how to be strong and independent through simply going to your job every day and being the best employee or boss you can be.
 Though the temptation is strong to compare yourself to other seemingly superstar parents around you, try to focus on you and your children. Avoid comparing yourself to other parents and using other parents as a barometer for your own success as a mother. Doing this will only lead to feelings of guilt and inadequacy. Instead, think about your strengths as a mother and be proud of your actions.


Rather than compare yourself to other parents, you should try to appreciate the parenting styles of others. You may try to compliment other parents on how well their children are raised and take compliments about your children from other parents. Try to see parenting less as a competition and be appreciative of other parents.

