 Grapes and blueberries freeze well, making them better for travel. On the road, they'll provide you plenty of vitamins and fiber to keep you feeling full and satisfied. Separate big bunches into single servings before your trip.If you don't plan to bring a cooler with you, spread your individual serving bags of frozen grapes or blueberries throughout your food bag to help keep your other food cold for a few hours.
 Fresh fruit is a filling snack that will give you plenty of sugar, as well as fiber and an antioxidant boost. If your road trip occurs during warmer months, you'll typically have plenty of different types of fruit to choose from.Make sure that you wash fresh fruit with some clean water before eating it.
Most fresh fruit can be stored at room temperature, which can be a benefit if you're going on a long road trip and don't have a cooler. Just remember to keep it out of direct sunlight.
Aim for fruit that doesn't require a lot of work to eat. Oranges, for example, might not be the best road-trip snack because peeling the orange can be a bit difficult and messy in a car.
If you bring apples or peaches, make sure to bring a bag you can use to dispose of the cores and pits when you're finished. Just because it's food waste doesn't mean it's okay to throw it out the window of your car.
Smaller fruit, such as raspberries and blueberries, will be easier to portion out and store, and you won't have to worry about the mess of pits or cores.
 Yogurt on its own is a healthy snack, but dipping larger dried fruit such as dried apple rings makes it easier to eat on the road. Even better, you don't have to worry about dirty spoons.To save space and pack everything together, try a mason jar. You can drop the yogurt cup into the bottom and fit your dried fruit in around it. When you want to eat your snack, you can put the yogurt cup in your car's cup holder so your snack doesn't get all over the car.
Fresh fruit can work as well, but keep in mind that if you slice fruit ahead of time for dipping purposes and don't store it properly, it's liable to turn while you're on the road.
 Dried fruit mixed with whole-grain cereal and low-fat granola can make a healthy and filling snack that's easy to take on the road. Use larger pieces in the mix so you don't have to worry about crumbs all over the car.Trail mix gives you the opportunity to mix sweet and salty treats together to satisfy any craving. Try dried pineapple and raisins mixed with whole-grain cereal, sunflower seeds, almonds, and coconut.
You can even mix in organic chocolate chips for an extra sweet treat. The caffeine and sugar can give you a short energy burst if you need it to stay awake on the road.
 Just because you're traveling during the winter months doesn't mean you can't have a healthy sweet fruit snack. Several different companies make dried whole fruit bars that pack a whole serving into a tiny package – perfect for travel.These sweet treats are made for (and marketed to) little kids, but that doesn't mean you can't get in on the fun.
To make the healthiest choice, look for fruit bars made from whole fruit, with no additives or preservatives. There are organic options available as well.
Keep in mind these snacks can be pretty sticky, so if you include them, make sure you have antibacterial wipes handy to clean your hands after eating one.
 When you think licorice, you may think of American sugary treats, but all-natural licorice of the type made by European companies is certified organic, with real licorice extract and pureed fruit, making it more of a fruit snack than a candy.All-natural licorice comes in many different flavors, including sweeter flavors such as raspberry and strawberry, so don't worry if you're not fond of the taste of licorice itself.

