 It's the white "F" on a blue background.

If you aren't logged in, enter your email address (or phone number) and password and tap Log In.;
, It's in the bottom right corner of the screen (iPhone) or the top right corner of the screen (Android)., It's at the bottom of the page.

If you're using an Android, tap Account Settings.
 You'll see this option at the top of the pop-up menu.

If you're on Android, skip this step.
 It's near the top of the page., This option is under the "Who can see my stuff?" heading at the top of the page., Doing this ensures that only you will be able to see the people in your friends and followers lists., It's in the top right corner of the screen.

If there is no Save option, tap the Back button in the top left corner of the screen.
 It's in the middle of the page., Selecting this option will limit the number of people who can friend you to the people who are friends of your current friends.,, It reads "Do you want search engines outside of Facebook to link to your profile?"., It's at the bottom of the page., Users on Facebook will no longer be able to look you up from outside of Facebook. Additionally, now that your Facebook privacy settings have been tightened, your name will display in other users' "Suggested Friends" list significantly less often, and other users won't be able to view your mutual friends or list of followers., If you're logged into Facebook, doing so will take you to the News Feed.

If you aren't logged into Facebook, enter your email address (or phone number) and password in the top right corner of the page and then click Log In.
 It's in the top right corner of the Facebook window., This option is toward the bottom of the drop-down menu., It's on the left side of the Facebook window., option. Edit is on the right side of the window. You'll find the "Who can send you friend requests?" section about halfway down the Privacy page., It should be below the "Who can send you friend requests?" heading., Doing so will reduce the people who can request you as a friend (and, therefore, see you in the "Suggested Friends" menu) to people who are friends of your current Facebook friends., It's in the top right corner of the "Who can contact me?" section., This is the "Do you want search engines outside of Facebook to link to your profile?" option., Doing so will ensure that people won't be able to look you up in Google, Bing, or any other search service outside of Facebook's search., It's at the top of the Facebook page., You'll find this option below and to the right of your profile picture., It's in the top right corner of the list of friends., It will say something like "Public" or "Friends"., Doing so will ensure that only you can see the people in your friend list., This box will also say something like "Public" or "Friends".,, It's at the bottom of the "Edit Privacy" window. Now Facebook won't display your friends list or your followers list to the public, which will prevent other users from being able to view you as a suggested friend based on mutual friends.