 Tea tree oil can help get rid of acne causing bacteria. Add 1-3 drops of tea tree oil to your cleanser or moisturizer.Tea tree oil can also be mixed with a teaspoon of coconut oil and applied to your face. Use a cotton swab to apply the mixture to your face and let your skin absorb it.There is good scientific evidence that tea tree oil is effective for treating acne., Mix 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of a carrier oil - olive oil, jojoba oil, coconut oil - and 8-10 drops of tea tree oil and apply to the irritated parts of your skin. This can decrease itching, irritation, and symptoms associated with eczema,water warts, and viral skin infections in both children and adults.This mixture can also be used for allergic skin reactions to nickel.More studies are needed to determine how effective this treatment is though., Incorporate 3 or 4 drops of tea tree oil into your regular shampoo. This mixture helps to relieve dry flaky scalp, dandruff, and psoriasis. Add a few drops to your shampoo and wash your hair as you usually would.You can also mix a few drops of tea tree oil with a carrier oil (e.g. jojoba oil, olive oil, coconut oil) and apply the mixture directly to your scalp. Leave it on for an hour, and then wash your hair as you usually would.The scientific evidence is unclear on the effectiveness of tea tree oil to treat scalp conditions., Mix equal parts tea tree oil and olive oil and rub the mixture on the affected are twice a day.It takes about 4 weeks for the treatment to work.For toenail fungus, apply 100% tea tree oil to the infected toe, 2 times a day for 6 months.If you do not want to use undiluted tea tree oil, mix 1 teaspoon of coconut oil and 1 to 2 drops of tea tree oil and apply to your toe using a cotton ball. Bandage the cotton ball to your toe and leave it on overnight., Tea tree oil can be used for both bacterial and yeast infections. Apply coconut oil or olive oil to a tampon and then add 2 - 4 drops of tea tree oil. Insert the tampon, and leave it in for an hour. Do this for 3 to 5 days if symptoms continue.It is unclear how effective tea tree oil is for treating vaginal infections., If you are pregnant, breastfeeding, or undergoing childbirth you need to avoid topical use of tea tree oil. It may decrease the strength of your contractions.If you have a known allergy or sensitivity to tea tree oil, Balsam of Peru, benzoin, colophony (rosin), tinctures, eucalyptol, or plants of the myrtle family, you should not use tea tree oil.Women should not apply tea tree oil to the breast area because it may have hormonal properties.Prepubescent boys should avoid using tea tree oil as well, as it could lead to the growth of breast tissue.If you have linear IgA, an immune disease, you should not use tea tree oil as it can cause blisters., Tea tree oil is safe when diluted properly, but side effects are possible. These symptoms include inflammation of the mouth, skin irritation (e.g. burning, itching, redness, rash, warmness), ear damage, stomach pain, fatigue and drowsiness, diarrhea, weakness, or nausea. Stop using tea tree oil immediately if you experience any of these symptoms. See a doctor if the side effects persist.

