 Although scientific research has not proven that sugary foods lead to a buildup of toxins, cutting back on processed foods, especially processed foods that contain sugar, can lower the amount of toxins in your body. Try to reduce processed foods made with simple sugars and carbohydrates, or foods containing artificial flavoring in your diet. The less waste your lymphatic system has to filter, the more easily it will flow and clean your body., Red meat and shellfish are hard to digest and can clog up your lymphatic system, according to natural health practitioners.If you do need to eat animal based protein, go for organic meats. Hydrogenated fats can be oxidized easily and this will lead to a clogging of the arteries and lymphatic system.
 Though there is no scientific evidence these foods can cause lymph issues, dairy and white flour form mucus in your body that can congest your lymphatic system. Limit your dairy consumption by substituting regular milk for almond or rice milk. Cut back on white flour by using whole wheat flour or trying gluten free products.Whole wheat flour is better because it has more vitamin and nutrients.
 When shopping at the grocery store, look for organic stickers on your fruits and vegetables. Or ask your local produce producer at your farmer’s market about organic produce. Organic produce will help to limit the amount of toxins that will need to be filtered by your body via your lymphatic system. They will also provide powerful enzymes and acids to cleanse your lymphatic system.The label on an organic fruit or vegetable at the grocery store will contain a “9” in front of the PLU code (the bar code identifying the product).In the US, “organic” describes raw or processed agricultural products and ingredients that have been organically farmed. These foods also cannot be farmed with: synthetic fertilizers and pesticides, sewer sludge fertilizers, genetic engineering, growth hormones, antibiotics, artificial ingredients, or synthetic additives., Whole grains like brown rice, as well as nuts and seeds like walnuts, almonds, and chia seeds all provide important vitamins and minerals to keep your body healthy and help your lymphatic system work properly.Vitamin A should be consumed in the amount of 700-900 mcg/day. It works in the gut to help prevent germs and viruses from entering into the body. Next,
Vitamin C's recommended daily allowance is 75-90 mg/day. Vitamin C has been hypothesized by Linus Pauling to boost the immune system and prevent infection from viruses.
Vitamin E has a recommended daily amount of 15 mg. This vitamin acts as an antioxidant and prevents redox reactions that can potentially be harmful to the arteries and the lymphatic system from occurring.
Vitamin Bs are a class of vitamins that help with energy and boost the immune system.
Zinc is a mineral that works to boost the immune system through protein production.
 Your body needs water to stay hydrated and allow your lymph fluid to drain and flush out any toxins. Drink 6 to 8 glasses of filtered or purified water a day. Avoid sodas, sports drinks and sugar-laden fruit juices., If you haven’t been tested already, ask your doctor to conduct food sensitivity or allergy tests to determine if certain foods are affecting your digestion. Your body’s ability to detox starts in your digestion system, and any foods that cause digestion issues can lead to a clogged lymphatic system. Determining if you are allergic to certain foods or products, like dairy or gluten, can help you to eliminate these foods from your diet and prevent blockage in your lymphatic system.
 Aluminium-based antiperspirants can block sweating and actually add to your toxic load. Natural health practitioners believe these chemicals can also clog up your lymphatic system.Aluminum build up has been proposed to lead to Alzheimer's Disease.


You should also avoid using chemically laden beauty products on your skin. Most commercially available lotions, toothpastes, creams, and sunscreens are full of chemicals that can end up in your lymphatic system.Buy natural, organic beauty products with limited to no chemical by products. You can also make your own chemical-free beauty products at home.