 You can create a crocheted lampshade using any kind of yarn or needle size you want. You can use a lightweight yarn with a small hook, or use a heavyweight chunky yarn with a large needle. It is up to you!


Consider the texture of the yarn as well. Some yarn types are fluffy, while others are silky and smooth. You can also find yarn that has embellishments woven in, such as metallic fibers.;
, To create a cover for a lampshade, you will need to get a plain lampshade to cover with a crocheted piece. This will give your crocheted material structure. You can use any color of lampshade that you like, just choose something with a smooth surface so that the crocheted material will lay over it smoothly.


Try a plain white lampshade, or opt for a colorful lampshade to coordinate with the yarn you will be using.
 You will need to create a chain that is long enough to go around the top of your lampshade.Measure the circumference of the top of your lampshade to determine how long it needs to be.


After you get the chain to the length you want it to be, connect it to form a circle. Then, double check to make sure that this chain will fit snugly, yet easily, over the outside of the lampshade.
 Begin crocheting in the round to create your lampshade.Keep going until the crocheted piece is long enough to cover the entire lampshade.
 If the lampshade you are using gets larger towards the bottom, then you will need to increase your piece to ensure a good fit. However, if your lampshade is a straight tube that does not get larger towards the bottom, then you do not need to increase.Test the crocheted piece on your lampshade periodically to determine how much you need to increase. Adding one stitch per round or every other round may be enough to accommodate a larger circumference towards the bottom of the lampshade.
 After you have finished the lampshade cover, tie off the end of the yarn and cut the tail. The, all you have to do is slip the cover over your lampshade. It should fit snugly, but it should not be so tight that it affects the shape of the lampshade. Then, just place the lampshade back onto your lamp and enjoy!

