 Supplemental oxygen can only be acquired with a prescription from a medical professional. Talk to your doctor about any recent symptoms or illnesses you have experienced, and they will test your blood oxygen levels to determine if oxygen therapy is necessary.Blood oxygen levels are typically tested using a finger probe. Such tests are often quick and painless.
 Your prescription will indicate your specific flow rate and number of hours of oxygen therapy you need per day. Talk to your doctor about your lifestyle, work obligations, and activity level to determine the right oxygen system for you. Three are commonly available:Oxygen concentrators are typically for use in the home. These devices take the oxygen in the air and remove other gasses to output air that is between 85% and 95% oxygen.Oxygen cylinders use 100% oxygen that has been compressed under high pressure into a metal cylinder. Larger cylinders are often intended for home use, but smaller, portable cylinders are also available.Liquid oxygen uses 100% pure oxygen that has been supercooled to store in a canister. These systems do not require electricity, and can be carried or placed in a cart for portability., Your specific oxygen needs will vary depending upon your lifestyle, your blood oxygen levels, and other medical conditions. Your doctor will indicate on your prescription how long you need to use supplemental oxygen each day, and at what flow rate. Follow these instructions precisely.Too much oxygen could lead to hyperoxemia, while too little oxygen could lead to hypoxemia.Both could cause permanent damage to the brain, and in extreme cases may be fatal.This is why it is important to use your oxygen precisely as directed.
 Look into purchasing your own finger oximeter, which will typically be available from the same medical supplies company as your supplemental oxygen. Check your blood oxygen levels to make sure your saturation level stays in the 90s. If it drops below that, contact your doctor immediately to adjust your treatment.