 Titans is over a decade old, so it's not hard to locate free downloads of the game online. However, before committing to this method, it's important to understand the two main risks:


First, downloading free copies of a game that was once sold for a profit is a murky, semi-illegal practice. Since the game is no longer being manufactured or sold by the publisher (outside of the new Extended Edition version), prosecution is unlikely, but it's still possible.
Second, it's difficult to know whether game downloads from anonymous sources are "clean" (free of viruses or malware)., If, after understanding the risks, you still want to proceed, there's a good chance you'll need something called a disc image utility. The purpose of this program is essentially to "trick" your computer into thinking that a disc is in its drive when there actually is not one.


There are a variety of good, free disc image utilities available online — this isn't the part of the process where you have to worry about viruses. One particularly popular option is PowerISO, available here., Now, you want to find a download of the game online that is unlikely to provide a "tainted" copy of the game. Again, since the legality of doing this is ambiguous, we won't provide any links. However, there are some general tips you can use to make your chances much better:


Download from a site with a "Comments" or "Reviews" section that appears legitimate. If the reviews are all positive, you're in the clear. If they complain of malware or other problems, stay away.
Be aware that many download sites have fake downloads for unrelated files or malware before the link to the actual download. You may need to click a button that says "Proceed to download" or something similar, even if the first page you see has a download link.
Don't download and run executable files, which have the .exe extension. These types of files can modify your computer (sometimes even if you have antivirus protection). This makes them a preferred format for malicious virus-spreaders. Try to find a compressed .zip file instead.
 Select a location for the .zip file and begin the download. This can be anywhere — it doesn't have to be in the original game's directory.
 If you downloaded a .zip version of the game as recommended, you'll need an extraction program to "unpack" the compressed files. Extract the files to the original game's directory.


There are a variety of programs that can unzip compressed files. Winzip is perhaps the most well-known extraction program and, despite its name, it's available for Mac and mobile.7-zip is a great free alternative., Many copies of Titans that you download will require the disc image utility (PowerISO, etc.) that you installed earlier. If you're working with PowerISO, use the following steps — other programs should be similar:Open PowerISO.
Right click on the PowerISO button in the taskbar.
Select "Mount image to drive (letter)." This is usually the top option.
Open the rom file in the game folder. There will usually be a readme text document in the folder that tells you exactly which file you need to open.
 At this point, the game should run and you'll be able to install it just like you would if you were using a CD. Follow the prompts to complete the process.


If your downloaded version of the game doesn't require a disc image utility, you may simply need to run the setup file in the extracted folder. Be careful here — this is usually an .exe file, which can modify your computer. You will probably want to have your antivirus software running, though even this isn't guaranteed to protect completely against viruses.

