 If you hit a jackpot, which is called an aotari, the machine will spit out balls into your lower tray. Once you have a lot or it seems to be overflowing, you need to empty it into your winnings box with the lever at the bottom.Never move the winnings box yourself. If it's full, you need to call a staff member, who will come move it for you. Usually, the person will set it behind you on the floor. You'll also get a new winnings box if you're still playing.
Each box of balls is usually worth about 5,000 yen., Once you're done, you need to collect any money you still have on your card, which you can do by pressing the card/coin return button. It should eject your card for you to take with you. Remember, like any gambling game, it's best to quit while you're ahead., Once again, you never touch the winning boxes of balls, mostly because no one wants to pick up thousands of balls. If you don't have a call button, make a big X with your arms to show the staff you're done. The staff member will come over and pick up your balls for you and take them to the counting machine., Because playing pachinko for money is technically illegal in Japan, you only get tokens or cards at the pachinko parlor. Once your balls are counted, the staff will hand you your tokens. Keep them in a safe place.Just like in casinos, the balls represent a certain amount of money. However, unlike casinos, you have one extra step in the exchange. Think of it like converting money. You are converting balls to tokens to yen.
 Once you've gathered your tokens, you must go elsewhere to find a tuck shop, where you can exchange your tokens for yen. Because playing pachinko for money is illegal, the staff at the parlor won't tell you where to look. However, you can ask another friendly pachinko player where to go.Once there, you won't find people to convert your tokens. Rather, you'll find a drawer. You'll be able to pick it out because it usually has Astroturf.
You place your tokens in, and the drawer is drawn in. In return, it comes out with your yen, and you leave.
Often, the tuck shop is a small shed located near the pachinko parlor. Sometimes, in place of a drawer, you will find hole in the shed’s wall where you retrieve the money.