 Do not start in the middle because you will get confused.;
, Try to count all blades in one sitting - if you try to go away and come back, you might just get very confused. Start early in the morning so that you'll have a full day of sunlight to work with.
 You will probably also need a pen and paper, as your tally counter probably will not be able to count high enough and you will need to reset it. Alternatively, buy multiple counters.
 Go slowly and maybe find a friend who can work shifts with you. Don't both try to count at once, you will just get confused and end up missing patches or double counting.
 Start by counting, Roman style (four vertical lines, then a diagonal through them every fifth -- that's one group of five), only create columns for clusters, and keep a roman count for clusters of four, five, six blades to a cluster, etc., until you have done exactly one square foot.
 Then do that three more times until you have five square feet all cluster-counted.
).
 If the lawn has round parts, make them into triangles instead and recall that the area of a triangle is half the base times the height.
, This is your estimate of how many average blades of grass there are in a typical square foot of lawn, and you even know how the blades are clustered, on average.
 Now you will have your estimate of the entirety!

, Blades of grass are always growing, shorter or longer, and dying, so an exact definition of what constitutes "a blade" of grass is arbitrary anyway, right? The whole thing is constantly changing in front of your eyes. You can do two things about that: you can count it twice and measure the change, or count it all more times and measure the rate of change. It'd be better to use Probability, Statistics and Calculus though. There, you would be very accurate at the scale of a fraction of an inch, then multiply that out to all the fractions of an inch contained by the entire lawn. If you, for example, note that in a square centimeter there are, in 20 samples, exactly 25 blades, you may get an excellent estimate for the entire lawn by using 25/20 = 5/4 of a blade/sq. cm. and figuring out how many square meters of lawn there are. 100 * 100 = 10,000 sq. cm. / meter.

