 If you don't have all your supplies, you'll be worrying more about what you don't have than paying attention to the lesson. Get school supplies before school starts and come to class prepared and on time. Be sure to include basic things such as notebooks, plenty of sharpened pencils, independent reading book, new pens, pencil bag or box,etc.;
, Being late can make you miss important lessons, and you can get points off your grade.
 Don't make more work for yourself by mucking about, then having to ask what the lesson was all about and have to read up on it just to catch up. Save time and effort by listening the first time around.
 If you don't have good notes you'll have nothing to study and you'll do poorly on your tests. It can also give you time later on to make study guides for your group.
 A few missed assignments can really lower your grade in that subject, so try to have all of it all on time. It keeps you on top of your work and organized and gives your teacher a good image of your responsibility.
 Lots of teachers don't give full credit for late assignments. Plus you'll have even more stuff to worry about the next night.


Do not overuse exclamation marks in your work. It reveals a lack of maturity.
 This means quick reviewing, which would be about 5 to 10 minutes in fifth grade. Just read the textbook and the worksheets and you'll be fine.
 One bad test can give you a bad grade and you don't want that.


Make sure you understand what the quizzes and tests are about. Here's some questions to ask your teacher. How many points is this test? How many questions on the test? What will this test cover? And so on.
 Being with your friends can make studying much more fun. It also makes your friends have better grades. Although you should not do that if you think you will not do a good job getting any studying done.
 Sometimes being a good student means dropping some after school activities for other things, such as studying, or getting books at the library for things such as school reports.
 It doesn't matter what the other class members say. If they don't like your outfit or your hair, you shouldn't care as long as you know it looks good on you.


Don't be a follower. Be yourself and be nice to others. Being nice will help you make friends, and maybe you can form your own group. But remember, that when it comes to the end of the day, it's the true friends that count, so don't loose sight of what really matters.
 What happened the year before shouldn't matter anymore. If there were any bullies you had to deal with avoid them as much as possible, ignore them, or if they're still harassing you, tell the teacher.
 It might be a good idea to set out the next day's clothes each evening, to save you time and stress in the morning.


If your school has a uniform, you might like to try accessorizing with bracelets or earrings, or even a headband. Just make sure you're not breaking any rules. And, you don't have to make any change if you don't want to. Not everyone cares about the "fashion" statement they're making during school hours.
Try changing your hairstyle now and then. Curl it or straighten it, explore different looks and choose the right one for you. Once again, this is entirely up to you. If you're happy with short hair or a daily ponytail, then rock it. You're saving time for more exciting things, like reading, learning and sports.
 Befriend people, stand up for your friends and refuse to spread gossip. This is a good year to begin healthy relating habits and to aim to rise above the rumors, mean-spirited actions and clique selfishness.

