 In most cases, when you purchase your glasses from an optometrist, optical office, or eye boutique, you will also receive a microfiber cloth intended for cleaning your lenses. This cloth is ideal for cleaning smudges and cloudiness.


If you've lost or misplaced your microfiber cloth, find a soft, clean substitute cloth. Cotton, so long as it's clean, should be suitable.It is important to use fabric that is not treated with fabric softener as that can cause streaks on the lenses.You should avoid using: coarse fabrics, like wool and certain synthetic fabrics, facial tissue, or toilet paper, as these will cause tiny scratches to form on your lenses over time.;
, These solutions are specially formulated to cut through dirtiness without doing harm to your lenses or coatings that may be on your lenses. Spritz a moderate amount of the cleaner onto your lens and wipe it clean with your soft, clean cloth.


Do not use your saliva to clean your lenses. Saliva won't clean especially well and is unhygienic., If you don't happen to have glasses cleaner on hand, you can use a drop of dish soap and warm water to cut through grime and leave your lenses pristine.Use your fingers and carefully spread the soap over the surface of your lenses. Rinse the lenses clean of soap with warm water, and you're ready to move on.
 After applying your cleaning solution, you can take your soft cloth and wipe your lenses dry in gentle, circular motions. You should try not to use scrubbing motions, which can lead to lens damage over time., Depending on just how dirty your glasses really are, you may need another application of cleaner before you lenses become fully clean. After using your cleaner or dish soap and hot water, wipe your lenses with your soft cloth., Oil and dust can collect in the nook between your nose pads and lenses, creating a cloudy film in the area close to your nose. By using a soft bristle toothbrush, dish soap, and warm water, you can bust up this grimy buildup, though you should be careful not to scrub your lenses with the toothbrush.


Fill a basin or container with warm water and soap.
Dip your cleaning toothbrush into the solution and swish it around.
Gently scrub at the metal arm that connects your nose pad to your glasses frames.
Swish your toothbrush in your water/soap solution to remove dirt and gunk that accumulates on your brush.
Rinse your glasses under warm water.
Check for remaining grime and buildup and repeat scrubbing until fully clean.

