 If you wish to pass for a Scot, you must learn to speak like one. Familiarize yourself with the slang of the Scots. Part of using slang is following the vowel and consonant rules. Certain words are also just pronounced differently. "Yes" often becomes "yae".


Instead of saying "go away" you can say "oan yer bike pal." Note, a bike doesn’t have to be present. But this is a colloquial term you may here in the Midland or Lowland areas.
While you might say "I don’t know" or even "I dunno" in your normal speaking voice, it sounds quite different in a Scottish accent. To say "I don’t know" in a Scottish accent, you might say, "I dinnae ken." or simply, "I dinnae". The word "ken" is typically only spoken in Midland dialects.
"Instead of "hello" you can greet someone with "awright ya?"
Oftentimes, instead of saying "yes" or asking "yeah?" you would simply say "eh?"

, It’s hard to get every colloquialism down, but a lot of Scottish terms are simply changing American, Canadian, and English words by employing vowel and consonant rules. For example, instead of saying "everybody" you could say "aab’dy". Here you are condensing the word from five syllables down into roughly two. "I am not" becomes "am no'". Here, "am" serves the same purpose as "I’m".
 The best way to develop a Scottish accent is by listening to it. Get to know any Scots you may know a little better, watch Scottish movies or even go to visit Scotland.


Television shows like Doctor Who often have Scottish actors who speak in his or her natural accent. Karen Gillan, David Tennant, and Peter Capaldi are all Scottish. Listen to how these actors speak compared to the English actors on the show.
James McAvoy and Gerard Butler are two other Scottish actors to listen to. Watching interviews of these actors is a good way to listen to the accent.
Both the film and the book "Trainspotting" are also great ways to get acclimated to the Scottish accent. The book is written phonetically so when you read it aloud you are forced to speak with an accent.
Both 'Dead Man's Chest' and 'At World's End' from the Pirates Of The Caribbean series feature Bill Nighy as Davy Jones, where he speaks with a heavy Scottish brogue.

