 This lantern is a little bit different from the rest. You can't hang it anywhere, because it is made from glass. You can, however, use it as a real candleholder. Try not to get it wet, however; you can wipe it clean with a damp cloth, but if you leave it sitting in water, the Mod Podge will flake off. Here's what you'll need to make this lantern:


Short, squat jar
Red tissue paper
Mod Podge
Paintbrush or foam brush
Paper plate or palette
Scissors
Black paint
Gold glitter, glue, sequins, markers, etc (optional)

, You want the jar to be low with a wide mouth. It should be almost round or square in shape.
 Use soap and warm water to wash it. You can also wipe it down with a cotton ball soaked in some rubbing alcohol. If there are any labels on the jar, be sure to remove them, or they will show up when you are done.
 The pieces should be proportionate to the jar. For a very small jar, make the pieces about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) big. For a larger jar, try something that is about 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) big.
 You can use a paintbrush or a foam brush. If you are working on a large jar, you can paint a small section first.If you don't have any Mod Podge, you can mix one part white school glue with one part water.
 Use your fingers or your paintbrush/foam brush to smooth the paper down so that you don't get any wrinkles. Try not to overlap the tissue paper too much, or the light won't shine through as well.


It's okay if the tissue paper extends past the neck. You want the next to be covered, so that the paint will have something to stick to.
 This will seal the jar., Use your scissors to trim off the excess tissue paper from the top of the jar., Squirt some black paint out onto a paper plate or a palette. Dip your paintbrush into the paint, and paint the entire neck of the jar black. This will resemble the top of the lantern.
 Use a black marker or glitter glue to draw some symbols onto the lantern. You can use Chinese characters, dragons, yin-yang, and so forth. You can also glue on some sequins or loose glitter onto the lantern as well.
 You can use a real tea light inside the lantern, or a battery-operated tea light.

