 Do you automatically look for ways to avoid feeling fear, anger, and pain? Do certain emotions have a greater effect on you than others? Observe your emotions for a few days and reflect on how you react to them.Becoming aware of your current emotional attitudes will help you identify the areas where you need to improve.
For instance, you might notice that you always suppress your anger because it makes you feel out of control.;
, Take a look at your lifestyle and identify any negative habits you have, such as watching too much TV or smoking. Ask yourself if you engage in any of these activities to avoid feeling your emotions.Smoking cigarettes, drinking excessively, overeating, and using illicit drugs are a few of the most common methods people use to avoid their feelings.
 Not all avoidance strategies look unhealthy from the outside. If you’re constantly focused on achievement or self-betterment, it could be a subconscious way of pushing your emotions aside.Workaholism, constant dieting or over-exercising, and overscheduling yourself can all indicate that you’re avoiding your emotions.
 Negative emotions are a necessary part of life — no one can feel happiness or pleasure all the time. While negative emotions aren’t enjoyable, they often provide important signals that you need to change your actions or pay attention to something.It might help to consider how negative emotions can actually be helpful. Think of these emotion as your mind and body's way of telling you that something needs to be changed or examined. For instance, if you're feeling depressed, this might signal that you need to look at your diet or activity level. Or it might indicate a faulty belief system, and you need to check for negative self-talk as well as any negative beliefs you have about yourself.
Accept that you’ll eventually have to face your negative emotions, whether you try to avoid them or not. Avoidance might help temporarily, but repressing your feelings makes them stronger in the long run.
 Next time you find yourself dealing with an unpleasant emotion, don’t reach for a distraction to drown it out. Instead, pause and ask yourself what you’re feeling. Identifying your emotion and its cause can make the feeling easier to deal with.Avoid negative self-talk when you do this exercise. Instead, focus on figuring out why you’re feeling this particular emotion.
For instance, tell yourself something like, “I’m feeling tense and anxious because I haven’t finished my homework for tomorrow. This is a normal emotional reaction. It will go away when I finish my work.”

, Allow yourself to sit quietly, breathe, and feel whatever painful emotion you’re experiencing. Accepting your emotions for what they are is an essential part of learning constructive coping strategies.You may find that accepting your negative emotions helps you gain some control over them.
 Don’t adopt a “woe-is-me” attitude as you practice feeling your emotions. Feeling sorry for yourself is a form of judging your emotions, and it will make the situation worse. Do your best to remain neutral and nonjudgmental., If you’ve been suppressing your emotions for a long time, getting back in touch with them can be a challenge. A mental health professional can help you identify your particular emotional blocks and come up with ways to overcome them., Mindfulness is the act of being fully present in the moment. Practicing mindfulness can help you manage your emotions by acknowledging them and letting them pass naturally, instead of trying to avoid them.When you’re in a mindful state — that is, not stuck in the past or focused on the future — it’s easier to keep your emotions in perspective and find constructive ways to deal with them.
Meditating regularly is one good way to adopt the habit of mindfulness.
 Working out can be an effective way to channel your negative emotions into better physical and mental health. Exercise releases endorphins, makes you feel good about yourself, and gives you a can-do attitude towards solving problems.Activities that increase your heart rate are the best for lifting your mood.
Like anything else, it’s possible to exercise too much. Be careful not to use your workouts as a replacement for any former unhealthy coping strategies.
 You're probably familiar with the term "gut feeling," or having butterflies in your stomach or a knot of anxiety, but you may not know that the health of your gut can actually have a major influence on your mood and well-being due to the millions of neurons located there. In fact, some scientists call it "the second brain." Ensuring that your gut is healthy by eating a well-balanced diet and maybe even supplementing with probiotics may reduce negative emotions, improve energy, and put you in a more positive emotional state.Consider working with a registered dietitian to ensure you are getting all the vitamins and other nutrients your body needs.
 Drawing, making music, and writing are a few time-honored ways to deal with negative feelings. Find a creative hobby you enjoy and turn your emotions into art.If you’re not the artsy type, try writing in a journal. Writing about your emotions is simple, therapeutic, and easy to adopt as a habit.
 Maintaining a strong support network is one of the best ways to manage your emotional ups and downs. Chat with a trustworthy friend or family member about how you’re feeling. Support from a loved one can cheer you up and help you work through your feelings without avoiding them.