 Your idol may be a relatively unknown but up-and-coming author who’s set to sign books at Barnes & Nobles next month in your city. Here’s your change to meet her! Book signings are also a great way to meet both world figures and celebrities. Increasingly, celebrities are writing memoirs and actresses and actors are appearing at signings that coincide with the openings of the movies they starred in from that particular book series.In almost all cases, you are required to buy the book from the bookstore hosting the signing, so make sure you bring along enough money to buy one.
Consider buying more than one book, so you have extra time with your idol.
To find out if your idol is having a book signing for a recently published book, look for a social media announcement from your idol; go to the publisher's website and its social media sites; look on major retailers' websites like Barnes & Noble; and talk with local bookstores, particularly if you live in a major metropolitan area., In case you’ve always wondered but never thought to ask, VIP means “very important person.” You can be one, too, for the right price. Usually, that price is high. Yet purchasing VIP tickets to concerts, plays, comedy shows, the ballet and sporting events come with a variety of perks. One of those perks is often a “meet and greet pass.” Depending upon the event, this could mean you meet your idol or that you meet someone or several people that are part of, for example, a ballet troupe or a baseball team. This could include your idol.You also often get a photograph as a part of VIP packages, and, in some cases, much more, such as invites to pre- or post-event parties. Make sure that you read the details carefully.
You can get VIP tickets in a number of ways – from ticketing services like VIPNation.com, Ticketmaster.com, VIPTickets.com, Premiumseatsusa.com and from the venues and organizations themselves.
Not all events will have VIP tickets, and you’ll want to buy them either through pre-sales offers or within minutes of tickets going on sale for many events.
 Often, joining an official fan club is free, and with some you can get one of the most coveted perks of belonging to a fan club – being included in a lottery or drawing to win a meet and greet pass after you buy a ticket to a show or event. Frequently, however, this opportunity is only available when you upgrade your membership, or pay for a higher level. Plenty of fan clubs, however, are not free for even basic membership. Many of these, such as certain major league sports team fan clubs, will go beyond basic meet and greets and include invitations to dinners and other events.Some of the other benefits of upgrading and paying for fan clubs include access to dress rehearsals and practices where you might get more than a handshake and a photo, online chats and conference calls and dibs on pre-sales tickets (which can help get VIP tickets)., While major movie awards programs like the Golden Globes and the Oscars are virtually impossible to get tickets to, even for those in the industry, others such as the BET Music Awards are possible. These, along with movie premieres and film festivals, give you an opportunity to potentially meet countless celebrities.If your idol is less well known, see if he or she has a website that lists upcoming speaking events or performances nearby or in your area. Some may even be free.
Here’s a good site for finding tickets for movie premieres, film festivals and awards shows: thevipconcierge.com.
 This might be leaning to the stalker side, but if you know that your idol works out a particular gym, for instance, you might consider joining the same gym. If you know that your idol always attends Lakers games and sits in a specific spot, you might try to get seats nearby. If, for example, your idol is your town’s former mayor, and she eats at the same diner every Wednesday for lunch, you might eat there as well. Strike up a conversation and offer to pay for her lunch!