 Use your favorite shampoo to clean your hair.;
, Be sure your hair is ready to style by fully conditioning it.


You may want to use a leave-in conditioner or other product that is specifically designed to deeply condition natural hair, or you can just use coconut oil.
Use a comb to work conditioner through hair and gently remove any tangles.
 Your hair should be damp, but not wet, before styling. You may want to keep a spray bottle of water handy during styling to re-dampen hair as you progress.


Hair that is too wet will take longer to dry.
Hair that is too dry will not twist together properly.
 More sections and smaller twists will create a better twist out. , Be sure to twist in the direction of the hair’s natural curl: don’t fight nature! Within one of the sections, separate a small square of hair.
Divide the square into 2 strands and twist them around each other, allowing each strand to twist on itself as you twirl the strands together.
Repeat, dividing and twisting one square at a time until each section is fully twisted.
 Leave the 2-strand twist in at least one day, but up to three weeks.


You may want to mist the twists daily to maintain their appearance if you are leaving them in for an extended amount of time.
 Give your hair enough time in the twist to dry, and start with a discreet twist in the back in case you untwist and determine that the hair needs longer to dry.
 Re-apply as-needed during the twist-out process. If hair seems dry or becomes tangled, massage with coconut oil to work the strands apart.
 Slowly rotate each twist in the opposite direction that they were twisted to separate the strands. You may work from root to tip or from tip to root, depending on your preference.
 Each strand should spring back into an individual curl when you have separated it from its twist partner.
, Wear a sleep cap, a satin scarf, or sleep on a satin pillowcase to maintain your style. , This optional step creates more work, but it enables the twist out to last much longer.
 The twist out will maintain its shape longer in dryer and cooler climates. You may want to try another style in hot, humid weather.

