 Inform your doctor of any allergies, especially to benzodiazepines such as diazepam or lorazepam. Provide your doctor with your medical history, especially if you have liver disease, kidney disease, severe lung or breathing problems, or if you suffer from drug or alcohol abuse. Since Alprazolam may contain inactive ingredients that can cause allergic reactions or other medical problems, your doctor may want to review alternative medication for you.;
, Alprazolam may interact differently with specific medications, so you must inform your doctor of any medications you are taking so they can monitor your health or change your existing prescription if necessary. Inform your doctor of any over-the-counter medicines you usually take such as cold-medicine or any other medicines that may cause drowsiness. If you are a smoker, inform your doctor so they can adjust the dosage if necessary.
 Doses of Alprazolam will vary between individuals based on their specific medical conditions. Take the proper dosage amount of Alprazolam prescribed by your doctor on a regular basis until otherwise instructed. Because Alprazolam may be addicting or can be poisonous if you overdose, do not increase your dose unless directed to do so by your doctor. On the other hand, Alprazolam can also cause withdrawal symptoms such as seizures if you suddenly stop taking the medication. If you have not been instructed to do so by your doctor or pharmacist, do not increase or decrease your dose of Alprazolam without consulting them first to avoid any serious repercussions.
 Drowsiness and dizziness are the most common side effects of Alprazolam. Other possible side effects of taking Alprazolam include mood changes, slurred speech, clumsiness, trouble walking, decreased or increased interest in sex, yellowing eyes or skin, and signs of infection. You may also have allergic reactions to Alprazolam, such as developing rashes, itching and swelling, severe dizziness, and trouble breathing. Consult your doctor immediately if you suffer from these side effects repeatedly or from any other side effects not mentioned.


Take extra precaution when experiencing side effects of Alprazolam. Do not drive, use machinery, or perform similar activities that require you to be alert until you are sure you can perform those types of activities safely. Do not drink alcoholic beverages or breast-feed because Alprazolam will pass into breast milk and have negative effects on infants. Do not take Alprazolam if you are pregnant because it may potentially harm unborn babies. If any of these precautions will affect your current lifestyle, consult with your doctor for more details or alternative medications.
 If you have overdosed on Alprazolam, you may experience severe drowsiness, slowed or reduced reflexes, slowed breathing, or loss of consciousness. If an overdose has been suspected, you must contact the poison control center in your country immediately. If you have missed your dose of Alprazolam, you must take it as soon as you remember or skip your missed dose if it is close to the time you normally take it. Do not double your dose to "catch up."

, Store Alprazolam at temperatures of between 59 and 86 degrees Fahrenheit (15 to 30 degrees Celsius) and away from any light and moisture. Do not store your Alprazolam in the bathroom where moisture or steam may accumulate, flush your medications down the toilet, or pour them into a drain unless you have been instructed to do so. Store your Alprazolam in a safe location away from where your children and pets can access it. If you need to dispose of Alprazolam, contact your doctor, pharmacist, or local waste disposal company to learn how to properly dispose of the medication.

