 You've got this! So act like it. Don't slouch, shy away from her, mumble, or refuse to meet her gaze. Instead, show her that you're comfortable with yourself and she can be comfortable with you, too. Make eye contact, speak clearly, and generally act like you're confident.
 If you look as appealing as possible, you won't have to work quite so hard to convince her you're worth a kiss.


Shave. Or don't. Most girls prefer a guy with a smooth face, but some like their guy's face rough. Get to know what your girl likes.
Keep some mints handy. Pop one whenever you feel your breath getting stale.
Try to be as generally clean as possible. Take a shower, put on some clean clothes, and wear deodorant and if you want, a bit of cologne.
 Many girls and women will not want to make out in front of others, especially if this is her first kiss. Find the right time when you can be alone. Privacy is key.
 Watch carefully, because sometimes the signals can be confusing - she may flirt with you, then smack you on the head. These may just be coy games, or she may really be conflicted.


Ask yourself these questions: Did you and your date seem to have a cozy, warm, close time together? Has she been flirting with you through body language? Has she licked her lips, or bit her lower lip while looking at you? Has she found excuses to touch you often? If you feel confident of these things, prepare to kiss!

, If she is comfortable and doesn't look away, then she is ready. Lock eyes when you're talking to her, when she's talking, and during moments of silence.
 Starting with small physical contact tells her what's coming and gives her the chance to back out if she's uncomfortable. Try these if you're not sure what to do:


Put your arm around her shoulders
Hold her hand
Sweep her hair away from her face.
 Reach around her waist with one or both arms, and gently draw her toward you. If she's interested, she'll get the hint and move in; if you feel her resist, though, back off.


Do not squish her up against you and then grind your pelvis against her.
Do not use a first kiss as your personal excuse to grope, grab, or get too familiar. Be a gentleman.
 Once she's close and you're pretty sure she wants to be kissed, it's time to seal the deal!


Look into her eyes. Notice how we mention eye contact twice? Very important. Let her know that you are really seeing her.

Look at her lips. Aim, dude. Make sure you know where you're going.
Lean in slowly, and gently brush your lips over hers. Don't worry about fancy technique or going quickly on the first few kisses — you can deal with that later.
 Your mouth should not be overly opened or closed, and it shouldn't be mushy or too tight (relax). Don't let it go too long (more than, say, 20 seconds) or let it be too short (3 seconds is not enough) - think around 10 seconds or so. A tiny hint of tongue is nice if she seems willing, but make it flirtatious and not insistent. Check out How to Kiss for more technique tips.
 Just remain silent and hug her, ending the first kiss in a lovely, intimate moment.

