 It is that hail-damage look on your legs, thighs, bum, and even sometimes on your arms.;
, It forms naturally, but can be influenced by your diet, hormones, consuming too little water, lack of exercise, etc.
 There are conflicting views on just how much water, but try drink at least more than 6+ glasses a day. Water help to flush out toxins from your body and improve kidney function.


Some people find that they drink more if they use a straw or drink flavored water. Experiment with different things to find what works best.
 Take the steps, rather than the lift. Try to walk up at least 2-3 flights of steps or park a bit further away from your destination and take a brisk walk. Take a 10-minute walk each day with a friend or loved one and catch up with each other. Go to the gym.
 Every half hour or so, take a minute to stand up, pace, look out the window, or refill your water bottle. Not only will this improve your circulation, but it can prevent other problems such as blood clots.


This is important for thin people as well as heavier people. Don't let your weight fool you into thinking that your body is immortal.
If you have a mobility disability that makes this tricky, try shaking your limbs out a little, working your arms, and fidgeting. Do what is comfortable and reasonable to you.
 Use it every morning. Get into the shower, rub it onto the affected areas in a circular movement, and then have your shower. Make this process a part of your daily hygiene routine. It will take less than 3 minutes.


A good time to do this is while you wait for your hair conditioner to soak in.
 Get rid of anything uncomfortable with tight seams. Try wearing panties in a size up if you're concerned.
 Quitting smoking will give you more energy, cause you to smell better, aid circulation and breathing, and improve your health in many ways. Try using gum, nicotine patches, fidget toys, breathing exercises, and other helpful methods of relaxation as a substitute.
 Cut down on refined and processed foods, dairy, high fat products, or high sugar products. Eat food high in fibre. Eat less carbs and drink more water. Cut down on alcohol intake. You need not starve or deprive yourself from anything, just tweak your diet slightly and start making it a life-style. One of the biggest mistakes people make is to not eat at regular intervals during the day, so try to eat 5 to 6 times a day, even if it is just a banana or granola bar. It will also help to stabilise your blood sugar, which will reduce cravings.


Visualize filling at least 1/3 of your plate with fruits and vegetables. Pick your favorites so that you enjoy eating them.
Try incorporating fruits into desserts: strawberries with whipped cream and chocolate syrup, banana with chocolate, apple slices with caramel, blueberries on ice cream, et cetera. Find what you like.
Don't cut out fat and sugar altogether, because this is also bad for your body. Eat dessert. If your body is craving fat or salt, that means it needs it, and you should listen to it. Your body should not be a battleground.
If you are restricting food groups or calories too much, see a doctor. You may be in the early stages of an eating disorder. Catching it sooner will help prevent complications and death.
 You are not a plastic doll or an airbrushed model. Everyone's skin has its own character marks and quirks, and this just happens to be one of yours. Try not to stress too much about your body, and remember that no one is paying as much attention to it as you are. It is okay to have a little (or a lot of!) cellulite.

