 You might not realize it, but tension can build up just from breathing. This can lead to tightness that worsens your tone when you sing. Keep your shoulders low and relaxed, take a normal breath, then exhale. Repeat this several times.

During this simple exercise, pay attention to your chest, neck, and shoulders. There should be no tension in these parts of your body.
You should feel your breathing in the area of your abdomen below your rib cage. This area should expand as you breathe., Tension also builds naturally in your jaw and mouth when speaking or singing. Relaxing this will improve your tone. Starting from the top of your jaw and working toward your chin, massage your face with the heels of your hands.Massage your face by kneading the muscles along your jaw and mouth in small circles, pressing gently inward and downward as you move toward your chin.
When massaging, your jaw should relax and open as you progress down your face to your chin. This happens naturally when tension leaves your jaw.
 Yodeling quickly jumps from sound to sound, so it’s a good idea to prepare your lips for these acrobatics. Trill your lips while you exhale so you sound like a horse. This may feel funny, but it’s an effective warmup.

Your lips should be placed together loosely as you exhale, causing them to flap together to create noise, somewhat similar to blowing a raspberry or pursing your lips for trumpet.Once you’ve practiced this a few times, try doing this with a “b” at the start. Practice the “b” trill in an ascending eight-note scale, from middle C to high C., This will warm up your upper and lower range, which is important when yodeling. With your mouth in an “o” shape, slide down from the highest pitch possible to the lowest while saying “woo.” Do this several times.You may feel like you have to belt out the volume on the really high or really low notes, but try to keep your volume moderate and consistent.
Reverse this process and siren up from your lowest note to the highest. Try this exercise while buzzing your lips like a kazoo., A two octave (16-note) scale is ideal. This will provide the best stretch for your vocal folds. Try a simple octave (eight-note) scale first, then increase the range little by little until you can do a whole two octave scale.

Try sliding up and down scales with a “me” sound. Next, try doing the same with an “ee” and “oo” sound. Humming scales is another great way of warming up.Avoid pushing your upper and lower vocal range when practicing scales, but do your best to stretch your range a little bit., Especially if you don’t sing regularly, warming up can be a lot of work. Cool off your voice with short, gentle glides that use an “mm” sound. After that, take a short five-minute break. Singing too long without breaks can strain your voice.