 To gain weight in a healthy fashion, you need to add 200 to 500 extra calories into your daily meals. This can be difficult to do and many people feel full to the point they cannot keep eating. Having a variety of healthy, dairy free shake recipes can allow you to gain the extra calories without having to eat another meal.


Shakes and smoothies are very popular in the health foods movement as they add nutrients to your diet in a fun, easy-to-consume manner. A simple google search for dairy-free smoothie recipes will yield a variety of results.
Most smoothies use some kind of liquid, usually fruit juice without added sugar or almond or soy milk, as well as a variety of fruits and veggies. Ingredients are blended in a food processor until mixed to your desired texture.Many smoothies use additives like vanilla extract, cinnamon, or honey to give the smoothie added sweetness and flavor. You can experiment with mixing and matching different additives until the smoothie tastes good to you.If you find a smoothie recipe that sounds good but uses a dairy product like milk or yogurt, you could try substituting it for a dairy- free alternative. Use soy or almond yogurt or milk instead, for example., Dieters are generally recommended to avoid the calories that come from beverages. However, if you're trying to gain weight, supplementing your diet with some calorie heavy beverages may be helpful.


With meals, drink fruit juices with no added sugars or sports drinks like gatorade. You should not, however, stop drinking water as eight glasses of water is essential to a healthy diet. Just drink water in addition to calorie heavy beverages.While drinking calories is great for weight gain, it's important to put on weight in a healthy fashion. Avoid sugary beverages like soda or fruit juices with a lot of added sugar. You should also avoid trying to gain weight by increasing your alcohol consumption as alcohol can be particularly dangerous if you're malnourished., Protein powders are a variety of health supplements, sold at gyms or health food stores, designed to help add bulk to drinks and help you put on pounds and muscle. Protein powders can be added to smoothies and other drinks, and even ground up and added to some meals.Ask a nutritionist about incorporating protein powder first. Protein powder is often used for muscle building regimens and might not be helpful if you're simply trying to gain weight.
Egg white protein powder is a great way to add protein to the diet without dairy. It comes in various flavors or unsweetened varieties.

