 If your goal is to get your waterworks started, you may have to go over the top in your imagining. Usually, there is at least one thing, like mistreated animals or impoverished children, that you can’t help getting sad over. Use these to water up! Some other ideas that might get you teary-eyed include:


War
Starvation
Disease
Death, Try to assume the position you were in at a time when you were teary-eyed for some reason. Then, as closely as you are able, mimic the motions, rate of breathing, and noises you made at that time. Though this might seem a little awkward, with practice your body’s muscle memory can be trained to activate your tear glands to water your eyes., You don’t have to be an actor to make use of actor’s tricks. By identifying with a character, either an imaginary one or a live-action one you’ve seen on TV, you can make yourself misty eyed.


Try to choose a character whose situation you can relate to. Relatable characters will make it easier for you to slip into their mindset, and from there, get the watering response going., Some phrases may have the ability to really upset you. Professional actors and acting teachers refer to this as a “power phrase” due to the fact that it can be used to give you power over your emotions. Simply repeat the phrase to yourself until you feel your eyes begin to moisten. Some examples of power phrases include:


”I’m not good enough.”
”No one will ever love me.”
”I can’t do anything right.”
”Why does everybody leave me?”, Music can evoke a powerful emotion response inside of you, both in negative and positive ways. Think of a song that you find particularly depressing, and loop it in your head. You may also want to think about things you find sad or depressing as the music plays in your head.


To help yourself get into the mood to cue your eye watering, you might want to bring some headphones and a music player so you can listen to the sad song before you need your eyes to water.
When it’s time to water up, take off the headphones and continue playing the song in your head until your tear glands begin to water.