 Your vocal cords, like your skin, need to be protected so they don't age prematurely. If you're hard on your vocal cords, your voice could end up sounding gravelly, whispery, or otherwise unpleasant long before its due. To protect your vocal cords, take the following measures:


Don't smoke. Smoking cigarettes has a very pronounced effect on the voice, causing it to lose volume and range over time. If you want your voice to stay clear and strong, it's best to quit.Cut back on drinking. High alcohol intake can also cause your voice to age prematurely.
Try to breathe clean air. If you live in a polluted area, load your house with plants to clean the air, and try to get away from the city to breathe fresh air as often as possible.
Don't scream too much. If you're a huge fan of hardcore music or you just enjoy screaming sometimes, be aware that using your voice in this way can strain it. Plenty of singers have experienced laryngitis and other vocal maladies from overusing their vocal cords.
 When we experience stress or surprise, the muscles surrounding the larynx contract and cause a high-pitched voice to emerge. If you're constantly nervous, anxious and stressed out, this higher pitch might be your everyday voice. Take measures to calm yourself down so that your steady, full voice is able to emerge.


Try taking a few deep breaths before you speak. In addition to calming you down, this will gear you up to project from your diaphragm, improving the sound of your voice.
Take 10 seconds to think before you react. When you allow yourself time to gather your thoughts before reacting in nervousness or surprise, you have greater control over your voice. Think, take a swallow, then speak - you'll find that your voice comes out more steady and relaxed., Singing alongside instrumental or vocal accompaniment is a good way to increase your pitch range and keep your vocal cords in good shape. Similarly, you could practice singing along to songs that are outside of your usual vocal range. Each time you sing along, match the notes and pitch of the original singer as closely as possible without straining your voice.With piano accompaniment, begin singing a scale: doh, re, mi, fa, sol, lah, ti, doh. Start at the most comfortable, natural pitch possible.

Repeat the scale, increasing your starting pitch by one note each time until your voice begins straining. Once your voice begins to strain, stop.
Repeat the scale again, decreasing your starting pitch by one note each time and stopping once your voice begins to strain.


