 This will give the dough more resiliency as you work with it.;
, Use your hands for best results. Knead dough for approximately 10 minutes.
 Roll out dough until it is approximately 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) thick. Dough rolled too thickly will take longer to dry and could be doughy even after cooking; dough rolled too thin causes the dried ornaments to break more easily.
 Reindeer, elves, stars, snowflakes, Christmas trees, birds, or angels are all great ideas of ornament shapes.


Alternately, let the kids design their own shapes. These ornaments won't have the clean, articulated lines of a cookie cutter, but they'll be one-of-a-kind, and entirely their own!







, The hole should be at least 1⁄8 inch (0.3 cm) from the top of the ornament.
,, Allow ornaments to cool.
 This will prevent staining as you paint the ornaments.
 Decorate until ornaments are satisfactory. Once dry, spray with clear polyurethane on both sides to preserve.


These ornaments are not suitable or safe to eat. Do not attempt to eat them.
 Alternately, use ribbon or thread to hang.
 This will prevent staining as you paint the ornaments., Alternately, use poster or tube paints. Greens, reds, silvers, golds, and deep blues are considered traditional Christmas colors.
 For a gauzier texture, use cotton swabs. Decorate until ornaments are satisfactory.
 Cook for about two minutes at high.
 It should feel like a moderately dampened sponge. If it is already dried out, take ornaments out of the microwave and allow to cool.
 Take ornaments from microwave and allow to cool.
 This will give the ornaments a nice, glossy look.



Note: Do not microwave the ornaments after applying hairspray and /or acrylic finish. These products are flammable and will ignite in your microwave, causing a fire hazard.
, This will give the ornaments a bit of sparkle by reflecting light.


Cookie sprinkles can be lightly applied and lightly pressed into the dough.
 Lightly wet the yarn before pressing it into ornaments: This will help you control its design as well as keep it from browning in either the oven or the microwave.
 Set small amounts of dough in different colors to be rolled into eyes, mouths, shoes, buttons, etc. Paint a different color for added contrast.
 Use checkered patterns, or score circles or simply squiggly lines.
