 Don't underestimate the power of your attire. Although fashion sense isn't everything, wearing sharp clothes will prove your respect for your girl and show off your social mobility.If you wear clothes that showcase your style and personality, you'll also get a nice positive mental boost. This will help you carry yourself with more confidence. Because you're in the initial stages of the relationship, you'll both be trying to impress. If she'll get dressed up for you, then you definitely have to meet her in your own dressing up.


For a dinner date, especially if you live in an urban location, you'll probably want to wear some sort of jacket. This could be a blazer or a sport coat; whatever you'd prefer. In certain situations, a full suit and tie may even be appropriate. If you're going out at night, it's better to overdress. You can shed the coat and let your date wear it if it gets too cold.
If you're worried about looking overdressed, it's hard to go wrong with a fitted collared shirt, jeans/khakis, and a nice pair of shoes.It's a tried and true look, and it's one that strikes a nice balance between formal and comfortable. Make sure that the shirt isn't wrinkled and that your pants are clean and without any rips. For the shoes, you'll want to be sitting in some place between your weekend sneakers and dress shoes.
 While being clean is always important, you definitely don't want to skip any steps when getting clean before a big date. It's definitely not enough to cover up your stench with body spray and cologne. Because you'll be spending an entire night with her, you'll want to cover all of your bases in respect to your hygiene. Some steps that you might miss include:


Floss every day. Your dentist will definitely thank you for this one. This extra step will not only help prevent gum disease, but will also dramatically improve the smell of your breath. Getting an electric toothbrush isn't a bad idea either.
Wash your feet. Doing this every day will help eliminate the need for more dramatic measures, like foot odor spray. This will require more than simply letting your feet soak in water, though. Get a wash cloth, rubbing between your toes and on the bottoms of your feet.
Change your sheets and pillowcase weekly, if not more. This is one that many guys forget about. It's important even if she doesn't come over to your place afterwards. Clean sheets will help you eliminate acne, or worse, bacne.
 It's important to have a clear plan for your first date, especially if the plan involves multiple locations. You'll definitely impress her if you've plotted out some ideas for the entirety of the night, and it'll feel more like an adventure. Make sure that you've chosen a place with great atmosphere. This might include music selection, decor, and noise level; make sure you don't go to a place where you won't be able to hear her talk.


Seating is huge for a first date. Your best bet is to find somewhere with bar stools, even if you're doing a full dinner. You'll be closer to her and both of you will be able to be more physically animated. Couches also work well, and a table can be fine. Try to avoid booths if you can. You'll sink into them, and it's easy to get stuck.
While dinner and drinks are fairly common for a first date, there's no need to limit yourself to just that.Bar trivia nights have a great deal of potential, as both of you can unleash your knowledge about a wide range of topics. You'll also be working together as a team, which will ally you from the beginning. Bowling is both competitive and extremely calming, and you can engage in some friendly competition. For the more daring, cooking and salsa classes might be an exciting first step.
 Your date will definitely fall flat if you enter with an excess of anxiety. You don't want to bring all your personal issues into a date. It'll make it difficult to ask her about her interests or keep up a positive attitude. Try reducing this stress by meditating or exercising, if you have time.If you're stressed out about the date itself, there are ample ways to reduce those negative feelings. You don't want to sabotage the experience from the get-go.Make a list of deal-breakers and deal-makers. It's helpful to have a mental list of what you want from this particular date. Talk it out with a friend, especially one who has dating experience. And above all, make sure you're telling yourself that the date will go well. You'll never enjoy the experience if you don't believe that you will.

