 Consider what sets you off and causes you to hunger for what other people have or the way that someone else is. Research has found that often envy results from comparisons to others who are of similar background, ability, and achievements in relative or important areas of one's life.For example, you may compare yourself to a coworker who is of the same status and gender as yourself. The pain of envy is a result of seeing yourself surpassed by another’s ability, especially in an area of life that is a deep part of your self-concept by which being surpassed is seen as a threat to your concept of who you are.Some other examples are:

You feel insecure when someone else appears more intelligent, funnier, more entertaining, happier or more glamorous than you consider yourself.
You cannot help but continuously compare yourself to the other person, either personality-wise or by yearning for the same opportunities they appear to have.
You feel deprived and wish for the same property and possessions as someone else. You consider that your life is pale by comparison and somewhat impoverished.
You feel miserable because you think that other people have what you don't.

;
, Ask yourself what your values are, what your needs are, and what your worldview consists of. Get to the essence of what is really important to you. These things make up your core self-concept.
 Begin to pull apart the things that are not who you are at your core, and that are causing you to be envious. It is important to understand that people often extend their boundaries of their self-concept to include things that are not necessarily apart of who they are at their core. When these extension areas are threatened, the person often experiences defensiveness, hostility, or envy.


Examine if you have extended your boundaries of your self-concept to include other areas such as work, friendships, abilities, or status. Begin to make a distinction between who you are at your core (your values, your needs, your worldview, and your purpose) and what you possess in belongings, personal traits, work success, and identities in your social groups.
For example, say you give a presentation at work, and you interpret criticisms of the presentation as a personal attack. This means that you have extended your self-concept to include your work. In fact, however, you are not your work, and it is not a part of who you are at your core. Your work is simply something you do. Yes, it is part of your life experience, but it is not who you are as a person, and it is not your personality trait.
In another example, you may be envious of a friend in your social group who is similar to yourself. Perhaps you are usually the entertainer in the group or the one making others laugh. When this friend’s talent for making others laugh surpasses your own, you may see this as a threat to your self-concept. In actuality, you are not your ability to entertain others. Who you are at your core is much more than this one trait.
These types of scenarios are more common for those who suffer from low self-esteem. This is because their evaluations of themselves are lower than how they evaluate those around them, thus producing feelings of envy.
 Envy is a complicated emotion that has many facets and can take many forms. Research has found that envy can be social in nature when one perceives that he or she is being left out of the group or left behind because they are being outperformed by another in the group.Studies have found that some types of envy, termed “envy proper”, contain feelings of hostility, whereas others forms of envy, termed “benign envy”, do not include feelings of hostility.In addition, researchers make a distinction between envy and jealousy, noting the envy is a feeling of inferiority when compared to another, whereas jealousy involves three persons and stems from being afraid of losing a relationship with one person to another., Practicing gratitude helps you to practically and systematically recognize what is good or going right in your life.Gratitude can be defined as identifying what is important and creates purpose for you.Being intentionally grateful can help you put greater emphasis on what you have, rather than what you do not have that is causing you to be envious. Cultivating feelings of gratitude has been shown to produce feelings of connectedness to those around you, to a higher power, and connectedness to a deeper meaning or larger perspective of your situation and feelings.Furthermore, research has found that cultivating feelings of gratitude increases self-esteem, reduces stress, and increases feelings of empathy.Practice gratitude by writing or saying daily what you are thankful for in your life. Focus on positive life events, relationships, or the small everyday occurrences that enhance positive feelings. For example, you could adopt the practice of writing down three things you were grateful for during that day: “I am grateful for the opportunity to catch up with old friends at lunch today,” “I am thankful that we did not have any rain today,” and “How fortunate for me to find such close parking!”

, Because the basis of envy starts with comparing yourself to others, you can prevent envy by focusing on yourself and avoiding judging yourself based on comparisons with others. It is a normal phenomenon to evaluate yourself in comparison to those who are similar to ourselves in terms of status, skills, and ability.


Social comparison theory hypothesizes that there are several reasons for this type of comparison: gaining information about a person or group of people, a motivator to improve one’s own skills or abilities (when compared to someone who has superior skills), or as an ego-boost (when compared to someone who has inferior skills).So because self-comparison is a normal process with many different and valid reasons, the problem becomes evident in that envy is produced after making a value judgment about yourself after a social comparison. This means that comparing yourself to another person is not inherently bad. But the judgment and value you place on your judgment is what can lead to envy.
 Instead of comparing yourself to others and competing with others, focus on yourself. Stop competing. The only person you should ever compete with is the person you were yesterday. Learn from that person and strive to be better, stronger and smarter today, learning from yesterday's lessons. Focus your energy not on what was, but on what you're becoming.
 It's called learning. Some people might tell you that you’re bound to fail. Don’t let that deter you. They’re just stating the obvious that everyone fails now and then. The difference between you and them is that you learn from the experience and get on with trying again, while they simply criticize and do little else.
 Notice that you are different and unique. Having these differences is neither bad nor good – they just are. When you label the outcomes of your comparisons as good or bad, or as inferior or superior, you are making your self-worth contingent on someone else. You are a unique person who deserves your attention and confidence.
 Catch yourself placing more value on another’s abilities and devaluing your own, and correct your false assumption that one is better or more valuable than another.


For example, a judgement thought might be: “I’m not noticed as much in the group now that Justin has been hanging out with us. I used to be ‘the funny one’ and now everyone pays more attention to him. Sometimes I wish he’d have an off day and say something stupid.”
Corrected thought: “I know that I am feeling left out or undervalued by my friends, but that doesn’t mean that Justin is funnier. We are just different. We even have different types of humor, and that is okay.”

, Counseling can help to change your thinking, automatic assumptions, negative evaluations, and distorted expectations. Ask your counselor about cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), which can improve how you evaluate yourself and others.It can also help change your feelings of envy by helping you evaluate your feelings and subsequently changing your behavior.
 These people are your rocks, your champions. They are not the naysayers or detractors. They support you in your endeavors and genuinely want you to be happy.
 When you spend time with someone who is preoccupied with how much money he makes compared to other people, or the kind of car he drives, you might start to find yourself also comparing yourself to others. You might not intend to do so, but this person’s constant attention to these matters can rub off on you, sparking your envy.