 One of the best ingredients in food that will help with digestion is fiber. If you are running from a low level of fiber, start slowly.Start by increasing your daily intake of fiber by about 10% every week until you hit the recommended goal. This is 25 to 38 grams (0.88 to 1.3 oz) of fiber a day, depending on your age and gender.Vitamin-rich foods include:Green vegetables, such as mustard greens, collard greens, kale, spinach, turnips greens, beet greens, Swiss chard, dark green lettuces, and broccoli
Other colored vegetables, such as eggplant, carrots, cauliflower, celery, Brussels sprouts, and peas
Whole grains, such as whole wheat bread and pasta, brown rice, and quinoa
Fruits, such as plums, apricots, prunes, peaches, apples, and all berries. Keep the rinds on to increase the amount of fiber
Beans and legumes;
, Prebiotic foods are those that help support the creation of good gut bacteria.These foods can be eaten everyday as part of your diet. Eating them raw is the best way to get the prebiotics, but if you need to cook them, try to cook them as little as possible. These foods include:Artichoke
Garlic
Onions
Leeks
Asparagus
Chicory root

, Probiotics are also helpful for digestion. Probiotic foods contain much needed gut bacteria that will help with digestion. These can be incorporated into your diet as much as you can. For the dairy based products, make sure you do not have a lactose intolerance before eating them. Foods high in probiotics include:Yogurt
Kefir, which is a type of fermented milk
Miso soup
Tempeh, which is a type of fermented soybeans

, Fermented foods provide your body with both prebiotics and probiotics. It is the best to make these foods at home or to buy all natural or organic varieties of them.This will ensure they have more of the ingredients your system needs. These foods include:


Pickles
Other pickled foods
Sauerkraut
Buttermilk
Kimchee, which is Korean sauerkraut
Kombucha, which is fermented tea

, There are some foods that naturally have enzymes that will help you digest foods better. These foods include pineapple, which contains the enzyme bromelain, and papaya, which contains the enzyme papain.


Have these as snacks or incorporate them into recipes every day., Enzymes are the substances naturally found in humans, plants, and animals that can help break down foods. Digestive enzyme supplements can be taken if you want to help your digestion. Ask your doctor which enzyme is right for you to ensure it will not affect any condition you have. Take these enzymes as directed about 15 to 20 minutes before a meal. Common digestive enzymes include:Bromelain
Papain
Trypsin
Chymotrypsin
Amylase
Lipase
Lactase

