 The baking sheet needs to have raised sides, or the melted candy will slide off. If you can't find any cooking spray, wrap the inside of the sheet with tin foil or parchment paper.









Sugar sea glass is different from basic sugar glass. It is colored and frosted, just like real sea glass.
 Place the pot on the stove, and stir everything together. Try to use a silicone spatula; it will make cleaning up easier.
 Make sure to stir often, or the bottom of the pot may scorch. The mixture will be a little cloudy at first, but it will eventually turn clear.
 Do not use high heat, or the candy will boil too quickly and caramelize. As the candy boils, it will create foam-like bubbles.
 You will need it to gauge the temperature of your candy. You can get one in a baking or cooking supply shop, an arts and crafts shop, or in the baking department of a well-stocked super market.









If your candy thermometer doesn't have a clip, tie it to the handle of the pot with a piece of string. This way, it won't fall into your candy.
 This is very important. If you don't get your mixture hot enough, it won't harden properly. Your candy will be soft and sticky, no matter how long you let it sit, harden, or cool. It will take about an hour for it to reach this stage.


Do not let the temperature to reach 320°F (160°C) or your sugar glass will start to caramelize and turn brown.If you don't have a candy thermometer, drop a small amount into a glass of cold water. If the candy hardens into threads, it has reached the "hard crack" phase.
 You will only need a few drops of food coloring. The more drops you add, the darker your sea glass will be. The color you use is up to you, but most sea glass is green or blue. You can also leave your sea glass clear; it will become more white once you add the powdered sugar. Use only one flavor and color per batch.









Consider matching your flavoring to the color. For example, you can use blueberry flavoring for blue sea glass, mint flavoring for green glass, and vanilla flavoring for white/clear glass.You can buy the coloring and flavoring in the baking section of an arts and crafts store. You may also find them in a store that sells baking and cooking supplies.
 The color should be even. There should not be any streaks or swirls. The candy will be translucent. This is normal. You will be making it cloudy in a later step.
 Try to get the entire surface of the baking sheet covered. The candy will be thick and syrupy. It will take about an hour for it to harden.
 Cover the candy with a towel or dish cloth. Then, use a hammer to shatter it into smaller pieces. Tape the candy in several places with the hammer.
 This will give it that frosted look that real sea glass has. You can also fill a plastic sandwich bag with some powdered sugar, add in a piece pieces of candy, and shake it.








