 When you begin therapy, you and your therapist should have a conversation and develop a treatment plan that addresses the problem or problems you’re interested in working on. These will be different for each individual. Using your input, your therapist will identify a set of criteria to determine when your treatment can be considered complete, a point beyond which you no longer benefit from therapy.Both you and your therapist should be on the same page about your needs and develop a plan – open to later amendment – that can help.
An unclear or inadequate treatment plan would be one in which your therapist continues to suggest or provide therapy even after you stop benefiting from it.
Alternately, an inappropriate treatment plan might inappropriately end your treatment before providing adequate help.
It is impossible to say how long a treatment plan should last. Everyone has different emotional needs. The length of your treatment plan should be based on the depth of your particular emotional needs or issues.
A questionable treatment plan is one that offers guarantees.For instance, if your therapist says, “You’ll be guilt-free in 90 days, guaranteed,” you should assume they are unethical.
 If your therapist insists that you are getting better but you express that you do not feel better, or have not found an improvement in your situation, your therapist is – at the very least – a poor listener, which makes them essentially unqualified to continue treating you. At the worst, their continued insistence that you are getting better could be an unethical ploy intended to get you to keep opening your wallet.Improvement depends on the reason or reasons that prompted you to seek treatment.
If you sought therapy because you were struggling with depression, for instance, a more positive mood or outlook on life might qualify as improvement.
 Part of successful therapeutic treatment is learning how to identify and reframe negative thoughts and feelings. You’ll never totally dismiss or forget about negative feelings, but they will take an appropriate place alongside positive thoughts. However, if your therapist constantly brings up your failures or negative aspects of your personality without helping you reframe your thoughts in a supportive, healthy way, they are engaging in unethical behavior.For instance, a good therapist might hear you say, “I don’t think I have anything to offer” and suggest that your friends and family surely disagree.
An unethical therapist, on the other hand, might hear you say “I don’t think I have anything to offer” and agree, “You’re right, you don’t seem to be very intelligent or kind.”
If you leave your therapy session feeling worse than when you started, that should be a red flag that your therapist is not right for you.