 Let’s face it, some subjects you need to teach students are exciting while others can be downright boring. And not everyone (teachers and students both) agrees on which subject is which! Therefore, regardless of what subject you’re teaching, you need to make it inviting, interesting, and intriguing to your students.Engage and interact with your students while you’re teaching, don’t just write endless words on the board.
Rather than telling your students everything, ask them to provide opinions, ideas, or even guesses.
Ask your students to explain WHY something is the way it is. Sometimes understanding the ‘why’ makes understanding the ‘what’ much easier.
Invent and play games that teach the subject in an interactive and exciting manner.
Use images, pictures, and videos as often as possible.
If the subject can be taught ‘hands-on,’ get your students involved in the lesson.
Read the article How to Make Learning Fun.
 Laughter is the best medicine sometimes. But it can also be a great learning and teaching tool. Being able to make something funny, or joke about something embarrassing makes you human. Students like to see their teachers as human. There is a never-ending array of comics and memes on the internet for just about any subject you can think of. Consider finding these pictures and putting them up around the classroom.
Think about including a joke of the day or other activity to your classroom to start off a lesson and grab your students’ attention.
Laugh at some of the jokes your students say as part of their answers. Yes, it may mean they didn’t study, but getting mad at them isn’t likely to help.
Don’t take yourself too seriously. Teaching isn’t easy and you’re going to mess up every now and again. Try not to get upset about your mistakes, instead, find humour in the situation when you can and laugh about it.
 There’s a reason you wanted to be a teacher. Maybe it’s because you love kids, or because you like the idea of preparing the next generation for the future. Regardless, you’re a teacher because you wanted to be and you have a great personality. Use your personality to customize the way you teach, or the way you decorate your classroom.You may teach a subject that you absolutely love more than anything else in the world. Show that passion off to your students. It’s amazing how contagious passion can be.
 You are both a teacher and a human being. You have your own personal problems outside of the classroom. While it’s hard, don’t bring those personal problems to the classroom. Remember that your students have nothing to do with your personal problems (most likely) and don’t need to be punished because you have a personal problem ongoing in your life.Once you walk in the door of the school, put your personal problems aside until you’re outside of school again.
Smile to your students and other teachers. And keep that smile going throughout your whole day.

