 Most garments will come with a tag that gives you basic washing instructions. If the tag says "dry-clean" on it, then the garment is not washable. Unfortunately, not all garments come with tags, especially if they are vintage or second-hand. The following types of fabrics tend to be non-washable:Acetate
Modacrylic
Rayon
Silk
Wool;
, Cover the stain with your chosen powder, wait 30 minutes, then shake the powder off. Soak a cloth with some dry cleaning fluid and blot the stain up. For extra stubborn stains, follow up with vinegar. While you are blotting the garment, you'll notice the stain transferring to the cloth. You'll need to use a clean portion of the damp cloth to avoid putting the stain back onto the garment. Once the stain is gone, dampen a clean cloth with water, and blot the area clean. Let the garment dry on its own.








Oil-based stains will include lipstick, mascara, most sauces, and salad dressings.
If the stain is very thick, try to scrape as much of it off as you can with your fingernail or the edge of a spoon.
 Blot as much of the stain up as possible using a clean cloth. Next, soak a clean cloth with a cleaner from the list below and blot the stain with it. As you continue to blot, the stain will transfer to your cleaning cloth. Be sure to switch to a clean part of the cloth to avoid transferring the stain back onto the garment. Once the stain is gone, blot the area with a clean, water-dampened cloth. Let the garment dry.








Coffee and juice: white vinegar
Ink-based: rubbing alcohol
Milk or cream: Dry cleaning fluid
Red wine: rubbing alcohol and white vinegar, or white wine
Tea: lemon juice
Mud: dish soap and white vinegar

, If you got a blob of sauce or salad dressing on your garment, you'll need to scrape as much of it off as possible using your fingernail or a spoon. Always start scraping from the outside of the stain and work your way in. Next, dampen a clean cloth with one of the the solutions below and blot the stain up. Keep blotting until the stain is gone, then let the fabric dry.








Oil-based: Dry cleaning fluid
Protein-based: wish soap
Mustard: white vinegar

, Scrape as much of the stain off as you can using your fingernail. Next, create a dry-spotting solution using 1 part coconut or mineral oil and 8 parts dry cleaning solvent. Apply the dry-spotting solution to the stain, wait a few minutes, then blot it off using a clean cloth. Keep blotting until the stain is gone. Let the garment dry.









Use care on fragile fabrics, such as silk. They can rip and tear easily.
This is especially effective on nail polish stains.Consider placing a piece of behind the stain before you start using the dry-spotting solution. This will help absorb the stain and keep it from transferring.
 Simply press a piece of tape down onto the stain, and then peel it off. If the stain was oil-based, such as lipstick, there might be some residue. Simply sprinkle some talcum powder onto the stain, tap it down with your finger, then shake it off. Repeat this step, if necessary.








This works great on silk.
 The kit usually contains a stain-removing pen, a plastic zippered bag, and some cleaning clothes. Start by drawing over the stain with the provided stain-removing pen. Place the garment into the bag and toss in the provided cleaning cloth. Place the bag into the dryer, and dry it according to the manufacturer's directions (usually about 30 minutes). Once the time is up, remove the garment from the bag and hang it up so that it can dry; the bags can produce a lot of steam inside.








Keep in mind, however, that heat tends to set stains as well. You must treat the area first with the stain removal pen.
Consider taking the garment to a professional dry cleaner instead. Sometimes, the pen will not get the stain out.

