 Yoga blocks are some of the most inexpensive yoga props out there. It makes sense to be two or three, especially if you are a beginning practitioner and have arthritis.Yoga blocks come in a standard size rectangle, but have three different heights depending on whether you lay the block flat or stand it on either edge. You also can stack the blocks if necessary.
Yoga blocks give you stability on poses where you might not be able to reach all the way. For example, if you can't do a full forward fold to place your hands flat on the floor, you can rest your hands on a yoga block at the right height.
 Yoga mats have a grippy surface to provide your hands and feet with plenty of traction during poses. The mats come in several different thicknesses. If you have joint pain, a thicker mat provides a little more padding.Since yoga mats typically aren't very expensive, you may want to get a couple in different thicknesses so you can try them out.
You also may want different thicknesses if you practice in different places. For example you might want more padding on a hard floor, but might be able to get away with a thinner mat on carpet.
 Although there are many companies that sell them, you don't necessarily need to buy special blankets or towels for your yoga practice. You simply need something lightweight.Towels are particularly helpful if you have problems with your hands or feet slipping on your mat. They also can be folded under your knees or hips to provide extra cushioning for your joints if you need it.
Blankets often are rolled and placed behind joints for cushioning. A smaller throw blanket typically will work better than a larger bed-sized blanket.
 Particularly if you have stiffness in your arms or shoulders, a strap is a good investment to start stretching and opening up those areas. Straps also can help you with balance, which will decrease stress on your joints.While there are several different lengths of straps, 10 feet is usually long enough without being too long.
 For extremely stiff joints, a bolster may help you find the proper alignment for a pose. Bolsters are essentially large, firm pillows, usually cylindrical in shape. Since they may be more expensive than other yoga props, make sure you need one before you go out and buy it.For example, if you have difficulty getting into child's pose because of knee or hip pain, you might benefit from a bolster. You can either place it across your heels so you can rest your hips on it, or place it between your knees and use it to rest your torso.
 You can buy wearable yoga accessories to keep your hands or feet from getting slippery, or to brace or cushion your joints. You also may have a sleeve or brace prescribed or recommended by your doctor.If you want to use a wearable yoga accessory, you may want to run it by your doctor first. While most are designed not to restrict movement in any way, it may exacerbate your particular condition.

