 Yoga doesn’t have to just be for class. If you are serious about living the lifestyle, it will help to practice every day at home. These sessions can be anywhere from 5 minutes to more than an hour. Commit what you can, as it will add to your self-discovery and growth.Pick a convenient time and place. You can choose the moment when you practice at home, but try to be consistent or even dedicate a certain time and area in your home to your special practice.Home practice also puts you in control. Go at your own pace. Choose your favorite poses while exploring a variety of yoga techniques.Most of all, be consistent!

, If you are serious about yoga, it’s time to go to your local store and get some essentials – mat, clothing, and other goods. Try to find gear that will be useful for either the studio or your own home practice.


Keep an eye on certain things in a mat. It should have good grip and padding (but not be too foamy) and also be light and portable. Expect to spend $50-$100 for a good quality mat.Go for tight rather than loose-fitting clothes. Tighter-fitting apparel will prevent accidental “exposure” when you are stretching. For ladies, a low to medium support sports bra is another good idea. Above all, you should be able to move comfortably.You might also consider shelling out for some yoga blocks. These will help with support while you practice. While many studios provide them on-site, blocks are useful to have for home practice. Expect to pay around $20 per block.
 Doing yoga regularly, you will find that your body needs certain fluids and nutrition to function as best it can. Clean up your diet, drink plenty of fluids, and learn how to eat to maximize your comfort while exercising.


Water keeps you hydrated, which you will definitely need after an intense session. You should try to drink water in the time leading up to each class, but also in the hours afterwards. Aim for around 64 oz. of water per day.Time your meals. It’s usually not a good idea to do yoga on a full stomach. Allow at least one hour after eating for light meals; for heavier food, give yourself three to four hours.Consider going meat-free. There are practical and spiritual reasons to become a yogi vegetarian. First the practical: meat can take 4 or more hours to digest, so many people at least reduce their intake to avoid discomfort.
Spiritually, some yogis follow the concept of ahimsa. This is an ethical doctrine that says it is wrong to harm a living being, which certain people extend to eating meat.