 A headset would help a lot.;
, Use only knives until round four. DO NOT BUY THE M14 OR OLYMPIA.
 If you do not have enough money for the MP40, get the M14 and buy the MP40 as soon as you can. Note: when you get the MP40, switch it with your pistol, not M14.


You can skip the next step if you have the MP40.So it's round five and the dogs are coming, and all you have is an M14. Just remember: Always stay with someone else (during dogs), and it only takes two knives to kill them.
 Don't go into the next room yet. When you can, switch your M14 with the Stakeout, which is up of the MP40 stairs and all the way right. This is an amazing shotgun that is a one shot kill for awhile. After awhile, it is still a one shot kill if you get a headshot.
 The power switch is straight pass the curtains, but DO NOT TURN THE POWER ON UNTIL ROUND 9.
 When you are surrounded, use the MP40. Buy Juggernog as soon as you can. Buy more ammo when you need to. Try using the mystery box if you can. For the mystery box, if you get any full auto gun, or ray gun if you are lucky, switch it with the MP40. If you are amazingly lucky and get a Thundergun, switch it with your stakeout. The only two guns you should switch with the stakeout are the Thundergun and the Python. If you get something that isn't a gun like, for example, monkey bombs, obviously take it. Don't take anything else, it's not worth getting.
 Step on the teleporter and link it. Go to the main room and link the teleporter with the link pad. When you use the teleporter, go to pack-a-punch in the back of the room. If you have a ray gun or other full-auto gun from the mystery box, pack-a-punch the steakout. If you still have an MP40 and a thundergun or python, pack-a-punch the MP40.
 It should be easy.
 You should pack-a-punch your stakeout, or python, if you have one of them. For rounds 12-20, Use the mystery box until you get a ray gun, and obviously don't switch a pack-a-punched gun with any mystery box gun, unless it's ray gun. You should have both of your guns pack-a-punched. Pack-a-punch your full-auto gun again. (Yes, the ray gun is full-auto). Then, when you can, pack a punch whatever other gun you have again. These second pack-a-punches are not mandatory, so you do not need to rush to get them done, however they will help you greatly. With these steps, and extreme caution, you should make it past round 20.

