 Use a slightly oversized button-down shirt for this project. A cotton or flannel shirt will usually work well.


Sleeve length does not matter.
You could use a denim jacket or shirt, but since denim is a thicker material, you will not need to add the tucks later on.
Experiment with shirts made with different materials to alter the look. A flannel shirt will result in a soft vest with a decent amount of structure, while a shirt made from a lighter, "flowy" fabric may result in a vest that has a delicate, airy appearance.
 If the shirt has any pockets or pocket flaps, use a seam ripper to remove them. Work carefully to remove only the threads that connect the pocket to the body of the shirt. If you aren't carefully, you could accidentally put a hole in the front of th garment.


Even if you want pockets on your vest, it is still a good idea to remove any that are currently on the shirt. The alterations you will end up making will alter the structure of the garment and shift the pockets from their current positions.
Also consider removing any tags or manufacturer registration markings, especially if they were located under the pocket and are visible after you take the pocket off.
 Use scissors to carefully cut off the shirt sleeves. Cut to the outside of the seam, leaving the sleeve seam connected to the main body of the shirt.


By leaving the seam intact, you can prevent most of the fraying you would otherwise face. As a result, you will not need to hem the arm holes later on.
 Flip the shirt over to its back and identify the back yoke. Cut straight across the top of the shirt just below this yoke, completely removing the collar and upper portion of the garment.


There may be a seam or crease at the bottom of the back yoke. If not, know that the yoke is the portion of fabric that fits around the neck and shoulders.
If you are using a plaid flannel shirt, use the lines on your shirt to create a straight cut. If you do not have lines on your shirt, you may want to lightly sketch out a line with a fabric pencil and a ruler before cutting.
 Determine how much material you will need to take in at the top of your vest and plan out your tucks accordingly.


The top of your vest should be no longer than the span of your shoulders.
Keep in mind that a tuck will actually take in twice as much material. For instance, a 1/4 inch (6.3 mm) tuck will take in 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of fabric.
The tucks should each be about 4 inches (10 cm) long, regardless of how many you use and how deep you make them.
Mark your tucks using a fabric pencil or tailor's chalk. The marking tool you use should be water-soluble.
Note that tucks add structure to the garment, remove extra bulk, and add an element of style.
 Fold the tuck along the the marked line so that the wrong sides of the material come together. Sew a straight stitch 1/4 inch (6.3 mm) away from the fold to complete the tuck.


This step is easiest to complete with the use of a sewing machine.
Backstitch at the beginning and end of each tuck to secure the seams.
Repeat this procedure for each tuck that you have marked on the garment.
 With the vest inside-out and the right sides together, sew 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance across both shoulders of your vest.


Turn the vest inside-out and loosely pin the shoulder seams together. Try the vest on and reposition the pins as needed to provide a better fit.
Make sure that you leave enough room for your neck when measuring out the shoulders. Each shoulder seam should be around 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) long.
All the tucks should still point toward the center of the vest after you finish stitching the shoulders.
 Use your sewing machine to stitch a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance around the edge of the neckline.


The neckline will still fray a little, but this seam will prevent it from completely unraveling or falling apart.
If you want to minimize fraying even more, apply a fray-check liquid around the raw edge or fold the material around the neckline to the underside of the vest and stitch the fold in place.
 Fold the collars down at the neckline to a position that you find aesthetically appealing. Place a button on top of the collar on each side and sew it in place, holding the collar down in the process.


Use leftover buttons from the sleeves you removed earlier, if applicable.
If you do not have leftover buttons or simply want a different look, choose any button that coordinates well with your fabric.
Hand sew the buttons on.
 Slip the vest on as though it were still a shirt. You can let the vest hang open for one look, or button it up for a second look.


The completion of this step marks the completion of this project.

