 Study groups are suppose to be groups of people studying - not socializing. That means group members need not be friends, but rather people interested in getting a good grade in the science class.The ideal group size is 3-5 people., The study group should commit to meet at least once a week throughout the semester.Meeting locations should be a place where everyone is comfortable, and ideally contains enough chairs and power outlets for every group member. Having a room with a whiteboard or chalkboard is also ideal.Study sessions should last between 2 and 3 hours, and should include a couple of breaks.
 This is one group member who is responsible to coordinate the meeting times and locations, keeping track of the time, and ensuring the group is following the overall plan (if one was created).A facilitator isn’t required, but is nice to have. However, it’s important for this person to know they are now “in charge” but are simply making sure things are organized and stay on track.
 These goals and objectives can be created for the study group as a whole, or for each study session. If created for each study session, these goals and objectives would include what chapters or topics are to be covered during that session, and how the group members should prepare for the session.Having clear goals and objectives helps make sure the study group stays focused on what they want to accomplish., Use your own words to teach someone else a scientific concept or equation. This will help you understand the topic more clearly, and will also allow your group members to provide feedback on anything that doesn’t make sense. Don’t just teach each other new or unknown items, but use this method to review any and all concepts you’ve already learned., Study groups aren’t just for studying, they’re also for providing each other moral support and encouragement. Make sure you congratulate each other on a job well done. Turn feedback into a positive statement. Come up with fun and exciting methods to learn new materials in your group sessions.