 If you want to use this method, you'll need to make sure that there is enough space in between the head tension bracket hooks to thread the strap completely through.


You can use this method for most bluegrass banjos, especially those with a one-piece flange, but open back banjos and beginner banjos may not have enough space and will require a different technique.;
, Position the banjo in your lap so that the neck faces straight up and the strings face toward you.


The neck of the banjo should represent the "12 o'clock" position of the instrument.
 Look at the hooks along the side of the banjo. Thread one end of your strap through the hook lying at the "2 o'clock" position of your banjo, then through the next three hooks along the side of the banjo, moving away from the neck.









The starting point will usually be two or three hooks down from the neck. When the strings face you, move to the right of the neck. When the strings face away from you, move to the left of the neck.The threading motion will be similar to the process of sliding a belt beneath belt loops on a pair of pants.
For most cradle straps, the ends are thinner than the primary body of the strap. Only slide the thin end beneath the hooks; do not use any of the thick strap.
 Position the other thin end of the strap beneath the hook at the "4 o'clock" position of your banjo. Slide it along the side channel, beneath all of the other hooks, until the two strap ends meet.









The initial hook will usually be the second or third hook to the right of the tailpiece (with the banjo strings facing you).
Alternatively, some prefer to thread the other end beneath the hook at the "9 o'clock" position. This spot will lie at the left side of the banjo when the strings face you. If you prefer the way the strap feels when in this position, you must still thread it beneath the other hooks along the side channel, moving away from the neck, until you meet the first end., Place the banjo strap over your neck and check the fit. Pull more strap through the side channel hooks if you need to tighten it.









Ideally, the banjo strap alone should be able to hold the banjo in the playing position even when you don't have your hands on the banjo.
 Locate the eyelet holes in both strap ends. Thread the black laces of the cradle strap through the eyelet holes of both ends, then tie the black laces together to keep the strap secure.









If your cradle strap did not come with black laces, you should be able to use standard black shoelaces, thin paracord, or thick and durable string to lace and tie the strap in place.
This completes the process. You should now be able to wear the banjo strap and play the instrument.

