 They can be metal or plastic. Some items may need a primer for real color to stick. You may have to use several coats of paint.;
, Any number of weird or normal things can be found that would make a cool stencil. Choose something with a unique spacing or design. Even a toy railroad track or ping pong net might work. Or create your own out of cardboard or thick paper. If you want to make your own stencils, the best material to use is transparent overhead sheets because they are sturdy and reusable.
 Pick colors you have around for a cheap redo of tins. Or if you want, buy something fresh for the job in the color scheme you want. Do not mix and match faux crackle paints with regular because they are not made to mix with other paints. They may refuse to dry and ruin your work when sprayed over or put under other paints. You will have enough variety without them, just using the stencils and your creative hand.
 You may have to think backwards as you plan, so that the color you want in the design shape is laid down first. Make sure you cover any pre-printed writing on the can at this stage because you don't want to have to come back and retouch after your never-to-be-repeated-exactly stencil spraying has occurred.
 This will affect your overall theme for the tin when completed. And sometimes it's hard to remember what color was used on the bottom if you do multiple items over multiple drying days. Don't be afraid of trying a new color or pattern. Just consider it all experimentation and have fun.
 Have a light touch with the spray paint. Spritz in short blasts till you know how your paint adheres. Some paints go on wet and sloppy and need lots of level drying time. But don't worry if they run or bleed into a mess. Just go right over it with another color and call it your own special design. This is where you might need cheap gloves to prevent your stencil-holding hand from being sprayed.


Multiple stencils can be used on an item. If sprayed wet (before first coat has dried), do less spraying with the second color. Spraying when still wet creates a different effect as the colors swirl and affect each other. Of course, items sprayed can be left to totally dry between coats.
