 Take two tablespoons of baking soda and a bowl full of lemon juice. Mix them together.


Once foam appears, take a soft cloth and get some of the foam on it. Don’t press hard on the velvet, with the cloth, though. You don't want to soak the cloth, either; you just want to dab it in the foam.
Move the cloth softly and slowly in long, straight motions that follow the directions of the velvet’s nap.
 Mix the detergent with water until it suds up. Take a soft cloth, and put suds on it. You want to make sure the water is lukewarm. You could also use fabric cleaner.


Dab the cloth onto the velvet stains until you notice that they are fading. The key word here is “dab.” Don’t press too hard or you could push the stain deeper into the velvet.
Another possibility is to mist the velvet with the same concoction using a spray bottle. Don’t get the velvet too wet though or its nap could mat up.
 Take a damp cloth, and apply dry cleaning solvent to it. You could also use upholstery cleaner on velvet that is made out of polyester or cotton fabric.


Dab the stain with the cloth, and then let the solvent dry. You can use a fan or a blow dryer to make the velvet dry faster. You could also use a soft sponge to apply the chemical to the velvet.
Fabric and upholstery cleaners often have scrubbing brushes fastened on the end of their bottles. You might find it easier to use a smaller brush, though., Clean the velvet with a clean, dry cloth. Now, take a clean cloth like a Turkish towel.


Wipe away any of the remaining suds and spill that you can with the clean cloth. You may want to dab the soapy towel in a bucket of water mixed with a cap of white vinegar. After wringing out the towel, wipe off the velvet with it.
Dry the velvet. You want to allow the velvet to dry. You can use a fan or a blow dryer to speed the drying process along. It can take between 3 to 5 hours to dry velvet.
Brush the velvet when it has dried. You could also use a steamer on the velvet to restore some of its appeal. You could also vacuum the velvet again. You will want to use a soft brush on the velvet if the fiber appears matted. Do this softly, and wet it slightly before brushing it.

