 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook using a slipknot. Work up 12 chain stitches, then join the first and last chains together with a slip stitch to form a foundation ring.


Consult the "Tips" section if you need information on making slip knots, chain stitches, or slip stitches.
 Chain stitch three times, then work 21 double crochets into the center of your foundation ring, completing your first round.


This first chain-three counts as one double crochet when you count your stitches. The same applies to all other initial chain-three sets made in later rounds.
Including the first chain-three set, you should have 22 stitches in this round.
If you do not know how to double crochet, check the “Tips” section for instructions.
 Chain three, then double crochet once into the stitch at the base of your chain-three. Chain three again, skip one stitch, then double crochet twice into the stitch after that; repeat this step nine times, until you reach the end of the round.


At the end of the round, make three more chain stitches. Join the last chain of this set to the top of your beginning chain-three set with a slip stitch.
Note that there should be 11 chain-three loops at the end of this step. This step also completes your second round.
 Chain three, then work one double crochet into the next double crochet stitch of your previous round. Afterward, chain four, skip the next chain-three space, and double crochet once into each of the double crochet stitches after that; repeat this set of actions nine times, or until you near the end of the round.


After the last set of stitches, chain four again. Join the last chain stitch with the top of your starting chain-three using a slip stitch.
This completes the round.
 Chain three, then double crochet once into the next double crochet of your previous round. After that, chain five, skip the next chain-four space, and double crochet once into each of the next two double crochet stitches; repeat this set of stitches nine times.


Work five chain stitches, then join the last chain with the top of the first chain-three set of the round using a slip stitch.
This completes the fourth round.
 Work eight chain stitches from your hook, then single crochet once into the next double crochet of the previous round. Single crochet seven times into the next chain-five space, single crochet once into the next double crochet, chain seven stitches, and single crochet into the next double crochet; repeat this procedure a total of nine times.


Make seven single crochets into the final chain-five space.
Join the last stitch to the first chain of the beginning chain-eight using a slip stitch. This completes the round.
 Cut the yarn or thread, leaving a 2-inch (5-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to make a knot and tie off the lace.


Weave any remaining excess into the stitches of the lace to hide it from sight.

