 Becoming a massage therapist can be a rewarding career. It allows you to help many people on a daily basis, and allows you to connect with people in a positive way.However, this degree of personal contact may not be for everyone. Think about whether or not you will be comfortable doing this type of work day in and day out.


Remember that you will possibly have to deal with customers who think that massage therapists provide “additional” services, which is certainly not the case. Ethics plays an important role in becoming a professional therapist, so be prepared to deal with this aspect of the work.
You should also keep in mind that massage therapists spend several hours each day on their feet. This can be very tiresome for some, so be prepared for this reality.;
, How much a massage therapist makes can vary based on a large number of factors. However, the median salary for this profession is about $18.00/hour. Is this enough to keep you in the lifestyle that you desire?Remember that how much you make also depends on how many customers you have, and that, depending on many factors, you may have more or fewer customers at different times throughout the year.
Keep in mind that money should not be the biggest reason for choosing a career. You should choose something that you feel passionate about, and that you would enjoy doing day in and day out. However, it is also important to have a realistic idea of whether or not you can live on a massage therapist salary.
 Massage therapists exist in many environments. Many open their own private practice, while others choose to work in other environments such as hospitals, therapy clinics, health clubs, or even on cruise ships.

Do you want to travel a lot? If so, doing something like working on a cruise ship will allow you to earn a living while also travelling the world.
 There are approximately 300 accredited programs in the United States.

Accreditation is provided by the United States Department of Education (USDE), but there are several additional accrediting bodies, which includes: the Commission on Massage Therapy Accreditation (COMTA), the National Accrediting Commission of Cosmetology Arts and Sciences (NACCAS), the Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges of Technology (ACCSCT), and the Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools (ABHES).In order to understand which accrediting body is most relevant for you, it is best to look at the requirements for the state in which you plan to work. You can find a list of the requirements for your state here.
 Most massage therapy programs will only require you to have a high school diploma, but some might prefer that you have additional experience with holistic medicine, anatomy, physiology, and/or biology.


Be sure to find out the minimum requirements of any program you are interested before applying. If you don’t meet the minimum requirements, you are likely wasting your time in applying.
 Before you choose a program, know how you will cover the costs. Depending on a range of factors, your program could cost you between $6,000 and $11,000 in order to achieve certification, and this may or may not include miscellaneous costs such as a massage table or text books.Many accredited programs are able to offer financial aid, so be sure to enquire about this with any programs you are potentially interested in.
 How long a program lasts will depend on how many hours of training you will receive during the program. Almost all states have a minimum number of training hours that typically ranges between 330 and 1,100 hours. This means that your program could take weeks or up to two years before you are qualified to work., Different programs may have different types of massage therapy that they focus on. While nearly all accredited programs will have core educational requirements that you must meet, if you are interested in a specific type of massage, search for a school that will help you meet your goals.


For example, if you are interested in sports massage, you might want to seek out a program that focuses on this type of massage, or that will allow you to take extra hours to specialize in this type of massage.
 Not only will you learn how to give a massage during your program, you will also learn other things. You will need to learn about human anatomy and physiology in order to do your job well, but you may also learn about how to run your own business, hygiene, professional ethics, limitations of massage therapy, etc.If at any point you find yourself struggling to be successful in your program, contact your teachers immediately. They can probably offer ways to help you understand, and keep up with any course work. If you fall seriously behind, and don’t ask for help, you may fail the program.
 Once you have completed your program, you will need to meet the licensure/certification requirements in your state. Nearly all US states have some requirements. Look for your states requirements here.In most cases, you will be required to take either the National Certification Exam in Massage and Bodywork (NCBTMB) or the Massage and Bodywork Licensing Examination (MBLex), which is an exam administered by the Federation of State Massage Therapy Boards.
 If you have never run a business before, it may be a good idea to work at an already established massage therapy clinic for a few months or years. This will give you a good idea about what to expect regarding the daily running of a massage therapy business.


There are many chain massage establishments, which are popping up all over the US. Search the internet for massage therapy in your city, and you will likely come across a few of them.
 Another way to gain some experience is to look for a position at a health club. Many health clubs offer massage as part of their membership.


This might be particularly interesting for you if you are interested in doing massage for athletes. Although not everyone who gets a massage at a health club is an athlete, you may come across more clients who use massage as part of a sports injury recovery program.
 Although probably the most work-intensive option, opening your own business will allow you a lot of control over when you work, how much money you earn, and what kind of services you offer.


Be aware though, that you will need to spend significant time getting your business set up. Massage therapists will face many of the same challenges as other small business owners, in addition to other requirements of the state, such as health certificates, health inspections, etc.

