 The newspaper or magazine company that you work for may give you a camera to work with but it pays to have your own.Hunt around for a decent digi cam that will take some serious photography but also suit your economic situation. Canon DSLR cameras, in my experience, are the best in the business. The bottom-of-the-market bargains start at $1000NZD; a little price to pay but it can prove to be quite beneficial if you’re using your camera frequently.;
, Play with it. Familiarise yourself with the functions, the buttons and all the knick knacks that come with it. JUST DON’T BREAK IT!

, Lighting and distance. Subjects are great indications of where and what you are doing wrong. Experiment! Capture your subject in different lights and at various distances. Adjust the settings of your camera to suit the lighting conditions and the distance between you and your subject. Use the flash to a minimum! Use as much natural light in your compositions as you can, this provides for a better quality in your image and also allows you to utilise the functions on the camera more, effectively keeping you from depending on your flash for lighting. Blur, Angles and Balance. Landscape and environmental compositions are also great practice runs for your camera. Use the camera around your house experimenting with different lines and shapes in the lounge for example. Colour is also a great compositional solution to experiment with. The backyard promises for some amazing colours and natural outdoor light.
 Preparation notes and to-do’s are great guides for you to follow.
 This is possibly as simple as asking someone if you can take photos of them or asking them their names. Although there is no law against taking photographs of a person, even if he or she doesn’t know you are doing it, it is always a good idea to get permission, unless plans have been pre-arranged by you and your subject. This prevents any arising debates that may occur.
 This way, working with the subject becomes a lot less awkward and a lot easier for you.
 Choosing the image that sells the story is one of the key tools in successful journalism: when one analyses a newspaper or magazine article, they are roped in by the image. Choose images for your final article that contain compositional solutions which affect people’s emotions.
 However, photos aren’t always how you want them to turn out so make it a habit to re-fine your work. Refining your work illustrates your eye for perfection: this comes down to removing red-eyes, re-touching conspicuous flaws, adjusting the brightness, contrast or saturation of your image etc (highlighting shadows, enhancing colour using pictographs to name a few). I have found this step to be one of the most important in my pursuit of journalistic success. Being able to re-work original material shows the processes in which you have taken in creating a masterpiece from a simple photographic concept.

