 A good place to start when looking for a vet is to ask people you know for recommendations. Stick to people who think of pet care in the same way as you do. For instance, if you prefer home remedies whenever possible, ask someone who has a similar viewpoint.If your cat is a purebred, you can ask for recommendations at a local club specializing in that breed.
Ask your current veterinarian for a recommendation if you're moving to a different city. They may be able to recommend someone.;
, You can also start by looking online or in the phone book. If you look online, you may be able to find reviews of the vet. Even if you can't find reviews, the vet may have a website where you can see photos and read the vet's philosophy, which will give you an idea of what to expect.You can use databases like http://catfriendly.com/find-a-veterinarian/ to find veterinarians in your area.
Think about location. If you don't want to drive a long way, look at vets close to you first.
 Maybe you want to be at a small clinic where you know everyone. Maybe you want to be at a hospital where you can get anything done, even surgery. Maybe your cat has special needs and requires a specialist. Weigh all of these needs when narrowing your choices.Make sure to choose one that has experience with cats. "Cats" should be listed as one of their specific interests.
If you need to board your cat from time to time, look at veterinarians with boarding facilities.
 If you specifically need a vet with emergency services, focus on that when you are looking by using it as a search term. For emergency services, you'll likely need to find a bigger clinic or hospital. However, keep in mind that you can have veterinarian at a smaller clinic and still take your cat to a place with emergency services when you need to do so.


You can also ask about emergency services when you call. If the veterinarian doesn't offer emergency services, ask if they send their patients to a specific place for emergency care.
 Price is also a factor, of course. Smaller clinics may be cheaper than larger ones. All-inclusive hospitals tend to be more expensive. When you go to the clinic or call them, ask for a list of basic prices so you can compare.Also, check payment options. See if they take credit cards, for instance, and if they offer payment plans for large bills., You may put off finding a veterinarian, thinking you have time. However, if your cat has a health problem, you want to have someone you can call who knows your cat's history. Pick a veterinarian out who will be your cat's primary veterinarian, just like you have a primary doctor., After you've narrowed your choices to one or two veterinarians, it's time to meet with the vet or at least talk to them on the phone. Call ahead to schedule an appointment. Make it clear that you want to meet the vet without your pet so you can ask questions and decide if that clinic is the right place for you and your cat. Most veterinarians are more than willing to meet prospective clients., Before you go in, write out the questions you want to ask the veterinarian. Keep in mind that the vet may have scheduled a short appointment for you, but you should be able to ask the staff questions even if the vet needs to move on to their next appointment.You could ask questions such as:

What are your office hours?
What are your fees like? Do you offer payment plans?
What types of services do you offer? Do you have boarding services?
Do you take after hours patients?
Do you have sedation services? How do you handle cats who aren't comfortable with the vet? (If your cat isn't comfortable going to the vet and it gets vicious while there, it may need to be sedated for visits.)
Are you members of professional organizations?



, When you're visiting, make sure you like the people who work at the clinic. Of course, you don't need to be best friends with the veterinarian. However, you should feel like you can speak up and and ask questions, and you should feel like the veterinarian is competent., While you're there, make sure to check out the facility. It should look clean and orderly, and it shouldn't smell awful. Check out the other customers and pets there. Do the pets seem happy and healthy? Of course, some pets will be there because they're sick, but don't be afraid to talk to other customers about their experiences there.Ask to see the non-public areas, just to see if they're clean as well.
 The key to getting your cat in a carrier is to make it a happy place ahead of time. Put it out where the cat can see it, and leave the door open. Add toys to it. Place a blanket inside or even a shirt that smells like you. Your cat will likely get curious and explore the carrier on its own.Put the carrier out weeks ahead of time to get your cat used to the idea.
If the cat doesn't seem interested at first, try putting some treats inside the carrier to entice the cat in.
 Sometimes, a synthetic pheromone spray can help a nervous kitty. Spray it inside the carrier 30 minutes before you need the cat to be in the carrier, focusing on the soft bedding. The pheromone spray will keep the cat calmer while traveling.This spray basically mimics the smell that cats use to mark areas with their faces and paws. It makes them feel safer because it indicates the territory is already marked., Before you take your cat for an official visit, bring your cat to the veterinarian for a practice run. You could even do it once or twice a week so your cat gets used to the idea. At the vet's, give the cat treats so it associates the vet with good things.Taking your cat to the vet's office will get it used to the environment, too, including the smells and sounds. You can also see how your cat will react to other animals nearby.
 That is, when your cat goes to the vet, the vet will want to hold it down, examine its paws, and scruff its neck. Try these techniques out at home by handling your cat's paws, for instance, and grabbing the scruff of its neck sometimes (the skin at the back of the neck just behind the head). Start out with short periods and work up to a bit longer., A well-cat visit is just a checkup, much like you'd go to the doctor for a checkup. It also establishes your cat as a patient. Make an appointment for your cat to meet the vet and have its health checked out. You may ask for a longer appointment the first time, especially if your cat has never been to any vet. That will give the cat and the vet a chance to get to know one another.Watch how the vet examines your cat. If your cat doesn't like the idea of being examined, the vet may have to use a little force, such as scruffing the neck hard. However, the vet should be talking to the cat in a calming voice and trying to soothe it. You should feel like the vet is giving their full attention to the cat.

