 Look for the Facebook app on your mobile device. The app icon is the Facebook logo. Tap on it to launch it.
 From the bottom toolbar, tap on the icon of three horizontal bars to bring up a menu. Swipe up to see the bottom of the menu. Tap “News Feed Preferences” from here.
 The list of friends you have on Facebook will be displayed. Beside each of them is a “Following” button, which means you are following them so their posts will appear.


By default, you are following all of your friends that’s why their posts appear on yours News Feed. If you don’t want to see posts from a particular friend, tap the “Following” button. By doing so, their posts won’t appear in your News Feed anymore. Unfollowing a friend doesn’t remove your connection to them on Facebook. You’re just opting not to see their posts on your News Feed.
 The second tab on the header is for “Pages.” Tap on this, and a list of companies, organizations, celebrities, etc that you’ve liked and followed on Facebook will be displayed. Beside each of them is a “Following” button, which means you are following them so their posts will appear.


By default, you are following all of your interests or pages; that’s why their posts appear on yours News Feed. If you don’t want to see posts from a particular page, tap the “Following” button. By doing so, their posts won’t appear in your News Feed anymore. Unfollowing a page doesn’t remove it from your interests on Facebook. You’re just opting not to see their posts on your News Feed.
 The third and last tab on the header is for Groups. Tap on this, and a list of Facebook groups where you belong to or are a member of will be displayed. Beside each of them, there’s a “Following” button, which means you are following them so their posts will appear.


By default, you are following all of your groups that’s why their posts appear on yours News Feed. If you don’t want to see posts from a particular group, tap on the Following button. By doing so, their posts won’t appear in your News Feed anymore. Unfollowing a group doesn’t remove you from the group on Facebook. You’re just opting not to see their posts on your News Feed.

