 The introduction--the first one or two paragraphs--should be designed to catch the reader's attention. You can start with a rich question, a quote, or you can summarize what the whole editorial is about.


Clearly state your argument. The rest of your editorial will be based on supporting this opinion. Make it as striking as possible. However, in doing so, never use "I"--it diminishes the strength and credibility of the paper and sounds rather informal.
 The body of your work should explain the issue objectively, as a reporter would, and tell why this situation is important to the reader or community as a whole.Include who, what, when, where, why, and how. Cover all your bases and pull in facts or quotations from relevant sources. This ensures that every reader has at least a base knowledge (and an non-skewed one) of the topic at hand.
 Make sure to identify the groups who oppose you or else the movers of the debate will become foggy. State their opinions objectively, using accurate facts or quotations. Never use slander.


It is fine to state positive things about the opposing side, if they are factual. It shows that you are taking the moral high road and giving a balanced overview. If you neglect to air the good side of your opposition, your editorial will come off biased and uninformed.
Give the opposition an actual argument, and a strong one at that. You gain nothing from refuting a non-issue. Make it clear their beliefs and what they're advocating.
 Begin this section with a transition, clearly flowing from their argument to yours. Utilize facts and quotations from others who support your opinion.


Start with strong reasons that only get stronger. Don't feel limited to existing opinions--add your own, too. Whatever your reasons are, make sure to clearly come down on one side of the argument; there is no room for gray area here.
Literary allusions are appropriate. It can lend to your credibility and learnedness.Call to mind images of persons or times in the past that present an imagery to your reader.
 This is different than reasons and evidence. If you believe cutting the defense budget is wrong, what would you rather cut instead? Putting your solution out there is imperative to addressing the problem. If you don't have one, any solution is better than yours.


Your solution needs to be clear, rational, and doable. It cannot only work in a vacuum. What's more, it should be compelling. Ideally, your readers will be drawn to action with the information and answers you've presented.
 A note-worthy statement would forever engrave the editorial into the reader's mind. Use quotes or a question that would make the readers think hard. (e.g. If we will not take care of the environment, then who will?)


End with a hard-hitting summary; you may have a few readers who scanned your piece absent-mindedly. All in all, your audience should leave feeling more informed and moved to do something further about the issue.
 A great piece is not great if it's riddled with spelling, grammar, and punctuation errors. Have someone on your team look over your work; two minds are always better than one.


If you're working as part of an organization, make sure you haven't misrepresented their viewpoints. Allow your group to go over the piece to make sure everyone (at the very least, the majority) is behind the arguments you're about to make public. They can, simultaneously, present questions or ideas that you may have missed or glossed over.

