 A way to do this would be to visit www.calculator.net (Weight loss, very bottom, Body Type Calculator.), if you're able to measure your bust, waist, and hip sizes. If not:


The following are the four most common female body shapes:
Apple (triangle downward) Apple-shaped women have broader shoulders and bust, and narrower hips.
Banana, or straight (rectangular) Banana-shaped women's waist measurement is less than 9 inches (22.9 cm) smaller than the hip or bust measurement.
Pear, Spoon, or Bell (triangle upward) Pear-shaped women's hip measurements are greater than their bust measurements.
Hourglass Shape (triangles opposing, facing in) Here, the hip and bust are almost of equal size, with a narrow waist.
A study of more than 6,000 women conducted at North Carolina State University in 2005 revealed that 46% of women were banana-shaped; just over 20% were pear-shaped; just under 14% were apple-shaped; and only 8% were hourglass-shaped. The hourglass is normally accepted as the "ideal" female shape in Western countries.;
, This step is optional, but if somebody else if helping you and giving you their opinions, or if you're going swimming afterwards, you should shave.



Try to avoid shopping online, even if it's the cutest thing ever, unless if you KNOW it will fit you.
It's better for you to go to Kohl's or Walmart, as those places have sales often, low prices, and swimwear or poolside glamour and swimming.
For surfboarding, lifeguard suits, or anything else like that, you should go to a swimwear shop or sporting shop (that sells swimwear,) as Walmart and Kohl's wouldn't be a great place for that.
If you need a swimsuit with padding in the chest area, Walmart has many swimsuits for great prices. They have push up padding, to regular padding, to light padding, to heavy padding (Which I personally do not recommend, as in my eyes, It looks like a big bra, but don't be afraid to try it!).



To highlight a feature you like, use a bright color or pattern.
To hide something you don't like, use a solid color.
If you have pale skin, use black or deep jewel tones, such as dark purple, navy, and maroon.
If you have dark skin, bright colors can actually be more flattering and help hide what you don't like.
To add volume (such as to the bust or hips), choose a piece with ruffles in that area.
To hide volume (such as on the waist), use shirred or ruched fabric.
Don't be afraid to buy separates that don't match perfectly! Say you want to highlight your bust but draw attention away from your hips. You might buy a bikini top in a bright solid or pattern, and a bottom that's a dark black, blue or brown (depending on the top).



A one-piece will hide your waist. Choose one with shirred panels over the stomach, or in a dark, solid color.
A 1940s-style, bathing-beauty bottom that's high-waisted can also help hide a waist. Again, go with a dark color or shirring.
A tankini will highlight your waist, because it draws the eye to the section of skin that's showing. If you love your waist but not so much your hips or bust, choose this.
Boy shorts make your hips look wider, regardless of color. If you have a large bust and want the hips to match for a classic hourglass shape, choose boy shorts. However, be aware that this style can feel uncomfortable for some women, so be certain of fit before you purchase anything.
High-cut bikini bottoms make legs look longer. If you're short, or you're long in the torso, this is a good selection.
Halter tops draw attention to the bust, as do triangle tops.
Tie-front bikini tops draw the eye to the bust, as well as pulling the breasts closer to one another, effectively making them look larger. If you have small breasts and want them to look larger, this might be a good fit.
Bandeau tops will make the bust seem wider. If you're a pear shape and you want to imitate an hourglass shape, choose a bandeau top with ruffles or another busy detail.
For a large bust, look for a straight across cut at the top of your swimsuit with wide set straps to minimize your bust. Try a bikini top with an underwear and a thick chest band for extra support. A thick chest band will prevent jiggling so that the bra stays where it should be and you can't fall out.
 It's pointless buying a string bikini if you plan on swimming laps or surfing; it'll be floating off in no time, embarrassing you no end.


Bikinis are fairly limited in terms of active workouts in a pool or the sea, but a more solid tankini would hang in there no problems. Sports swimsuits often have added features to help with support, streamlining and comfort, so check them out if you're planning on doing more than keeping cool by the pool.
Most lifeguard work requires a one piece swimsuit in a plain color, perhaps the color of your lifesaving crew. You might also need to add shorts or a wet suit to complete the uniform.
One piece swimsuits can be very sexy, especially when you choose nice colors and a flattering fit for your body.
