 Binge eating may be in response to other areas of your life. If you feel out of control in other areas of your life, you may binge eat to feel in control of the situations. This may be because you're worried about another aspect of your life, such as your job, personal relationships, or the health of a loved one. One way to help change your binge eating is to manage the stress in your life.Reflect on your situation to help with stress. Are there multiple factors in your life that are leading to your stress? How can you minimize these factors? For example, if a major source of stress in your life is living with an unbearable roommate, it may be time to get out of the situation so you feel more mentally sound.
Do activities that can help you feel at ease. Try yoga, meditation, or going for long walks.Listen to jazz or classical music. Do what you need to do to feel more in control of your life.
 It may also help you identify your triggers.Taking the time out of your day to think about your actions and feelings can have a big impact on how you approach your life.


Be honest with yourself. Write down how you're feeling about all aspects of your life, from your relationships to your relationship with food. You may even surprise yourself.
Keep a log of the food you've eaten, but don't let it lead you to obsess over every little thing you eat (logging your food may not be productive for someone with obsessive tendencies). Sometimes knowing that you have to write down everything you eat will keep you from overindulging. If you start to feel a lot of anxiety around logging your food or find that you are being extremely rigid, try taking a step back and a break from logging.
You should also write down what you wanted to — but didn't — eat. This will help you notice trigger foods.This will also help you discuss your binge eating habits with your doctor and therapist so you they can help you change this behavior and notice warning signs., Take the time to connect your mind and your body. If you know what your body is really telling you, it will be easier to understand what leads to your binge eating episodes and to manage your eating. If you feel the urge to binge eat, try doing something else, such as take a walk, read a book, or some other diverting exercise until your craving passes.If you have a craving, don't give into it instantly. Decide if you are really hungry or if you just want to compulsively eat. If you have eaten recently or if your stomach is not growling, you may not actually be hungry. Try to ride it out — allow time to let the craving pass.