 If you've decided it's time to involve the higher-ups at the company, start by writing down all the details of the incident in question. Write down dates, dollar amounts, and any other pertinent information. Write down the names of any employees or customer service reps to whom you've already spoken, and describe the exchanges you've had with them.
 Track down the email or address of the person at the company who handles complaints. Compose a cordial but firm letter stating what happened and what outcome you desire. Be clear that you expect a reply within a certain time period - a week is usually best. Include your contact information and times during which you are available to speak.


Email is usually the quickest way to get in touch via written correspondence, but you could also print out your letter and send it through regular mail.
Keep records of all correspondence on the matter from here on out.
If you're satisfied with the reply you get from the company, write a thank-you note and consider the issue resolved. If you don't get a reply, or if the reply you do get seems dismissive or rote, you'll have to keep escalating.
 Don't be afraid to take your complaint to the top if you aren't getting through to employees and managers. If the company's error was egregious and harmful to you, the CEO is going to want to know about it. Be persistent - email the CEO every week until you get a reply.
 This is an increasingly effective way to get the attention of companies that are otherwise unreachable. Write a post or tweet explaining what happened and asking for help. Be sure to share it with the company's Facebook page or Twitter account. Since your complaint has now moved to a public forum, you'll probably get a response very quickly.


Don't use this method until you've already tried to contact the company privately to no avail.
You'll get better results if you don't publicly slam the company. Your posts and tweets should be calm and straightforward. Resist the urge to rant.
 Contact the Better Business Bureau, online resources like Consumerist.com, or your local TV station's consumer reporter to serve as an advocate. These institutions are set up to keep consumers from getting ripped off by companies.If complaining on your own isn't causing the company to budge, it might be time to get some outside help.

