 Philadelphia alone has many famous and important historical areas, including Independence Hall, the Liberty Bell, Ben Franklin's grave and other center city attractions. Other historical sites in the area are eastern State Penitentiary, Fort Mifflin, Washington's Crossing and Valley Forge National Park, as well as many small Revolutionary War monuments throughout the area.;
, In Philadelphia, consider the Franklin Institute and the Philadelphia Museum of Art; throughout the region are dozens of other smaller venues like the James Michener Museum and Mercer Museum in Bucks County and the American Helicopter Museum in West Chester.
 Many grand mansions from the 18th and 19th centuries remain standing in Fairmount Park and throughout the Philadelphia area; most are open for tours, and many host events like weddings or parties. Winterthur, Lemon Hill, Glen Ford and Greystone Manor are just a few of the historic mansions in the area.
 National parks and state parks include the Delaware Canal State Park, Valley Forge National Park, Delaware Water Gap, Tyler State and Neshaminy State. Each has trails, picnic and recreation areas. Along the Delaware are many smaller neighborhood parks where you can enjoy people watching, dog walking and relaxation.
 The Philadelphia Zoo and the Adventure Aquarium in Camden, New Jersey are the biggest family attractions. In Philadelphia, kid activities include the Franklin Institute and the Please Touch Museum. Elmwood Park Zoo and Animal Kingdom Zoo are 2 smaller zoos in the area. There are also plenty of amusement parks, like Hershey Park, Dutch Wonderland, Clementon Park, Dorney Park and Six Flags Great Adventure.
 The Mummer's Parade on New Year's Day, the Philadelphia Flower show in March and the Devon Horse Show in May are just a few of the yearly events in the area that draw hundreds of visitors.
 Aside from the regular chain hotels, the area has many inns and small getaways. Bucks County, just outside of Philadelphia, is a popular tourist area that is home to working farms and historic inns.
 The King of Prussia Mall in King of Prussia, Chester County, is the largest shopping mall in the United States. There are other malls and shopping districts throughout the area, as well as quaint boutiques and shops along main streets. Franklin Mills and Philadelphia Premium Outlets in Limerick are some of the local outlet shopping centers.
 There is so much to do in the area, with many excursions just a few hours away. Keep up to date on local events and activities to learn how to enjoy the Delaware Valley as a resident or visitor.

