 You can either search for a specific facility that’s located in your area, or search for those rescue pets that are available in your area.


The Shelter Pet Project and PetFinderhave helpful search tools for locating rescue dogs near you.
The Humane Society also offers valuable resources for finding local shelters.If you’re interested in a specific breed, do an online search for a rescue associated with it. The American Kennel Club also hosts a network of all the largest breed rescue organizations that you can search., Responsible shelters and rescues will be registered as 501(c)(3) charities. This helps establish that they are legitimate organizations for animal protection and welfare, not puppy mills., While most shelters aren’t fancy, they should still be making an effort to keep their animals healthy and clean. Be sure that the conditions are sanitary and that the dogs look well-fed and well-cared-for.At the very least, dogs should have access to water, a living space that clear of dirt or feces, and an exercise area.
 Most shelters and rescues will have an adoption application process that requires you to submit personal references. Some may also require a home visit to establish that the dog will have good living conditions. Find out the requirements and timeline for your facility.Thorough adoption processes are strong indicators of responsible organizations. They’re proof that shelters and rescues are trying to do what’s best for you and for their dogs.
 Most shelters and rescues offer evaluations of each dog’s temperament and socialization. Be sure that whichever facility you’re getting a dog from is up-front about the potential behavioral issues associated with your dog.This is essential to ensuring that you are getting a dog that is well-suited to your living situation. For instance, if you have young children, you will need a dog that has been socialized to deal with kids.
Even if a dog comes with some behavioral concerns, you may still choose to get it provided that you feel equipped to address those concerns with training. The important thing is that you are informed of potential issues in advance.
 Shelters and rescues should perform physical exams on the dogs that they receive. Make sure that there are medical records available for adopted dogs and that the staff are transparent about the health concerns associated with specific pets.If a dog has health issues, that doesn't mean that you shouldn't get it. However, you should be able to make an informed decision about whether or not you would like to assume the costs and effort related to the treatment of those issues.
 Reputable shelters and rescues will generally insist on a trial period with your new dog to ensure that the match is a good fit. Avoid facilities and groups that don’t give you at least a week’s window in which to return the dog.