 This cannot be stressed enough; it will save you a lot of time in the morning. Some people, mostly girls, will waste fifteen or twenty minutes trying to pick out an outfit in the morning. Do it at night and skip the stress and wasted time in the morning!;
, Here are some things to bring to school:


Binders and folders; notebooks
Pencil pouch/case
Pens, highlighters, pencils
Lunch money or lunch; and phone.
 The most common time to wake up for school is 6:00 - 6:30.


Put your alarm across the room so that you have to get up to turn it off and won't go back to bed.
 If you decide to hit the snooze button, you will wake up twenty minutes later than you should and end up rushing through the morning in order to be on time. When you finally get up, you may even be more tired than you were the first time your alarm went off.
, If you want to leave your hair down, be sure that it is neat and tidy, or if you prefer the messy style, that is is a good messy bun or tousled beach waves look. Simple styles for your hair include:


Any kind of braid
Braided bangs
Ponytails
Half up, half down.
 You don't want to get food all over your clothes for school, do you?

, It is good to keep your teeth looking clean and fresh, especially when you're going to school.


Brush your teeth for about two to three minutes, twice a day to prevent cavities.
Use a mouthwash if wished.
Floss your teeth.
 Keep it fresh and clean, ready for the day.
 This is entirely optional and if you do add any, don't overdo It. All that is needed is concealer and maybe lip gloss or sheen. Mascara and eyeliner are optional.


Remember that makeup adds time to your morning and can contribute to skin breakouts. Given your beautiful young skin and fresh appearance due to being so young, it's not needed.
 Keeping a portable bag packed with a variety of essentials can be helpful. You could include such things as:


Comb or brush
Ponytail holders, clips or bobby pins and headbands
Lip balm or lip gloss; or a chapstick
Makeup, if relevant
Lotion, hand sanitizer
Deodorant
Tissues.

