 Ideally, use a glass jar that can hold at least two quarts (two liters), as the starter will grow rapidly and force you to throw away more of it if the jar is too small. Plastic, earthenware, or stoneware containers are also usable, but glass may be easiest to clean, and makes it easy to view your bread starter.Sterilizing the jar in boiling water is recommended if your container is heat-safe. Washing the jar in hot, soapy water, then rinsing may be sufficient, however.;
, If your tap water is treated with chlorine, you can purchase de-chlorination tablets to remove it, or let it sit out for 24 hours. The minerals found in "hard" water may help the yeast culture develop, so using distilled water is not recommended.


If you do not have access to water with ideal characteristics, use any water that is safe to drink., Use unbleached all-purpose flour if you will be using your starter to make white bread, or whole wheat flour to make brown bread. Flour naturally contains wild yeast, a micro-organism which produces the carbon dioxide and other substances which cause bread to rise and add additional flavors.


Stir vigorously, adding air into the mixture.
Many other types of flour can be used to make different flavors of starter, including brown rice flour and spelt flour., If you are using white flour instead of whole grain flour, your starter may not have certain types of yeast that produce a tangy, sourdough flavor. Optionally, you can attempt to correct this by adding a little fruit, most commonly a handful of grapes, to the mixture. Use organic grapes that have not been treated with pesticides or wax, so you can add them unwashed to the mixture.


While grapes definitely contain yeast strains, how well they thrive in a bread starter is disputed. Some bakers recommend this step, while other question how much effect it has., Avoid using an airtight lid, as a successful starter will produce gas that could break the lid, and may need additional oxygen to thrive. Instead, cover it with a cheesecloth, paper towel, or clean dishcloth tied on with a rubber band, or use a loose fitting lid not fully tightened.
 In order to encourage yeast activity, keep the new bread starter in a warm environment, at least 70ºF (21ºC). After two days, the mixture may look bubbly or foamy, and take on a noticeable smell. Some starters will take longer to get off the ground, however, so don't worry if you don't notice any changes yet.


If your house is cold, store the yeast near the stove or heater, but not so close that it cooks or becomes hot or steaming. Yeast thrives in warm environments, but dies if it gets too hot.
 Stir in the same type of water and flour in smaller quantities, until it is mixed thoroughly. Cover and leave an additional 24 hours while the yeast eats its new food.
 Each day, remove part of the starter, leaving at least 1/2 cup (120 mL) in the jar. The starter is not yet safe and effective to use in recipes, so throw out the removed portion. Add in more water and flour to replace it – the exact amount you use isn't important, as long as you use 3 parts flour to 2 parts water. Don't try to add more than triple the current size of the mixture.
 At first, the starter may produce a yellowish liquid at the top, or smell like alcohol. Hopefully, this should disappear within a week, as the yeast colony grows and produces a more bread-like smell. Once the yeast is established, the mixture should consistently expand to double its size between each feeding. Continue to feed until this is accomplished, and at least for a full week to minimize the chance of competing micro-organisms taking over.Some starters may not be ready for a month or longer.


If the mixture produces a dark brown liquid instead, this is a sign that it is running out of food. Pour off the liquid and feed more often, or with larger amounts of flour and water per feeding., Once the mixture doubles in size every day for at least three days, and does not produce any unpleasant (non-bread-like) aromas or liquids, cover it tightly and move it to the refrigerator. The yeast will go dormant, or at least slow down, and you will only need to feed it once a week with flour and water, discarding part of it if necessary to avoid overflow. As long as you remember to feed it, the starter can be kept in the refrigerator indefinitely, producing yeast-filled bread starter for months or even years.


Brown rice flour starters need to be fed every few days even in the refrigerator., Before using a portion of the starter in a bread dough recipe (in place of baker's yeast), make it active again by moving it to room temperature, covering loosely with a paper towel or cheesecloth, and feeding it at least three times at 8–12 hour intervals. Knead the bread dough thoroughly until the gluten is activated, which will create a dough that can be stretched thin enough for light to shine through without the dough breaking. Because wild yeast tends to act slower than commercial yeast strains, allow the bread dough to rise for anywhere from 4 – 12 hours, or even 24 for a more sour bread.Make sure not to overheat the bread dough, which can kill the yeast. Touch the bread dough occasionally if kneading in a mixer, as these can overheat the dough.
You may also use sourdough starter in other recipes that involve flour, but be aware that it will add a tangy sourdough taste. Many people make sourdough pancakes to use up extra starter that would otherwise be thrown away during feeding.

