 You will be using one part white vinegar to one part water. Using straight, undiluted vinegar can damage the inside of the machine.


Avoid using apple cider vinegar. While is it possible to use apple cider vinegar to descale a Keurig, you will need to do extra rinses with fresh water in order to get all of the flavor out.You can also use lemon juice instead. Simply fill the water tank half way with lemon juice. If the build-up is not too bad, then fill it only a third of the way., Do not go past the top fill line. The water will dilute the vinegar and make it safer for the Keurig.
 Aim for something that holds about 10 ounces (300 milliliters) so that you do not get any overflows or spills.
 The vinegar will flow through the machine and dissolve any lime scale build-up.
 Most Keurig brewers will say "Add Water" on the screen or flash a light. If you are using a smaller brewer, such as a K10 Mini Plus or a K130 Brewer, then turn it off just as it begins to drip hot water into your mug.
 Once the reservoir is almost empty and the machine indicates "Add Water," stop the brew cycle and let the Keurig sit for four hours. This will allow the vinegar to do its work inside the machine.


Keep the machine on during this stage. If the "Auto Off" feature is enabled, press Menu twice to access the Auto Off settings, then press the Left button to cycle through the number of hours until it displays "Off."

, You want to get all of the vinegar out of the reservoir before moving on to the next step.
 Your Keurig will still have some vinegar inside it, so you will have to flush it out using fresh water. If you don't do this, you will get bad-tasting coffee the next time you use your Keurig., You may notice a strong, vinegar smell. This is normal. The smell will lessen with each cup of hot water that you brew.
 Tip the mug over the sink and dump the water out. You do not need to rinse the mug; just put it back onto the tray.
 Dump each mug of hot water into the sink before brewing another. The strong vinegar smell will get weaker with each brew.


Small-capacity brewers, such as the K10 Mini Plus and the K130 Brewer will need about three brews.You may need to refill the reservoir with fresh water.
Larger brewers, such as the Keurig K-Cup Home series, the K145, K155 Brewers, Vue Brewers (V500, V600, V700), and Rivo Brewers, will need about 12 brews. You may need to refill the water reservoir in order to get that many.

