 Everyone loves to be complimented. It makes them feel good, and it shows to the woman you're talking to that you're interested in her. While you're talking to her, don't be afraid to pipe up and compliment her if you notice something you find interesting or attractive. Try not to focus exclusively on her looks, however.Saying something about her eyes or skin can be charming when the mood is right, but chances are she's heard it a hundred times before. A better compliment is something that reflects her personality.


For instance, say something like: "You know, we've only been talking for a little while but it's obvious you're one of the smartest people in the room right now."
It's very important to keep your compliments genuine. Most insincere compliments come off as forced or even insulting. Even if the girl believes you, you still want to be saying things you believe. Any following relationship would be built on a weak foundation otherwise.;
, Flirting is an umbrella term for all of the subtle ways someone can show their romantic interest in somebody else. It requires being in the moment and having some confidence in your social abilities. Although there's not a step-by-step way to go about flirting, the basic idea begins with teasing. Smile lots, and make light jabs at something you observe about her. Work compliments into the conversation you're having with this girl, and keep the mood light., Light touching is a tried and tested way of showing interest in a girl.Lightly placing your hand on a girl's arm or waist during a conversation implies you want to have physical contact with her. There is a certain level of plausible deniability in this sort of light touching as well. Although touching a face makes your feelings obvious, a touch on the shoulder or hand can be shrugged off easily if it doesn't go well.


While you shouldn't force any kind of flirting, it can be interesting to see how the girl reacts when you first do it.
 Girls tend to highly value their friendships, even more than guys do. With that in mind, you wouldn't be doing yourself any favours by not treating a girl's friends the way she hopes you would. Her friends' opinion of you will factor into her own judgement.Although she should be your first priority, don't be afraid to make friends with them too.


Be careful not to get the wrong impression across with your kindness or compliments. Friendliness is a good thing, but don't let it look like you're romantically interested in her friends. This will make it look like you're trying to play the field, and nice girls don't like that at all.
 Humour is a man's best friend when it comes to getting a woman attracted. Even if you're not the best looking guy in the room, being able to tell a good joke can mean just as much, if not more to the way she sees you. Humour in this case is best when it's mixed in with flirting. If you notice something cute about her, try to make a light tease out of it.Make sure she knows you only mean it as a joke.


For example, if the girl you're talking to just sneezes, you can smile and ask: "Do you need a tissue?" Smile widely and touch her lightly while you say this. This will distinguish the tease from a neutral question.
It's easiest to be naturally funny if you're feeling comfortable with yourself. Don't let yourself get consumed by inner thoughts, and don't try to force yourself to be funny.
 The way you treat a woman when you meet her can say a lot about the relationship the two of you could have. If you're acting like you care more about your own feelings than hers, she's probably not going to be interested in you. When you first meet someone, it's important to treat her with total respect. Even if it's not someone you're personally interested in, you never know who is watching. Being arrogant and bullheaded around fresh acquaintances isn't going to get you into anyone's good books.


Don't confuse this with being a pushover.Contrary to what the pickup artists say, it doesn't actually hurt to be nice, but there's a difference between that and letting yourself get taken advantage of.

