 The VIN will either be printed on a plate or on a label. Either should be securely fastened to the dashboard. There also shouldn’t be any scratches on the VIN label or on the surrounding area, such as the windshield or dashboard.Also look for signs that the windshield may have been removed in order to pull off the VIN plate. For example, there may be loose molding or excessive glue on the windshield.
 Federal law requires newer vehicles have a safety label, which should contain the VIN. This label is typically located inside the driver’s side door, and is affixed to the rear or forward door pillar post. It may also be on the door itself. Check for signs the label may have been tampered with:The label should be entirely fastened to the vehicle without any loose corners.
There shouldn’t be any tears or scratches on the label. In particular, pay attention to the VIN.
The label should have a shiny clear coat.
The label should be smooth to the touch, without scratches.
The label shouldn’t be partially obscured with a screw or rust proofing material.
The VIN on the certification label should match the VINs that appear elsewhere on the vehicle.
 Check for signs that the plate has been modified or moved. For example, there may be rivet holes where the plate was fastened. Alternately, you might notice that the plate is much cleaner than the rest of the firewall, which is a sign the plate is fake.Remember to match the VIN on the plate to the VIN that appears on the dashboard.
 A mechanic might be able to spot whether the car is a fake better than you can. For example, the mechanic can easily find the VINs on a car and make sure they are consistent. The mechanic might also be able to tell if the VIN plate or label has been tampered with.If you are buying a used car, always insist on taking it to a mechanic before you make an offer to buy the vehicle.
 Visit the National Insurance Crime Bureau’s website to perform a VIN check. When a car is reported stolen, the VIN will be entered into the database.Some thieves will pull VIN plates and labels from cars that have been junked or stolen. They then attach the plate/label to their stolen car.
Call the police if the VIN shows up in the database.
 You can buy a vehicle’s service report using a company such as Carfax. You’ll order based on the VIN. When you get the report, check to see that the car described in the report matches the car with the VIN.

For example, the service report might describe the car as a 2016 Toyota Accord, but the car you have been looking at is a 2015 Subaru. In this situation, the VIN has been stolen from one car and put on another.

