 Using different kinds of vinegar when weathering will give the appearance of your wood a different look. White distilled vinegar will give you more of a brown color in your wood, apple cider vinegar will impart more of a bluish-gray, and balsamic vinegar will have more of a green tint.Depending on the wood you are using, the intensity of your vinegar weathering may vary. Differences in wood composition will influence the end result.
These kinds of vinegar are generally inexpensive and can be found at most grocery stores. You don't need a fancy brand for great results, even generic kinds of vinegar should work well for weathering.;
, To create your weathering solution, you're going to need to dissolve some steel wool into the vinegar. After that, you'll apply that solution with a paintbrush to begin aging your wood. When it dries, you can finish it all with a coat of staining. In all, you'll need:


A bowl (or other container)
A paintbrush
Coffee grounds (optional)
Steel wool (or soap pads)
Wood
Wood staining (recommended; optional)
Vinegar (distilled, apple cider, or balsamic), In your bowl or container, pour enough vinegar to coat the entire surface of the wood you are weathering. Since vinegar is a relatively thin liquid and spreads easily, 1 - 2 cups should be enough. Then place a piece of steel wool into the solution.









Generally, the longer you allow your vinegar and steel wool to sit, the more intense the weathering effect will be.
You may want to use a fine steel wool, like 0000 steel wool, as this will dissolve more easily in your vinegar solution and decrease the wait time.
At about the 15 minute mark, your steel wool will start dissolving into the solution. This will create a lighter weathering effect. Longer wait times will produce a darker result.
Adding a second piece of steel wool to the mix can speed the process along, as there will be more steel available for the vinegar to break down., Used or new coffee grounds will help to bring out rich, brown tones in your weathered wood. Instant coffee, however, reacts more easily to water, and will likely have the most pronounced effect. A tablespoon of grounds in your solution should be sufficient, if you wish to darken the effect of your weathering.


You can modify the amount of coffee used in your solution. Less coffee will result in more subtle brown tones, while more will give a more dramatic color., Dirt on your wood can create a patchy effect in your weathering. Additionally, irregular and uneven parts may not weather consistently. To ensure the best results, you should at minimum clean your wood with a damp rag.









For projects that you want to have a more finished look, you should consider sanding the wood so that it is even and smooth.
 For larger projects, you'll likely need to dip a paintbrush into the solution to apply it to your wood. When doing so, cover the wood completely and generously, but do not leave any solution puddled on it. For smaller projects, you may be able to dip the wood directly into the weathering solution.









When dipping, you should keep your fingers out of the solution. Use a pair of pliers, tongs, or a plastic glove to prevent skin contact.
The more coats of solution you apply, the more weathered the wood will appear. For most projects, dipping once or twice for a minute or two will be sufficient. When applying with a paintbrush, one or two coats should be enough.
Err on the side of caution when applying your weathering solution. If you find the wood isn't weathered enough after it is dry, you can always reapply your solution., As your wood dries, you may be discouraged that the appearance has not changed very much. This is common, and in most cases the character of your now weathered wood can be brought out with a coat of staining.









Depending on the climate where you live, your wood may dry in a few hours or it might take an entire day. When the wood is completely dry to the touch, it should be dry enough to move on.
If you're in a rush and can't wait for your wood to air dry, you can use a hair dryer to speed up this process.
As the wood dries, you should note a slight to significant change in color and a more pronounced grain.
If your dry wood is not as weathered as you like, you should reapply your weathering solution and allow it to dry again. Continue this process until you achieved your desired look., Staining your wood will add color, but it will also bring out the features of your weathering. Many kinds of lighter colored wood may not show much weathering until it is stained. Staining can be bought at most hardware stores, or in the home improvement section of most general retailers.Staining can dramatically change the appearance of wood, and some staining might react less favorable with your weathered wood than others. You should stain a test piece of weathered wood to prevent any unpleasant surprises.
There are many different brands of wood staining you might use. For the best results, you should follow the directions on the brand you purchased.

