 The most important thing you can do when you hear gossip about someone is to halt the rumor in its tracks. No matter how juicy it seems, it's not worth hurting someone's feelings over. Put yourself in this person's shoes - would you like to come to school one day only to find out that everyone's been talking about you? Wouldn't that make you feel lonely and betrayed? Don't pass gossip along - if you do, you're helping it spread.


It's also not a bad idea to try convincing the person who told you the gossip to stop spreading it. If they're a close friend or a good person, you might have success. However, if they're already a gossip king or queen, they may not listen.
Let's use an example. Let's say a friend comes to you with a juicy secret about a kid you know named Jason - he hasn't been at school for the past week because he caught mono from kissing Kim under the bleachers! In this case, just calmly say something like "Oh, let's not spread rumors about him" to squash the conversation.
 Don't let a baseless rumor you heard impact your behavior in any way. Don't start avoiding or antagonizing people just because you heard something bad about them. One of the reasons gossip can hurt so badly is because it can change the way their friends and acquaintances act around them. Imagine, for instance, how it might feel for someone to walk down the hallway at school if people break into whispers and giggles as s/he walks by. Never change the way you think or act about someone until you have reason to believe the things you've heard are true.


In our example, you would not let the rumors about Jason and Kim change your behavior in any way. You certainly wouldn't avoid Jason in the lunch room or complain about having to share a locker with Kim, for instance!

, Lots of the gossip you hear is completely bogus, usually made up by someone to get back at someone else. Sometimes, however, rumors are true or half-true. Even if you're sure that a rumor you hear is true, don't spread it. It's very embarrassing to have private information spread around the school. Would you like it if everyone knew some true bit of embarrassing information about you, like, for example, that you have a gross rash? You definitely wouldn't - neither will someone else.


Let's say that you know the rumor about Jason is true because your mom is his doctor and she let the information slip at dinner last night. Keep this information to yourself. If you let it slip, the information could be even more hurtful to Jason than a false rumor. Gossip is still gossip if it's true.
 Sometimes, people will trust you with sensitive personal information. This may be something they know about someone else or it may be information about themselves. If someone's trusted you with a secret, never tell anyone else without their permission. Not only is it a big breach of their trust, it's also a sure-fire way to start the spread of a rumor that can easily spiral out of control. Keep a reputation as a dependable friend by keeping secrets you're told.


The best way to avoid telling a secret is to simply feign ignorance - pretend that you don't know anything. It's smarter to do this than to acknowledge you know a secret but refuse to tell it - if people weren't interested in the information before, the promise of a juicy secret will probably make them try to work the information out of you. For instance, if Kim tells you that she originally got the mono from Jason's best friend Stephen, do not tell your friends "I have a secret, but you can't know it!"

, This seems likes a no-brainer, but it's surprisingly easy to start rumors accidentally! Any time you say something nasty about someone else in the presence of people you can't trust to keep a secret, you're creating the possibility that someone will run wild with your words. Be safe! Don't risk hurting someone's feelings or opening yourself up to retaliation just because you were loose with your words. Keep any mean words to yourself - or, if you absolutely have to share them, make sure it's with people you trust to keep their mouths shut.


Even telling trusted friends can carry risks. They may, in turn, tell other people that they trust. As this cycle repeats, more and more people will hear your gossip and the chance that it will make its way into the general population will increase.
 The rules above have occasional exceptions. When you hear a rumor that makes you think that people are in danger, you should tell a parent, teacher, or administration official as soon as you can. This is all the more urgent if you have any reason to believe the rumor might be true. For instance, if you hear a rumor that someone's been bringing knives to school or if a friend tells you that he's been having thoughts about hurting himself, you should tell a counselor or a teacher right away.


Violating someone's trust by telling a teacher about something dangerous he or she plans to do can make you feel guilty, as if you've betrayed this person. However, someone's physical well-being is more important than his or her sense of trust in you. In fact, in most cases, it's disloyal not to prioritize a friend's safety.

