 The best way to be more comfortable and better at kissing is to practice first. It seems like obvious advice but it really does help. You can practice on your hand, with another object, or with another person.


Keep in mind, you might not want to kiss another person because if you are already attached to girl you want to kiss or kiss her really soon after and she finds out, she might be upset.;
, The girl doesn't want to taste garlic or other icky flavors after the kiss, as this can be a major turn off. Before the date or when you see her, brush your teeth and tongue and use mouth wash! To maintain good breath try drinking water on the date instead of soft drinks. You can also suck on a mint or chew minty gum for a few minutes mid-way through the date.


If you are at a restaurant, bring along your favorite breath freshener. Excuse yourself after dinner and go to the bathroom. Freshen your breath and then, to make sure your breath smells good, hold your hand up to your face, breathe, and smell.
 This can help set the mood. Tell her that what she is wearing looks pretty; she will appreciate it! If she playfully punches you a lot or teases you in a friendly manner, then she wants you to touch her. Stay in safe territory like quickly grabbing her hand when you want to go show her something; she will appreciate not having to do the whole awkward looking at each other and blushing thing.


If you are brave you could put your arm around her waist when you two are laughing and say something playful like "You're so cute!"
Offer to give her a piggyback ride, or tickle her a little if she likes it. Don't do this constantly, and when you do it, do it respectfully. Don't grab her breasts or butt.
Flirting will make her more open to kissing you. Think of kissing as reaching the top of a mountain. You have to hike a little to get to the top.
 Getting good timing will make it a lot easier. A good time for a kiss is at the end of a date, when you're generally saying goodbye, when you're out for a walk, or after you've just finished watching a movie. You'll notice that all of these times are pretty private and should pretty much just be the two of you. This is important! You should choose a private time for a first kiss.


The kiss should stay private too. Don't kiss and tell. This is rude.
 It seems weird because we're only used to seeing the super charming people in movies kissing, but asking a girl if you can kiss her is a great way to show her that you respect her and care about her feelings. She'll appreciate it!


You can say something like: "I really want to kiss you right now. Is that okay?" or "Do you want me to kiss you now?"

, This is a universal signal that you're moving in for a kiss. This gives her the option to let you know that she's uncomfortable and will help keep you from getting slapped. Don't close your eyes until you are just about to kiss her.
 Don't use tongue the first time you kiss a girl. Make sure you close your eyes right before you start the kiss.
 Move in sideways a little. If your head is just as upright as her, you'll bump your nose into her nose instead of your lips into her lips.
 If she's a deep, passionate kisser, she'll hold your lips in hers for a long while; you won't need to move your lips much.
 If you want, cup her face with your hand and slowly stroke her cheek with your thumb. Make sure you still have one arm firm around her waist or lower back.
 Kissing is like a silent conversation: You want to be kind, gentle, forgiving, and you want the other person to keep coming back for more!

, You'd be surprised how many people forget to breathe when they aren't used to kissing! If you want to keep kissing her but you're having trouble finding a break to breathe, try moving away from kissing her mouth to kiss her cheek or forehead.
 Slowly pull away after a few seconds (or minutes!) and open your eyes. Congratulations! Each kiss after the first one is so much easier. You've reached the top of the mountain.
 This is the next big skill for kissers to learn. It's not as hard as it seems and, with practice, it can be a killer addition to you kissing arsenal.
 Making out seems tough at first, especially if you both have trouble finding your rhythm, but it will get way easier with time. Just make sure to not overdo it and always keep things interesting.
 Once you've got those basic techniques in your repertoire, you'll want to get really good at kissing, and that mostly comes down to being passionate. This is easy to do if you let yourself relax and let your feelings come out.
 Chances are, the longer you're with your girl, the more likely it will be that you might find yourselves kissing around other people (such as on a double or very public date). This is okay, but you want to be sure to do so politely!

, If this is your first kiss, then there's a good chance you also have braces. Don't worry! Despite all the jokes in movies and TV shows, it's not all that tough to kiss with braces.

