 If you feel that your insulin levels are out of control or are having a profound effect on your diet, overall health, and lifestyle, it might be a good idea to meet with your primary care doctor first.


Talk to your doctor about your symptoms (if any), goal to control and manage insulin and any weight goals you have.
Also consider meeting with a registered dietitian. These nutrition experts will be able to help you lose weight and also help manage insulin levels. They can make you a custom meal plan to help you reach your goals.
 If you can't increase your sleep, then at least try to increase the quality of your sleep. Studies have shown that the more sleep you get, the more stable your insulin levels will be.The general recommendation is for adults to get seven to nine hours sleep each night.Help increase your odds of sleeping longer and more soundly by practicing good sleep hygiene. This means turning off all the lights in your bedroom, turning off all electronics like the TV or cell phone, and giving up caffeine at least three hours prior to going to sleep., Regular exercise not only helps you manage weight but also can help you control insulin levels. Exercise cannot lower insulin levels; however, exercise helps manage glucose levels and can prevent insulin levels from spiking.Include regular cardiovascular exercise throughout the week. Cardio helps your body use glucose immediately.The recommendation for aerobic exercise is at least 150 minutes or 2.5 hours per week of moderate intensity activity.It is also recommended to include strength training two days a week, for a total of 40 minutes. Strength training also has a positive effect on insulin control.Strength training exercises include: weight lifting (uses machines or free weights), pilates or body weight exercises (like push-ups or crunches).
 Keeping a journal of your food, weight progress and thoughts about your weight loss and progress can help keep you on track long-term.Start a food journal to help you keep track of your meals, calorie levels and how often you're eating carbohydrate-rich meals. This may help you see where you can make changes.
Also be sure to track your weight. Studies have shown that long-term tracking of weight helps keep people on track longer., In 1957, a compound called “glucose tolerance factor” was discovered, which was chromium. Chromium is found in food sources including the following: grains, cereals, fruits, vegetables, and processed meats. The recommended daily allowance of chromium is 25 to 35 ug/day for women and men, respectively.

Chromium absorptions can be inhibited by antacids.

