 It’s more difficult to wake up on time if you are not getting enough sleep at night. Adults need 7-8 hours of sleep per night, teens need 9-10, and children need 10 or more. Note the time when you go to bed and when you wake up over the course of a week to see how many hours of sleep you get each night. If you are getting considerably less sleep than you should, you will need to make adjustments to your sleep routine. , One reason why you may not be getting enough sleep is that your bedtime is too late. To adjust your bedtime move it back by 15 minutes per night and wake up 15 minutes earlier each day. Do this for as many days as it takes to achieve your desired bedtime. , Chamomile tea is well known for its relaxing qualities. Have a cup before bed to help relax your body and mind. , This well-known technique for making yourself sleepy really does work. About 30 minutes before bedtime, heat up a cup of milk in the microwave for about 60-90 seconds (depending on how powerful your microwave is). , Take a warm shower, do some yoga, or meditate before bed to help relax your body. These relaxing physical activities will also help to calm your mind and prepare you for a restful night’s sleep. , Turn your alarm clock around and avoid checking the time once you have gotten into bed. Constantly watching the clock will make you anxious and also makes it harder for you to fall asleep. , These devices emit light that makes falling asleep and sleeping well more difficult, which is why you should never sleep with these devices on. Ideally, you should shut off these devices at least two hours before your bedtime. If you need a light and/or white noise while you sleep, use a night light and run a fan or play soft music. , If you have a hard time falling and/or staying asleep at night, try taking 0.5-1 milligram of melatonin before you go to bed. Your pineal gland produces melatonin naturally. However, your body’s production of melatonin decreases with age and can also be affected by the seasons, so supplementing with melatonin can help you fall asleep faster and stay asleep longer., If you continue to have sleep issues, you may have a sleep disorder and you should talk to your doctor about possible medications and non-medication treatments. 