 This includes goals, living arraignments, etc. Actual perfection, when nothing ever goes wrong and everything is amazing, is not possible. But you can get close by paying attention to your hopes and desires, striving to better yourself, and enjoying the present moment. When you envision your perfect day, what do you see? Who is there, what are you doing, and where are you?


Focus on things in your control, like your studies, career goals, and lifestyle.
Think of people whose lives you admire. What about their life appeals to you?
There is no "right" way to live a perfect life, so don't try and imitate anyone else. Instead, follow your own passions, dreams, and desires.;
, Volunteering, tutoring a friend, and helping your parents around the house aren't just nice things to do, they can improve your own well-being.Doing good makes you feel good and it builds a loving, supportive network of people around you that will help if your own life ever gets tough. Make your life about more than just you and the feeling of perfection will creep one step closer.
 Education is, and always will be, the easiest way to make something of your life. Through education you improve your job prospects, your ability to think and reason in any situation, and your general knowledge on a variety of subjects. School, however, often makes it difficult to truly enjoy learning, turning it instead into a stressful chore you must slog through. However, by re-framing school as a chance for a free education, enjoying the learning purely for leaning's sake, you can find new motivation to study and grow with or without a teacher.


The old adage, "knowledge is power," could not be truer. It doesn't matter what you do in life, the ability to learn and hold knowledge will help you be successful and happy., You are busy, and it often feels like people need teenagers to do 8,000 things every 24 hours. But you need to put your own happiness first sometimes in order to do you very best work. Each day, take 15 minutes or more to yourself. You could read, listen to music, go for a walk, or simply lay in bed and count the stars on your ceiling. Distance yourself from other people, if only for a few moments, and relax. As you do, let your brain stray from all the stresses that hit you each day. Just enjoy the moment and think about yourself.This is one of the easiest, best ways to tune into yourself and your goals.
Try meditation for 15 minutes a day. It's been proven to aid mental, social, and physical health., Being a teenager is not easy. You are expected to excel in school, prepare for your future, join a few clubs, help with chores, and still "be a kid" and have some fun, all while undergoing profound mental and physical changes. But being a teenager can also be a blast-- you get to spend all day at school with friends, avoid most responsibility to pay bills or put food on the table, and get the chance to shape your life and future unlike any prior time in your life. So, especially when times are tough, take some time to enjoy the present moment. Take a deep breath and ground yourself in the here and now. You're young, and the whole world is in front of you. Even more importantly, you have the ability, right now, to make it perfect.


Remember, being a teenager doesn't mean you can't be a kid still. Have some fun, break a rule or two, and kick back and relax. Enjoy life!
As important as your teenage years are, they aren't everything. Everyone makes mistakes, loses sight of goals, and takes a few wrong turns in their teenage years. There is very little you can do now to "ruin the rest of your life," no matter how bad things seem., No one can completely escape bad thoughts or events, and that is okay. Instead of wallowing in them, find ways to think of them as positives. For example, you may fail a test in chemistry, an event that doesn't seem to have any upside. However, this failure tells you something useful about your study habits, the skills you still need to work on, and potentially something about your enjoyment and engagement in chemistry. You can use this failure to make you a better student and person.


Avoid damaging or hurtful language in your own head. Don't say "everyone hates me" when you know that this isn't true of your friends and family. Don't say "mom will kill me if I fail," when you know deep-down that she'll love you nonetheless., No life is ever perfect. There will always be mistakes, setbacks, misunderstandings, and plain bad luck. But these issues are all chances to improve yourself, and how you react to the bad times is far more important than the bad times themselves. Acknowledge that your life will never be perfect, but that you can get a little bit closer each time you overcome trouble or hardship.


When something bad happens, keep your cool and think "how can I handle this?" Avoid blaming yourself or others, lashing out, or wallowing in self-pity. Pick yourself up, find a solution, and think of ways to prevent a similar issue from occurring later in life.