 Some models have features than help you to hear better in specific situations. Not all of these will benefit you; it depends on your lifestyle and needs. Your doctor or audiologist can help you understand what type of hearing loss you have, whether or not your hearing loss is likely to progress or worsen, and which features might benefit you most.
 Models with directional microphones help your hearing aid pick up and amplify sound in front of you while limiting sounds coming from beside or behind you.Models with noise reduction can be helpful if you’re frequently in an environment with lots of background noise, like in a busy workplace setting. Other models have noise cancellation features to help block out background noise.


Some models allow you to move your directional microphone to focus in a specific direction.
Consider a feature to reduce wind noise if you’re often outside.
 Some models have rechargeable batteries, which means you don’t have to change the battery often. This may make it easier to use.If you’re using a traditional battery, consider how big the battery is – larger batteries are easier to handle and hold a charge longer, but tend to require larger, more visible devices.


Before you buy a model, practice changing the battery. You’ll feel whether it’s easy or challenging for you., Many models now come with wax guards, since there’s traditionally been such a problem with earwax clogging speakers. You’ll want to know how to remove and clean the wax guard and how often you need to do so.This is probably a good buy for any user, unless you have a model that has solved this problem a different way.
 Some hearing aid models have tiny vents in the ear molds that decrease the feeling that your ear is stuffed up, and might help improve your ability to understand speech.You may want this option if you’ve experienced discomfort with other models.
 If you want a device that’s easy to use, consider a model that has a remote control. This allows you to alter the volume and change features without having to touch the hearing aid., There are a number of features available that make it easier to use phones, TVs, computers, and other electronics with your hearing aid. These are usually just available in BTE models.If you frequently use electronics or have a particularly difficult time hearing people over the phone, on the TV, or in large group settings that use speakers, consider one of these options:Get telecoils to use with a telecoil-compatible phone. These improve your hearing on the phone by eliminating background noise. Telecoils also work by picking up some public signals like those in theatres or churches – when available, this can help you hear the movie, play, or speaker better.
Some hearing aids are Bluetooth-compatible and can sync with your cell phone, TV, or other electronics that use Bluetooth. Depending on the model, you might need an intermediate device to pick up the signal and relay it to your hearing aid – be sure to ask the seller how this works.
The direct audio input feature lets you use a cord to plug your hearing aid directly into a computer, music player, or TV.
 You can increase the use of your hearing aid with the variable programming feature. This lets you store multiple preprogrammed settings (like volume, noise control, and others) for different listening environments.For instance, you can have a setting for being outdoors, another for being in a crowded indoors area, and another for quiet spaces.
 If you use a hearing aid in both ears, consider simplifying matters with synchronization. This makes the two hearing aids work together, so that a change you make to one (volume, for instance) affects the other.This may not be helpful if your level of hearing loss is different in your two ears.

