 Sometimes expensive makeup brands really are of superior quality, but often they are marked up for no reason at all. Remember that just because the packaging looks fancier, does not necessarily mean that the product is superior, so give bargain brands a chance.Sometimes you can find bargain versions of high-end products. The name and packaging might be different, but the product is almost the same, so don't be fooled! You can search online to find lists of makeup dupes that have been found out by savvy shoppers.Be sure to look at the bottom shelves when shopping, as stores tend to put the priciest items at eye-level. You may just discover an affordable brand you didn't know about by paying a little extra attention.;
, It's always a good idea to do research on a new beauty product before you invest, especially if it's on the pricey side. It's easy to find out all about a product by doing a simple internet search.


Read reviews online before you buy a new product for the first time. This will help you decide if it's worth it to splurge on a more expensive, higher quality product, or if the bargain brand is just as good.Ask your friends for advice. They might have discovered a great, affordable product that is just what you've been looking for.
If there are testers available, always use them. You don't want to go home with a lipstick if you're not happy with the shade. This will have been a complete waste of money.
 You don't necessarily need a new product for every beauty need. There are lots of products available that are either advertised as multi-purpose, or can easily be used for more than one purpose.Lots of products can be used on both your lips and your cheeks, especially stains and cream products.
Instead of buying a contouring kit, consider whether you have a bronzer or eye shadow that might work just as well.
 If you've been thinking about splurging on a new product, but you're not sure that it will be worth it, consider asking the store or the manufacturer for a sample. This won't always work, but some companies will give out samples in the hopes that you will become a loyal customer, so give it a try.If you end up loving the product, you will at least know that buying it again will be worth the splurge. There's nothing worse than spending a ton on a product that you don't end up using.
 You don't necessarily need to buy every beauty product at the store where you first see it. Once you've decided what you want, try searching online to see if you can find a better price somewhere else. There's no use in spending more for the exact same product!Comparison shopping is especially useful when you can try the product out at a store, but then purchase it for a lower price online., If you tend to shop at the same store for beauty products, reap the rewards! Lots of stores have rewards programs that will give you credits (or even free products) once you have spent a certain amount.If you belong to one of these programs, make sure the cashier always scans your card so you get the points you've earned.
Consider saving up points to buy a pricey item that you wouldn't otherwise be able to afford.
 Most stores have sales at some point, so always check to see which store has a sale on the products you want. You could even try asking the associates if they know when the next sale will be.If you pay close enough attention, you might start to notice that the sales at your favorite stores happen on a regular schedule. If you can master the schedule, you can stock up on all of your favorite items when they are on sale so you never have to pay full price.
Buying items that have been available for a few seasons instead of the latest craze can help you save a lot, as these items are more likely to be on sale.
 A quick online search can help you find lots of great coupons that can help you get a better deal on cosmetics. Stores and manufacturers both put out coupons, and these can even be combined sometimes, which means even greater savings for you.Don't forget to look through the store's weekly circulars to see what deals they are offering.
If you sign up for email notifications from your favorite stores and beauty brands, you will have access to even more coupons.Some high-end makeup stores will give you credits for new products if you recycle your empty containers, so be sure to look into this before you throw them away.If you can't find a coupon, search online for discounted gift cards to your favorite beauty store. People often sell unwanted gift cards for less than the face value just to get rid of them., It can be easy to forget about unused products that may be lurking at the bottom of your makeup bag, so be sure to go through them all before you go out shopping for new makeup. This can help prevent you from buying duplicates of products you already have, so you have more money to spend on new items.


Doing inventory will be easier if you stay organized. Try to keep all of your makeup in one place and organize it by type so you will be able to see what you have quickly. You may want to buy a large makeup case with many compartments to hold your different products. You can also store your makeup in a drawer and use drawer dividers to keep everything tidy., Having a good idea of exactly how much you're willing to spend on a product before you go to the store can help you avoid impulse buys. A budget also forces you to think about which purchases are high-priority and which are low-priority.If you have a hard time sticking to your budget, try setting aside a small amount of money specifically for makeup. When you have enough, go shopping and pay in cash. If you don't have enough cash saved to cover the items in your cart, you'll have no choice but to put something back.
If you really can't trust yourself to stick to your budget, leave your cards at home and bring only as much money as you want to spend to the store with you.
 Having a list of the items that you need will help keep you on track and prevent you from wandering the aisles aimlessly. When you get to the store, go straight for the items on your list.If you're tempted to buy something that's not on the list, take a moment to consider how that will affect your financial goals. If you realize that you may not be able to afford to go out to dinner with your friends if you spend all of your money on makeup, you may think twice about it.
 Decide how often you will go shopping for makeup and avoid going to makeup stores or wandering in the makeup aisle at drug stores between shopping sprees. This will only leave you tempted to buy things you can't afford.


Try to think of new makeup as a reward, and remember that if you spend money on smaller items between your shopping sprees, you will have less to spend on the expensive items you have been craving.

