 Find a comfortable place in the house where you like to breastfeed. Stock it up with the essentials, water, the phone, maybe a book or a notepad. It may be good to have the diaper (nappy) changing station close by.
 If your baby is already crying, respond quickly. From Erick Erickson's Eight Stages of Development, we learn that the first and most important thing your infant learns is "Basic Trust Versus Basic Mistrust". Responding quickly to baby will teach baby that the world is a safe place.
 Many new mothers stress over what a crying baby needs; and this is a simple and effective response.
 Watch baby's muscles relax now that baby is feeding. Take inspiration from baby and relax your muscles also. But, you will say, there is more to raising a child then nursing.
 Is baby cold, hot, or in need of a diaper change? Now that your baby is close to you, it is a perfect time to check over his or her physical well-being.
 Does baby want attention, a nap? If so, your job is easy because baby should already be dozing off. While you are still sitting there calm and relaxed, think of what you can do to best help this baby stay happy. Can you carry baby in a sling while you work? Can you sit baby in a bouncy chair where he or she can watch you run about the house and clean it? Can you give baby an interesting object to put in her or his mouth?
, Solve any of these other problems that baby is in need of.
 Maybe attach baby to you with a carrier or a wrap. Maybe put baby in an exerciser or a seat where she or he can watch you work. Place within the baby's view a toy, a kitchen utensil (a whisk works well) or some other daily object that is safe. If you set baby up well, you may be able to get something done while he or she is happy.
 Return any lost toys that cause baby to get upset. If baby is close by where he or she can watch you work, you can catch little problems before they become big. If a toy is dropped you can pick it up before the baby cries and give back to baby before an upset. Check in often with baby. Put your face close to baby so that she or he can see you. Talk to baby and stroke his or her soft little head. This little check-in when the baby is not upset will strengthen baby's confidence and trust in her or his support network.
