 It's important to know what you're talking about, so that you can describe the relevant goals, fouls, moves and equipment with expertise. Extra background information such as quotes, statistics, and team news are great to know too, as they'll make your report stand out from any other recount of that particular match.


What do you know about individual players? Try to read up on their backgrounds to gain an idea of their personalities, past sporting history and hopes for the future. This human element can add a lot to your writing, helping to make these people more real to the readers.;
, This will 'set the scene' for the reader.


For example: "Conditions looked difficult for the two teams, despite the groundsman's best efforts to clear the pitch before the game."

, Include things like who had the first shot, and which team started the strongest, any missing players or the form of particular players as they went onto the field or arena.
 This means detailing the goals, the sendings off and any altercations. If there is a groundbreaking achievement, such as "the first time" something has ever happened in that sport, be sure to detail it well, as the readers will be extremely curious. Fill in the gaps with statistics.


For example: "For the next twenty minutes, the home side dominated - with 80 percent possession."

, For example, if the goal came from a free kick, then mention that a foul was committed, which resulted in the set piece. After explaining that, go onto describe how the goal was scored. 


For example: "The resulting free kick was beautifully curled into the top right corner."

, This can include a discussion of what the result means to the teams involved, such as whether they survived to another round or are out of the series. If it's an individual, explain what this sports player is likely headed for next, such as another championship round or retirement.


For example: "The victory lifted them out of the relegation zone and into the top half of the table."

