 You may be informed about certain rules in the house while you are visiting. While you are there, follow these rules as best as you can. Ask if you're uncertain about something.

Watch to see if people remove their shoes inside of the house. If you're unsure, you can ask, "Should I take my shoes off?"
Avoid commenting on the rules while you are in their home. Don’t say anything like, “I don’t understand why we need to be so quiet. It’s not like we’re bothering anyone.”

, Be sure to ask for permission before getting a drink, helping yourself to a snack, or leaving to do something. This will show their parents that you respect their home and boundaries. It will make them think you are responsible and polite.You can say, "Mr. Phillips, Kayla and I would like to go to the park for a few minutes. Is that alright with you?"
You do not need to ask permission to use the bathroom, but you may want to ask where it is so that you do not accidentally walk into the wrong room. You can say, "Can you show me where the restroom is?"

, When you visit your friend for the first time, you may want to say something nice about their home. Make sure that these compliments are sincere. For example, you can admire their garden or say something nice about their decorations.For example, you can say, “Mrs. Jones, you have such a lovely home. I really like your paintings. Where did you get them?”
Avoid giving too many compliments or they may seem insincere.
 If you are having a meal with your friend’s family, make sure that you are polite at the table as well. Ask them if you can help set the table. Wait to eat until everyone has been served or until the parents have started eating.The family may say a prayer or blessing before they eat. Even if you do not share their religious beliefs, bow your head in silence until it is finished.
Try a little of everything that they serve. If you are allergic or have dietary restrictions, tell them before dinner so that they can try to accommodate you.
Sit straight in your seat. Avoid slouching or putting your elbows on the table. Do not use your phone at the table.
 If your friend’s parents have done a big favor for you—such as buy you dinner or let you stay over for a few days—write them a brief thank you note. This can be a handwritten letter or an email. Write a few sentences thanking them for their hospitality, and let them know how much you enjoyed their company.For example, you can write, “Thank you so much for taking Sarah and me to the zoo last weekend. I had a great time, and I really love being around your family. I am looking forward to our next adventure. Best wishes, Oliver.”

