 Check the packaging for any labels that indicate whether or not it is recyclable. However, be aware that these only provide general information and do not reflect whether your community is equipped to process this container. Also keep in mind that a lack of labels does not necessarily mean that the container can’t be recycled. Labels to look for include:Widely Recycled: this type of container is recycled by at least 75% of municipalities.

Check Local Recycling: the container is recyclable, but fewer than 75% of municipalities do so.

Not Currently Recycled: although the container may be recyclable, very few communities will accept it.

Widely Recycled at Recycling Points (Check Locally for Kerbside): the container can be dropped off at a local recycling center in most areas.

Universal Recycling Symbol (also known as the Mobius Loop):this could mean that the container is recyclable, but it could also only mean that it was made from recycled materials.#1 through #7:these numbers are usually located within the Universal Recycling Symbol on plastic containers. They indicate the type of chemicals used to make this particular type of plastic.;
, Visit their website or call their offices. Ask if their recycling program includes your specific type of container.Specify whether it is a plastic container or a paper container in case they recycle one type but not the other.If it is a plastic container, include the number within the Universal Recycling Symbol (#1 through #7) in your search, since one type of plastic may be accepted, but not another.


Plastic containers may be more likely to be accepted. Some communities may even require that they be included with your recycling instead of your regular garbage.
Paper containers are much less likely to be recycled due to a plastic lining inside. This lining prevents freezer burn, but it also interferes with the recycling process and may contaminate other paper products that are processed at the same time.
 If your community accepts your container, clean it thoroughly before recycling. Since it contained food, scrub any remaining bits of ice cream from inside and rinse the container out. Be aware that food can spread bacteria through other products during recycling and spoil the whole batch., Remember that just because one community allows all recyclables to be combined in one can, the next one may not. If you have moved to a new area (or aren't quite sure of your current community's guidelines), visit their website or call the appropriate office to find out. If they require you to separate materials (such as paper from plastic) before curbside pick-up, place your container with similar recyclables.


Do the same if you need to drop your container off at a recycling center. The fact that it isn't accepted as part of curbside pick-up means that it needs to be sorted out from other products and dealt with separately., Follow your community's guidelines for recycling. If ice cream containers are accepted as part of your curbside pickup, simply place the container in the appropriate recycling can. If ice cream containers are only accepted at recycling centers, find the most convenient one for you to go to and drop it off.