 Your child will normally start to smile at six to eight weeks old. If you do not notice they smiling at two months or older, they may have a form of cognitive development delay.


They should also react to the facial expressions of others and display facial expressions, even if it’s sadness or anger.
 As early as three to four months old, typical children show affection towards others through physical gestures like gurgling, babbling, smiling, and moving their arms and legs.By 12 months of age, they are able to interact with you through other physical gestures like waving their hands. , Typical children are able to express their feelings and emotions in stressful or harmful situations.


For example, if they fall and get hurt, they would cry or verbalize their injury, rather than stay quiet or appear emotionless. If they do not have these reactions, they may have damage to the part of the brain that controls emotion.
Exaggerated fear responses in ordinary situations or diminished response to strong stimuli may indicate Sensory Integration Disorder.
 One of the most common games that parents and newborns play is Peek a Boo. At 8 to 12 months old, a typical child will want to play games with you like Peek a Boo, and respond to you with laughing or babbling sounds.Typical children enjoy playing pretend with dolls or stuffed animals alone or with others, imitating father or mother roles and other familiar figures while playing.The willingness to play with other children is also very important, as a child’s natural instinct will be to see another child and play or talk to them even though they are new or unfamiliar. If your child does not enjoy playing with others, this may indicate your child has problems with communication and interaction.
 If your child has difficulty following instructions, it may be because they cannot understand or comprehend the instruction, indicating possible cognitive developmental issues.


As early as four months old, a typically developing child will repeat your words or imitate your actions, such as sticking your tongue out or blinking.If your child does not do this, it may be because they cannot recognize or understand your actions.
 As children with social and cognitive developmental delays grow older, they have difficulty with intellectual skills like a lack of reasoning skills, an inability to sit still in class, difficulty memorizing problems or questions, and a slow rate of learning.


They tend to perform poorly in academics compared to their peers and their learning abilities are usually two grades below others in their grade or age group., Social development delays include issues with interacting, sharing, and co-operating with others, as well as difficulties forming relationships.Cognitive development issues include issues with learning and functioning.These delays may be caused by:


Genetic disabilities like Down syndrome.
Significant medical problems before and during birth, or an exposure to toxins or alcohol (fetal alcohol syndrome).
Parental neglect or family disorder.

Autism spectrum disorders.
 If social and cognitive developmental delays are detected early in your child, proper treatment and assistance can improve their performance and help them become independent.


Occupational, social, and cognitive skill-oriented therapies are all effective ways to treat social and cognitive issues.
Medication may be required to control problematic behavior.
Behavioral therapy may be needed in severe cases.

