 Measure 2 cups (200 g) of rye flour into a mixing bowl. Add 1 2/3 cups (200 g) of bread flour along with 2 1/4 teaspoons (7 g) of instant yeast and ½ teaspoon of fine salt. Stir the dry ingredients until they're well mixed.If you don't have bread flour, you can use whole wheat flour.;
, Pour 1 cup plus 2 teaspoons (250 ml) of warm water into a small mixing bowl or jug and add 1 tablespoon of honey. Stir the mixture until the honey dissolves in the water and pour it into the bowl of dry ingredients. Use your spoon to stir the ingredients together. You should see a shaggy dough form.If the dough seems too dry to form a rough dough, you can add a few teaspoons of water at a time and stir it in. Rye flour absorbs a lot of water, so it may need a little more.
 Sprinkle a little extra rye flour on your work surface and scoop the shaggy dough onto it. Use the palms of your hands to knead the dough for about 10 minutes. The dough should become smoother (although not as elastic as dough made with white wheat flour).There are many ways to knead dough. For a basic way to knead dough, use one palm to spread the dough away from you. Fold the dough back to the center and turn it about 45 degrees. Use your palm to push the dough away again. Continue pushing, folding, and turning.
 Get out a large bowl and spread a little vegetable oil or cooking spray in it. Set the dough into the bowl and cover it with plastic wrap. Put the bowl in a warm spot and let it rest for one to two hours. The dough should double in volume.If you use a clear bowl for proving the dough, you can easily see when the dough has doubled in size.
 Once the dough has doubled, sprinkle a little more flour onto the work surface and scoop the dough onto it. Use your fist to punch the dough down, so any air trapped in the dough is knocked out. If you'd like to add caraway seeds to the dough, you can knead 1 teaspoon of the seeds into the dough., Get out a 9 x 5-inch (23 x 13-cm or 900 g) loaf pan. Sprinkle the pan with some rye flour and set it next to your work surface. Use the palms of your hands to shape the dough into an oval loaf. Set the loaf into the loaf tin., Spray some plastic wrap with cooking spray and cover the loaf pan with it. Put the pan in a warm place to prove one more time. Let the dough rest for one to one and a half hours more. The dough should double in volume again.The rye bread dough will develop flavor as the dough rests.
 Turn the oven on to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C) once the dough has almost finished proving. Try to preheat the oven during the last 30 minutes of the proving time. If you wait until the dough has finished proving before you turn the oven on, your dough may over prove and collapse when it bakes., Once the dough has finished proving, take the plastic wrap off. Sprinkle the top of the loaf with more rye flour. Use a sharp, serrated knife to make a few shallow slashes across the top of the loaf.Slashing the bread will give the air a place to escape as it bakes. If you don't slash the bread, the bread may tear unpredictably as it bakes.
 Put the loaf of bread in the preheated oven. Bake the light rye bread for 30 minutes. The top should turn a dark brown. Remove the pan from the oven and tip it out of the pan. Let the bread cool for at least 20 minutes before you cut it.You can tap the bottom of the bread to test for doneness. If the bread sounds hollow, it's finished cooking.

