 When you notice that a friend or coworker is having a hard time with something, reach out to help. Volunteer to participate in group projects, even if you usually prefer to work alone. When you go out of your way to help people, they will have a hard time holding a grudge against you.Be genuine when you help others. If it’s obvious that you’re just trying to improve your reputation, it won’t work.
 Taking personal responsibility is an important skill to learn, and it can improve both how others view you and how you view yourself. If you do something wrong, either intentionally or accidentally, own up to it immediately. Don’t try to cover up the mistake or blame it on somebody else. People will eventually find out if you lie about something, and the fallout will harm your reputation even more.For instance, if you have a rep for lying or stealing, you want to show a sense of integrity whenever you can. If you find a wallet on the ground, don't keep it. Turn it in to someone who can see that it gets back to its rightful owner like a receptionist or police officer.
 Try to find the good in every person and situation. If you’re in the habit of complaining about things or criticizing others, work on keeping those thoughts to yourself. Don’t ever gossip about or bad-mouth somebody behind their back, even if you no longer see or work with that person., Your social circle affects the way people see you. If you spend a lot of time with people who are harming your reputation, consider finding a better group of friends. Join some new clubs or groups that interest you, or reach out to acquaintances you would like to know better.Finding a new group of friends also gives you the chance to start over with people who aren’t biased against you.
 People these days often ignore their face-to-face relationships for those online. However, if you are trying to improve your reputation with those closest to you, you will need to give them more one-on-one time. Unplug from social media and try to spend more time with your closest friends and family.Staying off social media may also help your reputation if you tend to post inappropriate things or form destructive relationships online. A break from social media may give you time to evaluate how you want to behave differently moving forward.

