 Treatment of campylobacter is focused on management of acute dehydration, electrolyte status, and nutrition.


Begin rehydrating immediately and maintain hydration through the appropriate fluid intake.You can drink water or sports drinks as well as commercial rehydration products such as Pedialyte or Rehydralyte.
Resume a normal diet as soon as you can tolerate it.
 In some instances, campylobacter treatment may include an antibiotic.A doctor may base the decision of whether or not to use an antibiotic with suspected Campylobacter on a test of your feces.


The decision to use an antibiotic should be carefully weighed against unintended and potentially harmful consequences such as development of super antimicrobial-resistant infections, and worsening diarrhea as the normal flora of the stomach gets eradicated.
 The symptoms of a campy infection often don’t develop immediately. Your symptoms can start anywhere from one to seven days after infection.When you develop the symptoms, try to connect your infection with something you ate, drank, or did that might have brought about the infection.


If you later consult a doctor, he or she might want to know the origin of your infection, and any information you can offer will help them make a better diagnosis.
Knowing where your infection came from can also help you make better choices in the future to prevent another infection.
 However, there are several cases where you should call your doctor for treatment, including:


if you have a fever of 101°F (38.3°C) and above, accompanied by diarrhea.
if your condition deteriorates and your symptoms become more frequent and intense after five to seven days.
if you’re seriously dehydrated. Serious dehydration is characterized by feeling lightheaded, thirsty, and dizzy.
if you have diarrhea and have recently traveled to a foreign nation.
if you see blood in your stool.
if your diarrhea does not become less frequent after five days (or after two days for children).
 If your symptoms are significant enough that you feel talking to a doctor is necessary, he or she will need to run tests to confirm that you have campy. Because many other infections can cause the same symptoms, Campylobacter must be tested for by a doctor. This usually consist of a stool specimen culture. The doctor might also do a blood cell count, with special attention to your white blood cell count.White blood cells are important because they help stop infections.
 In the meantime, drink plenty of fluids. If you are older or immuno-compromised, however, you should seek medical attention.
 If the infection is more severe, a doctor may prescribe antibiotics to shorten the length of your infection. The most common prescription antibiotic is amoxicillin.


There are several natural antibiotic compounds that you might use to reduce the impact of your infection. For instance, cinnamon, garlic powder, oregano, allspice, and onion powder could help you recover.