 What is everyone else carrying or wearing right now?;
, Noting what is currently in fashion, try to settle on a few key items that will bring you the most value for the expenditure. For example, this might be a handbag or purse, a pair of jeans or a scarf. The other items can be from cheaper sources, glammed up by one or two expensive pieces.
 Smaller usually works better. At the end of the day, empty all of your change into this jar.


Go to the bank and request a few "penny pack." This are paper packs that you can roll up change into and exchange for bills. Get some in every denomination to have on hand.
Once your change jar gets full, empty it out and see how many packs you can make. Any excess change should go back into the jar. Take your packs back to the bank and exchange them. You may suddenly have 10 to 15 dollars you didn't realize you had in the first place.
 Don't overeat, don't brown bag it and have an excuse ready if your parents ask what you ate for lunch.


Do not skip lunch. It is unhealthy to starve yourself and people might incorrectly assume you have an eating disorder.
 That way you can get the things you want.
 Any form of income coming in is a source of savings for you.
 Plan on charging $5 an hour, more if there is more than one kid. If you can, get certified in CPR and take a babysitting class at the YMCA. Some parents are reluctant to let teenagers alone with their kids unless they have taken these classes.
 If babysitting isn't your thing, try a lawn mowing service or get a paper route. Some papers are delivered in the afternoon, so with those you would not need to worry about getting up early to deliver papers.
 Chores such as cleaning other people's bedrooms, cleaning the toilet, preparing meals, etc. can all be a potential source of income if you negotiate nicely and explain that you have savings goals.
 This can be a good way of bringing in extra income. If you're good at your schoolwork or certain subjects, set up a small tutoring service. Get references from teachers at first, and as you build up a client base, ask your clients for references too, so that you can build your business.


Tutor younger children over the summertime.
 Pet-sitting and dog-walking are two great ways to earn an income while caring for furry friends. Many people need this help, often at the last minute, so make it clear that you're always available to help out. If you don't know the people, have a parent come along with you when you seal the deal first.
 Go to a local consignment shop or sell them online. Ask your parents for permission and assistance with online selling; there are potential hazards to doing this that someone older should be keeping an eye on for you.


Pull out the phone book. Look under "Secondhand Stores," "Resale Shops," "Consignment Stores," and "Thrift Shops." Get out a phone with a bunch of minutes on it, and go down the list and ask if they purchase used clothes. You probably will have the best success with consignment shops, but keep in mind that they usually take 50% of the price you sell it at for themselves, paid only upon sale.
Sell in season clothes that are in good condition only.
 If you don't feel like making the effort to do this, you can always donate your old clothes to Purple Heart, The Salvation Army, or another charity group that will put your unwanted items to good use. Or, you can donate your slightly used clothes to Plato's Closet. While donating, check out what is for sale in the store; you never know what bargain finds you might come across.
 And keep taking back your old ones for sale; that way, it keeps going and going. Yes, you may have to sell a lot of items to make enough to buy one new one, but it is a necessary task for a cash-strapped teen.
 Before you try on anything that is full-priced, see if there are items that are on special already. Try to see such items as hidden gems if they're not quite perfect––are there sewing or decorative changes that you can make to these clothes to improve them? If so, they might be just the thing you're looking for. Moreover, if you are taking clothes or accessories from the clearance section, you may be able to purchase more than one item.
 Such online sources are usually much cheaper, and can be more than 75% cheaper than buying it from the store itself. The downside is someone may have worn it first, for it to be so cheap, but a lot of the time the stuff is brand-new things that people bought and forgot to return before the refund date, or maybe got as a gift and didn't want it. Maybe they are just throwing out old clothes or they have grown out of it - Whatever way they've decided to sell, it could be yours. Try looking on the 'Buy it Now' section rather than bidding for it, and be sure it ships to your area. You could do that too - unwanted old clothes that other people might want? Sell them on ebay!

, If you look hard enough, you can find occasional expensive brands for a fraction of the usual price.

