 The general arc of the scene, or how it changes from beginning to end, is the most obvious layer of a scene. But underneath that layer, in all good scenes, is conflict. At its most basic level, conflict is the difference between what a character wants (money, love, power, a steak) and what he/she can get. Conflict is usually between two characters, and is often not talked about out loud. But you need to identify it as a writer and find a way to incorporate it into the scene every time.


Shakespeare was the master of hidden conflict. Look, for example, at Macbeth, who as the reader knows, is hiding a murderous guilt under every act of kindness or political speech.
Conflict is often created out of character traits. On Parks and Recreation, we know that libertarian Ron Swanson hates the Federal Government. This makes his decision to ask for a job at the US National Parks Service in one scene much more poignant.
Conflict does not have to immediately resolve. Every scene of Memento is built upon a conflict between what we remember and what we think we remember. Each scene plays subtly between the two opposing sides.
 In most scenarios, characters face two choices. They might marry the girl, or remain single; save the town or retreat to safety; take the big promotion, or stay with their family, etc. But the real world is not so black and white. The most effective scenes set up this dichotomy and then abandon it for a completely surprising and more satisfying third option. This could be a new plan, a compromise, or even a disaster that ruins or changes everything. Not every scene should choose the "third options." Still, try to keep your mind open to alternatives when writing.


Of course, the "third option" could be the fourth or fifth option. The larger goal is to choose something hidden or unsuspecting, instead of the obvious outcome.
Make a list of 25 different endings or options, even dumb or improbable ones, if you get stuck.
 You want your characters to sound vibrant and different from one another. If you were to remove all of the dialog tags, such as "Maggie said" or "DAVE:", you should still be able to tell who is actually talking. The better you know your characters, the easier it will be.


Slang, expressions, accents, and even punctuation are good ways to differentiate characters' voices.
 When you add details, like the color of the room or the people passing outside, use them to slow down the pace and give the scene some room to breathe. For example, instead of writing, "they sit in silence," take some time to describe what the characters do with their silence. What do they look at, smell, touch, or think?


Details are best when the reflect the inner lives of characters. For example, a sad character is likely to notice an abandoned storefront. They might not notice the happy people at the cafe, or they could complain about how happy everyone looks.
In general, scripts and plays should only have the essential details. If you want silence or calm moments, show it in your action lines, such as "he pours his coffee silently.", Some writers even draft up short versions of the scene from different perspectives. The goal is to ask yourself if each character is behaving realistically. If your audience can stand up and say -- "that person would never do that," you'll deflate the energy from the scene instantly. Find ways to get believable reactions that are true to each character and the scene will shine.
 This is often the hardest part of writing a scene, but it is absolutely crucial. Readers bring their imaginations to the scene, filling in the smaller details and even the tone of voice. The temptation to put your exact vision for the scene is strong, but is ultimately impossible. Instead, let your reader fill in the gaps. Most importantly, this makes your real moments shine even brighter when left on their own., Ignore whether your like the scene or not, whether it is hilarious or heart-wrenching. If you removed the scene, would the larger plot of the story change in any way? If not, then you may want to remove the scene altogether. Save the funny bits or the beautiful monologues and see if they can fit into other, more useful scenes. Ultimately, if the scene is just spinning its wheels, you'll get more mileage out of these little snippets in more powerful scenes.