 Before getting tested for either oral or genital herpes, observe the symptoms of the disease on your body. This can not only help you get a diagnosis and treatment more quickly, but may also save you from unnecessary medical tests.


The symptoms of genital herpes include: pain or itching that begins two to 10 days after being exposed to an infected sexual partner, the formation of small red bumps or tiny blisters on your genitalia, ulcers that develop when the blisters or bumps rupture, scabs that materialize while the ulcers heal. It may also be painful to urinate or you may have flu-like symptoms such as fever or muscle aches.The symptoms of oral herpes include: itching, burning, or tingling of the lips and mouth; flu-like symptoms such as sore throat and fever; and the formation and subsequent breaking of blisters or a rash.Both oral and genital herpes may be accompanied by mild to severe pain on the affected area.;
, If you recognize symptoms of either oral or genital herpes or even suspect you might have it, see your doctor as soon as you can. This can not only help confirm a diagnosis, but also help treat the outbreak quickly and effectively.Your doctor may be able to confirm a diagnosis simply by sight or may order additional tests., Your doctor may most likely diagnose oral herpes by simply looking at your mouth area. If this is the case, she may or may not prescribe medication for you., If your case of oral herpes isn’t conclusive, your doctor may order further testing. There are several different option from which she may choose, all of which can confirm a diagnosis and help you get treatment.Your doctor may conduct a DNA test called Nucleic Acid Amplification Testing (NAAT). Your doctor will swab the affected area and collect a sample. She’ll run further tests on the sample to determine if you have herpes.The Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test is the most commonly used of the NAAT tests. Your doctor may also order blood tests to examine your blood for traces of the herpes virus. Blood tests usually cause only minor discomfort.In some cases, doctors may perform a Tzanck test, though they are rarely used now.A Tzanck test requires scraping the base of lesions and collecting a skin sample. After this, your doctor will examine the specimen under the microscope to determine if you have oral herpes.This test may cause some pain and discomfort., Like oral herpes, your doctor may be able to diagnose genital herpes by conducting an examination of your genitalia and anal area. She will likely order additional tests from a lab to fully confirm a diagnosis of genital herpes., There are several types of tests that can help detect genital herpes. From viral cultures to blood tests, these may help your doctor confirm a diagnosis and develop an effective treatment plan.Your doctor may collect a tissue sample by scraping your lesions and send the cell probe to a laboratory that can detect the herpes virus. This test may cause some discomfort or pain.Your doctor may run a polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, test. The PCR test involves getting a blood or tissue sample, or a sample of spinal fluid to test for the presence of the herpes virus in your DNA. Depending on the method in which your DNA is tested, you may experience some discomfort.Your doctor may conduct a blood test, which can detect herpes virus antibodies in your blood. This test may cause minor discomfort., Once your doctor has conducted tests to confirm a diagnosis of herpes, wait for your diagnosis. This may take a few days. After you receive the test results, speak with your doctor and formulate a treatment plan if necessary.