 First, read what interests you. Maybe you aren't really into big novels - you find them too unnerving, too much. Instead, why not try magazines at first, or graphic novels? Or pick up a book of short stories - read in small, easy to digest bits at first. But the most important thing you can do is simply commit to reading, even just a little, each day.;
, After a month or two of reading a snippet here or there of this or that, try moving up to things that are a little more challenging. For example, choose a modern classic, like Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (or Philosopher's, depending on where you live) or one of the Lemony Snicket books. These are not just for children - they are books that have been read and enjoyed by millions of people. If you try one of these and still have trouble committing to the longer length of the read, try Reader's Digest - it offers condensed versions of regular books, along with newsy, chatty articles from lots of different magazines.
 Once you've begun reading, you will want to talk over the books you're reading. Lots of people join or form book clubs. It can be simple - call your sister or brother, or a couple of friends. Meet for coffee, and there, agree on a book that you will all read. Meet again a month from that date, and hopefully you will all have finished the book, and can discuss it. Talking over things you've read can really enhance your experience of the book, as you share with friends the feelings the book evoked, or the fun you experienced as the story unfolded. Not only that, but a book club keeps you reading - you know you will be talking about this book in just a few days, so you have a goal in mind as you read.
 Lots of very literate people do what is known as "parallel reading" - or reading several books at the same time. Maybe you will keep one in the bedroom and read for a bit before you sleep each night. Maybe you will keep one in the bathroom and read there for a while, or one in the den, etc. Even if you don't wish to get this crazy, you can still set goals, like, "I want to spend this next year reading classics" or "I will read all of Shakespeare's comedies this year, and next year, maybe I'll tackle the tragedies." Even if you don't achieve the entire goal, you will have still read some of what you set out to read. And that's good. Try setting a time frame within which you want achieve your reading objective.
 If you enjoy reading offbeat things, that's fine. But if you want to become more literate in the conventional sense, you will want to choose books others have heard of. Ask your librarian to help you. Reading well-known works has two benefits: First, it gives you a common frame of reference for things you may hear from lots of other people, and second, it educates you in ways you may not have thought of. For example: Most people have heard of "To Kill A Mockingbird." At a party, one of your friends might express distaste for racial bigotry. While none of your friends are bigots (hopefully), this friend is the one who publicly took a stand against it. Saying, "You're the new Atticus Finch" is a tremendous compliment to such a person, plus you will seem very literate saying it.
 Perhaps your taste runs more to science fiction than to classic literature - there's no shame in that. Or maybe you like more romantic fare. There's plenty to be found in literature. Or maybe you will find that you like English poetry, but are not so crazy about American. Whatever. Anything you read makes you a more literate person. It exposes you to new words, and to ideas from people all around the world, and from different times in our history. Whatever you like to read, there will certainly be plenty of reading material. So you aren't a Shakespeare buff, but you know all of Asimov's Laws of Robotics - you're still literate, and you will gain more enjoyment from your choices if you read what you are interested in.

