 Cardio does not always have to mean jogging; pick a few options for cardio routines that you will enjoy and that fit in your plan’s time, location, and intensity parameters.


If you will be exercising at home, consider dance workout videos, a stationary bike or treadmill, running the steps, cardio Pilates routines, or a combination of jumping jacks and jump rope.
If you have access to a full gym, consider swimming laps, using an elliptical machine, playing racquetball or basketball, taking an aerobics class, or trying your hand at cardio kickboxing.
If you will be exercising outdoors, take advantage of cardio activities such as ultimate Frisbee games, distance biking, racing your children, playing volleyball or soccer, or jogging with your dog.
 Strength training should be part of every fitness plan. Having a list of go-to options for building or toning muscle can make it easy to bring variety to your routine and workout multiple muscle groups each week.


Consider strength training that uses equipment. Weight machines, dumbbells, exercise balls, and resistance bands are convenient tools for a wide variety of strength-building routines.
If you will be working out at home, consider investing in resistance bands or other low-cost strength training equipment to make weight routines affordable and convenient.
Make a list of strength routines that do not require equipment. Body resistance can be very effective for building muscle through everything from push-ups to yoga poses. Water bottles or canned goods can be used in place of light dumbbells, and many exercise videos focus entirely on body resistance strength training.
 Depending on your fitness goals, your routine may be cardio heavy, strength training heavy, or an even combination of the two.


If your goal is weight loss, devote the majority of your time to cardio routines. Include strength training about twice each week and be sure that your routine will tone muscles in the upper body and core as well as the lower body for the maximum benefit.
If your goal is to tone or build muscle, devote most of your workouts primarily to strength routines. Do not work out the same muscle group 2 days in a row; alternate to allow your muscles time to heal. Consider 5 or 6 days each week of shorter routines, working arms and abs on days 1 and 3, legs and back on days 2 and 4, and performing cardio and your target muscle group exercises again on days 5 and 6.
If you are training to complete a physical challenge, consider following a pre-made training plan for a triathlon, marathon, Iron Man, or other program. This will help you scale up your activities appropriately based on the type and amount of exercise you will need to do and the amount of time you have to prepare.

