 You can help regulate your sleep and wake cycles by sticking to a sleep schedule. Make sure you go to bed at the same time each night and wake up at the same time every morning. Going to bed at the same time every night can make it easier for you to fall asleep., It will be easier to fall asleep at night if you are relaxed when you get into bed. Try creating a bedtime ritual that allows you to relax, and make an effort to engage in this ritual each night. For example, you can take a warm bath, read, or listen to music., Movement is an important part of being able to fall asleep at night. This is particularly important for people who are blind or visually impaired. Try getting at least thirty minutes of exercise daily. This can include gentle walking, swimming, dancing, or any physical activity that you enjoy.Make sure you talk to your doctor before beginning any exercise program.
Try to exercise in the morning or afternoon. Try to avoid exercising in the late evening or right before bed, as some evidence suggests it may impact sleep., Consuming caffeine too late in the day can make it difficult to fall asleep at night. Try to limit your overall consumption of caffeine. If you do consume caffeine, try to do so before noon and never before bed.


Watch out for hidden sources of caffeine including certain medications, teas, and foods., Alcohol can affect your ability to fall and stay asleep, especially if it is consumed too close to bedtime. If you do consume alcohol, limit your consumption to one drink. You should also try to consume the drink at least one hour before bed as it takes the body an average of one hour to metabolize one unit of alcohol., If you eat a late dinner or consume snacks high in carbohydrates, sugars, or protein right before bed, it could disturb your sleep. Try to eat your evening meal several hours before bed.You should also avoid snacks that contain carbohydrates or protein right before bed.If you need to eat later due to other circumstances, opt for small, nutrient-dense, low-energy foods such as vegetables, nuts, avocado, or apples.
 Napping during the day can make it more challenging to fall asleep at night. It can be particularly troublesome for blind or visually impaired individuals whose sleep and wake cycle may already be out of synch. Try limiting or altogether eliminating naps.If you do need to nap, try to limit the naps to 20 minutes.
If you go to bed around 10pm, your nap should begin no later than 2:00pm.If you go to bed around midnight, your nap should begin no later than 3:00pm.