 Many people find it helpful to talk to others in the same situation. Cancer support groups can be a wonderful resource. Consider joining one in your area.Ask your doctor for a recommendation. Many hospitals and treatment centers will have several groups to choose from.
Try joining a group for people with your specific type of cancer. For example, if you are dealing with breast cancer, you might find it comforting to be around other women dealing with breast cancer.
There are also online support groups. Your doctor or nurse might be able to guide you towards a good fit for you.
Lean on friends and family. If you don't want to join a formal support group, let the people close to you know that you will need their support.There are also support groups for people whose loved one has cancer. That might be helpful for some of your family members.
 Dealing with cancer is a very emotional experience. You might feel overwhelmed by the wide range of feelings you are experiencing. Try tracking your thoughts in a journal.Writing down your thoughts can be very therapeutic. Don't worry about what you're writing--just get your feelings out honestly.
Keeping a journal can also help you track patterns. For example, maybe you see that you are feeling most anxious the night before a chemo treatment.
Finding patterns can help you figure out what is most bothering you. Then you can actively seek solutions.
 It is normal to feel very nervous when you are dealing with cancer. There are a lot of unknowns and a lot of changes. Try to look for ways to reduce your tension.Mediation can be very helpful. Download an app on your phone that will allow you to listen to guided meditations.
If you are physically capable, try doing some light yoga. It can help ease anxiety.
Talk about your feelings. If your anxiety is causing problems such as insomnia, you might consider seeing a counselor.
 There is actually some research that shows that the power of positive thinking can actually help you deal with cancer. That does not mean that you need to put on a happy face all of the time. It doesn't mean that you need to try to find a silver lining about your situation.Keeping your spirits up means that you try not to let the cancer mentally defeat you. Try saying to yourself, "This is hard, but I'll get through it."
You can remain optimistic while being realistic. For example, you might think, "This is a road block in my life that is difficult. But I have a great support system, and I'm going to beat this."
Ask your friends and family to try to remain as positive as possible. They don't need to offer you phony platitudes, but they can offer you encouragement and support.

