 The purpose of the SCA is to educate and entertain its members and others by recreating various aspects of medieval society, ranging from the mundane to man-to-man combat. As a member of the SCA, you are subject to its laws as well as those of the regional group (kingdom) and local group (barony, canton, college, or shire) within it to which you belong to ensure order, just as medieval knights were subject to the laws of their kingdoms to ensure order within them. Just as medieval knights were seen as exemplars of the laws to which they were subject, so will you be as a knight within the organization.
 Regional groups/kingdoms are led by a king and queen, while smaller groups within a kingdom are led by a seneschal. You need to show these people the respect they’re due by virtue of their position; if you do become a knight, you’ll have to take an oath of fealty (allegiance) to them.
 If you expect to become a knight in the SCA, then you need to take part in SCA events. You don’t have to attend every event, but you should try a number of different activities and find the ones you do best. You will have to compete in tournaments, but you shouldn’t restrict your activities to them. Participation also includes doing the following:


Dress the part of your persona to the best of your ability. You don’t have to be perfectly authentic, but you can and should do a reasonable job, and you can always ask for help if you need it.
Share your expertise with others and be willing to learn from them in return. If you have knowledge or skills that your fellow members can benefit from, share them. Likewise, be willing to learn what your fellow members have to teach you; you may pick up both a new skill and a new friend.
Share your resources with others as you can afford to. Called “hospitality,” this means lending your time and talents to help other members out apart from teaching. This could be as simple as lending your sword to someone who’s broken his or as complex as organizing an event.
 Not only must you treat your leaders with courtesy and respect, but your fellow members as well and, if taking part in a tournament, your opponents. Your persona may be part of a culture that isn’t noted for courteous behavior, but you can’t use it as an excuse for behaving badly at events. (The comic strip character Prince Valiant was of Norse blood, but he acted in a manner befitting a knight of King Arthur’s court, not as a Viking raider might.)


The one form of courtesy you’ll be expected to practice as a knight and should be practicing before you become one is to uphold the honor of your consort. (The SCA confers knighthood to both men and women; your consort is your significant other.) You wear a token, or favor, identifying your consort when you compete in a tournament; your actions in the tournament reflect not only upon you, but upon your consort, as well.
You can, however, inject those elements of your persona that fit into a display of courtesy, such as removing your feathered hat with a flourish when your Italian fencer bows before the queen.
 You should develop your combat skills in tournaments to the point where you can reasonably stand against any of your opponents, regardless of whether you win or not.
 Most kingdoms have a council of knights who advise the monarch as to the fitness of prospective candidates for knighthood. Getting to know these people can help you in your quest, but it is ultimately the monarch who decides.Although the best known, the SCA is not the only organization that re-enacts medieval history. Other such organizations may or may not offer the opportunity to earn knighthood; those that do presumably have standards similar to the SCA’s.
Whichever organization you belong to, you’ll find it best to focus more on the journey to knighthood than on the goal of becoming a knight. Spend more time honoring others and less worrying about when the honors will come your way.

