 You want to have a wild-ish look to your scene, so try to stay away from houses, streets, cars, etc. Try filming in the woods, like a hiking trail, a friend's place, or even your backyard, if you have a forest behind it. Make sure it is a large space, so you will not be using the same places over and over again. If you really want to make it great, find a creek or river to use as a "water source".;
, One of the most basic things you need is a camera and editing tools. For best results, use a camera made for outdoor filming. Then use some video editing programs like Windows or Final Cut. If you want to make it simple, just use an iTouch or iPad along with iMovie.
 You do not need 24, for it would be hard to get everyone in and it would be way too chaotic. An ideal number would be eight or nine, but you can work with less. Also, make sure all your tributes are okay with being filmed.
 This can be one of the most fun parts!

, Make sure that your careers are the strongest tributes. Careers are tributes from districts 1,2 and 4.
 If you want, you can base your games off of old victors (Enobaria, Cecilia, Gloss, Haymitch, etc.) to make it more exiting.
 Weapons are the most important part of the Games. Make sure to include a variety of weapons, such as swords, spears, a bow and arrow, tridents, slingshots, land mines, poison darts, or anything else that comes to mind. You can either buy them online, or you can make them yourself. Here are some ways to do this:


Make a Toy Bow and Arrow
Make a Toy Spear
Make a Blow Dart Gun
Get creative with your weapons!

, This is the most important step if you are starting from the beginning of your Games.


Find a flat, large space to use, and make sure there is nothing tributes will trip over.
Put all of your "weapons" in the Cornucopia, all spread out at different distances. Also, put two to seven backpacks in there, filled with food (Non-perishable. Don't add a banana and expect it not to spoil), water (full bottles, half filled, and empty), a small blanket, poison and poison antidote, first aid kit (nothing major), medicine, etc.
Put these backpacks at varying distances from the tributes, depending on how filled or not filled they are.
Place all your tributes in a circle around the Cornucopia, and make sure they don't move.
 This is the most fun part. You get to film a Hunger Games how you plan it. Show tributes raiding camps, fighting to the death, and just simply surviving. But remember, make it look as real as possible. Film as much as you want, and have fun.


Try not to smile or laugh when you are supposed to be lying on the ground dead, and use different places every time so you aren't using someones camping ground as a feast table.

