 If you've lost an Android phone there are two ways to track it down. If the phone is still turned on and in range of a wireless signal, you can track it from a computer using Device Manager. If the phone is turned off or is out of service range, you can check your phone's last reported location from a computer.To use Device Manager, sign into your Google account from a computer or another device. Google's Device Manager should instantly show you your phone's location on a Google Maps screen. Device Manager has additional options to lock your phone, make the phone ring, or remotely wipe its contents and data clear.
Check your phone's last recorded location by going to google.com/settings/accounthistory. Then click on "Places You Go," and "Manage History." However, this option relies on wi-fi and mobile signals instead of GPS, so it will not be as accurate at locating your phone as the Device Manager.
 BlackBerry devices do not typically include their own tracking apps or services. However, you can sign up for a third-party service like Berry Locator. This service costs $6.95 and will send a message to your lost device, as well as show you on a map where your device is located., The primary way to locate a lost iPhone is by using the Find My iPhone app. If your phone does not have the app downloaded, you'll need to download it through the App Store. The Find My iPhone app is fairly accurate, but it requires the phone to be turned on and connected to the internet in order to work.Using a computer or another mobile device, log into your iCloud and open Find My iPhone. Your phone's location should appear on a map, which you can use to track your phone's movement.
Find My iPhone gives you the option of remotely making your iPhone make sounds (to alert you or others nearby of your phone's location and its status as being lost/stolen), send a message with contact information to your iPhone, or wipe the contents and data clear off your device.
 Windows Phone users can use the built-in lost phone feature that comes on all Windows 8.1 and later models. Simply visit the Microsoft devices page from a computer or another wireless device to view a list of all the Microsoft phones and tablets you own. You can then use the location service to track down the device of your choosing.Once you're logged into the Microsoft lost phone service, you can remotely lock your cell phone or wipe the contents and data off your device.

