 A boring nightlife is usually the result of a stale social scene. When you see the same people at the same bar, movie theater, or restaurant every weekend, things can get dull. Try out a new waterhole, go to a dance club, see live theater, or go camping to try something new and eliminate the boredom from your nightly routine.
 Simply sleeping under the stars is a new enough and entertaining enough experience to eliminate boredom in a heartbeat. Watch the stars, listen to the sounds of night animals, and enjoy the fresh, cool air under the moonlight.


Check the weather before committing to sleeping outside to avoid getting rained on.
If it is going to be dry, a simple sleeping bag and a pillow might be all you need to enjoy a night under the stars.
 Even if none of your friends are available, you can organize an event to hold in the future. Deciding on activities, sending out invitations, and planning the snacks and decorations can keep you busy and entertained.



Host a chocolate tasting party and have your friends write evaluations of different chocolate bars. You can hold a party with a similar theme for any food or drink that comes in a wide variety of flavors.

Plan a tea party. Tea parties can involve a few adults chatting over afternoon snacks, or a crowd of kids playing dress up. Customize yours however you like.
 If you like cooking for fun, or have never tried it before, find a new recipe to experiment with. Flip through a cookbook or online recipe collection like FoodGawker, or try out one of these recipes:



Make hummus for eating with bread of crackers.

Make zucchini lasagna for a healthy and gluten-free dish.

Try making toasted seed risotto balls.

Find a green plantain at the grocery store and make mofongo.

Fry sweet potato balls.
 Many people bake cookies when they're bored or stressed. You can find hundreds of cookie recipes online or in cookbooks, but there are other easy cooking projects to satisfy your sweet tooth and keep yourself entertained. Here are a few that you might be able to make with ingredients already in your kitchen:



Make Fig Newton pops.

Combine chocolate, peanut butter, and cream cheese in a delicious parfait.

Use dry ramen noodles as a dessert ingredient.
If you're brave, try caramel coated cheetos.

Craft homemade chocolate.

Create sweet ravioli cookies.

