 Just like cigarettes and all other nicotine products, you must be 18 in most states in the United States to purchase cigars, so bring your ID with you. There are many different types cigars, and varying quality, so do your research before buying one.Most cigars are corona cigars, which are usually from South America. They're 5.5 to 6 inches long, and have a ring gauge (diameter measured in units of 1/64th of an inch) between 42 and 45.
Panatela cigars are longer and thinner than coronas, and are more popular with women because of their feminine shape.
Lonsdale cigars are 6 to 7 inches long with a ring gauge of 42 to 47. They're a good beginners' cigar.
Churchill cigars (also known as Julie tas) are long and thick, with a length of 7 inches and a ring gauge of 47. These are recommended for more experienced cigar smokers.
Robusto cigars are Cuban, with a length of 5 inches and a ring gauge of 50, and are known for their strength and flavor.
Torpedo cigars are shaped like a torpedo, coming to a point at the end. These cigars take at least an hour to smoke, so should be enjoyed while relaxing for a long period of time.
The shorter and wider a cigar is, the more intense it will be, so beginners should choose a longer, thinner variety to avoid coughing fits.
 Before purchasing the cigar, lightly squeeze it all along its length to make sure there are no particularly hard or soft spots. That would suggest the tobacco has been unevenly packed, and that the cigar would be difficult to smoke. Also check for any discolorations you might find.
 To keep the tobacco from drying out, cigars have a cap on the end that must be removed before you can smoke them.


If you have a cigar cutter, place the tip of the cap-end of the cigar into the cutting hole. Cut it off with one strong, swift chop.
If you don't have a cigar cutter, use sharp scissors or a knife to remove the cap.
Don't use dull blades or apply weak pressure, because that will squeeze down on the cigar and change its shape. This will make it harder and less pleasant to smoke.
Be very careful not to cut yourself when working with any of these sharp-bladed tools.
 Hold the end that will be lit over an open flame for a few seconds, rotating it to make sure that the heat is evenly applied to the cigar. Warming up the cigar in this way will make it easier to light.
 Hold the flame to the tip of the cigar while sucking through the unlit end. Don't inhale the smoke, just draw it into your mouth. Make sure the cigar is fully lit before putting our lighter away.


Blow on the lit end of the cigar to make sure it is fully lit. The air from your breath will make the lit parts glow brighter, and you'll be able to see if there are any unlit spots.
 Unlike cigarettes, you do not inhale cigar smoke into your lungs. You simply pull the smoke into your mouth, where you hold it for a few seconds to enjoy the taste.


Remember that cigars can take an hour or more to smoke, so don't try to speed-smoke it! Set aside a good portion of time to savor the experience.
If you get distracted and don't puff on the cigar from time to time, to risk letting it go out. Make sure to puff every thirty seconds or so to keep it lit.
 Stub the cigar out in an ashtray or on the ground, though note that it will leave a black smudge wherever it is extinguished.


If you didn't smoke much of it and wish to save it for later, don't stub it out. A cigar that's been re-lit after being stubbed out will taste awful. Cut the lit end off with the cigar cutter and let that flame die. The remaining cigar will still have a burnt taste when re-lit, but not nearly as bad as a stubbed out cigar.

