 Check with the show's organizer or website to see what requirements need to be met, when you need to show up, and how much space you will have.



This will give you an idea of how many artists will be selling at the art show, the variety of mediums that are represented, the size crowd a show draws and the average prices for the medium of art that you create. Doing your homework ahead of time will help you choose art shows that will the most lucrative for you.
Artists have to apply through a jury process in order to sell at art shows. Your art work will be judged and you can only sell in the medium you listed on your application. Selling art in non-approved mediums could result in fines or refused entry into future shows.



Selling at art shows is all about selling what patrons can afford to buy. Determine an average price for your work and what you feel it's worth. Take into consideration the kind of art show you're entering when you decide what to display. More expensive pieces would do well at a high-end show, but smaller shows or community art shows call for more economically priced pieces.
Choose art in a variety of sizes, colors and textures. This will draw attention to your booth, entice patrons by giving them a lot to choose from and increase your sales opportunities by appealing to a wider audience of art buyers.
,


Display your art against a simple, neutrally colored display. Use white or beige backdrops to hang paintings or photographs and simple wooden or metal shelves for sculptures or pottery. This will keep the focus on your art and emphasize details in each piece.



Patrons at art shows are more likely to buy from an artist that is approachable and willing to answer questions, so greet each person that enters your booth and be attentive and friendly.



Stock your booth with bubble wrap, boxes and bags to package purchases for patrons. This will ensure that fragile pieces will make it home safely with the buyer. Practice wrapping a few in advance so you can do it quickly and effectively at the show.

