 One great way to pass the time is to choose a project that will be fun for you to work on. If you are at work or school, see if there is anything you can do that will be more enjoyable than your other tasks. If you are at home, think about what you like to do for fun and do whatever sounds like it will be the most fun for you.For example, if you are at work or school and you have a creative project you can work on, then pull that out and get started on it. If you are at home, then choose a favorite hobby or pastime, such as knitting, baking, playing guitar, or playing video games.
 Finding a long book that interests you can make hours disappear! You can learn about Amelia Earhart, the history of Rome, or read a book about a foreign country. Whatever you're reading, you'll be gaining knowledge.

If you can’t sit and read, then try listening to an audiobook instead. This can be especially helpful during long workouts or when doing other physical activities., Who would think that doing algebra or reading about Martin Van Buren, or "Old Kinderhook," as they used to call him, could help to pass the time? Well, you may not love doing your work, but once you get into it, you'll look up and see that an hour has passed. And if you make a habit of doing your homework whenever you want to kill time, think of what a great student you'll be!

You can even get a quick study group together and goof off a bit with your friends while trying to get some work done. Be sure to avoid goofing off too much, though, or you won't get anything done.
If you don’t have any homework, then try working on a to-do list for the day or for the week. Think of things you’d like to accomplish and make a list to work on now or later on., First, throw out all of your food wrappers, cardboard boxes, junk that you can't donate, and whatever else is cluttering up your space. Then go through your stuff, one piece of furniture at a time, until you've managed to have a neat bed, desk, drawer, closet, and so on. And if you're only trying to kill an hour or two, then stick to one part of your room and be proud of the work you've done.

For even more fun, enlist a sibling or a friend to help you!
You can even take your old clothes that you no longer want to the local Goodwill or Salvation Army, and feel good about yourself for doing a good deed and clearing some closet space.
If you have a cleaning project that you have been putting off for a while, such as cleaning out a closet or organizing your jewelry, then this is a great time to tackle it., You can't learn a language in one day, but you can learn how to say, "Hi, my name is..." and "How are you?" in just a few minutes. Pick a foreign language you've always wanted to learn and study it for a few minutes or longer.Try keeping a phrase-per-day calendar on your desk at work, at home, or in your backpack. Take five minutes every day to read the phrase silently and out loud. This will give you a break and give you something to look forward to each day.
 Do you have a backlog of emails that are just waiting for your response? If so, it may be time to turn on your computer and answer all of those people -- professors, friends, business contacts -- who have been waiting to hear from you. You'll feel relieved that you got this communication out of the way when you had nothing better to do.
