 While you are in school, stay in touch by dropping by their offices frequently, asking questions via email, and always attending class. Even after you graduate, make sure to stay in touch with your professors. Send an email every now and then updating them about what you are doing.
 Historians attend conferences, small and large, as a way to share their work with others in a direct, more personal setting (as opposed to publishing in a journal). Go to as many of these events as you can and try to identify the ones that apply to you in particular. For example, if you are a southern historian the Southern Historical Association Annual Meeting is the place to be each fall.Don’t be shy about presenting your work as a graduate student. It is expected and very much encouraged. Your department will likely provide some sort of funding to assist you if your paper is accepted.
 This phrase, luckily, isn’t quite as accurate now as it used to be. However, publishing is still one clear way that you can differentiate yourself from the pack of Ph.D.s graduating every year. Seek out journals or edited collections looking for new content. Contact journal editors for book review opportunities. Ask your advisor for assistance in locating opportunities.


Be patient when publishing. You should expect to do numerous revisions and will most likely need to wait for months before actually seeing your work in print., Aggressively pursue funding for your research and graduate activities. Leave no rock unturned. Look for grants or fellowships in your department, university, local archives, or even non-profit or corporate groups. In some cases your program may even match your monies up to a certain number., A Ph.D. develops a variety of marketable skills as a result of their education and training. They can convey a message coherently and accurately in both written and oral forms. They possess the endurance to complete lengthy and complex projects. They can analyze and organize mass amounts of information. Spend a considerable amount of time considering your unique skills that can set you apart when applying for a position.


Make sure to consider jobs outside of academia. They can be quite competitive to land, but they can provide a great deal of professional satisfaction as well. For example, you can work in a museum spreading knowledge to people of all ages. Or, you can find a position in human resources juggling both information and people. Keep your mind open to the possibilities and don't undersell yourself or your abilities.

