 Doctors and nurses are trained in the best ways to insert catheters, so it's important you learn the best technique from a health professional, not just by watching videos or reading about how to do it. Before you leave the hospital or office, ask for a medical professional to demonstrate how to insert a catheter. Make sure that the professional is using the specific type of catheter that you need so that the demonstration pertains to you.If you will be doing at home catheterization for a relative or friend, make sure that you are allowed in the room for the demonstration as well as step by step instructions with guidance while doing it for the first time.;
, Your doctor will very likely have a recommendation for a medical supply store or website from which to obtain your specific catheter.It is possible that the doctor's office will send you home with one, but other times you will need to purchase one yourself. Note, these catheters generally need to be replaced after several uses or can be one time use only. Ensure that a spare is always available.


Some medical supply companies include DVDs that you can watch to demonstrate how to insert a catheter. Try looking for one of these options if you are worried you might forget your doctor's technique. When in doubt call doctor's office or home health nurse for help.
Ask your doctor about home health, and whether this is an option.Your doctor/provider may be able to arrange for someone to come to your home and assist in this process until you are comfortable in doing it independently.
Check with your insurance carrier to see if they will pay for the necessary supplies.
 When you are ready to insert the catheter, you'll want to make sure that you have everything you need. In addition to a clean catheter, you will need soap and water or sanitizing wipes. You will also need a water soluble lubricating jelly.Be aware that petroleum jelly (or Vaseline) is not water soluble, and therefore should not be used.
Many healthcare professionals recommend that you squat while inserting the catheter, so you may want to gather your supplies in your bathroom. Having the toilet there is a good idea.
Use the lubricant to coat the tip of the catheter. This will make it easier to insert.
 Using the soap and warm water, wash your hands thoroughly. You do not want to transfer germs to the catheter or the vaginal area. Next, gently cleanse your genital area with soap and water.For this step, you can also use sanitizing wipes. Always wipe from front of vagina to back to avoid introducing bacteria from anus into vagina or urethra. You'll just want to make sure that they are gentle enough for your genital area.
 Squatting over the toilet, spread the lips of your vagina with one hand. Use your finger or a mirror to detect the urinary opening (the place where you discharge urine). Next, insert the catheter slowly but firmly into this place (the urethra). Your urethra is located between your clitoris and your vagina, and is the tube from which urine drains from your bladder. You need to insert the catheter into this opening. When you feel yourself begin to urinate, stop inserting the catheter. Need to hold on to the catheter to ensure that it does not fall out while urine is passing through the catheter.It may be tricky to find the right insertion spot your first time. Health care professionals recommend using a mirror to help you. Try placing a small hand mirror on a low shelf or stand, and squat over that instead of the toilet. This will help visualization. You can also ask a close friend or relative to help you.
If you feel a sharp pain, stop inserting the catheter.
If you feel pressure or mild discomfort, try to breathe through the feeling and keep inserting the catheter.
Self-catheterization in the female patient can be very difficult as the urethra can be difficult it locate in specific individuals. If this is too difficult, an indwelling catheter may be of utility and may less distress.
 Wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds after successful catheterization is complete. This will help avoid spreading infection.