 Antacids are the most commonly used over-the-counter remedy for treating the symptoms of indigestion. Antacids contain sodium bicarbonate (baking soda), and as they dissolve in the stomach they help to neutralize some of the acid that has collected there.Do not take antacids within one to two hours of administering other medications, as the sodium bicarbonate may interfere with your other medicine.Anyone on a low-sodium diet should talk to a doctor before taking antacids, as they contain a substantial amount of sodium.Avoid large quantities of milk and dairy products while taking antacids, as they may cause further discomfort and complications.Do not take antacids if you have any symptoms of appendicitis.Antacids are not recommended for long-term use. It is best to discontinue antacid use after a maximum of two weeks. If you're having chronic indigestion, talk to your doctor and consider making other lifestyle changes to reduce the incidents of indigestion.;
, Over-the-counter H-2 receptor blockers, such as cimetidine, famotidine, nizatidine, and ranitidine, may help reduce the production of acid in your stomach for up to 12 hours. Depending on the severity of your symptoms, your doctor may also recommend a stronger, prescription-grade version of an H-2 receptor blocker.Talk to your doctor if you are taking H-2 receptor blockers for more than 2 weeks.
 Over-the-counter proton pump inhibitors, such as lansoprazole or omeprazole, can help block the production of stomach acid and allow the esophagus to heal, if it has been damaged by stomach acid. These medications are available over-the-counter, but depending on the severity of your symptoms your doctor may recommend that you take a prescription-strength version of a proton pump inhibitor, such as esomeprazole or pantoprazole.Talk to your doctor if you're taking a proton pump inhibitor for over two weeks. You should only take OTC PPIs for short-term use. See your doctor if your indigestion is persistent.
 If your chronic indigestion is caused by an H. pylori bacterial infection, your doctor will most likely prescribe a course of antibiotics to kill the bacteria and prevent future ulcers. Many doctors prescribe two different types of antibiotics at once to prevent the H. pylori bacteria from developing resistance to one specific type of antibiotic.When taking antibiotics, it's important to strictly follow the dosage recommendations on the label and to take all of the antibiotics given to you, even if you feel better. Failure to complete a full course of antibiotics can result in the bacterial infection flaring back up, with a resistance to the antibiotics you were previously using., Talk to your doctor about any medications you are taking that may be contributing to your indigestion. A common cause of indigestion associated with peptic ulcers is the excessive and prolonged use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) like aspirin or ibuprofen.One way to reduce the likelihood of future indigestion problems is by avoiding NSAIDs like aspirin and ibuprofen if you're prone to peptic ulcers. Your doctor may recommend that you take an alternative medication that won't cause stomach ulcers, such as paracetamol, acetaminophen or a COX-2 inhibitor.