 Instead of introducing your new dog to pets inside your home, allow them to meet in a neutral space such as an off-leash dog park. This can allow the new pets to get used to the new dog without feeling like their space is invaded.Let your pets meet the new dog in a neutral space in your home if they don’t go outside. For example, an empty garage or the laundry room are more neutral than a living or bedroom.
Have your pets gradually get used to each other in the neutral space. Then move to your yard or another shared space. If your pets and new dog have trouble as you move to different spaces, take them back to the last place they got along.;
, Once you bring all of your pets into the same spaces, you may discover new tension between them. One way to reduce this tension and prevent jealousy is by heaping praise on the older pets and your new dog.Give your pets praise when you’re giving the new dog attention. This reminds your older pets that you haven’t forgotten them. For example, “Come over here, Sam. See, Todd is a really nice puppy. You both like being pet! What a good boy you are!”
Distribute your attention evenly between all of your pets. For example, give your jealous pets a treat and then quickly give the new dog some love. After that, return to your older pets and show them the same love., Your new dog probably wants as much attention as your older pets. This may be especially true if the other pets are shunning the new dog. Turn this into an opportunity to show both of the pets some love by providing your older pet a treat or something else it loves.Give your older pets a treat, a toy, or some other form of love when the new dog approaches you. This helps the older pets realize that the new dog isn’t a threat, but something that comes with delightful treats. For example, if your cat is sitting on your lap and the new dog approaches you, pet your cat on the head and give it a treat while greeting the new dog.
 Animals love routines and any interruption to it can make them lash out, especially if it involves a new dog.One of the main sources of jealousy in older pets is food resources. Incorporating your new dog into the older animals’ routine can keep everyone happy and may prevent jealousy that the new pet has disrupted the daily flow.Avoid making exceptions for the new dog, which can increase jealousy towards it. For example, don’t let the new dog sleep with you if there is a “no dogs on the bed” policy.
Keep up with old habits including going for a walk, playing the same games, and feeding them at the same time every day. This can help strengthen your pets’ bond.
Make any absolutely necessary changes to your routine as slowly as possible. This allows your older pets to adjust and get used to the new dog.

