 Socialization, or introducing your dog to people, other animals, and places, should start during puppyhood. When the process starts early, the results are longer lasting and more deeply engrained. Your dog will also be happier and more comfortable with everything it comes across in the human world.Dogs are most receptive to socialization training at 8 to 12 weeks. During this time, start getting your puppy used to going on nature walks, going downtown, or other places with lots of sights and smells.
Carry treats on you, and use them to reinforce good behavior and create positive associations with social situations.
Make sure your dog is up to date on vaccinations before letting it interact with other animals, especially at dog parks and places where other dogs go to the bathroom. Don’t bring a puppy less than 6 months old to a dog park.;
, If you don’t know your dog’s breed or mix of breeds, then find out. Do some research on that breed: find out why it was developed and learn about its heritage. Some breeds are more docile by nature, while others are typically less tolerant of being around other dogs.Dogs bred for protection make great guard dogs, but don’t always get along with other dogs and aren’t usually recommended for casual or inexperienced owners. These include mastiffs, Great Danes, Dobermans, German Shepherds, and Rottweilers.
Despite their typically small frames, terriers often have difficulty getting along with other pets.
Breeds including bulldogs, bull terriers, and pit bulls make great pets when they have strong, firm owners willing to put the time into training them. However, they can be aggressive or even dangerous around other dogs, especially smaller breeds.
 While you should know the general characteristics associated with your dog’s breed, it’s also essential to get to know your particular dog and its personality. Note how your dog interacts with you, your family, and any others with whom it might interact. Notice if your dog seems at ease with people, if it generally gets stressed out, or if it is typically aggressive with others.Keep in mind your dog’s background, too, noting in particular if you rescued your dog, if it was abused or neglected, or if it was in any other anxiety-provoking situations.
Depending on your dog’s breed and personality, you might find that you’ll have to avoid interactions with other dogs. All dogs have unique personalities and histories, and some are just intolerant of being around other dogs., Learn how to distinguish playfulness from anxiety or fear. Observe your dog to see when and why they exhibit particular body language. Look for how it responds to triggers and stimuli like a doorbell or knocking, people entering and leaving the house, and how it plays with toys.Playful body language includes bouncy gestures, open and relaxed mouth, wiggling body motions, and, when playing with other dogs, jumping around or exchanging positions.
Signs of anxiety include fast tail wagging, a tense body, whimpering, ears held back or up, and hiding.
Red-flag behaviors when it meets other dogs include trying to pin down the other dog, constant following, excessive mounting, or body slamming. Other general signs of aggressiveness include snarling, showing teeth, and staring with a fixed gaze.
Observe when and try to understand why your dog exhibits particular body language. Try to see (and hear and smell!) things from your dog’s perspective.
 If you’re socializing an adult dog, introduce it to a friend’s dog on neutral territory, like a park or a neighbor’s yard. Both handlers should hold leashes with a relaxed lead, since holding the leash too tightly can indicate that the dog should be anxious or on guard. Take note of how your dog behaves, and if it begins to bark excessively or acts aggressively, get its attention and calmly walk it away from the other dog.While puppies are much more open to social situations, adult dogs need to be exposed to another dog one-on-one at first.
The goal for socializing an adult dog should be calm behavior, rather than actively playing.
If they interact calmly while on their leashes, consider letting them off their leashes in a confined space to further gauge how your dog gets along with others.
 Keep socialization natural, light-hearted, and low pressure. Don’t force your dog into an uncomfortable situation, and keep initial social interactions brief. Try to frame interactions as a positive experience instead of a necessity or chore.Carry lots of dog treats, and give your dog a treat after it meets another dog and they calmly interact.
Offer plenty of positive vocal and physical encouragement. Congratulate your dog and give it a pat or rub on its rear to let it know it’s done a good job.
 Pet stores can be great places for early socialization. They’re full of stimuli and other animals, including other dogs, but in a controlled, safe space. Further, there are typically employees on site who are familiar with dog training and can offer guidance and assistance with supervision.Consider taking a training class with your dog if your local pet store offers a program.

