 Listening to uplifting music is one sure-fire way to help free yourself of negative energy. Positive and uplifting music can help you get into a good frame of mind and energize you for any task or obstacle that you may need to face. Depending on your preferences, consider:


Music with positive lyrical messages.
Music with a positive and upbeat rhythm.
Music that gets you energized., One way to clear negative energy and promote positivity is to avoid jealousy or envy of others. Jealousy and envy are emotions that simply reinforce a negative outlook and lead us to ignore all of the wonderful things we have going on in our lives.


Be happy for what other people have, even if you don’t have the same.
Wish others the best in achieving their goals.
Avoid trying to emulate or compete with your friends and neighbors. Everyone is different and has different means, preferences, and goals., Often, people accumulate negative energy by being negative and unhappy about their place or position in life. One way to avoid this is to be grateful and/or thankful for what you do have.


Focus on the great things you have going on in your life. This could include your family, your friends, your job, or the place where you live.
Realize that there are a lot of people who are much worse off than you.
Understand that life is full of ups and downs, and you need to enjoy the ups., When trying to free yourself of negative energy, you should think about the source of your negative energy. Identifying the source of your energy may give you better insight into cleansing yourself of it.


Make a list of things that are bothering you or causing you anxiety.
Think about bad things you’ve done in the past that might have attracted negative energy to you. Consider rectifying them.
Examine your list and think about whether any of the listed items are making you unhappy.
Commit yourself to solving whatever problem is causing you anxiety.
Do some serious self-reflection to see if negativity or your actions or habits constantly draw negative energy to you. Commit yourself to changing the way you live and see the world.