 Sage has a peppery and earthy flavor. Poultry seasoning has a similar flavor profile, partly because it contains sage alongside other herbs. Use the same amount of poultry seasoning as your recipe calls for sage.Some poultry seasonings contain salt so you may need to adjust the recipe to keep it from being too salty.
 This way you can get some cumin in your recipe, since cumin is contained in chili seasoning, but you should be mindful of the other spices in chili seasoning. These other spices include cayenne, paprika, garlic and onion powder.You can also substitute cumin with garam masala. This spice mix contains cumin as well as coriander, cardamom, black pepper, cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. It sometimes also includes additional spices such as fennel. Start with half as much as you planned to use of cumin, and then build it up until you get a good taste in your recipe., If you run out of Ras el hanout spice mix, you can always make your own. Mix equal parts paprika, coriander, ginger and a pinch of saffron.Alternately, you could just use ground coriander as a substitute for Ras el hanout. It will not have the same complexity but should work fine., If you run out of bah훮r훮t spice mix, you could make your own with equal parts paprika, cumin and cinnamon.


You could also just replace bah훮r훮t spice mix with cumin., If you run out of garam masala for your dish, you can always just use some black pepper or mild curry powder to add some heat.You could also replace garam masala by making a version using as many of the ingredients usually found in it as you can find in your home. Toast two tablespoons of coriander; one tablespoon each of cumin, cardamom, and whole black peppercorns; one teaspoon each of fennel and mustard seed; half a teaspoon of whole cloves; and two dried red chile peppers over medium heat for two minutes. Then, grind the toasted spices in a coffee grinder and spoon in two tablespoons of ground turmeric. Store the spice mix in a jar., If you need a substitute for herbs de Provence, try making your own spice mix. You can use a spice mill or coffee grinder to mix two teaspoons of dried thyme, two teaspoons of dried savory, one teaspoon of dried marjoram, one teaspoon of dried lavender, half a teaspoon of dried rosemary, half a teaspoon of fennel seeds, and one crushed bay leaf.