 Staged houses can sell substantially quicker than unstaged houses, sometimes up to 50% faster.Of course, make sure your house is cleaned, de-cluttered, and organized. Try to make the first impression give a lasting impression.


Staged homes often benefit from very neutral colors and features––features that appeal to a wide range of people while not offending very many people. That means a lot of neutral colors (browns, creams, etc.) and not too much flashy furniture. You can rent furniture from a staging company if you wish, or you can be in control of staging the home yourself.
Remove all personal effects from the home. Remember, you want people who view the staging to believe that this home could be their new home eventually. Personal effects such as trophies, children's paintings, holiday souvenirs, and family photos, should all be removed.
Make the home appeal to the senses.
Sight: clean, declutter, organize, leave space for open room, open the drapes, etc.
Smell: put air fresheners in the bathrooms, leave flowers out in the foyer, put out a fresh pot of coffee, etc.
Touch: appeal to your guests to sit in the softest couch; make sure that no dust is left around.
Sound: turn off all noisy generators, TVs, and computer, and instead put on some easy listening music such as jazz.
 Discuss it with them. If a particular problem is repeatedly mentioned, see if you can use some of the money you saved to repair/improve it. Otherwise, modify your selling strategy to distract attention from it. This step should take less than a month, at the very most.


Use the power of the web and your personal network if you're having trouble selling the home. Don't just rely on the broker to make the sale. Put ads up on websites (Craigslist, Zillow, or Trulia are a good starting point) and tap into your social networks to see if anyone might be interested in biting.
 Any annoyances or expenses with the property are now the buyer's problem, not yours. Pay off the loan, deposit your profit, and take a vacation.


Be willing to lower the price if no one is biting. Researching home prices in the area is a must, especially if the price of your home is bloated and you don't even know it. Adjusting the price to a more manageable sum can mean a sale in no time. Paying a mortgage and taxes on an overpriced home because your ego is in the way of lowering the price is not a good way to make money.
 An unreported $100,000 can lead to a painful audit down the road. It's a hassle, but it's a necessary hassle.

