 If you want a relaxing bedroom, it’s important to use the right color palette in the decor. Cool shades are believed to have a calming effect, so they can create a more soothing atmosphere for your bedroom. Choose cool colors, such as blue, purple, green, and gray with cool undertones, for your bedroom decor.You can use both light and dark cool tones, depending on your preference. Dark cool shades can help make a large bedroom feel cozier, while light cool shades can help make a small bedroom appear larger.
Neutral shades can also work when you’re trying to create a relaxing bedroom. Consider incorporating shades of white, ivory, cream, beige, tan, taupe, brown, and/or black in the decor.
Warm colors, such as red, yellow, and orange, are thought to be energizing, so they may be too stimulating for your bedroom decor. If you like those shades, use them in limited doses in the decor, such as a single throw pillow or rug.;
, When you’re choosing decor for your bedroom, it’s best to take a minimal approach. If you have too many accessories and pieces of artwork in the space, it can be distracting and keep you from getting a good night’s sleep. Focus on just a few key pieces of decor to create an attractive but calm space.When you’re keeping your decor to a minimum, it’s especially important that you really love all of the items that you choose for your bedroom. Make sure that the furniture, artwork, plants, and other pieces in the space make you happy or help calm you down.
 The bed is obviously the most important piece of furniture in any bedroom, but you may want to create another area in the room where you can relax without sleeping. A seating area where you can read or just take a quiet moment for yourself can be a very important addition to your bedroom.In a small bedroom, a single cozy chair beside a window can serve as your seating area.
In a large bedroom, you might add a couple of chairs or a loveseat to create a seating area.
 If you’re choosing minimal decor for your bedroom, you should make a statement where you can. Instead of a plain headboard, opt for one that adds visual interest to the space. A dramatic, oversized style is a bold option, while a simple upholstered style can add color and/or pattern to your bedroom.If you have a small bedroom, a headboard with shelving where you can display decorative items may be a good option.
If you’re on a budget, you can create your own statement headboard. Drape fabric on the wall behind your bed, repurpose an old door or pair of shutters, or mount foam tiles on the wall to create a headboard., To ensure that your bed is as comfortable as possible, opt for a plush comforter or bedspread. A down comforter is an ideal option because you can easily swap the duvet covers to change up the look of your bedroom when the mood strikes.A solid comforter or bedspread that matches the rest of the decor is a classic option, but your bedding is an ideal way to introduce a pattern to the room.
Avoid comforters or bedspreads that have beading or other hard decorative elements. They usually aren’t very comfortable to sleep with.
 While your comforter is a key piece of your bedroom decor, the sheets on your bed may be even more important when you want to create a relaxing space. Choose the best quality sheets that fit your budget to ensure that you’re as comfortable as possible. Sheets made with natural fibers, such as cotton or linen, are the best option because they are breathable and hold up well.For the most comfortable sheets, make sure that they’re over 200 thread count.
In most cases, solid sheets that fit the color palette you’ve chosen are the best option. However, if you opt for a solid comforter, you may want to use patterned sheets instead.
 In addition to the pillows that you sleep on at night, you’ll want to add some decorative throw pillows to your bed. Not only can they add color, pattern, and texture to the decor, but they can help make your bed more comfortable.Just as with your comforter, avoid pillows that have beading, sequins, or other hard details that may be scratchy and uncomfortable.
 You don’t want sunlight to wake you up too early in the morning, so it’s best to choose opaque coverings for the windows in your bedroom. Blackout shades are an ideal option, and are available in different styles that control how much light is filtered out.Opaque window coverings also allow you plenty of privacy in your bedroom.
If you aren’t a fan of blinds, opaque, floor length drapes that are easy to open and close are an ideal alternative.
 Choosing a throw or area rug that’s made from soft fabrics can help absorb sound and prevent echoing so your bedroom is more peaceful. Mohair and sheepskin work well to keep your bedroom quiet.Place your throw or area rug beneath or beside your bed to ensure that it blocks as much noise from reaching you while you’re sleeping

, If you share your bedroom with another person, there may be times when one of you is awake and the other is sleeping. To avoid disturbing one another, it’s best to use lamps rather than overhead light fixtures. Place a lamp on each bedside table and in other areas of the room that you want to highlight.If your bedroom has overhead lights, consider adding dimmer switches. That will allow you to control how bright the light is, so it doesn’t disturb you or your partner when you’re trying to relax.
 When you’re choosing paintings, posters, or other artwork for your bedroom walls, opt for pieces that you find soothing or relaxing. Landscapes and other nature scenes are often calming options, but choose pieces that speak to you.Make sure to include photos of family and friends in your bedroom decor. That can help make you feel more secure and relaxed in the space.
When you’re arranging the artwork in your bedroom, try to place your favorite piece(s) on a wall that you see from your bed. That way, it can be the last thing you see before you fall asleep and the first thing that you see when you wake up.
 The right scents can help create a more peaceful mood in your bedroom. When you’re decorating, include candles or a fragrance oil diffuser in your favorite scent(s) to help you relax at the end of the day.In addition to candles or a fragrance oil diffuser, you may want to use a linen spray to add a calming scent to your sheets and bedding.
Lavender is thought to be a very calming scent, so it’s ideal for use in the bedroom.Other scents that can help create a peaceful mood include clary sage, ylang ylang, bergamot, and jasmine.
 If your bedroom is cluttered or messy, you’re going to have a difficult time staying relaxed. Add plenty of storage to your room so you have place to keep all of your belongings and your room stays neat and organized.In addition to traditional storage options, such as a closet, dresser, or armoire, look for pieces that maximize space. For example, under bed storage boxes or containers are ideal for a small bedroom.
Pieces that do double duty can also help maximize space in your bedroom. For example, opt for a bench or ottoman that has storage inside rather than a regular piece of furniture.

