 A good quality shampoo and conditioner should be the two staple products in any hair care routine. Finding a good quality shampoo and conditioner that works well with your hair will help your hair stay healthy and allow you to effectively grow out your natural hair color.If your hair is dyed, look for a product labeled "Color safe" or "Color extending." These products are formulated to be more gentle on color-treated hair, so that the dye lasts longer before fading.
Baby shampoo is very inexpensive and excellent for all hair types including permed. Since it is gentle enough to use on a baby's hair, it will also be gentle enough to use on yours.
You may skip the conditioner if your hair is oily. Conditioner also makes an instant hair detangler when mixed with water in a spray bottle

, The shampoo in your shower can contribute to dry, damaged hair. Contrary to popular belief, it is not good or even necessary to wash your hair everyday, especially if your hair is chemically treated. Too much washing dries out the scalp, and keeps your hair from growing properly. Wash your hair only every other day (or every third day) to grow out your natural hair color.Try to go without washing for at least four days. If your hair feels a little greasy before then, try using a dry shampoo.
If you don't have one then mix some cornstarch with baking soda, sprinkle it on your roots and top part of your hair, and then brush it thoroughly.
 Exercising has many benefits for the human body such as maintaining body weight and improving overall health. But did you know that it can also help make hair grow faster? Exercising causes the heart to pump faster, circulating blood flow throughout the whole body including the scalp, resulting in faster hair growth. After a few weeks or months of sticking with an exercise routine, you should start to notice a change in hair growth.


Put your sneakers on and go for a jog or a long walk in the park.
Learn a new dance, try yoga, or jump on your trampoline.
You can also pick up strength training.
 Do not fight against the natural texture of your hair. Doing so with heat-stylers will cause damage and possibly breakage. With that being said, avoid heat-stylers at all costs such as flat irons, blow dryers, and curling irons. Doing this will help you to effectively grow out your natural color., Hair specialists recommend having your hair trimmed every 4-6 weeks. If you are trying to grow your hair out, you can push this to 6-8 weeks, but don’t skip trims altogether! Getting your hair trimmed prevents breakage and keeps your hair healthy, which will actually help your hair to grow longer. Getting your hair trimmed at least every 8 weeks is an important step in growing out your natural color.