 A bath uses a lot more water than a short shower. Considering that each minute under the average shower uses 2.5 gallons (9.5 L) of water and an average full bathtub takes 35 gallons (130 L) of water, a five minute shower will use 12.5 gallons (47 L) instead of the average bath's 35 gallons (130 L). Make the shower even shorter and you're saving a lot more. You don't need more than 10 minutes under a shower to get properly clean - the rest of the stay is enjoyment.;
, The technology has gotten far beyond the drip-drip-drip of earlier days. Most current shower heads use 2.5 gallons (9.5 L) per minute, but you can find and purchase shower heads that use as little as 0.5 gallons (1.9 L) per minute without dramatically sacrificing the shower experience. These shower heads are also perfect for areas with low water pressure.
 Doing this will lessen the water usage. It will also make you colder in colder weather, so the shower is again preferable for colder days. When it's a warmer day, fill bottles with water and put them in your half filled bath to increase the water level but not the water usage. Keep these filled bottles for reuse. It will also make the water get colder sooner. However, this is usually fine for small kids in any weather. A good rule of thumb is to fill no more than five inches (125 mm) for small kids, and ten inches (250 mm) for adults and older children.
 You and your beloved can hop into the bath together rather than filling it up again. Children can share one bath, or at least one after the other can use the same bathwater but there will be complaints from the children following that the bathwater is cold.
 If you've ever been in the Armed Forces, or camped rough, you'll know this one. You simply put water into the basin (you at least have the luxury of warm water!), dip a sponge or washcloth into it, soap up the sponge and then wash over your body. Pay particular attention to underarms, genital region and feet. Your face should be washed separately with a softer cloth. Rinse the soap off of the sponge (put clean water on the sponge) and use the sponge to rinse the soap off yourself. It may sound icky but it works just as well as a shower to remove dirt and germs,-- it is just that we've become accustomed to sheer luxury in our bathroom habits.
 In a dire water emergency, use this to save on water and still get a clean feeling. Turn on the shower and jump under it and wet yourself. Turn it off, soap up. Then jump in and rinse off the soap quickly. Turn off shower and dry yourself.


Try installing a valve behind your shower head. You turn the water on and get wet, then turn it off with the valve at the shower head. The valve keeps the water temperature consistent so you don't have to readjust it for the rinse.
 If you have smelly, tired feet, just bathe them in a bowl. You can also soak scratches and similar injuries in just a small bowl, as long as they are on a leg or an arm.
 You can get quite clean without any water.
 As an additional bonus, it is usually faster to clean up this way than taking a bath or shower.

