 Pick up your clothes and put them in your closet or hamper and make your bed. Do a quick 10 minute sweep through your room and bathroom with a simple cleaner and paper towels to collect any dust and grime. Cleanliness will make you feel refreshed and decluttering your space will free up your mind to relax.
 Soft mood lighting is a perfect way to slow down and a lightly scented candle can soothe your senses. Dim the overhead lights in your house or turn them off completely.Unscented candles can cost less than scented ones and be as equally calming.
If you don’t want to spend money on expensive candles, you can make some at home if you want to have a crafty night as well.
 Pick out one of your favorite albums or create a unique playlist just for your evening. Choose soothing, instrumental lyrics or just put your favorite bands on shuffle if you want an upbeat, energy-filled soundtrack.


If you want to explore new music, there are plenty of free music streaming services like Spotify or Pandora that have pre-made playlists based on different music moods.
Keep in mind that many of the free music sites have advertisements and your evening may be interrupted every once in awhile with audio pop-ups.
If you do want to splurge a little, pick out a few songs on iTunes and pay to download them so that you can enjoy them wherever you go.
 Throw your work or school clothes in the wash and stay away from the sweatpants. Pick out your cutest and softest pajamas, underwear, or robe and snuggle up with a clean blanket. It’s possible to be comfy without feeling like a slob.


Toss your sheets and blankets into the dryer to tumble them warm before crawling into bed.
For a special treat each month, splurge a little on a new pair of underwear or silky pajama pants.
 These small perfumed bags or packets can incorporate scents like lavender and jasmine into your everyday routine. Common places to hide sachets include clothes drawers, your closet, wherever you store your linens, and the bathroom cabinets.


You can make your own sachet with linen or cheesecloth, dried flowers and herbs, and some string.