 Before sewing, you will want to iron your uniform to smooth out any wrinkles.









Ironing your garment before sewing will prevent you from sewing over any wrinkles and leaving permanent wrinkles in your clothes.
 It’s smart to place your patch on your garment or uniform and make sure it’s in the correct spot before sewing.









If you sew your patch onto your uniform and realize you have put it in the wrong place you’ll have to remove the patch and start all over again.
 Even if you don’t have an iron on patch, you might want to get some adhesive ironing tape. 








Cut and place the tape. Place the patch on the tape and iron.
If you don’t iron the patch, you’ll have to pin the patch in place. Pinning your patch will create more work for you when using your machine.
 Set up your machine so that your needle length is shorter for the patch. Set the machine to a straight stitch. And place your presser foot in the up position.








different sewing machines will have different features and capabilities. It’s best to refer to your manual to get best results.
Make sure that you are only sewing the patch onto one piece of fabric. If you have to sew your patch onto a sleeve this can be tricky. Pull back the other side of the sleeve without the patch so you don’t sew your sleeve shut.
 Place the thread on the bobbin. Your manual will have instructions on how to correctly do this. In general, bring your thread through your bobbin which is on the spindle. With the spindle so that it winds the thread around the bobbin. Press the foot peddle to fill the bobbin.








Once the bobbin is filled you’ll have to place the bobbin in the correct location depending on your machine. Then run the thread through the proper parts of your machine to attach it to the needle. Each machine has a different process for this. Refer to your manual. Make sure you have the correct color thread in place. You should either use thread that’s the color of the patch or clear thread.










Your sewing machine will most likely have different speed settings. The speed dictates how quickly the needle moves. You’ll want to keep it low so that you have good control when sewing.
 Press down on your foot pedal to engage the needle and slowly move your garment until you’ve completed sewing the patch.








To rotate the garment and patch, move both as one. Make sure that the foot of the sewing machine is up, but the needle is in place.
When you need to rotate, you need to lift the foot up so that you can move the garment. But keep the needle in place so that you get a consistent pattern.
Once you’ve made it all the way around your patch, seal the stitch.
Take your scissors and cut away any loose threads. You should leave a little bit of thread about 1/2” (1cm) long. Leaving just a bit ensures that you don’t accidentally cut the knots.

