 To seek help for bipolar disorder, you first need to recognize and accept that you have this condition. Start by recognizing the symptoms you may be experiencing due to the disorder on a daily basis. During the manic phase, you may have symptoms like a high level of energy and activity, an irritable mood, rapid thoughts, a tendency to get distracted, and increased recklessness. You may also experience delusions or hallucinations as well as paranoid or suspicious thoughts.Write down your symptoms and pay close attention to how your moods swing back and forth throughout the day or week. You can then use these notes when you meet with a mental health professional to discuss your treatment options.
Be aware that bipolar disorder may be misdiagnosed because there is another type of bipolar that includes a hypomanic state. This form is more subtle and often hard to pick up. Hypomanic symptoms include spending an excessive amount of money, impulsive shopping, binge eating, and difficulty sleeping.;
, During the depressive phase, you may have symptoms like a lack of appetite, a lack of sleep or too much sleep, fatigue and low energy, and poor concentration. You may also feel worthless or guilty and have thoughts of death or suicide.


Having bipolar disorder means you will swing from the manic phase to the depressive phase. You may have periods where you feel more manic and periods where you feel more depressed. However, keep in mind that there will also be many times when you feel normal, especially if you are being treated for your bipolar disorder. Rapid cycling between these two phases is rare. However, if you feel that your mood easily fluctuates day to day or week to week, speak to your doctor about whether or not you have bipolar disorder and learn what your treatment options are.
 Once you recognize that you have the symptoms of bipolar disorder, take steps to acknowledge that you need help and treatment for this condition. Be honest with yourself and those around you. Admit that you have the disorder and accept that you need professional help to get better. Do not feel shame or guilt at having bipolar disorder. It is no one’s fault and you are not responsible for having this condition.For example, you may say to those close to you, “I acknowledge that I have bipolar disorder and that I need help” or “I realize that I have manic depression and want to seek treatment.”
Keep in mind that it may be hard for you to notice these symptoms in yourself. Listen to what friends and family have to say. If they want to help you seek treatment, then be willing to accept it.
 Be proactive about getting treatment for bipolar disorder. Contact a mental health professional, such as a psychiatrist or psychologist, and set up an appointment to discuss your condition. You can also reach out to a mental health professional at a mental health clinic or hospital near you to set up a consultation. A good treatment plan can help you live better with bipolar disorder.Avoid waiting until you have a manic or depressive episode to seek help. Contact a mental health professional right away so you can get the help you need.
If you have a medical emergency, such as suicidal thoughts, and need immediate care, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (1-800-273-8255) for help if you live in the U.S. The lifeline is available 24/7 and all calls are confidential.
For international suicide hotlines, refer to this list on Suicide.org.

