 Adhesive picture hanging strips need flat surfaces to work properly, so remove any protruding hanging hardware that has been installed on the back of the picture.This includes nails, screws, wires, keyhole or sawtooth fasteners, or anything else that could make the back surface of the picture uneven.


Adhesive picture hanging strips (as well as adhesive nails and hooks) can be found in office supply stores, craft stores, hardware stores, and online.;
, Adhesive picture hanging strips require a clean surface to stick properly, so wipe down your picture and the wall where you’re going to hang it with a clean cloth and isopropyl alcohol.Allow the surfaces to dry before applying the strips.
 For each set of strips, press the two different sides together. One set at a time, remove one liner and press the adhesive to the back of the picture. Continue pressing for 30 seconds. Repeat until the required strips have been applied.









One set of strips will hold up to three pounds (1.36 kg), and most 8x10-inch (20x28 cm) pictures. If you only need a single set of strips, position it at the top center of the picture.
Two sets of strips will hold up to six pounds (2.7 kg), and most 11x17-inch (28x44 cm) pictures. Position one set of strips at each top corner of the picture.
Four sets of strips will hold up to twelve pounds (5.4 kg), and most 18x24-inch (46x61 cm) pictures. Position one set of strips at each top corner of the picture; position another set on each side of the picture, two-thirds of the way down from the top., First, remove the liner on the outside of the strips to reveal the adhesive. Then, press the picture against the wall. Slowly separate the strips on the picture from those on the wall by gently pulling on the bottom corners of the picture and lifting. With your fingers, press the strips against the wall for 30 seconds.
 This allows all the adhesive on the strips to set and dry. When the hour is up, replace the picture back onto the wall by lining up the strips.








