 With a bouncy ball, it's easy to play handball by yourself: just find a wall and bounce the ball off it at different angles, trying to keep it in play by swatting it back each time for another bounce. You can also shoot hoops at a park with a basketball, if nobody else is using the court. Practice your soccer (football) footwork by jogging across a field while kicking a ball ahead of you, or race yourself by running to a set point and back.


You can practice less traditional sports by yourself, too. Try keeping a footbag (Hacky Sack) in the air as long as possible, throw a flying disc (Frisbee) as far as you can, or play a solo game of horseshoes, if there's a public pit in your area.
If there's a public range in your area, archery is a great sport to play by yourself, since it's generally always a solo sport. Getting the basic equipment to play archery is a bit expensive, but you shouldn't have to pay more than around $150, which is still a lot cheaper than the cost of getting into certain other sports.
 Whether by car, bicycle, or on foot, exploration can be a fun way to pass time in your neighborhood. Try picking a direction and just heading that way. For a more outdoorsy experience, go to a park with a wooded area, then throw a baseball or flying disc as far into the woods as you can. Follow it in and search for it, then repeat until you've crossed the woods.


Be sure to read signs carefully. Some parks don't allow foot traffic off of designated paths in wooded or brushy areas. Always respect the rules.
If you plan to explore outside of town, be sure you have a compass and a topographic map, and know how to use them. This skill is called orienteering. It's easy to learn and can save your life.
 This is another popular pastime with children everywhere. By letting gravity do your work for you, you can enjoy fast movement speeds without having to exert yourself very hard. If you live somewhere with nearby snow, buy a sled or similar item and go sledding by yourself. If you have a city park nearby, find a hill there, lay sideways, and roll down the hill. (Be sure to check for dog poop first.)


You can bring a bicycle or scooter to go even faster, but be sure to watch out for others who might be in your way at the base of the hill, since it takes much longer to stop a speeding bike than it does to stop a rolling body.
 Use a bike, a car, or public transportation to visit places of local interest and beauty. Take a camera (or camera phone) with you, and snap photos of every pretty panorama or interesting feature you notice. Even just traveling alongside streets can sometimes reveal pretty houses and yards to photograph. Try keeping a record of where you go each season, and coming back to the best spots every few months to see how they change with the passage of the seasons.


To turn your sightseeing into a game, note any unusual feature you find (such as a rare flower or a four-leaf clover) at one location, and then try to match it up with a photo of the same feature somewhere else in town. If you have an eye for detail, you could spend months finding and matching all sorts of things.
 One of the best ways to spend time outside is to sit on a bench near a busy street and watch people pass by. Note their outfits, faces, and body language, as well as what accessories they have and which direction they're headed. Try adding details to their lives, such as whether or not they secretly wear crazy socks to work, or what they think of jazz music. Turn them into characters in your head. It's more fun than you might think from reading about it.


You can turn people watching into a game using the same method as you use for sightseeing.
Don't stare at people. The goal is to go unnoticed so you can continue to enjoy being outside and people watching. If you catch someone's eye, smile politely and look away. Consider bringing a cup of coffee or tea so you have something to shift your focus to quickly.

