 First, you will need to take measurements to know where to cut the leather. A simple way to do this is to put on a belt that you already have, put it on to the belt hole that fits you best, and measure the belt all the way around. You can also use a tape measurer by putting it around your hips at the place where the belt would sit and recording the measurement.Use a measurement that feels most comfortable. If you pull the belt or measuring tape tightly, then you might end up with a belt that feels uncomfortable to wear.;
, Purchase a long piece of 8 to 9 oz. vegetable tanned leather. Any type of vegetable tanned leather will do. You can find leather online, at a tannery, or look for a leather shop in your area., You need to create a straight edge on the leather to give the strap cutter somewhere to rest. First, lay your leather out flat on a table. Then, mark straight, long line on one side of the leather. The line should be larger than the size you measured. For example, cut 45 inches for a 32-inch waist size. Finish the cut with a perpendicular cut so that the strap cutter can easily enter and exit the leather.Use a ruler as you’re cutting to make sure the line is absolutely straight.
 First, you will need to set the thickness knob on the strap cutter so the piece of leather you have fits through it. After that, you can set the thickness to whatever you prefer. A 1 ¼ inch wide belt is a safe choice., Press the strap cutter up against the straight edge you just made in the leather. Slowly feed the leather into the strap cutter. Go slowly and make sure the straight edge stays pressed up against the strap cutter. Grab the leather once it comes out of the strap cutter and pull it.Take this step very slowly or you could end up with a piece of leather that is not straight and basically unusable.
 The easiest way to mark the holes is to use a belt that you already have and base your holes off of the placement of those holes. You will have five holes on total. Two holes close to the tail end of the belt, one larger hole for where the fold occurs for the buckle, and two holes after that. The holes should be placed about an inch apart.Use a pencil to mark the placement of the holes.
 Use your hole puncher to punch out the holes where you have made the marks. 5/64 is good to use for the size of the hole punches. Use your strap hole punch to cut out the longer holes., Shaving off some of the thickness in the place where you just made the holes helps the belt fold over itself for the buckle and loops. Skive off about half of the thickness. Go slowly and make shallow cuts. Don’t try to take off half of the thickness at once.You can also use a belt sander to take off the thickness, but you are more likely to get “fuzzies” with this method.
 Put the buckle in place, and fold the skived leather over itself. You do this so that you can take an actual measurement of the belt. Once the buckle is in place, measure three inches beyond the measurement you took of your waist. For example, if your waist measurement was 31 inches, then you would make a mark at the 34-inch spot. Mark the 34 inch spot because that is where the center hole will go., Use your hole punch at 9/64 and punch a hole in the spot you made. Then, make two more hole punches on either side of the center hole. Each hole should be spaced an inch apart.The extra holes allow you some space for breathing room.
 Take this time to shape the end of the belt. You can use a pencil to make a light sketch of the shape you’d like. The easiest way to get the ideal shape for the end of the belt is to use a belt tip cutter, but you can also use leather scissors., Use the scrap leather that was cut off from the belt tip to make the belt loop. Feed the leftover leather into the cutter that should be adjusted to ½ of an inch. Then, skive the leather to about half of its thickness so that bend around the belt without a problem. , To figure out the length of the belt loop, put the strap of leather around the belt as if it the belt is already buckled. Put a mark at the place where the strap is overlapping by ½ and inch. Then, you can rivet the loop to secure it or sew it., Beveling the edges gives the belt a more refined look. First, use a damp sponge to dampen the edges of the belt. Then, use a beveler and glide it along the edges of the belt at a 45-degree angle. , Using a vegetable based dye is recommended because it is non-toxic and won’t do any harm to your skin. Use a towel or sponge to rub the dye on evenly along the entire top part of the belt. One example of a homemade, vegetable dye is a mixture of walnut husks and water.
 You don’t have to, but it is better to speed up the drying of the dye because you can’t use oil on the leather until it is completely dry. Use a heat gun on the entirety of the belt until it is completely dry. If you don’t the oil will give the belt a blotchy look because it won’t absorb evenly., Leather often becomes dry and stiff when it has been worked with. Apply a thin coating of extra virgin olive oil to the top of the belt with a towel. Apply a few, thin coats. Do not use too much olive oil at once, or the belt may end up with a greasy look and feel.It’s not necessary to apply olive oil to the back of the belt.
Keep in mind that the extra virgin olive oil will darken the leather.
 Use a towel to apply a coat of walnut oil and beeswax to the front and back of the belt. The oil and beeswax help preserve the leather and keep it flexible.Use a nail to remove beeswax that may get stuck in the holes.
 Slick down the edges by applying a layer of gum tragacanth, a thickening agent made from the sap of Middle Eastern legumes. You only need to apply a thin coat to the edges of the belt. To , A wood burnisher is the best way to burnish the edges, but is can be a costly tool, especially if you don’t plan to use it often. Another way to burnish the edges is to quickly rub canvas along the edges of the belt until you feel them heat up. This method, however, can be tiring., Snapping the end of the belt together is good because it makes the belt buckle interchangeable. You will, however, need a snap setting kit or a press to put the snap in place. Put the two snaps an inch apart near the end of the belt where the buckle will be. After the snaps are set, you can put the buck onto the belt.You can also choose to rivet the leather together if you will not be removing the buckle. Just make sure to put the buckle in place first.
 The last step to making your leather belt is to secure and place the belt loop. The belt loop should already be cut and measured. Secure the belt loop by using riveting it together with micro double sided rivets, or simply sew it together. Then, slide it onto the belt, and your leather belt is complete.