 You might not be able to find a book that addresses the child’s issues, or you may not feel that the books available are appropriate to your child. You may decide to create your own story about a child facing a similar problem.


You can decide if you want to write out the story, and perhaps illustrate it, or tell the story aloud to the child.
 Think of ways the child exhibits a particular behavior or deals with a certain situation, common consequences to the child’s actions, and the outcome you would like to see.


Describe the child’s current behavior or situation at the beginning of the story. Have the child engage in this behavior and then receive consequences for their actions. Or, the child is exposed to a new situation and doesn’t know how to handle it.
Describe the character’s reaction to the situation. For example, “When Sally the Bunny was teased on the playground, her ears drooped and she got very quiet.” Or, “Even though the teacher had already told him to raise his hand, Johnny couldn’t resist shouting out the answer again. The teacher told Johnny to stay after school.” The child should be able to relate to the main character’s “crisis” in the story.Enter a character like parent, teacher, or someone older and respected. This character connects with the protagonist and helps them understand what they are feeling, giving them ways to change their behavior. Present a solution that you think your child would be willing to try.Give the character another opportunity to face the same situation, this time using the techniques they learned to successfully solve the problem. For example, “After talking to Miss Cabbage, Little Onion knew just what to say when the other kids at Vegetable School called her stinky. And she made sure to take a good bath in the sink that night.”
Your character in the story will successfully face the situation in the story using the new behavior or coping skills, and will live happily ever after!

, People like to be entertained, not preached at. Provide silly moments in the story and don’t let it get too heavy. Remember, you want to give the child tools to deal with the issue, not leave them overwhelmed or daunted by it.Don’t give the character the same name as the child. Consider making the protagonist the child’s favorite animal, or give them a silly nonsense name to make the child laugh.
Use language close enough to what your child hears to allow them to make the connection to their own life, just make sure you are changing it up enough so that it does not sound like the story is about them.For example, “Tommy, make your bed!” could become, “Silly Goose, make your nest!”
Create a fictional place for the setting. Don’t give it the same name as the child’s town or school.
While your story may need to contain consequences for the character’s behavior, do not make the consequences so dire that you will frighten the child. For example, “Robbie behaved so badly at school that he had to miss the pizza party,” would be better than, “Robbie behaved so badly that the principal locked him in the janitor’s closet for the rest of the day.”

