 Electricians work in a variety of settings, including homes, businesses, schools, hospitals - any type of facility that needs electricity to function. Electricians may find themselves working in extremes of heat and cold, indoors and out any time of year. Electricians may also perform electrical work on trains, airplanes, ships and vehicles. Electricians' work includes the following:


Reading blueprints, or technical diagrams of a work site's electrical wiring.
Connecting wires, circuit breakers, and outlets, and replacing or adding wires, circuit breakers, connections, and fuses.
Using specialized equipment, including oscilloscopes, ammeters, ohmmeters and voltmeters, to perform their work.Working as part of a team in coordination with the construction project manager, homeowner, or building manager of a work site.
Knowing and following building codes and regulations to ensure buildings are wired safely.;
, Electricians are adept at diagnosing problems and using good judgement and the right techniques to solve them. Electricians have the following traits:


They are detail-oriented. Electricians know that glossing over details in a wiring project could at best result in non-functioning wiring, and at worst create a dangerous situation.
They have strong manual dexterity. Electricians work with small tools and parts that must be handled with care and precision. They often have to climb ladders or enter crawl spaces to perform their jobs.
They are flexible. Electricians are comfortable working at many different sites, under a variety of conditions. They are able to effectively communicate with managers and members of construction teams.
 If you're serious about becoming a licensed technician, contact electricians in your area and set up informational interviews.


Ask if you can shadow them or help out on a project to experience a day in the life of a technician.
Seek a master or licensed electrician willing to take you on as a longer-term helper. This will give you the opportunity to gain some knowledge and experience in the field.
Ask for recommendations on trade schools and certification programs in your area.
 Most electrician trade schools and apprenticeship programs require this level of education.
 The courses offered at trade and vocational schools provide important preparation for entering an electrician apprenticeship program.


You'll learn about electrical theory, circuitry, mathematics, wiring, motor controls and other knowledge important to the trade.
Consider taking electrical engineering courses online as an alternative to taking them at a local college or university.
Some electrician programs include an apprenticeship program. You will have to complete an apprenticeship program in order to get certified, so a combined coursework/apprenticeship program might be a convenient option.
 Most states require at least two years, and in most cases up to four years, of apprenticeship with a master or licensed electrician before one can take the examination to become a licensed electrician. During an apprenticeship, one earns the title of journeyman electrician. Many apprenticeships combine hands-on experience with classroom instruction. Some organizations that sponsor or provide apprentice programs through local chapters include:


International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
National Electrical Contractors Association
Independent Electrical Contractors Association
Associated Builders and Contractors

, In order to get licensed to work as an electrician in most states, you will have to demonstrate knowledge of the National Electrical Code, which lays out laws, regulations and other information about safe practices.


After you receive your license, most states will require continued study of the National Electrical Code. You may have to attend seminars or classes addressing updates to the Code.
 Most states require that you get a state license in order to practice as an electrician. The license is granted after taking an exam to demonstrate knowledge of the National Electrical Code and local electrical and building codes. In order to take the exam,


Candidates must show proof of working as an electrician and having completed an apprenticeship program. State requirements typically call for four to seven years' experience in the trade prior to taking this test.
You must complete an examination application and submit appropriate fees before taking the exam.
 Now that you have your state license, you are free to work as an electrical contractor in your state. Choose to work with a company of contractors or operate independently.


Job search websites have comprehensive job listings in the field of electrical work.
Go to job fairs to talk with companies hiring electricians.
 Choose from a variety of specialized certifications to enhance your career. Certifications vary by state and will help you pursue work as an electrical administrator, a telecommunications contractor, or a specialist in an area like instrumentation.


Conduct research to determine what certificates may be beneficial to your career as an electrician.
To obtain certification, you will have to demonstrate experience and proficiency in the area you choose by taking an examination.

