 An SMSF trustee can accept contributions and rollovers from various sources. However, you must understand the restrictions. Restrictions mostly depend on the member’s age and contribution caps. All contributions and rollovers must be properly documented, including the amount, type, and how they are allocated to member accounts. This must be done within 28 days of the end of the month in which they were received.
 To properly manage the investments, you must consider not only the best interest of the fund members, but also the law. The fund’s investments must be completely separate from the members’ personal and business affairs., The benefits can only be paid when a member meets specific requirements. Benefits may be paid when a member reaches “preservation age,” which is the age at which you can access your super if you are retired.Members can also be paid when they retire. You can pay member in a lump sum, or they can receive an income stream., As an SMSF trustee, you must comply with a number of obligations. Familiarize yourself with all of the compliance regulations. Employ professional help wherever needed.


Appoint an SMSF auditor. An SMSF auditor audits your fund each year. The auditor reviews financial statements and makes sure everything is incompliance with the law. This has to be done at least 45 days before you file your annual return.Value the fund's assets. You must value the fund’s assets at their market value (which is the amount a buyer would reasonably be willing to pay). This is necessary in order to prepare financial statements and file your annual return.File SMSF annual returns. Once your audit is completed, you can file your annual return., Keep accurate and detailed records of all investment decisions. Document how investment decisions are made and whether or not all trustees are in agreement. This protects you in the event that a trustee wants to accuse you of making a bad investment. These records must be made available to the SMSF auditor each year.