 The majority of dog bites will be minor wounds you can treat at home. If the bite barely broke the skin or the teeth dragged to form a shallow scratch, then you can treat the wound at home.This differs from a wound where the tissue is deeply punctured, torn, or joints/bones have been crushed. Always seek medical attention for these wounds, which are covered more in Method Two.;
, Spend several minutes washing the bite with plenty of soap and water at a comfortable temperature.This helps clean the wound of any germs around your wound or that came from the dog’s mouth.


Any soap is fine, but an antibacterial soap is best if you have some in your home.
The soap and water might sting the site of the bite, but it’s still a much better idea to wash the area thoroughly.
 Use a clean towel or gauze to apply pressure to the bite if it is still bleeding after washing it.The bleeding should stop or slow enough to bandage the wound within several minutes.


If the wound continues bleeding too much to bandage it after fifteen minutes of pressure, then you should seek medical attention., Antibiotic creams such as Neosporin or Bacitracin can also help prevent infections as the wound heals.Apply the cream to the wound as directed on the packaging.
 As soon as you apply the antibiotic ointment, bandage or dress the wound appropriately.Apply with enough pressure to help protect the injury, but do not apply with so much pressure as to affect circulation or lead to discomfort.
 You should change the bandage on the bite each time you soil it, such as when showering. Wash the bite again gently, reapply the antibiotic cream, and apply a fresh bandage.
 Tetanus is a potential infection that can stem from any dog bite that breaks the skin.Medical professionals recommend a tetanus booster after a dog bite if your last immunization was five or more years ago., Watch for signs of other infection as the bite heals. If you think the bite is becoming infected, then see a doctor immediately. Signs that an infection might be developing in the bite include:Worsening pain
Swelling
Redness or warmth around the bite
Fever
Pus-like discharge

, Rabies is another possible infection you can get from even a minor dog bite. Those bitten by dog’s often know the dog that bit them and can verify that the dog has previously received a rabies vaccination, in which case rabies is not a concern.If the dog’s vaccine status is uncertain—such as if the dog was a stray—the dog should be observed for fifteen days (if possible) to see if it develops signs of rabies. You should also seek professional medical assistance if you can’t verify the vaccination status of the dog.
 Even for minor bites, some health-related complications mean you should still seek medical attention. These other conditions include:Diabetes
Liver disease
Cancer
HIV
Medications that can weaken the immune system, such as those taken for autoimmune disorders.

