 Bullies are much less likely to attack you if they see you are confident. By walking, talking, and carrying yourself with poise, you will show others that you are not one to be messed with., When you stand tall, with your shoulders back and chin up, it shows that you are confident and won't let anyone bother you. Keep your arms loose by your side, uncrossed, and in front of you.Don't fidget with your hands or face because it translates as nervousness to others. Keep your hands and arms calm, and by your side, to look confident and in control.
Do not slouch when you sit or stand.
 When you meet eyes with someone, do not be the first person to look away because it shows weakness. Continue to look into their eyes until they either pass by you, or look away first. This will let people know that you are strong and confident, and it will leave them intimidated.


When meeting eyes with someone, do not smile. Instead, keep a straight face to show you are not trying to be friendly or welcoming.
To exhibit a threatening look, try scowling at someone by squinting your eyes and scrunching your eyebrows.
 Stay calm and do not let anyone tell you what to do. If a bully is trying to make you do something, or get you angry, don't follow order and don't show face. Instead, stay calm and speak up for yourself. This will make the bully feel ineffective and weak because you are excerpting your self-control and confidence., If you are in a potential bullying situation, speak up with a strong voice and be assertive to show that you are going to stand up for yourself. When bullies see you are not going to stand weakly and take any nonsense, they will go search for someone who is weak to mess with.You will eventually gain a reputation that lets people know that you are too strong to be targeted.
 As with anything, prevention is better than a solution. You can prevent a lot of conflict by being aware of your surroundings. Bullies often target people who seem to be unaware of their surrounds. If you walk around looking down, or distracted, a bully will see you as a good target. Always keep your head up, and scan your surroundings.
 It is harder for bullies to threaten or intimidate you when you put yourself in a group. When you are in the halls, or out on the playground, don't stand alone. The less vulnerable you are, the less likely it is somewhere will target you.


If you don't have a group of friends to stand by, stay in an area where there are a lot of people playing or hanging out.

