 The mailing address is:


Dr. Phil Show, 5482 Wilshire Boulevard #1902, Los Angeles, CA 90036
Note that nothing you send will be sent back to you since the show receives so much mail. As such, you should not send originals of photographs, legal documents, medical documents, manuscripts, or any other personal items. Only send copies.
You should only send letters. Most other items are not typically reviewed.
Do not send money or checks.;
, If you need to ask Dr. Phil a question or want to seek his advice, the quickest and simplest way to do so is by sending him a question via the online form.The form can be found on his website. Keep your questions short. You are only allowed to enter 250 words or less.Along with your question, you must provide your first name, last name, birthday, e-mail address, street address, city, state, zip code, country, and daytime phone number.
Depending on the nature of your question, the show's producers may want to use it on air. As a result, you also need to indicate whether or not you are willing to appear on the show.
When you visit the website, click on the section that says "Ask Dr. Phil."

, If you have a question for Dr. Phil, do not use this method to contact him.


When you visit the website, click on the section that says "Email the show."
This form can be used for any non-question comment, including fan mail, critiques on the show, or general thoughts on Dr. Phil's work. You could also use this form for topic suggestions.
Along with your message, you must provide your first name, last name, birthday, e-mail address, street address, city, state, zip code, country name, and daytime phone number.
You will also need to indicate whether or not you would be willing to appear on the show. You probably won't need to, but you might be asked to do so depending on the nature of your comments.
Keep your comments short. You can only write 250 words or less.
 The Dr. Phil Foundation is dedicated to helping disadvantaged children and youths. To make a general comment or inquiry regarding the foundation, you can use the online contact form or send a letter.When using this form, you will need to provide your first name, last name, and e-mail address. You also have the option of including a phone number.
The mailing address for the foundation is:

137 N. Larchmont Blvd. #705,Los Angeles, CA 90004


The Dr. Phil foundation can be contacted through Twitter and Facebook as well.You can also make a donation to the foundation or one of its causes.You will need to indicate the cause you are donating to and the amount you wish to donate. You can either pay by using a credit card or by using PayPal.
 If you know someone who appeared on the show and have additional information that might benefit viewers, you can let Dr. Phil know though the use of a special online form. You should only use this form if you are a relative, friend, or colleague of the guest you are referring to. Do not use it if you have no connection to that guest.This form should be used if you have a personal comment or if you have a unique perspective about the guest in question. You can also use it if you feel like your side of the story has been ignored.
In addition to your message, you will also be required to provide your full name, birthday, e-mail address, mailing address, and phone number. You also need to indicate whether or not you will be willing to appear on the show.
Your comment must be 250 words or less.

