 Give careful consideration to the colors you pick. Colors can create and reinforce the mood of a room. Decide what kind of mood or energy you want your room to have. If you have any doubts, a paint store associate can help you decide on a color that's best for you.


Choose a light, neutral color, such as taupe, gray, or an off-white, if you want to achieve a calming effect.
Paint your room a vibrant color such as red, purple, or yellow, if you want to energize your room.
Keep in mind that lighter colors welcome natural light, while darker shades can make a room feel darker. , It is best not to choose an exact match. Instead, look for linens with an accent color that matches your wall, or colors that go well with your wall color, such as a pastel pink to complement a pastel blue wall. Avoid using too many patterns.


If your walls are patterned, choose a solid-colored bed spread or quilt.
If your walls are simple and you prefer to not hang photos or art, consider a patterned bed spread or quilt.
Opt for no curtains to let in plenty of natural sunlight, or choose a pattern that matches your bed spread.
Consider sheer curtains if you want to let in plenty of light while still maintaining a little bit of privacy., This is where you can best express yourself and your personality. Whether you have a special love for music, or a certain sports team, or a particular aspect of art or culture, this is where you can really let your interests shine.


To avoid turning decor into clutter, have a plan for where you will put each item before you start hanging them, taking care not to hang items too close or too far away from one another.
Center a large painting above a headboard or on a wall.
Cluster smaller items together, such as small framed pictures, to create the effect of a larger piece. , As an added bonus, house plants can freshen the air in your room. You can find these at grocery stores, hardware stores, or nurseries.Be sure to pay close attention to the amount of light and water needed; you can find this information on the plant’s tag, or ask a store associate.
If you have a busy schedule or don’t prefer to maintain a strict routine, consider plants that don’t need to be watered regularly.
Use your phone calendar app to set a reminder to water plants that only require occasional watering such as weekly or once a month.
If your room receives little or no sunlight, search for plants that don’t require much sun, such as the mother-in-law tongue.
If you have a bright, sunny room that gets a lot of sunlight, look for plants that require bright light, such as the dragon tree.

