 You need to approach couples therapy with an open mind and honesty. Your couples counseling sessions will begin with your counselor asking a series of questions to figure out where your relationship is. Your counselor will ask about your history as a couple, why you sought treatment, and other questions to see where you are as a couple.Make sure you get everything out on the table about your relationship. Express any grievances or issues that you've had with your partner so you can figure out which problems you need to address.;
, Since you and your partner have opted to go to couples therapy, you may know some of the problems that you have as a couple and these will come out pretty easily. However, there may also be other problems you are not even aware of. Work with your counselor to figure out every problem that you and your partner have.This will help you get at any underlying issues that have led to your problems as well.
 While working through your problems, your counselor will help you work out how to better communicate with each other so you can get past these problems and move ahead in your relationship. Your counselor will coach you in how to change the way you speak to each other in more productive and supportive ways.Your counselor will also help you and your partner figure out which ways are the best for you two to communicate.
For example, if you and your partner have avoided conflict with each other in the past, your counselor will help you communicate honestly about your issues without keeping things bottled up.
If you and your partner have resorted to constant criticism of each other, your counselor will help you learn to communicate your feelings with positive, supportive language.
 When you first go to counseling, it may take some time for you and your partner to start talking to each other. Your counselor will help you figure out how to start talking about your problems in a productive way instead of suffering in silence. These silences may be filled with anger or sadness, depending on what problems you are trying to deal with.These times can be used to listen to your partner or for your to start talking honestly with your partner about how you are feeling.
 Once you and your partner start working through your problems, old feelings are likely to come up. You will likely get angry, upset, or hurt when these problems come out. Expect to yell and fight with your partner. Your counselor will be there to be the mediator and help you figure out how to move past these fights and hurt feelings.This can be a cathartic experience because you are able to get all the pent up feelings out in the open so you can move past them.

