 Conventional eggs often come from hens that have been kept in small cages in crowded facilities. Also, conventional eggs often come from hens that have eaten a diet of corn, soy and cottonseed meal, which is then filled with commercial additives. Conventional eggs are safe to eat and still make a good choice of protein. However, many researchers believe that eggs from chickens raised in these conditions are nutritionally inferior.;
, Eggs labeled “organic” by the USDA come from chickens that are kept cage-free with outdoor access. These chickens have not had antibiotics and eat a diet free of animal by-products. In addition, the hens’ diets cannot contain crops grown with chemical pesticides, fertilizers, irradiation, genetic engineering or sewage sludge.
 Hens that are “free-range” are not only cage-free but are also given access to the outdoors. However, free-range does not necessarily mean that the hens were pastured; it simply means that the hens had the option to go outside. To ensure that you eat truly free-range eggs, purchase eggs from pastured hens. Pastured hens often eat diets that include greens, seeds, worms and bugs, which are more akin to a natural chicken’s diet. Studies have shown that eggs from pastured hens may have more omega-3 fatty acids, more vitamins and less fat and cholesterol.
 Omega-3 enriched eggs come from hens that were fed a diet rich in omega-3 sources, like flaxseed or algae. Consequently, their eggs are richer in omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3’s are thought to promote a healthier nervous system as well as a healthier cardiovascular system.
 The USDA forbids the use of hormones for egg production. Also, the use of therapeutic antibiotics is forbidden unless hens are ill. However, the only way to ensure that the hens that laid the eggs were antibiotic-free is to purchase organic eggs.
 Terms like “natural” and “cage-free” are often used in labeling, but these claims may not necessarily be true. Claims on eggs with the USDA shield have been verified by the Department of Agriculture, so always look for the shield when you purchase eggs from a store.

