 Perhaps you think you would be bad with teams, perhaps you are afraid of being betrayed, perhaps you just want to go solo. Doesn't matter. In numbers, you have a greater chance. No solo player would attack you, and even other groups would be cautious. Remember, Teamwork=GG, Team=Win, Solo=Death.
 An example, though this could put you in danger when you are attempting it, is for a short code to be typed; team members will respond the same. For example, 111. Another way to recognize teammates is to remember the hats they wore. Be careful with the code or movements, for if someone else sees it, they may try to impersonate a team member.
 Too early and you die. Too late and the other players are way ahead of you, fighting it out.;
,, A mistake many players make is holding Shift to sprint while standing still; this wastes precious stamina. Then it comes too hard to control swimming mechanics.
, You WILL need a weapon and the only other way to get one is to be sponsored. And the only weapons on the map are in the cornucopia. You only need to grab a single weapon, but never stick with the knife; if you are given one, it is, simply put, a death sentence.
, Most likely you will be grouped up on.
 You got your weapon, now what? Do you fight to the death? Of course not, this is a game of survival. Meaning that you have lost a lot of stamina trying to be the first one to get the weapons; now you need to escape with them.
,, Simply run. The problem with getting in water, however, is that the land is uneven; it can take several minutes to find a spot where you can jump back up.
, If it's away from the Cornucopia tail end, good for you; if not, then things get dangerous. Water, however, is limited; you need to be near these areas for easy access. If it is near the Cornucopia tail end, things get dangerous.
, Disasters are different for each clock section; but they are almost always fatal. You need to predict how they will come. The Cornucopia tail end will always point to 12 o'clock. However, the Gamemakers can spin it whenever they choose. Disasters happen clockwise; if you see one, you can judge where the next one will occur. But what if there is something you need in a zone about to get hit? Then follow the next step.
 Disasters move from one zone to the next slower than you walk, so you can always escape them if you see them coming. However, what if there is something you need in a disaster zone? For example, water. In that case, try to get to a spot counter-clockwise to the zone you want to get into. This is simple enough, wait out the disaster. But if you are clockwise to it, great timing is required; you need to move from one zone to the next the moment that disaster is finished and right before the one in your zone begins.
 It will always happen; near the end of the game, you trying to figure out whether you and your teammate are the last players, and he tries to put a knife in your ribs. This can easily be avoided. One, always keep a safe distance, of, for example, three feet. Two, make him reliant on you. If you take the initiative at every piece of food, he will be forced to ask you each time he needs food. And three, always know what weapons he has. Just a knife? You can handle him. A sword? You will escape. Anything greater, however, and he will kill you. Either way, one of you will murder the other. Better him dead than you, however.
 First of all, realize that while this can damage friendships, it is necessary to win. In the Hunger Games, like the actual one, there may only be one winner. Some players inform the other that the alliance is broken, and challenge them to a fight. This, however, is throwing the advantage of surprise into the lake. First of all, find a piece of food likely to be poisoned. Offer it to them, telling them you already sampled it. After they take a bite, attack. And try to time your betrayals; if your ally is severely wounded from a fight, finish the job.
 Sponsors will only give you anything with two reasons. They think you are likely to win (for example, if you already have a high win or kill count), or they pity you (for example, if you are starving or poisoned). However, they can be asked questions. For example, a group that thinks it may be the last will ask sponsors to friend request them to confirm it. You can, however, ask them to track opponents, friend requesting you when you are in the right direction or when they are nearby, and similar. Make sure they do not put it in the chat. The victim will then attempt to escape,or go(possibly stay)in hiding.

