 You can make satin ribbon flowers by folding a long strip of ribbon. Start by cutting your length of satin ribbon so that it is 40-inches long. Cut diagonally along each end of the ribbon, so that each end has a sharp point. You can stitch over the edges if you are concerned about fraying.








You will also need a threaded needle ready to go.
 About 8-inches from the left-hand side of the ribbon, fold the ribbon over so that the long end is horizontal and the shorter end is vertical. It should look like an upside-down L.








Now take the long right-hand end and fold it down so that it is vertical, and parallel with the shorter end.
The fold should create something that looks a bit like an arrowhead.
You should have a little gap of around 1/8 of an inch between the two ends., Then bring the long end over the short end, so that it is horizontal again and the arrowhead shape becomes more like a square.You will then need to repeat this folding pattern, bringing one end up over the other, and then vice versa.









You will notice a concertina pattern developing as you fold.
Do this until you have at least three layers of ribbon., Once you have folded it over so you have at least three layers, carefully lift it up. Take care to ensure that it all stays together, pinching the area where the folds are between your thumb and forefinger. Then take the end of the longer end of the ribbon and pass it through the square gap at the centre of the folds.








Gently pull the ribbon through, but leave a little bit at the top on the other side of the folded area., Now take the long end of the ribbon that you have passed through the hole in one hand, and hold the folds with your other hand. Twist the long piece of ribbon near to the folds until you see the folds begin to curl and twist.









As you twist you will see each layer of folds curl around to become a flower shape.
Take the hand that you are holding the folds in, and move up a layer each time as you twist and see it curl., Once the flower is completed and all the layers of folds have curled up into petals, grab the bottom of the flower and hold it tightly. Then take a threaded needle and stitch directly underneath the bottom of the flower to keep the folds in place.









Keep the stitches tight and neat, and be sure to hold it all tightly in place as you work. You can use floral tape to attach the finished flower to a wire.
Make a series of flowers like this of different shapes and colours to make a satin ribbon bouquet.

