 You will need documentation such as passports, tickets, Visas etc before arriving in Russia. Refer to https://www.wikihow.com/Travel-to-Siberia-by-Air to see what you need before flying.;
,


Moscow - You can fly into Moscow on a non-stop or one-stop flight from almost every major city in Europe, and there are direct flights on Aeroflot from New York, Los Angeles and Miami. For visitors from Australia and New Zealand; Bangkok, Dubai and Abu Dhabi provide convenient stopovers.







St Petersburg - Pulkovo Airport is St Petersburg’s international airport. It connects with most major international airports in Europe as well as transport hubs in the Middle East, Seoul and Beijing.







Other Major Airports - For most other destinations in Russia, catching a domestic flight from Moscow or St Petersburg will give you the most flexibility.
 Trains leave from multiple destinations around Europe including


Direct Travel From Amsterdam, Minsk, Riga and Tallinn







Overnight Travel Trains from London







, Overnight trains require a stop in any of the following, before continuing to Moscow


France
Germany
Belgium

,


Trans-Siberian - Runs Moscow to Vladivostok (9,258km away) also holds the distinction of being the longest single train journey on earth, taking seven days to complete.







Trans-Mongolian - Runs from China (Beijing) or Mongolia (Ulan-Bator) and meets up with the Trans-Siberian in Ulan-Ude in south eastern Siberia







, There is no 'hop on-hop off' option but you can choose your stopover destinations when you book your ticket and berths on multiple trains will be reserved for you.
 Buses run from major cities within


France
Germany
Holland
Spain
Portugal
Denmark
Sweden
Finland
Great Britain
Switzerland
Most of the major Eastern European cities.



Buses run to Moscow & St Petersburg regularly from most origins.
 Essentials for just visiting Russia are your:

Passport






Russian Visa






Drivers Licence







, Certain permits must be purchased to be able to drive within Russia. These include

International Driving permit






Vehicles registration documents






Third Party Insurance valid in Russia (This can be purchased at the border or through a Russian insurance company such as Ingosstrakh or Rosno)







