 Once you have an idea of who could provide you with relevant references then you must ask their permission, as well as give them a head’s up that someone might be calling them if they agree to be your referee.You want to avoid giving a name without permission and having your referee be put on the spot.


There may be a situation where one of you potential referees may have to turn down your request. In this case you will have to find another person who can.
 You can do this by calling the person up, visiting them in person, or sending an email. If you are applying for a job in the near future, you may want to do one of the first two options, but if you have more time, you can draft an email. An example email is:


Dear , I am applying for at / in . Would you allow me to use your name as a reference? I really look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, .
 Once you have confirmed with your contacts that they will be your referees, and you have been asked to provide your potential employer with your reference list, send your important information to your referees. Doing this will help them to give you the stellar recommendation that you deserve. Send:


The name of the company that is considering hiring you.
The position or title you are applying for.
The basic requirements of the position.
Your skills and accomplishments that pertain to this job.
Any other details you hope your referee will mention.
 Even though your contacts know you really well, it’s a good idea to refresh their memories by forwarding them the resume you have already sent to your potential employer. This will enable them to have a detailed idea of your accomplishments and skills.


You can also extend a summary of the successful projects that you did with or without their involvement. However, if they had been a part of your team, in a leading capacity or otherwise, they will be in a good standing to showcase your achievements. This will work towards earning you a good name in the eyes of your potential employer.

