 When she does, give out a high-pitched yelp, imitating the yelp of a dog. The sound should be loud and sharp, like a dog’s yelp would be. Stand up to stop playing with the puppy to further reinforce that her paper was not acceptable.


If you are clicker training the puppy, click as soon as he withdraws her mouth from your hand or lets up the pressure.
 Jerking your hands back in pain, while certainly a natural response, may actually encourage your puppy to play harder and continue biting. When your hands move, you are encouraging the puppy’s prey drive, which will make her want to continue biting you. A limp hand, on the other hand, is very little fun to play with.
 If she starts to bite again, let out your yelp or stern rebuke and withdraw from playing again. Repeat these steps no more than 3 times in any 15-minute period.


Overwhelming the puppy by trying to train too long won't send a clear message. Your puppy won't learn to stop biting and her behavior will just continue.
 Between biting incidents, if your puppy licks you or tries to comfort you, praise her and/or give her a treat. She should be rewarded and encouraged to offer positive feedback that does not involve biting.
 When your puppy bites you, yelp loudly and remove your hand to signal that playing has stopped. Then ignore the puppy for 20 seconds. Physical isolation from the pack sends a strong message to the puppy that she has acted incorrectly.If the puppy bites you again, get up and leave for 20 seconds.


After the 20 seconds are up, go back and start playing your puppy again. You want to communicate that gentle play is encouraged and rough play is discouraged. Play with your puppy until the same sequence happens again and repeat the ignore/withdraw steps.
 If you begin communicating that hard bites are unacceptable, your puppy may try giving softer bites. You want to continue giving feedback that moderate bites are also unacceptable. Continue discouraging your puppy's next-hardest bites, and so on, until she can play with your hands gently and control the pressure of her bite.
 This process can take quite a long time, particularly with puppies that have a high prey drive. The method should work effectively, but you may receive many bites along the way.

