 Use an MP3 player, radio, whatever you've got that plays music. Make sure the music isn't too relaxing that you start to become lazy. Also check that you keep it at a decent level making sure not to bother others in the house.;
, It will waste some electricity, but as long as you don't take forever and you try your best to save electric, it should be okay. Turning on the lights will help you see different areas of the room so you don't miss any spots when cleaning.
 This may help cool you down if you're starting to become exhausted from all the cleaning. Also, it will cool down your room and keep it fresher smelling while you're going through all the areas.
 Start with your bed. Take a broom or something long and sweep everything out, no matter how much there is, and put it in a pile. Don't organize the pile yet. Then go to your dresser. Then all of the other furniture, putting everything into the same pile.
 It may seem ridiculous but now you can dust easier. Put all of this in the same pile as the stuff from under the bed and other furniture. If you would like, you can even take out the stuff from in your drawers. This will totally clear your room.
 Go through the pile and gather everything that's trash. Make a trash pile, clothes pile, other room pile, stay-in-here pile, give away pile, and/or any other pile you need to make.
 It may be more convenient if you keep a trash bag in your room but it's up to you. You're just throwing stuff out, not organizing yet.
 This way you will have less stuff on your floor and it will be easier for you to maneuver your way around.
 Sort the clothes from what is dirty and what is clean. Then put your clothes in front of the dresser so you don't start organizing them yet.
 For example, if you have books put them in front of your bookshelf. Do not start putting it away yet. If you have stuff that doesn't belong anywhere, keep that in the middle of your room.
 Grab something to dust with, whether it be a rag or feather duster, it doesn't matter, just something to get the job done.
 Go to the biggest pile and start putting it away. You want to dust it before you put it back in the place where it belongs. Now is the time to organize. After you are done with the biggest pile, move to the next biggest pile, and so on.
 Now is the time to fix your bed. Take off the sheets, wash the sheets, flip the mattress, do anything else pertaining to your bed.
 Wipe off the walls with a wet rag.
, You've been working hard so give yourself a break. It should be about 10-20 minutes long. Don't forget to turn all electronics such as lights and music off.
 Look around the room. Check your closet. Clean out your closet if it needs it. Then check your bathroom if you have one. Focus on the finishing touches.
 What type of floor you have will change what type of tool you will use to clean it. If you have carpet, vacuum then use carpet cleaner. This can make a room look a lot different. If you have hard wood flooring, mop it.
 Now that your walls are clean hang up posters or pictures of things that you love. For example, a picture of your favorite band or a picture of your family.
 You don't want to miss any spots so go over some of the steps above and have a good check of your room.
 Don't use to much, but a little spritz here and there will definitely make your room smell inviting to those who come. You can use all sorts of brands, but don't combine. That gives a weird odor to your room. Make sure to spray where your shoes are because it can become very smelly over there.
 Now that your room is clean, take a second and sit down. Enjoy the looks of your room and try your best to keep it that way for as long as possible. Every week try to go through this list and make sure your room is thoroughly clean.

