 The tomatoes will need to be cleaned, dried, cored, cut, and seeded.


Before you begin, it is important to note that tomatoes should be sun-dried only in hot weather and low humidity. You will need roughly three days to complete the process, so wait until the weather forecast shows appropriate weather for at least that long.Note that you should not remove the skins.
Rinse the tomatoes under running water and pat them dry with clean paper towels.
Cut a cone shape out of the stem end of each tomato to remove the core. Use a small paring knife to do so.
Cut the tomatoes into two or more pieces. Cherry tomatoes should be cut in half, plum or roma tomatoes should be cut into halves or quarters, and larger tomatoes should be cut into 1/4-inch (6.35 mm) slices.
You should remove the seeds for this method. Scoop out the seeds with your finger or with a kitchen spoon, leaving as much of the pulp behind as possible.
 Arrange the tomatoes in trays with the cut-side facing down. Space each tomato portion about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) away from any other piece.


Do not let the tomatoes touch and do not stack them, since doing so will likely result in unevenly dried tomatoes.
Use a shallow, wood-framed tray. The tray should also have nylon netting for the bottom. Do not use a tray with a solid bottom, since a solid bottom will limit the amount of air circulation the tomatoes receive and may create mold-friendly conditions.
 Loosely lay a piece of protective netting or cheesecloth over the tray of tomatoes.


This protective layer will prevent insects, garden pests, and other potential hazards from harming your tomatoes.
Make sure that the protective layer is very porous and light so that enough heat and air can get through without difficulty.
 Set the tray of tomatoes in an area that receives as much direct sunlight as possible throughout the day. You should set the tray on wood or cement blocks instead of setting it directly on the ground.


You need blocks or some other object that can let air circulate up from the bottom of the tray. Adequate air circulation is essential for this method.
 The tomatoes will need to dry for about three days. After the first day and a half, turn the tomatoes over to expose the cut-side to the sunlight.


The trays should be placed in a sheltered location after sundown or if the weather becomes too cold, rainy, or otherwise moist.
 When ready, the tomatoes should be dry yet pliable. Package them in airtight containers, resealable plastic bags, or vacuum bags and store for 2 to 4 months in a cool, dry, and dark area.

