 For people who feel love through quality time, the essence of “quality” is togetherness rather than just proximity. They want shared feelings, focused attention, and memories. Sitting in the same room without talking will not cut it. She wants to be your friend as well as your lover.Simply making time to switch off the TV, sit down, and talk with her will show that you care, to say nothing of the fact that you enjoy her company.
Play a board game, go bowling, go for a walk. Your options are endless, and all that you need is an activity that brings you together.
Quality conversation can be one form of this language. Get rid of distractions and talk, sharing feelings, thoughts, ideas, and desires. Focus on her.
Make sure to listen when she is talking and to give her your undivided attention. Don’t interrupt when she is talking and maintain eye contact.
 It may seem like a small thing, but meals together build stronger relationships. They are one of the few times in the day when we can sit down with friends and family, with no distractions from work, electronics, or school, and really converse. Try to sit down for at least one meal per day with your lady, like dinner.


Eating together is a small investment of time, maybe an hour or 45 minutes in a day, but the rewards are large. Studies show that sharing meals lead to healthier psychological and physical outcomes. , Lest she feel neglected and hurt, don’t go for periods of time without writing or calling if you are busy or away. Some people get caught up in work or life and slip off of the social radar. However, those of us who speak the language of quality time need that daily contact. Be sensitive to your lady’s need for your presence.


Say that you’re away on business and on a very tight schedule. Still try to call her at the end of the day to say “Hi” and “I miss you.”
If you haven’t seen her for a few days, call her to tell her how much she means to you and that you can't wait to see her again. At the very least, send a loving email.

