 Before you spray new bamboo leaves, make sure that you either cut or mow it down and then allow it to regrow. It sounds weird, but you need to let new bamboo grow. Bamboo herbicide won't be effective if the canes of the bamboo are well-developed.


Bamboo is stringy but not very hard. A "lopper", which looks like a scissors with huge handles and a little jaw, cuts it much better than a saw.
Cut the bamboo down in late winter so that you can be applying to herbicide on the new growth in late spring or early summer.;
, Use a sharp spade (or other sharp garden implement) to cut down the bamboo and sever the rhizomes of the bamboo.Break up as many clumps of rhizomes as possible.


Rhizomes are masses of roots that grow underground. These root-stalks grow horizontally underground in clumps and then send new shoots up beyond the surface when the plant is ready to grow.
You probably recognize rhizomes if you've ever eaten ginger and galangal, or have seen raw turmeric. These roots with many offshoots are what the underground rhizomes of the bamboo plant should look like.
 Glyphosate herbicide only kills the plants that it comes into direct contact with. This means that you'll need to be careful about applying it only to the bamboo.Most glyphosate herbicides need to be sprayed onto the leaves, stalks, and shoots of the plant and allowed enough time to penetrate before any water dilutes it. Unless instructed to do so, do not apply glyphosate herbicide to the soil surrounding the bamboo, as it will be ineffective.


To reduce the risk of killing the wrong plant or over-spraying, you can paint the herbicide onto leaves and stalks with a brush instead of spraying the plant.
If you're near a water supply (river, lake, ocean, etc.) make sure that you're using an herbicide that's meant for eradicating plants near water. You don't want to contaminate nearby bodies of water.
 Another way to mow down bamboo in its tracks is to cut down the canes and then apply a stump and root killer containing glyphosate or triclopyr to the foliage of any regrowth and to the cut stump.
 One application won't eradicate the infestation; bamboo is tough and has a tendency to spread like wildfire. (Unfortunately, even wildfire can't completely get rid of this pest!) As the bamboo continues to send up shoots, you'll need to continually apply the herbicide treatment to the leaves, stalks, and shoots of the plant in order to properly exterminate it.


When using any kind of herbicide, remember to consult instructions that come with packaging. Some herbicide instructions may differ significantly from the advice offered in this tutorial. When push comes to shove, defer to instructions that come with the herbicide product.
You should also use this herbicide method in conjunction with rooting out the rhizomes of the bamboo, so that it doesn't keep sending up shoots.

