 The first thing you need to know to determine your moon sign is your birthday. Write down the month, date, and year you were born. Either type this into an online calculator or give the information to a professional astrologer., The moon's position in the sky is dependent on the area where you were born. Make sure you know the exact city you were born. This will help you determine your moon sign.If you don't know your place of birth, check your birth certificate or ask your parents.
 It's actually important to know the exact time you were born to determine your moon sign. This will help you get as precise a reading of the moon's position in the sky as possible. You can ask your parents for your time of birth or look on your birth certificate.If you don't know your exact time of birth, you can use a rough estimate. However, an exact time will give you the most accurate read.
 Make sure you use an online calculator that asks for your date of birth, time of birth, and place of birth. Calculators that only ask for a small amount of information will not be as accurate. You can enter this information into a calculator and it will provide you with your moon sign.If you have any friends who are into astrology, ask them for recommendations for reliable websites.
If you're concerned about accuracy, use several different moon sign calculators. If you keep getting the same results, chances are the calculators you're using are accurate.
 If there are astrologers in your area, see if you can make an appointment with a professional. A professional astrologer can use the information you provide about your place of birth, birthday, and sign to determine your moon sign.You can look online to find astrologers in your area.
One downside of hiring a professional is that it will come with an extra cost. However, an astrologer can also provide you with insight about what moon signs could say about your personality.
 An astrologer can also make you a birth chart. This will include numerous star signs present during your birth and throughout your life, providing you with a detailed account of how astrology may affect your personality and life path. It will also provide you with your moon sign. If it's within your budget, consider getting a birth chart made while determining your moon sign., Individual moon signs indicate different things, just like individual sun signs do. Those who believe in astrology believe signs like Aires, Taurus, Libra, and so on have different implications regarding your personality. You can find listings of what moon signs mean online or in books about astrology.For example, an Aires moon sign indicates you are a high energy person with a competitive streak. It may be difficult for you to seek emotional support as an Aires due to your fiercely independent nature.
If your moon sign is Virgo, you may have a quick intellect and pay close attention to detail. You may do things in an nontraditional manner. However, you may sometimes drive people away as you insist on doing things at your own pace.
 According to astrological beliefs, the effect your moon sign has on your personality is more subtle than your sun sign. Your moon sign shows less of your personality and more of what you need to feel safe and nurtured.Different moon signs speak to your personal needs. Your moon sign can help you identify how to self-comfort and seek the right kind of support and solace from others. Your moon sign also subtly affects the way you think. Those who believe in astrology believe the moon sign affects your decision making.
For example, say your moon sign is an Aires. While you may be high energy and competitive, this may not be easy to see in an outward sense but may affect you in subtle ways. You may, for instance, become cold to a friend who you perceive as out-achieving you and try to outdo them in small ways. While you are not outwardly competitive, you may privately make decisions on how you interact with others due to your competitive nature.
 Your moon sign is just one of many different astrological signs. If you believe in astrology,a professional astrologer can help you identify how your moon sign interacts with other astrological signs. See if you can make an appointment with an astrologer in your area if your'e curious about your moon sign.If you can't find an astrologer in your area, some astrologers may work with people online through things like Skype and email.

