 Many people are unaware of what their credit score is. Knowing yours is the first step to improving a bad score. In the year leading up to making a home purchase, you should work on increasing your credit score as much as you can.


Credit scores are scored on a scale of 300-800. Anything over 720 is considered good credit. Scores between 700 and 620 are considered mediocre. Anything below 620 would make you a lending risk.You may check your credit score for free and get notifications about changes on your credit by consulting free websites, such as Credit Karma.You may also order a copy of your credit report from EquiFax, TransUnion, and Experian. This will give you a variety of documents to look over and help you catch any errors that need reporting.Seeing your credit score will allow you to manage any debts, and make a budget to get all your payments up to date., It's not just the raw numbers that affect what kind of home you're eligible to purchase. It's the reason behind those numbers. If any of the following credit red flags are part of your financial history, you may have to wait to apply for a loan. You should also be prepared to explain the factors that caused these situations to a lender.


Late payments on student loans reflects poorly on your application for conventional loans, as well as FHA loans. If you've been late on a loan payment within the past 12 months, be prepared to explain the situation.A history of delinquent payments is easier to get around than many bad credit hurdles, but it can affect the amount of your down payment and debt-to-income percentage.Any foreclosures can seriously affect your credit score. You must wait 36 months from the date of the foreclosure to be eligible for an FHA loan, and the down payment will be 3.5%. Conventional loans, however, require 7 years to have passed.Bankruptcy means you must wait 24 months to apply for a FHA loan with a 3.5% down payment. For conventional loans, you must wait 48 months., When lenders examine your credit score, they pay close attention to your debt-to-income ratio. Ideally, this should be under 43%, and this includes potential mortgage payments. Eliminating existing debt is important to improving your credit score, and your chance at purchasing your own home.


Look at all of your credit card debts, and student loans. Try to make a dent in these payments, even if it means sacrificing in other areas of your budget. The more debt you can eliminate before applying for a loan, the better.Getting rid of credit card debts is a way of substantially improving your credit score rapidly.
Many tools are available online, such as the ReadyForZero tool, that can help you manage your debt and bring overall debt levels down., Lenders understand extenuating circumstances can affect your financial situation or that sometimes bad credit is a result of a one time issue that you've moved past. When applying for a loan, be prepared to explain any bad marks on your credit score.


Get as much supporting documentation as you need, such as medical reports, pay stubs, letters from bosses, and bank statements. This can explain delinquent payments or accruing a heavy amount of debt.When speaking to a lender, give them the full story. Ask upfront about any concerns they may have regarding your history, and be prepared to give specifics as to what lead to your current credit score.