 Wearing denim (jean material) is always good and slightly loose jeans. Most importantly, country girls like looking casual and comfy, and they don't wear really tight clothing.


Choose plaid shirts. These can be sourced from anywhere, such Walmart, online, etc.
Wear plain colored shirts, or shirts with minimal designs. Country girls don't go "all out" with wacky patterns.
Another country thing is "Guy Harvey shirts.";
, For example: cowgirl boots, they are always nice to have and get a pair of rubber boots in case you want to work outside.


Take your shoes off when you have a chance; bare feet are also acceptable for the country style.
 Every country guy or girl owns camo for hunting. She also owns a pair of good boots, either for riding, show, work, or hunting.
 At your local western store, they'll have brands like Dixie Girls and Guy Harvey. Be sure to buy both casual and show clothes, style very being country too! Be sure to find your signature look. Also you can visit cabelas.com countrygirlstore.com drysdales.com cavenders.com for more clothing options.
 Country girls are actually very girlish. When accessorizing, choose shiny things. Pink is also okay.
 A small bit of eye liner, lip balm, and one to two coats of mascara (if you already have dark eye lashes, skip the eye liner) is the most you'll need. Cover up is okay too if you really need it. Don't overdo it, or else you'll look too preppy and people will think you're a poser.
 When people say, "I hate the country," don't get flustered or upset, but be friendly and act nice, so others would have nothing to hold against you.
 Personality matters. You don't need to have an accent to be country, but you need to act like you're southern. Be happy/bubbly (even if you're having a bad day) and smile at everyone. Use southern hospitality, and plenty of niceness.
 Always say "please" and "thank you". Always say "yes ma'am" or "no ma'am".
 Country girls have big hearts. They love volunteering and helping their community. And they love their country.


Feed the homeless. Take along your home grown and baked produce.
 Every country girl loves her country music.
 These include watching and playing football, fishing, and Mudding. This doesn't mean they can't be girlish though! Girlishness actually complements your country girl attitude.
 i.e. Ford F150, GMC Sierra, Chevy S10, Bronco, Blazer.
 Also, if you're not in high school(or just don't want to join high school clubs, check out girl scouts or a 4H club in your area)

, Go outside and mow the lawn or help your dad on the car etc.
 The kitchen is the most sacred place in the house. Country folks love to cook from fried food, smoked food, breakfast, and dessert.
 Just about every country girl loves horses. Dogs and cats make good pets, in pairs or threes. If you've lots of space, consider fostering animals too.
 If you want to date a country man, make sure you treat him great and with respect. But don't be his doormat. Never take any crap from him, and make sure he treats you with just as much respect. If he doesn't, he's not worth a girl like you.

