 If you're not willing to approach the boy you like, then you need to get close to him in some other way. Are you able to talk to him if you're in a big group of friends, or are you more comfortable being alone with him?


Decide what type of interactions you flourish in. Try out both techniques, and then you should have a better idea of what works for you.;
, Be a bit sneaky, and try to make it so you end up standing next to him in a line, or sitting next to him in class/at work. Use little opportunities to be around him until you get the chance to make a conversation. If you know you’re going to be close to someone you like the day before, plan on wearing something eye catching like a red dress, or a new hair style.


Eye contact is your friend! Once eye contact is initiated, there is an opportunity open for communication. Eye contact can be more powerful than words.
 Smile or say hello when you walk past each other. This will make things more friendly between you without seeming too forward. Try making eye contact every now and again. This doesn't mean you should start staring at him, but just give him a little glance., If you really can't talk to his face, then you may find it easier to add him on Facebook, MSN, Myspace etc, and start up a conversation that way. Just start up a chat asking how he is, what's he been up too, or what you've been doing etc. If you get to know him that way, it won't seem as strange when you try to talk to him in real life.
 When he's around just relax, tell a few funny stories, laugh along with what other people are saying. Don't complain or moan about anything, it'll only make you seem moody, unless that is the way you are. Show off your personality in the way that suits you.


If there is something weird you think about yourself, don’t hide it. Some guy might find you cool for being weird. Attraction works in mysterious ways.
 If you’ve made small eye contact and feel a connection, invite the guy out for a cup of coffee. Don’t feel obliged to wait for him to make the first move. He might be more shy then you are and might find it great that you took the initiative.Try saying something like this:


”Hey Carl, there’s a show at Cafe Apocalypse this Saturday. You wanna go with me?”
”John, would you be into getting a cup of coffee with me?”
”Lamar, I noticed you draw toilets in class, you should check out some of my doodles.”

, What's the worst thing that could happen? So what if you go up to him, freak out and forget what you were going to say? So what if he says no? It doesn't matter because at the end of the day it happens to everyone, even the prettiest, most confident girls. Don't let it get you down or make you even more shy because practice makes perfect, give flirting a try, at first it might feel awkward, but eventually it'll come naturally.

