 Your body goes through a lot giving birth. It is normal to take time to recover. Most caregivers recommend that you abstain from intercourse for at least 4 weeks after you give birth.It is unsafe to have intercourse less than 2 weeks after having a baby. Your body is likely still bleeding and you risk hemorrhaging or contracting an infection. 4 weeks is generally considered safer than 2 weeks.
If you have had stitches, your caregiver will likely advise you to wait until you have your 6 week postpartum check up.
A perineal tear, a c-section, or an episiotomy are all potential reasons that you might have stitches. These procedures all require extra healing time.;
, It is important to abstain from intercourse until after your doctor clears you for sex. Your healthcare provider might require you to come in for a check-up before giving you the all clear. Remember, this is to help your body recover.Your follow-up appointment is a great time to ask your doctor questions. You can ask about your recovery in general, but you can also have an honest conversation about post-baby sex.
Prepare a list of questions in advance. That way, you will be more likely to remember to ask about everything that has been on your mind.
You can ask questions such as, "Are there any precautions that I need to take when having sex for the first time?" and "If there is discomfort, how can I ease that?"

, Maybe you've been looking forward to receiving the all-clear from your doctor to resume having sex. If he advises you to wait a while longer after your 6 week checkup, that can be disappointing. However, it is important that you follow any medical instructions that you receive after having a baby.If you had a c-section or perineal tearing, you may need additional time to heal. You can risk a setback and further wounding your body if you don't wait.
If your doctor says your body is ready for sex, that's great news. But listen to any other advice offered. For example, if you are told to take it slow and easy, do so. If lubricant is recommended, make sure to get some.
 You are the only one who knows for sure if you are ready to begin having sex again. Even if your doctor says you are physically ready, you may feel like you need more time. Many women are especially sensitive for several months after giving birth.Vaginal dryness is a common problem, especially if you are breastfeeding. You may continue to experience this for the duration of breastfeeding.
Lubricants can help. However, if you feel discomfort or pain, it is perfectly fine to hold off on having sex.
Pay attention to your body's needs. If the thought of having sex makes you anxious, that is probably a sign that you need to wait longer. And that's fine.
 When you have a new baby, your life revolves around feeding, changing, and caring for that infant. Both parents are likely suffering from a severe lack of sleep. It is no secret that your sex drive is negatively impacted by not getting enough rest.Before you will feel like having great sex again, you'll need to start getting more sleep. This might seem impossible, but it is important for your sex life.
However, the correlation between sex and sleep goes both ways. Having sex can actually help you sleep more restfully.
Even if you are exhausted, try having sex if you feel physically capable. The few hours of sleep you grab will feel more restful.
Once you start getting more sleep, you'll feel more motivated to have more sex. It is a cycle.
Try going to bed a half hour earlier. Make this a time specifically for sex.

