 Think about your current family relationships. Identify the ones that are toxic, and distinguish them from the ones that are simply difficult.You may want to work with a mental health professional if you feel comfortable with this. A mental health professional can help you to identify toxic relationships.


Abuse, constant negativity, and manipulation are several indications that a relationship is toxic.
The line between a difficult relationship and a toxic one can be blurry. Trust your own judgment and keep in mind that some people may try to minimize what you are experiencing. However, if you know someone is abusive, then do not accept other people’s excuses for them.;
, Think about whether you can find ways to deal with dysfunctional family dramas without cutting relatives out of your life. Consider skipping certain family gatherings, standing up to bullies, or ignoring conflicts instead of arguing with your relatives.Finding a simple solution may not always be possible. However, de-escalating negative situations is often less stressful than cutting ties completely.
Look into ALANON, which is a group that started as a way to help and support the family members of people with substance abuse. However, this organization has expanded to help people in all sorts of situations.
 Before you detach yourself from a relative, think about how the action may affect the rest of your life, including your other family relationships. Make sure you’re prepared to deal with the potential negative consequences of cutting ties.For example, you might choose to cut ties with one sibling who has toxic tendencies and your others sibling may see this as an affront. As a result, you lose two siblings. You will have to weigh the costs of whether the toxic person is worth keeping around to preserve other relationships.
Try making a pros and cons list to help you determine if severing the relationship is worth the benefits and costs. Keep it somewhere that you can read over it often. You may also want to ask a friend or family member to help you with making the list because they might think of some things that you would not.
 Just as breaking away from dysfunctional relatives will cause emotional pain or discord, it might also bring you peace. This is especially true if your relatives tend to muddy your life with their toxic behaviors.For instance, if you have family members who steal, lie, cheat, bully, or abuse drugs and alcohol, they likely cause you more stress than joy. Your mental health and peace of mind will benefit from stepping away from these people.
Look over your pros and cons list if you have already made one. If not, then make a pros and cons list to help you understand the costs and benefits if you decide not to cut ties. Read over your list often and ask a friend or family member to help you add to it.

