 One important part of Tumblr photos is the quality of the image. Different camera phones and cameras have their own capabilities. You can use a search engine to find out the quality of camera you have. If you have a DSLR camera, great going! If not? Don't worry! These days even phones are breaking the next level of photography. If you're planning to buy a new phone, you can check out these phones for best cameras as follows:


iPhone
Moto e 3rd generation
Micromax Yureka
Nokia lumia 670
Moto G
Sony Xperia Z2;
, If you want your photos to have that "Flattering material" in it, you can use VSCO Cam. Or if you have some different apps in your mind, you can try them out, too! Be sure to research whether or not the app you're using lowers the quality of the image. Some apps lower the image quality through all the effects they offer. If you're interested in effects that 'liquify' your photo, the best way to do this is to upload it onto the computer, as apps do not have the capability to do this without significantly lowering quality.
 See, if this means you've got to go & click pictures of anything in this world, I'm not instructing you to go click a picture of your dustbin. It should be something which can put on impact on people who view them. For example, you can click pictures of your boots you wore last night, or your favourite book, or your art piece. If you're not so artsy, You can click pictures of your hobby-related things, too.
 For example, it's autumn & you click a picture of a red-autumn leaf, Give it a filter that really makes someone think, "Ooh, I think I gotta put on my jacket." Don't give it a filter or that contrast that gives it too much amount of brightness or it would ruin the effect. Often times auto-level filters increase the brightness more than you need.
 The big problem with Instagram is that it does not let you upload full sized photos. So, use apps which prevent cropping of the photos. If you want some more artsy effect, you can make the photo go a little bit small- more like 'Limited-sized photo'. For example, you could use this:

, You should use some appropriate backgrounds for clicking photos. For example, if you're clicking a photo of your favorite Calvin Harris Album, you can click it being kept on a plain white bed sheet, Or if you want yourself being clicked with your favorite back pack, click it in a light coloured background, which has nothing else but you with your bag.


If needed, you can always go to your park or under a tree. But always remember one thing, if you're clicking something which is meant to be indoors, you should always prefer light, or mostly really white backgrounds.

