 Take a piece of rectangular paper and place it in front of you so the paper is in portrait format, with the longer edges to the side. Fold it in half lengthwise from top to bottom, so that the fold is at the "top" of the piece of paper.;
, This time fold the paper side to side, rather than top to bottom as in the first fold, then unfold. The crease marks your center line. Now you're back to after Step 1, with the paper folded in half top to bottom, but with a crease down the middle. Keep all your folds as straight and clean as possible.
 Hold the top right corner and fold the tip down and towards the center. The top edge should line up with the center line.
 Repeat. Fold the other corner in the same fashion, lining it up with the center line. This should create a "house" like shape with a "big" roof line and about an inch of paper below the triangle of the roof

, Take one edge of the bottom rectangular strip of paper and fold upwards. Fold it as high up the “house” as it will go without folding the paper beneath it.
 Repeat the last fold. Fold up the opposite rectangular strip along the bottom of the house. Make sure the two strips line up, keeping all the folds symmetrical. This makes a paper hat shape.
 Do this at the point where the diagonal creases meet. Open the hat shape slightly. Hold the two edges at the diagonal creases.
 Gently pull and flatten the hat. You should end up with a diamond-shaped piece of paper.
 Take the bottom corner of the diamond and fold upwards toward the top. Leave about a 1/4 of an inch (0.65 cm) border between the top edge and the edge of portion that has been folded-up. Once done, flip the paper over.
 Fold the bottom edge to line up with the other side. Make the same fold as with the previous step.
 Pull it apart. Flatten it down, similar to Step 8.
 Slowly pull apart. The bottom edge will flip up on its own.
 Your paper ship is now complete! It’s ready to take out for a sail on the storm-tossed seas- O.K., maybe just the backyard kiddie pool.

