 Depending on the type of course you’re taking, being able to take good notes may be vital to your success. Take a look at your current notes and see where you might be able to improve.Make sure your notes are legible. If you can’t read your own notes, you’re not going to be able to use them.
If you take your notes by hand, type them out after class both to help you remember what you learned and to help make them more legible.
Make sure your notes are organized.

Have a separate notebook or binder for each subject.
Includes titles and dates where a new class starts so you can keep them in order.
Use headings and subheadings throughout so you can skim your notes to find what you’re looking for quickly.
Use coloured pens or pencils or highlighters to make certain points stand out.
 When trying to memorize complex concepts and ideas, don’t try to memorize the concepts and ideas as they are, use metaphors and analogies to remember them.A metaphor is a word or phrase that has one meaning but it is used to describe something else in order to show how the two things are similar. In other words, a metaphor is an object, activity or idea that is used as a symbol.An analogy is the comparison of two things based on the fact that they are alike in some way.An example of a metaphor is “the test was a breeze."
An example of an analogy is “life is like a box of chocolates."

, Visualizing something isn’t always enough. Instead add some additional items associated with your other senses like sounds, textures, feelings and smells. When trying to remember something important, don’t just visualize it, add these visceral items as well.An example might be a pie chart you need to remember that shows some important information. Visualize the pie chart like various pieces of pie. Maybe the larger pieces of pie are your favourite types of pie (e.g. strawberry), while the smaller pieces are your least favourite types of pie (e.g. pecan).
 Simplifying an idea or concept to its lowest and most basic elements can help you remember them. When trying to remember a particular difficult concept or idea, pretend you need to explain that concept or idea to a 5 year old., This method starts off similar to a visualization, but instead of just making the one idea visual, connect that first idea to other ideas and concepts using a mind map. The multiple ideas in the mind map can be pictures or diagrams of the concepts., Strict memorization can make it difficult to remember a lot of information all at once. Instead of simply memorizing everything, turn it into a story. Create a story that goes along with the concept or idea you’re trying to remember.Instead of a story you can also try acronyms. If you need to remember a list of things, use the first letters in each of the items to create a word that’s easier to remember than the actual list.
 One of the best ways to learn a complex idea or concept is to break it down into smaller, more manageable pieces. Don’t try to tackle an entire complex concept or idea as a whole, break the material into smaller pieces you can review and learn separately.