 Not everyone is likely to buy every product or service. In a world with limited resources, you need to prioritize where you market and search for leads. Of course, each business has different markets, but there are helpful questions you can use to find yours, as well as how to use the information:


What age of the person is likely to buy my product/service? (Younger people use more online, older more print and TV.)
Is my product gender specific? (Are there blogs, reviewers, and sites that might want to test a product for their viewers?)
What other products would someone who likes my product buy? (Can you market your product in similar places and ways as these other similar products?)
What interests to people who like my product share? (Where do your potential leads like to hang out, what do they research, what sites do they read, etc?)
What problem does my product/service solve? (Find and illustrate the success of your product towards people who are struggling.)

, This one takes some work, as you'll need to find a company that wants to work with you. But the benefits can be astounding. For a simple example, think of a homemade baker with a killer chocolate chip cookie. Selling to other people is working on its own, but it would be much easier to move a product if you teamed up with a dairy farmer, for example. Since the milk & cookie markets overlap but don't compete, you can each share sales lead information. You're not going to run each other out of business (different products,) but you might just double your sales.This is obviously a silly example, but real-world co-marketers like this are everywhere. Think of a lawn-maintenance service that teams up with landscapers, or a tutoring company that helps watch kids at an after-school program or daycare.
 Leads can be generated by many different marketing campaigns or can have many different sources. Leads can be generated through mailings (fax, paper, and email), fairs, trade markets, phone (call centers), database marketing, and the websites. Leads from websites are often called web leads. A new lead source is called a live transfer lead. These leads are generated by a dialer that dials a set of phone numbers, plays a message to the individuals, and then those individuals have the opportunity to press 1 to be connected to a live agent. Sometimes live lead transfers are sent to a call center agent who then qualifies the individual before sending to the sales agent.


You can often buy phone numbers for telemarketing, finding databases online.
Direct mailing, especially to contacts you already know or might be interested, is a great way to get your first few leads.
Don't put all of your eggs in one basket at first -- try several methods of getting leads.
 Track exactly how many clients come in from each marketing tactic, and use only the ways that are most efficient. Each industry is different, so these strategies need to be tinkered with and balanced to find success in your business. When keeping track, you should note:


Money and time spent on marketing ploy.
Number of clients acquired
Quality of clients (big spenders, small sales, willingness to recommend others, etc.)

, Whenever possible, collect the information from potential sales people, holding onto it to help develop leads down the line. Sometimes this is easy -- simply require an email address to place an order or ask a question, and keep track of all the emails. Sometimes this requires harder work, like weekly email bulletins (which people can sign up for on your website).


Getting people to "sign up," offering free packets or information for subscribers, and offering daily content for followers will build up a big database of potential customers.
Do not mix sales and customer collection -- people are much less likely to sign up if you're trying to overtly sell them something off the bat.
Do not "over ask" your lists for things. Work on building a big, rich contact list, then ask all of them at once for support or business down the line., Typically, this involves identifying the lead's product applicability, availability of funding, and time frame for purchase. Additional operations may also be performed such as background research on the lead's employer, general market of the lead, contact information beyond that provided initially, or other information useful for contacting and evaluating a lead for elevation to prospect.


Try and get in touch with someone authorized to make a sale as soon as possible.
Work quickly, and make yourself available to answer any questions or issues.