 This section will be about using the Cash Shop on Gaia. This is an optional store that requires real money to purchase any goods. If you do not have your own debit or credit card, ask your parents or someone you know with one, and if they say no, do not steal it. Prepaid Gaia Cash cards are sold at Target stores and (some) Rite Aids stores. If you cannot use real money, odds are this is not an option for you. To get items from the Cash Shop, you will have to save up your gold and purchase it through the Marketplace., It comes in increments of $500.00 USD. For your first purchase, the five USD minimum should be adequate. However, if you would like to purchase a Monthly Collectible, which also is a cash based item, and always has been in Gaia's history, those are $250.00 USD, and in this case should be purchased separately, bringing your total Gaia Cash purchase up to $750.00 USD. Other countries currencies will have to be converted., This will give you 5000 Gaia Cash. Decide upon your Cash Shop item. You could purchase two Monthly Collectibles, but as stated before it makes more sense as a stand-alone purchase., See what is selling well and for how much, and how often the price changes. Items in the Cash Shop do expire, but there is a warning before it happens., Make sure you have enough Cash to do so, and if you have any left over after this purchase you can save it as it does not expire, or spend it on common clothing items.

Purchase your items, or item, based on how much Gold you are intent on earning. Items called "Evolving Items" are very popular, and take up much of the Cash Shop. These tend to go for the most gold if you are having any issues deciding.
 Evolving Items can be quick sells, where once you purchase it you sell it for gold, or it can be a long term investment. Most Evolving Items become worth more as they age. The same goes for Monthly Collectible items, but they tend to hover around 15k. These could be saved until worth more, but it's not necessary., After deciding if you want to keep the item for value or sell it, carry it out. Sell your item in the Marketplace when it feels right for you, and you can follow this as many times as you want, or until you feel you cannot spend any more real money on Gaia. This wields a higher profit rate than Playing the Market, but it also isn't the most economical for some people., When you click it, it will show an advertisement. After a minute or so, it will give you 1 Gaia Cash. Click the tree until you reach your daily limit, then do it again the next day. You can get about 10 Gaia Cash a day, which will add up quickly.