 Applications like Avast!, Kaspersky, and Bitdefender are great for detecting the common Pageset malware.;
, Using your antivirus program, do a full-system scan to check for any files corrupted or infected by Pageset.
 After it’s done and the results are displayed, select all the detected threats, and click on the “Remove” or “Delete” button to permanently rid your computer of harmful files and items infected by Pageset (Trojan files).
 This would be such things like the default home page and search engine settings.
 Launch your Google Chrome and create a new browsing tab. Click the browser’s menu button at the upper-right corner of the window to display a list of menu options.


The menu icon looks like three bars stacked on top of each other.
 This is so you can access Google Chrome’s settings on a separate tab.
 To do so, scroll down the Settings tab, and click on the drop-down list beside the “Manage Search Engines” button. Choose from list the search engine you want to set as the default for Google Chrome.
 Launch your Mozilla Firefox and create a new browsing tab. Click the browser’s menu button at the upper-right corner of the window to display a list of menu options.


The menu button looks like three bars stacked on top of each other.
 To do so, select “Options” from the menu list to access Firefox’s Options window.
 Click on the General tab on the Options window, and look for the Home Page section. Type in the web address of any site you want to set as your home page on the text field provided.


Click “Okay” to save the changes.
 Once the browser starts up, it will automatically load the web page you’ve set as the default.
 Launch your Internet Explorer; afterwards, click on Tools on the menu bar to show additional browser options.


If you don’t see any menu bar at the top-left section of the window, try pressing on the Alt button on your keyboard to reveal the menu bar.
 Select “Internet Options” from the menu list to access the Internet Options window.
 To do that, click on the General tab on the Internet Options, and look for the Home Page section. Type in the web address of any site you want to set as your home page on the text field provided.


Click on “Okay” to save the changes.
You can also click on the Use Default button to set the home page to MSN.com.
 To get there, press the “Home Page” button, the icon that looks like a house on the right part of the browser tab bar. The web page you’ve set as the default should now load and be displayed.
 Launch Safari web browser then click “Safari” at the top-left corner of the menu bar to access the browser option list.
 This should open the Preferences window.
 To do this, click on the General tab on the Preferences window, and type in the web address you want to use as the default on the home-page text field.
 Once the browser is up, it will automatically load the web page you’ve set as the default.

