 Cut 3-inch (7.6-cm) wide ribbon into three separate lengths: 36 inches (91.4 cm), 24 inches (61 cm), and 6 inches (15.2 cm).You can use any ribbon you want for this bow, including both wired and wireless types. The ribbon should be between 3 and 4 inches (7.6 and 10 cm) wide, however.
If the ends of the ribbon start to fray when cut, apply a small amount of seam sealant to prevent further damage.;
, Bring the ends of the 24-inch (61-cm) ribbon in toward the center, overlapping them by approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm).

To keep the folds even, mark the center of the ribbon with a straight pin before folding in the sides.
After folding the ends, staple the overlapping portion the hold the folds in place. Set the ribbon aside when finished.
 Bring the long top and bottom edges of the 6-inch (15.2-cm) ribbon in toward the center until they just barely meet.

Staple both of the short ends of the ribbon to hold these folds in place, then set the ribbon aside.
 Pinch the crosswise center of the 36-inch (91.4-cm) ribbon, creating two accordion pleats in the process.

While pinching the pleat together, put a staple through its width to hold it in place.
 Lay the small ribbon down, then place the medium and long pieces on top. The medium piece should be positioned above the long one.

The folded side of the small ribbon should face up, and the length of the ribbon should run vertically.
Place the long ribbon on top of the small one, roughly halfway along the vertical center. The tails along either side of the accordion plead should bend downward.
Place the medium ribbon on top of the small one so that it sits just above the large piece. Reposition the pieces as needed, allowing 1 inch (2.5 cm) of the short ribbon to show above the medium ribbon.
 Bring the crosswise ends of the short ribbon together, pulling the ribbon over the medium and large pieces on the process.

Use your fingers to adjust the pieces as needed, making everything straight and centered.
Staple the ends of the short piece together. Position the staple as close to the center as possible to keep the overall structure tight and secure.
 Use scissors to trim away any excess ribbon from the center and tails.

Cut the center (short) ribbon roughly 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) above the staples holding it in place.
Cut the tails to your desired length. Make a notched cut to finish the tails and make them more fray-resistant.
Apply seams sealant to the cut edges, if desired.
 Insert an 8-inch (20-cm) piece of pipe cleaner through the center (short) ribbon. Center the pipe cleaner, then twist it around the ribbon two or three times to hold it in place.

Use pipe cleaner that matches the color of the ribbon so that it appears less visible. If you don't have any pipe cleaners, consider using floral wire or another type of craft wire.
 The bow should be ready to use at this point. Position it over the wreath as desired, then attach it by twisting the pipe cleaner ends over the edge of the wreath.