 You will need 1 cup (125 grams) of powdered sugar, 1 tablespoon of milk, and ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract. Mix with a fork until everything is smooth., adding up to 2 tsp. additional milk for desired consistency.If the glaze is too thick, you may add up to 2 teaspoons of milk.
 Mix together ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of lemon juice, 2 cups (250 grams) of powdered sugar, and 1 to 2 tablespoons of water. Pour this over your scones after you have baked them and let them cool., Begin making some scones using the original recipe. Add 1 teaspoon of grated orange skin to the flour mixture and mix. After you have added the butter, stir in ½ cup (60 grams) of chopped, dried cranberries. Mix well, then roll, cut, and bake.To make lemon-blueberry scones, use lemon zest instead of orange zest, and dried blueberries instead of cranberries.
 Use the basic recipe for the scones, but use brown sugar instead of white, and buttermilk instead of cream. Add ½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon and ½ teaspoon of ground ginger to the flour mixture. Mix ½ cup (120 milliliters) of canned pumpkin and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract into the buttermilk before adding it to the flour and butter mixture.For heartier scones, add 1/3 cup (50 grams) of raisins and/or ¼ cup (30 grams) of chopped pecans or walnuts.
 Start by making some basic scones, but use brown sugar instead of regular sugar. Add ½ cup (65 grams) of chopped, toasted pecans to the cream or half-and-half. Stir, then pour the cream into the flour mixture., Begin by making some basic scones, but do not add any sugar. Instead, add ¼ cup (55 grams) of chopped, cooked bacon, ¾ cup (75 grams) of shredded Cheddar cheese, and 2 tablespoons of chopped, fresh chives to the cream or half-and-half. Add some flavor with a pinch of freshly-ground pepper. Pour the cream into the flour mixture and stir gently until everything is spread evenly throughout., Start out with the original recipe, but skip the sugar. Instead, add ¾ cup (75 grams) of shredded Swiss cheese and ¾ cup (115 grams) of chopped, cooked ham to the cream or half-and-half. Pour the cream into the flour mixture and combine with a spoon until everything is mixed together.