 Tell others you need to take some time to yourself. You can say something such as "I'm feeling a little overwhelmed right now. I need to take a short break." If you're in the middle of an argument or fight, it can be helpful to say that you will return to continue the discussion later: "I need to take a break right now. Let's regroup in 30 minutes to discuss this further, when I feel calmer."


If others are insistent you not leave, explain that you need time to process your feelings and plan to share those with them soon.
Walking away without an explanation may lead some to be concerned or offended. It's best to be polite and communicative to prevent confounding the problem.
 Distracting yourself helps you manage your emotions because it's very hard for your brain to focus on more than one thing at a time. As it turns out, humans aren't very good multi-taskers.You can feel more than one emotion at once, but it is difficult for you to focus on actively experiencing more than one at once.When you feel hurt or angry after being hurt, you can engage in a favorite pastime, work on a puzzle, play a game on your phone, play with your pet, or chat with a friend.With practice, you will become more adept at diverting attention away from stressors and focusing on enjoyable distractions., Exercise is a great way to distract yourself and elevate your mood.It releases endorphins, which are your body's natural mood-boosters.Taking a walk is a convenient way to get in a little exercise that doesn't require much athletic gear or special grounds.


Regular exercise may also help you to cope more effectively with stress and anxiety over time.Almost any exercise works to help fight stress, although aerobic exercise is particularly good for your heart., Humor can help defuse anger, especially if it's silly or ridiculous humor.Try going to another room and watching a funny video or looking up your favorite comedian's Twitter account.


Looking at images of kittens or puppies (or your favorite baby animal) on your computer or smartphone may help. Scientists have found that cute baby animals trigger a protective instinct in us that makes us feel happy. Just be aware: this protective instinct can also make you feel more aggressive (have you ever wanted to give an adorable puppy a big squeeze?). See if this tactic works for you., This may take some time, so plan to be engaged for at least 20 minutes.


When you interact with the offending party again, gauge the intensity of your emotions. If you quickly become distraught, take more time to yourself.
In some cases, it may take days before you are calm enough to revisit the source of your pain.
Sleeping on it for a couple of nights may help, as quality sleep may improve regulation of emotion. , One of the things that can make it hard to calm down is feeling like we "should" or "shouldn't" be experiencing the feelings that we are. You might feel angry with yourself for feeling angry, which creates a vicious feedback loop that keeps you from calming down. Instead, try some positive self-talk to remind yourself that you're going to be okay.Don't try to repress your feelings. Instead, acknowledge them to yourself: "I am feeling angry because my boss said something really hurtful to me. This is a natural response. It isn't pleasant, but it will pass."
You can also try to acknowledge cognitive distortions, or unhelpful thought habits, to yourself. For example, you might be filtering, or magnifying the negative aspects of an experience to yourself. You could say to yourself, "I am feeling overwhelmed right now because it feels like my boss didn't notice all of my hard work and just picked on my mistakes. I may not have a full grasp of the situation right now. I can talk to her about it when I feel calmer."
You can also remind yourself that you're strong and can get through this moment of hurt by saying something like: "This really hurts right now, but I have made it through being hurt before. I am strong and I can remain calm."

