 A good financial advisor can help you manage your life’s savings to make the most use of your money in retirement. Ideally, you may have begun working with a financial planner long before retiring. If not, it is never too late to start. A good advisor can help you plan investments, set budgets, and use your money wisely.


To find a good financial advisor, ask your friends or colleagues for recommendations. You may ask the manager of your own bank for referrals as well. (In many cases, your local bank may offer the services you need.) Meet with prospective advisors and ask some of the following questions:

Do you specialize in retirement planning or management?
How do you charge for your services?
What is your investment strategy for someone in my position?
How much communication can we expect with you?



, Either on your own or with the help of a financial planner, it is important to know your financial situation from month to month. You need to set a budget that accounts for all your monthly expenses and identifies the sources of income. You may have finished paying the mortgage, but you might still have car payments. You certainly will need to make payments for utilities, food and other ongoing costs. Be thorough and list everything.Compare your monthly expenses with whatever sources of income you can count on. Consider whether you will draw from a pension account, from savings, or from any other sources you may have available.
 Many people find that retirement means reduced income. In order to handle that and keep up a good credit score, you may find that you need to reduce your monthly expenses. Some of this may be easy, like cooking at home more often and reducing entertainment expenses. Some other reductions may be more challenging to accept but can have very meaningful and positive effects on your spending. For example, consider the following:Cut back on an extra car. If you and your spouse have been using two cars, you may want to consider cutting back to one. This will reduce monthly insurance bills, gasoline costs, and excise taxes, not to mention car payments if you are still making them.
Examine your insurance costs. Many retirees find that they may be carrying more insurance than they still need. For example, if your dependents are no longer relying on your income, you may be able to drop or reduce life insurance or disability insurance. You may also be able to reduce your car insurance by accepting higher deductible payments.
Downsize your home. This may be an emotionally difficult decision if you have spent most of your life in one home. But if you no longer need the space because your children have grown and moved out, you can probably reduce property taxes, heating and utility costs, ongoing maintenance and care, and other expenses related to keeping up a big home.
Reduce telephone costs. Many retirees find that they are keeping the telephone land line that has been in place forever, even though you may primarily be using a cell phone now. If you can drop the land line, you may save up to $50 each month in fees.
 If you set your monthly budget, and you find that your retirement income is insufficient to meet your monthly needs, you may want to consider taking on some part time work. If you look around, there are many jobs that are well-suited to seniors with flexible hours and decent pay. Find something that fits your skill set. For example, AARP recommends the following as great part-time jobs for retirees:Library assistant
Bookkeeper
Personal and home care aide
Handyman
Medical assistant

