 It will make you look and feel good by controlling your weight and giving you a trim waist to help emphasize the perkiness of your breasts.Aerobic exercise like jogging, walking, or swimming will help keep your waist small. Try to do 150 minutes of moderate exercise or 75 minutes of vigorous exercise per week.
Aerobic exercise will also release endorphins which will relax you, lift your mood, and make you feel better about yourself.;
, While your breasts themselves do not have muscles in them, toning the underlying muscles might still help them resist the pull of gravity. Try to do weight training at least twice a week.Strengthen your pectoral, shoulder, and triceps muscles with chest presses. Lie on your back on the floor with a weight in each hand. Your elbows should be touching the floor with your forearms straight up in the air. Push the weights straight up until your arms are extended. Lower back to the starting position. Repeat.Build your biceps with biceps curls. Stand straight and hold a weight in your hand with your palm facing up. Bend your elbow and bring the weight towards your shoulder. Bring it down and repeat.Do push-ups to strengthen the muscles in your arms, chest and back. Lie on your stomach on the floor with your palms on the floor next to your shoulders. Prop yourself up on your toes. Extend your arms and lift your body off the floor, keeping your back straight and your abs pulled in to protect your spine. Your arms should be fully extended. Gently let yourself down and repeat. If you cannot do a pushup from your toes, start by bending your knees when you go up, rather than keeping your legs straight.
 During exercise your breasts may bounce between 4 and 15 cm. This strains connective tissue that attaches your breasts to your chest and the skin that covers your breast tissue. A properly fitted sports bra can hold your breasts in place, reduce the bouncing, and prevent the skin and ligaments from stretching. A sports bra fits properly when:The underwire does not move around when you run and jump. But it shouldn’t be so tight that it restricts your breathing or hurts. This is where most of the support comes from.
The cups should be fitted around the breasts with no areas where your breasts are spilling out. The material should also not be loose. You should completely fill the cups.
The shoulder straps should not slip off your arms when you move nor press painfully into your skin.
The band band should be even all the way around the body. No part of the band should be higher or lower than the rest of the band.
If the bra has an underwire, it should be underneath the breast without pressing on the breast tissue.

