 In QoLx, interns are encouraged to be very self-directed, developing their own goals and activities. How genuinely interested are you in exploring the possibilities of your mind and to learn about others around you? This includes trying to help people develop skills for maximizing quality of life. Being an intern with QoLx means not only will you be engaging in what you are good at, you will simultaneously be learning skills and tools to personally help you grow and succeed with abilities you want to learn!;
, All QoLx Interns should have a wikiHow account and userpage, with the opportunities to help edit and author all sorts of wikiHow articles. To get started:


Create your own user ID. It is recommended that you use a pen name you'd be happy to share, instead of your full real name.
Check out the wikiHow Community Dashboard and try out any of the activities. Ask yourself "Which ones you enjoy doing most?" and consider those as a good contribution.
Post a talk page message to Dr Mel and the rest of the QoLx team.
Set up your User Page. Get your user page set up referencing How to Make your wikiHow User Page.
 For example, do you want to experiment with gamifying the habits in your life? Check out HabitRPG . If you like the idea of being part of this project, then you can look at all the different options you have for contributing the HabitRPG at http://habitrpg.wikia.com/wiki/Contributing_to_HabitRPG. All of your efforts with HabitRPG will get you internship credits with QoLx.
 How genuinely interested are you in exploring the possibilities of your mind and others around you? This includes trying to help people develop skills for maximizing quality of life. Being an intern with QoLx means not only will you be engaging in what you are good at, but you will simultaneously be learning skills and tools to personally help you grow and succeed with abilities you want to learn.
 What interests or questions do you have about the way you learn or what you learn throughout your life? Formal and informal learning is a big topic among QoLx. Doing research on life, and the quality of living, as well as the positive aspects of what you can do for yourself and each other is a common likeness for all interns. Giving feedback to what you find in your search is huge.
 As a creative person, what are your passions? What mediums or platforms do you enjoy working with? Showing your creative expression in ways that feed back to helping your community broaden their knowledge is a rewarding feeling. Understanding the context of your research and relaying that to others in a visual and or auditory way that makes sense is what a vital part of what you'll do. This includes working with anything from illustrations, animations, graphics, digital photography, video, musical, or any other form of art imaginable.
 Experimenting to make sure all your work makes an impact or not is a process that everyone goes through. Learning about ideas such as being a "productive failure" is important in helping your projects and ideas get better and more precise as you learn. Testing out fun ways to see if your theories or concepts work in present day activities is much more beneficial than just simply reading them alone.
 After all the work you have done in growing your own quality of life, the best part is being able to put your findings out there for others to see and participate in. Spreading the word about what you know and being able to support your idea's with truthful research will make interning be an accomplishing aspect of your life.


Sharing is one of the most important foundations of the QoLx team. Teaching this to others such as children, adolescents, adults in transition, parents, friends and family and anyone alike is what being a QoLx intern is all about!

, Think about the questions in the internship application, then submit your answers in this questionnaire: QoLx.

