 Cats don't beat themselves up over not being beautiful enough, acceptable enough, tidy enough, rich enough, healthy enough, or clever enough. They don't stress about foolish things like bad luck. Cats just get on with loving themselves the way they are.
 The only times a cat rushes about is when a) it's fun to do so (like chasing a bumblebee) b) the chase has food at the end of it, or c) when they are chasing each other, during mating season. Apart from these three really good excuses, cats stretch out, relax, lick themselves (OK, maybe you don't need to go that far), and sleep., Cats take time out to contemplate the world around them and to just be. Time to be a copycat., Ever wondered why some exercises require you to "stretch like a cat"? The reason is simple - cats really and truly know how to stretch for benefit. A cat stretches to relieve tension and restore suppleness in an instant. A cat stretches the right way; follow her lead., A cat that needs respite doesn't hang around. She goes and finds a place to hang out and get over whatever is ailing her. Apart from serious injuries and death, she'll come back rejuvenated for having kept her distance. You could try this too.

Make your own special hiding space at home or in the garden where you can retreat to when the going gets tough. Go there, lick your wounds, and come back ready to pick up where you left off.
 All right, we don't purr. But we laugh and we don't do it often enough. Many a cat can be set off with the mere suggestion of a pat, cuddle, or comfy spot. And the contentment that comes with grooming! See the happiness around you, the wonder in everything, and feel happiness. And purr laugh a lot more, at things you've stopped noticing were funny, at things that you have always found funny.

Make others around you laugh too.
Groom your loved ones to increase their level of contentment - give someone you love a massage, a hair brush or cut, a foot rub, or a tickle.
Do the cat purr. In, out, in, out. Deep and methodical like the felines do. You don't have to make the rusty noise, just heave in your chest and breathe out slowly, like you're purring.
 As we're rushing off in the pursuit of perfection and bigger and better things, your cats are reveling in the length of your delicious green grass, plucking the daisies from your garden, chewing the cat toys strewn across your floor, and scratching the daylights out of your favorite couch. They have everything they need, right under their wee noses. And so do you, it's just that sometimes you're standing too high off the ground to notice. Get down and spend time seeing your world from your cat's perspective, and relearn the wonders in your own backyard., Whether it's because you or someone you love had a hard day, or because you're just keen to help another person relax, a good cuddle, hug, or nuzzle will always come in handy. Every cat knows this, which is why they perform these caring rituals regularly. And you might like to top it off by rubbing yourself on someone's legs... or maybe not.