 Try to differentiate between controllable and uncontrollable things. Feeling as though you have no control over your life is stressful, so try to acknowledge what you cannot change and focus on what you can change instead. Doing so should help you feel more in control and make it easier to cope with your stress.Try asking yourself a few of these questions: Is this situation avoidable? Which parts of this situation can I control? Is there a part of the situation that I need to accept for now because I cannot control it? What is my plan for controlling the aspects of the situation that I can control?
Try to look at the big picture and ask yourself if this situation will matter in a year or five years? Will this one situation determine other things in your life? How important is controlling this one situation?;
, Keep your eyes open to how you react and to how you express your feelings and emotions. Your feelings and emotions need a safe passage. We all have emotional moments, especially when we encounter stressful events, but it is important to realize that not dealing with these emotions add more stress.


Try journaling about how stress is affecting your emotions. Journaling has many health benefits including promoting mental well-being, improving self-esteem, and decreasing stress.Write about what you have been bottling up throughout the day and use your journal as a way to release that emotional tension.
Talk to someone you trust who will listen to you and be supportive. Social support is important because it can help you feel loved and cared for, which helps relieve stress., Being obsessed with perfection may lead to a mental breakdown. Are you being too tough on yourself or pushing yourself harder than you can manage? Some people are too hard on themselves because they feel like they need to be perfect.


Try to practice self-compassion and allow yourself to be enough and to have done enough in one day, even if you don’t accomplish everything on your to-do list.Keep in mind that no matter what you do or how you do it, there is always room for improvement.
 Our over-commitments, our tendency to avoid offending others by never saying "no" can push us towards a mental breakdown. Saying ‘yes’ without realizing our limits or without setting boundaries can wreak havoc in our lives. It can also ruin our productivity by making it harder to focus on our primary tasks, activities, and responsibilities. Learning how to say "no" is the first step towards saving yourself, your productivity and your sanity.


Remember, saying no is not selfish. It just means that you care enough about your well-being to maintain a healthy boundary for yourself. Saying no also means that you care about others and want to ensure that you will have the energy and mental capacity for your other obligations.Keep your answers direct and simple. You do not have to offer excuses, but a simple, “No – I’m sorry, I have too many commitments this week. I’ll have to take a rain check,” will do., Pursue an old hobby or find a new one. Hobbies can be anything like painting, gardening, volunteering, music, dancing. Hobbies take your mind off the stress of everyday life and focus your attention away from stress-causing activities, tasks, events ,even if only for a brief period. These brief periods sustain you and bolster your spirits.


Participation in hobbies and leisure activates reduces stress by giving you a break from everyday stress, by offering a means of relaxation, and by acting as a buffer or a protection against the effects of stress., Watch your favorite comedy shows and movies. Attend concerts. Laughing is even better if you are in the company of your loved ones.


Laughing has huge stress relieving properties because it releases endorphins into the brain. These endorphins relax the body and these effects can last for up to 45 minutes after one laugh!Laughter strengthens your immune system and can also reduce pain, both of which are very important to relieve stress.Laughing has also been shown to boost mood and reduce anxiety., Make sure you count your blessings, be it your wonderful family, supportive friends, the job you love, the difference you make to others lives etc. Research has shown that gratitude increases self-esteem, reduces stress by increasing mental resilience, and promotes feelings of happiness.Reminding yourself from time to time what you are thankful for can reduce stress and prevent further stress build up.


Try keeping a gratitude journal to remind yourself of the things you are grateful for every day.
 Mental exercises such as meditation help you release the stress in your body. They also improve self-confidence and feelings of self-worth.Meditation allows your brain to take a breaks from the mental processes of the day, which decreases stress, improves creativity, and can help you regain your focus.Try taking a group class that teaches the basics of meditation or find free resources online such as guided meditation recordings. There are also some meditation apps that offer guided meditations with specific topics and lengths of time.
 Make an appointment to see a psychologist, psychiatrist, or therapist. These professionals are trained to help people who feel they are headed for a mental breakdown. They can give you the tools to feel better before you get too overwhelmed.A type of therapy called cognitive behavioral therapy can be used to help stop negative thought patterns and help you feel more in control.In certain cases, medication may help. Talk to a psychiatrist about whether taking an antidepressant or anti-anxiety medication could be called for in your situation.

