 The pieces should be 7 inches by 8 inches (17.8 by 20.3 cm). You can find canvas at craft stores or online.;
, Cut them to 7 by 7 inch (17.8 by 17.8 cm) squares. You can use any pretty patterned fabric, but you may want to choose a complimentary color to the color you would like to use for your monogram.
 You will need 2 pieces of 7 by 8 inch (17.8 by 20.3 cm) interfacing and 2 pieces of 7 by 3.5 inch (17.8 by 8.9 cm) interfacing.
 Iron the 7 by 8 inch (17.8 by 20.3 cm) fusible interfacing onto the back sides of the canvas pieces. This will help to create a more sturdy shape to hold your checkbook.
 Open them up so the inside of the fabric is showing and the crease is vertical.
 Align the piece so that it touches all the top, bottom and side edges to the left side of the crease.
, Pin in place so that all the sides line up.
 You do not need to sew at the crease. Repeat with the second pocket.
 Ensure the 8 inch (20.3 cm) side is vertical. This will form the inside of your checkbook.
 Align the creased side of 1 pocket with the top of the canvas piece. Align the creased side of the other pocket with the bottom of the canvas piece.


There should be approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm) between the 2 pockets. This is where your homemade checkbook holder will fold.
 Pinch the end together with your fingers, so that the narrow end is at the bottom and the larger loop goes upwards. Use a needle and thread to stitch the bottom of the loop onto the bottom edge of the lower pocket.
 Place it horizontally across the top pocket. Make sure the ends hang over the edge of the pocket.
 Make sure the interfacing is out and the canvas lays directly on the pockets. You will flip the checkbook inside out after you sew.
 Ensure you pin through the ribbon and the loop.
 Make sure to back stitch on each end. This seam will sew over the elastic loop and affix it to your checkbook cover.
 This seam will sew over the ribbon's edges, affixing the ribbon permanently so that it can hold up the extra pages of your check register.
 Leave a 3 inch (7.6 cm) space for turning your checkbook holder inside out.
 Do not trim the edges where there is a gap for turning your project inside out.
 Press it flat with an iron.
 Place a button on the top, outside of the canvas. Use a needle and thread to sew the button into the top layer of the canvas and interfacing.
 Hand sew a seam through all the layers to connect the 2 sides of the machine sewn seam.

