


You can do it casually so you won't kill the friendship.
Offer to bring them to church.
Ask whether they want to hear your story about "How God changed my life." 1 Peter 3:15 says, "Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect." Amen.;
,


The one that says "Love God, Love People" is a good one.
Some people say that since they aren't a perfect driver, they don't want to put a Christian bumper sticker on their car. But no one is a perfect driver. Everyone makes mistakes at times on the road. Don't let that keep you from trying to shine for Jesus.
If you have a good bumper sticker, everywhere you drive you will be a witness for Jesus, which is awesome!

,


You can buy some on Amazon, etc. A cute one is the one that says "Got Jesus?" Then every time you are in a line at Target or Walmart, etc. you will cause the people behind you to think about eternity, etc.
You can also buy a Christian shirt of course, but they can be quite expensive.



You can put whatever you want in them, but they can have a Christian bracelet that you might make, a cross necklace, tracts, candy, etc. Then you can leave them wherever you go; public bathrooms, for your waiters, give them to drive through workers or cashiers, drop them around apartment complexes, or leave them around Walmart, etc.
 Then people driving by will see the word, and "faith comes by hearing/seeing the word." Amen.



It might start some conversations.
It's kind of a symbol to let everyone know you are Christian. Then, if any of your co-workers have questions about God or the Bible, they can come to you.
A great way to be ready for that is to read apologetics books, like by Josh McDowell, etc. There are a lot of great ones out there.
 Not as a good luck charm, but it can kind of be another way to witness. But make sure you are kind to others, and generous on tips, etc., if you are going to wear one.


Represent Christ well everywhere you go.
Wearing a cross necklace is also a good reminder to yourself to have good behavior towards others.



You can also walk around apartment complexes and leave tracts by people's doors, as long as there isn't a sign posted against soliciting.

