 As with the majority of fantasy sports, fantasy basketball is presented in several different forms:


In rotisserie fantasy basketball, stat categories award points based on the number of teams in the league (for example, in a 12-team league, categories award points from 1 to 12 depending on where teams rank in that category). If you rank second in assists, that would be worth 11 points to your team. The owner with the highest point total at the end of the season is declared the winner.

Points-based is the simplest style of fantasy basketball, awarding different point totals for various achievements (points scored, rebounds, blocks, or others). The team that collects the most points wins.

Head-to-head pits one team owner against another on a weekly basis. Their rosters compete against one another in various statistical categories, with each team earning a “win” for finishing ahead of the opponent in a category. Rather than accumulate points, team owners aim to finish with the best “win-loss record” at season’s end.

Salary-based is a fantasy game in which owners are given a fixed amount of fictional money and must use it to build a team. Each player in the NBA is tagged with a predetermined “salary.” Users are not allowed to exceed the “salary cap.”;
, It is important to establish how much commitment you’re willing to put into playing fantasy basketball before deciding on what kind of league you’re interested in entering:



Single-year leagues are the simplest form of fantasy basketball. You draft a team, make roster moves throughout the season and go for the championship. The following year, you start completely from scratch. This style of league is ideal for anyone looking for something easy to track and requiring the minimum amount of commitment.

Keeper leagues allow fantasy players to keep a maximum number of NBA stars on their roster from one season to the next. Some leagues mandate that each team keep the same number of players, while others set a range of players per team. The following year’s draft includes any player not retained.
In dynasty leagues, teams remain the same from year to year, with the only roster changes coming in the form of player adds, player drops, and trades. Each year, the annual draft consists exclusively of rookies. This league requires a great deal of attention and commitment.
 While each league varies, most use the same 9 categories:



Points scored is fairly straightforward. It’s the number of points a player records.

Field goal percentage refers to a player’s success rate on made shots. If he converts 3 of 5 attempts, his field goal percentage is 60.

3-point percentage is similar to field goal percentage but is limited to how a player performs from beyond the 3-point line.

Free throw percentage measures a player’s success rate on foul shots.

Rebounds are tallied whenever a player grabs a missed shot attempt.

Assists are counted whenever a player makes a pass that results in a successful basket—but only if the scoring player takes no more than one step before making the shot.

Steals occur whenever the offensive team loses control of the ball to an opposing player. The player who forces the turnover through contact with the ball is given the steal.

Blocks refer to any shot attempt that is successfully deflected by an opposing player.

Turnovers are defined by any possession in which the offensive team loses control of the ball without registering a shot. In fantasy basketball, you want this to be a low number.
 The type of draft you conduct will shape how you conduct your research and ultimately decide on a strategy:



Straight drafts can be conducted either online or in person. In a straight draft, the order is established and users select NBA players one at a time. The order can either be regular (people own the same pick in every round) or serpentine (straight draft order is used for odd-numbered rounds, while the opposite is used for even-numbered rounds). Players are selected until all teams’ empty slots are filled.

Auto drafts are conducted online, with teams selected automatically rather than by the competing team owners. The drafting program makes selections based either by the site’s player rankings or by pre-rankings established by the team owner. This type of draft is ideal for those who are unable to agree on a mutual date for a live draft.

Auction drafts do not follow a specific draft order. Instead, a player is offered up for bid by one team owner, and everyone then bids on the player until a final price is established. Teams are limited to predetermined budgets and must fill every spot on their roster without running out of money.

