 Garage sales can sell you some for about 5 dollars so they're a good place to look if your low on money. If you want a new one, browse toy stores or places like K-Mart. (Walmart if you're from the USA or Canada). Small ones are good for taking places, big ones are good for cuddling at night. If you want your stuffed animal to be an at-home pal about 35 centimeters (13.8 in) is good. If your teddy or stuffed animal is going to be exploring the world, a small one would be better. Boas, fish, snakes or anything with a weird shaped body would not be recommended because it's hard to find clothes for them. Dogs, cats, horses and big cats (tigers, lions, etc.) are great to have, as it is easier to find clothes for them!;
, If its fur is tangled or scruffy maybe Scraggy or Rough. If it's a camel maybe Tutankhamen or Cleopatra. Whatever you do, here are some names that should be avoided! Stripes, Patch, Pinkie, Teddy, Spot, Cutie, Princess. If your basing this on your pet or someone else and it's one of these names then that's cool because the name means something special. These names shouldn't be your teddy's name because they are used too much and they're not very original. Use your imagination!

, Lots of wikiHow articles explain how to do this and there's lots of cool ideas. Why not make features that move or work like a real working light or a fan that moves? Maybe make features that are based on the animal like for a turtle a hammock for a tropical friend or for a poodle a makeup stand. Be creative!

, This is a great time to think what your teddy or stuffed animal likes and dislikes. For example, if your teddy or stuffed animal flops down on the sand when you put it in a sitting position it might mean it's relaxed.
 Make a shirt or a dress first because you need those. Once you've got the hang of it try making swimwear, sunglasses, raincoats or shoes. You can make some gear like a ball, a book or two, a mat or a bed.
 Don't take it out anywhere that day because it probably needs some rest and it may be contagious. Poor little guy/girl!
, Make sure it is held close on your lap so you don't lose it.
 Remember to say goodbye and leave it some activities to do while you're gone. When you come back tell him/her what you did.

