 Caregivers tend to isolate themselves from other people sometimes, which can make it even hard to cope with your emotions. If you are struggling, be sure to reach out to friends and family for support. You can ask for support in any way that feels truly helpful to you.

For example, you can ask for help running errands, prayers for your loved one, or just ask for someone to listen for a while.
If you need help caring for your loved one, then you might want to look into respite services. There are in-home respite services available that provide volunteers who will come and care for your loved one for a few hours or even overnight. Or, you can also look into out-of-home respite services, such as an adult daycare where you can take your loved one for a few hours or for the day. You may even be able to get help from your loved one’s insurance to pay for these services. Talk with a social worker or ask your loved one’s doctor about respite services that are available in your area.
 Often, people who take are taking care of others feel they shouldn’t care about themselves. They may feel guilty if they put their own well-being before the person they care for. To properly take care of someone else, you must take care of yourself. But this cannot happen if you are in the way of this. If you realize you feel these things, try to change the way you think about self-care.Determine if you feel guilty or selfish when you put your needs first. Feeling guilty is common among caregivers. If you notice that you have been feeling guilty about taking time for yourself, remind yourself that this is a normal reaction, but that you deserve to have time to care for yourself.
Figure out if you are scared to put your needs first or if you are scared to ask for help. Decide if asking for help or having needs makes you feel weak or inadequate.
Remember, it is not selfish to put yourself first. It does not make you unworthy or selfish. Taking care of yourself ensures that you can take care of others.
Tell yourself, “My health is just as important the person I am taking care of. I cannot be the best caregiver if I am not in the best health.”

, Sometimes, you may get run down and only see negative. This can take a toll on your physical and emotional state. If you find yourself in this situation, start speaking in positives. This can help change your mood and your perception of the situation.For example, don’t say, “I can’t do anything right.” Instead, say, “I am good at helping Anne change her bandages and follow her diet. I am a good spouse/parent/friend.”
Try not to talk negatively about your habits. Instead, say things like, “I went for a 15 minute walk today! That is great” or “I had more servings of fruits and vegetables today than yesterday.”
You can also be positive about things you feel guilty or unsure about. For example, “I can go to bed at 10 p.m. tonight. The chores I have left can wait until tomorrow and everything will be okay.”

, Though you may be the primary caregiver, that doesn’t mean you have to do everything. Family or friends of the person you are taking care of can help you with tasks, like preparing food, doing household chores, or going shopping. You may also ask your family or friends to help you with things in your life.You may ask, “It would help a lot if you could help with some of the tasks a few times each week” or “I am unable to do everything myself. Are there are few tasks you could do to help me?”
To your family and friends, you may say, “I know I am not able to do what I used to because I am taking care of someone. Can you help me by doing a few tasks around the house? It would help me a great deal.”

, Talking to those around you about your feelings can help you take care of yourself and cope with your situation. Bottling up your feelings can lead to more stress and result in you blowing up or saying things you don’t mean.Find someone you trust to confide in. This might be a significant other, family member, friend, colleague, or religious leader.

