 If you’re really worried about deer getting into plants you’ve spent many long weeks cultivating, consider fencing the plot in with fishing line or plastic wire. Stick 3-4 posts in the ground around the crop and wrap the wire around the outside of the posts from top to bottom, leaving only a couple inches between each strand. It isn’t very attractive, but it will do what it’s supposed to do and is inexpensive. The idea is similar to keeping single plants off-limits with tomato cages, but will allow you to close off a larger area.Fishing line is thin enough not to be an eyesore or block your plants from view, but will be enough to dissuade deer from trying to push their way through.Despite being talented at runners and jumpers, deer are not very good at getting themselves in and out of tight spaces.
 Deer are constantly wary of predators, and while the average house canine isn’t likely to make a meal of a passing doe, the sight and sound of one may be enough to keep troublesome deer at bay. Dog urine also doubles as a natural repellent, as deer can distinguish its odor from that of other harmless herbivores, and it signals that competition or predators may be nearby. Take your dog out to do its business in the general vicinity of your garden and let it run around, and watch incidents of mysterious vegetation disappearances decrease.Walk your dog around the perimeter of your yard or garden to mark the area with its scent.
 Put up a scarecrow, statue or other large form as a new fixture in your garden. They may not move or make any noise, but the fear of the unknown will keep deer from making a move. The more lifelike the statue looks, the better chance it has of being convincing. Position the statue on the outer edge of your property to discourage deer from pushing in any further.Draping the statue in old clothes that billow in the breeze can mimic movement.
While deer are not especially clever, they learn from observing behavior. There’s no guarantee that a motionless garden fixture will frighten deer off for good.
 One of the best deterrents for deer ransacking is human presence. Simply spend some time out in your garden every day, and step out for a few minutes at night. Make yourself visible and audible. Deer are adaptable, reactive animals. When performing an instinctive risk-assessment of a place where food is available, your continued appearances can be enough to keep them away.Loud human voices are often enough to frighten away deer on their own.
Make sure to do a circuit of your garden nearest to where deer are getting in to maximize your chances of being detected.

