 Most artists aren't obsessed with the here and now in fashion. They aren't concerned with labels and designers, but what makes them feel attractive and sometimes quirky. Don't be afraid to wear something out of the mainstream and put it together with different accessories.
Avoid expensive designers and clothing that is on trend.
Don't worry too much about looking polished and perfect all the time. Do what makes you feel attractive and creative.
Don't be too concerned about getting off any paint or other medium from your skin and clothes. Artists often "wear" their medium, whether by accident or on purpose.;
, You can find interesting, entertaining, and unusual fashions at these stores. Consignment shops tend to be very affordable.
Look for colors and patterns on clothing that stand out.
Find unique accessories such as off the wall jewelry, a unique handbag, or one of a kind shoes.
 Vintage clothing is often one of a kind and can be re-worked into a modern look with an edge.Vintage jewelry and dresses paired with modern shoes and a unique hat can make you stand out.
Men can try vintage pieces such as suits, jackets, pants, hats and shoes.
Don't be afraid to try vintage pieces in unique colors and fabrics that are no longer in style. Artists often want to make a statement with what they wear.
 This can be one or two signature items that you wear anytime you go out.This can be anything from a pair of unique shoes to a specific derby hat.
You can also try wearing a signature color, such as all black.
You also don't have to be cautious with makeup or hairstyling. Your hair could be dyed a bright color such as orange or blue.
Try vibrant makeup such as dark or bright eyeliner with a lip color that stands out.
 Place these around your home to be admired and looked at. Artists are interested in how art is changing and evolving.
Coffee table books and print books are a great way to become exposed to new artists and ways of doing art.
Coffee table books and art books add an air of sophistication to your living space.
 Don't be too worried about making sure it is expensive art.Buy pieces that catch the eye and provoke thought.
Hang prints or original pieces on your walls throughout your home.
You don't have to buy art you don't like. Stick to paintings, photos, and sculptures that please you and stir creative thinking.
 Artists often never know when they will get an idea or inspiration to work.If you have space, you could make an at home studio and keep any projects you are working on set up in this room.
Keep drawings and sketches around the house that you have done, even if they aren't meant to be final projects.
Save old sketch notebooks and put them in your studio. You never know how old ideas might turn into a bigger project later.
Hang some of your own work in your house.
 Don't be too afraid to share your opinion on works of art.Artists can think critically. They see the details of the world around them and are affected by what they experience.
Share how artwork, film, writing and everyday experiences make you feel and any ideas these aspects of life inspire.
Keep current on the happenings of the art world and think critically about new artists and ideas.
 Start an Instagram account or a Tumblr.These social media apps allow you to share images with friends and viewers of your profile.
Be sure to take photos of things you see and notice that make you think. This can be anything from a person or object, to an interesting pattern you see in the concrete.
Tag these photos with descriptions of the ideas these images bring to mind or the feelings they evoke.
 Look in your local newspaper and on social media for information on gallery crawls, art installations, museum events etc.By being out amongst art, you will meet artists and others in the art world such as dealers and buyers.
Art isn't just restricted to photography and painting. Go out and see local musicians or check out an independent film theater.
Seek out multicultural events in your town or city. Being exposed to other cultures might show you ways of viewing the world you hadn't thought of. New experiences can bring you inspiration.
 This should have blank pages.Artists may be inspired by something or have an idea at the spur of a moment.
If you have a notebook with you, you can sketch something quickly or write down an idea before you forget it.
The mind of an artist is often constantly at work, finding sources of inspiration everywhere. Having a notebook is not only handy, but will make you look very artistic.

