 Plaster bandages can be purchased from art stores, or in large quantities from a hospital supply store. Plaster bandages are made to be used in body casting, unlike traditional Plaster of Paris powder or similar materials, which can be extremely dangerous.Don't assume anything is skin safe. Check the packaging and read any instructions thoroughly.
You can buy plaster casting kits that include lubricant and sometimes a drop cloth. Many are marketed toward pregnant women to cast their bellies, but it will work fine for your purposes.Trim the bandages to about 8 inches (200 mm) in length so they will be easier to work with.If the bandages are wide (6 inches or more), fold them in half lengthwise. You'll have an 8x3 inch double layer of bandage to work with.;
, You'll want a hard surface, like a tile floor or sturdy table, for your model to stretch out and hold a stable position. Avoid rooms with carpeting--the plaster will ruin the carpet if there are any spills or drips. Place a waterproof drop-cloth over the area where you will be working. If your model is going to be on a table, you may want to spread a tarp on the table and the floor beneath. This will protect your furniture and make cleanup a snap.Make sure you have access to a shower or bath so the model can rinse off after you have removed the caste.Check the temperature of the room. If you can control the heat, you will want the room to be very warm so your model doesn't get cold when she disrobes. If you don't have access to the temperature controls, bring in a space heater to create a suitable environment.If you use a tarp to cover your workspace, look for one with some texture. It can become very slippery when wet and may make it difficult for your model to hold her pose., She might feel nervous or embarrassed at first, so it's important to run through the process with her beforehand. Knowing what to expect may ease her mind and increase her confidence. Let her know you will halt the process at any time if she begins to feel uncomfortable.Your model's comfort and safety should be your first concern.


Keep things professional, but don't be cold. You will be spending a lot of time with her, and she will be in a vulnerable position, so it is essential you develop a good rapport.Have the model try out the pose you want to for the cast. She can decide if it's a pose she can hold for 30 minutes, and you can see if it's really the pose you want or if you need to make any adjustments., It is very difficult to remove dried plaster from fabric, so she may want to disrobe entirely.Otherwise, she may want to wear an old bra or bikini top or an old t-shirt she can roll up so it doesn't interfere with the cast, but still keeps her chest and shoulders covered and warm.


If your model is still concerned about getting cold, she can wear socks, leg warmers, or a knit hat, too, since these areas are nowhere near the area you will be casting.
Your clothes will likely get covered with plaster, so make sure you're wearing something you plan to throw out or don't mind ruining.

