 There are many different kind of psoriasis. You can have one or more types of psoriasis, which you can determine based on your symptoms. If you aren't sure which kind of psoriasis you have, ask your doctor or dermatologist to help you determine which you have. An individual can have one or more types of psoriasis. The types of psoriasis include:


Plaque psoriasis (psoriasis vulgare), which is the most common form where reddened plaques are covered with thick, scaly, silvery skin, typically found on the scalp, the tailbone area, on outsides of the knees and elbows, buttocks, genitals, eyebrows, belly button, nails, and anal areas
Guttate psoriasis, where plaques are circular and often occur in children and young adults following strep throat
Inverse psoriasis, where plaque typically appears in folds of skin at the buttock, groin, under the breasts, underarms, and around the glands of an uncircumcised penis
Pustular psoriasis, which can be a sudden occurrence of small blisters filled with fluid that is a dangerous condition and must be treated right away. It can also be a slower form with deep blisters on the soles of your feet and on the palms
Erythrodermic (exfoliative) psoriasis, which an appearance, gradual or sudden, of reddened skin that can be followed or preceded by plaque psoriasis, There is no known underlying cause for psoriasis, but your immune system is involved. The risks of psoriasis are a personal family history of psoriasis. It also occurs on individuals with lighter skin. It can occur at any age, though it is most common between the ages of 16 and 30 and also 50 to 60.


If you had psoriasis before, you are also at a higher risk of getting it again., There are a number of environmental triggers that can contribute to psoriasis. The triggers are thought to cause an inflammatory response, which in turn triggers psoriasis. Common environmental triggers for psoriasis include:


Any injury such as a bruise, cut, or bump
Intense sunburn
Infection, such as HIV or β-Hemolytic streptococcus (strep)
Medications, such as Chloroquine, beta-blockers, Lithium Indomethacin, ACE inhibitors, Interferon-alfa, Terbinafine,
Emotional stress
Tobacco or alcohol abuse
Obesity