 Regardless of what type of topping or condiment you're planning on eating, it's important to measure the appropriate serving size. This will help you stick to your eating plan.


If you have the package or food label available, make sure to read the serving size of your item. Measure it out with measuring spoons or cups so you can get an accurate amount on your plate.
If you're out at a restaurant or do not know the serving size, try to take an educated guess. Most condiments (like ketchup or mayonnaise) will have a serving size around two tablespoons. One tablespoon is about the size of your thumb tip.You can also download a food journaling app that can help you track the portion sizes of your condiments and how many calories you're eating.;
, In addition to eyeballing or measuring portion sizes, you can try the "fork method." It significantly limits how much you use. This is great for salads and salad dressings.


This is where you dip your fork in your favorite condiment or dressing and then into the food itself.
For example, order your salad dressing on the side. When your salad comes, dip the tip of your fork into your salad dressing and then spear a few pieces of your salad.
This method gives you the taste of the dressing, but without using a large quantity of dressing on your salads.
 Many toppings, condiments and sauces are actually naturally low in calories. These are great items to use more regularly with your favorite foods.


Condiments and sauces that are naturally low in calories include: mustard, soy sauce (though high in sodium), pickle relish, vinegars, salsa, marinara sauce, hot sauce and horseradish sauce.
Toppings that are also naturally low in calories include: vegetables (like lettuce, tomatoes or onions), pickles (though can be high in sodium), olives, fruit and lean proteins (like grilled chicken, hard boiled eggs and low-fat cheese).
When you're making foods for yourself, feel free to use any of these low calorie items. For example, if you're making hamburgers for dinner, use a little mustard and as much lettuce, tomatoes or onions as you want. Or if you're making a salad for dinner, top it with olive oil and vinegar, grilled chicken and an assortment of your favorite raw vegetables.
 Many condiments come in a regular form and a reduced fat or fat-free form as well. This allows consumers another lower calorie and lower fat option. However, you still should be careful when using these types of condiments or toppings.


Remember, even though it may be lower in fat or "lite" doesn't mean its calorie free or even low calorie.
You should still measure portion sizes of these items as well. Many people use a bigger serving thinking they're "saving calories or fat" but use so much the calories or fat are equivalent to the regular version.
In addition, many of these items have higher sodium, sugar or artificial preservatives in them. Whenever they take out fat or reduce calories, the flavor can be affected so food manufacturers may add more sugar and sodium. Review the nutrition label to double check what you're purchasing.
 Some condiments, toppings or sauces will have nutritional benefits associated with them. If you're going to have a topping or use a condiment, consider using some that will have some added health benefits.


Nuts and seeds are common toppings - especially for salads, yogurts or even frozen yogurt or ice cream. Both nuts and seeds are high in protein, minerals and even have some fiber. In addition they're high in healthy fats which can support a healthy cardiovascular system.Fruit is another topping you might find on salads or even at the frozen yogurt bar. Fruit is high in fiber, vitamins and antioxidants.Low-fat or regular cheese. Whether its on your salad, pizza or hamburger, cheese can come with some benefits. It has protein, calcium and Vitamin D which can support bone health.Toppings like salsa or guacamole also have some health benefits. Salsa is basically all raw vegetables which are high in fiber and guacamole is high in minerals, Vitamin E and healthy fats.
 The best type of toppings or condiments to use are the ones you make at home from scratch. You'll be choosing the ingredients and will be able to control the total calories, fat, sodium and sugar.You will also be able to control the portion sizes as well. Serve yourself just enough and keep to appropriate portion sizes.
An easy condiment to make at home is ketchup. All you need to do is cook together tomato paste, apple cider vinegar, salt, pepper, and a little bit of water. You can add other spices too - like cayenne pepper - for additional flavor.
 You might encounter more condiments at restaurants and have the options of ordering special toppings for your meals. Try ordering these things on the side to control the overall nutritional value of your meals.


If you're ordering a dish that comes with condiments or a sauce, ask for it to be served on the side. This will allow you to control how much you add and therefore control how many extra calories you'll be adding.
For example, ask for your salad dressing to be served on the side, or the ketchup and mustard to be served on the size instead of on your burger.
If you're order a dish that has a lot of toppings (like a cobb salad) you can also ask for these on the side so you can control how much you eat of these items. When they're on the side, you can visually see the portion sizes and can determine if you want to eat all of it or just some of it. Once they're mixed into the salad, its harder to control how much you eat.
For example, if you're ordering a dinner salad like a cobb salad, greek salad or chopped salad, ask for the cheese, olives, avocado or other toppings on the side and add as much as you want yourself.
 One way to feel like you're eating a lot of tasty toppings is stick with toppings that are naturally low in calories - like vegetables. You can bulk up meals and add extra veggie toppings without worrying about eating too many calories.


Some of the most common toppings for a variety of dishes (like pizzas or sandwiches) are vegetables. Luckily, these are naturally very low calorie, but also contain some fiber and other beneficial nutrients.
If you're ordering a sandwich, add extra lettuce and tomatoes. You can also ask for other vegetables like sliced peppers or cucumbers for extra crunch.
If you're order a pizza or getting a take out pizza, also ask for extra vegetables. Add black olives, onions, mushrooms and peppers.
Also, don't hold back on condiments like salsa or marinara sauce. These sauces are vegetable based and naturally low in calories.
 If you're not a fan of some of the lower calorie toppings or condiments or you're really in the mood for some of those tasty higher calorie items, consider asking for less.


There are many toppings that aren't considered overly healthy due to their high calorie, fat or sodium content. But that doesn't mean you can never have these or should always try to avoid them.
By ordering less of these higher calorie items or asking for a "light" amount, you can still enjoy these toppings but feel comfortable knowing you're not over doing it.
For example, if you're order pizza, ask for just a little cheese. Or if you're ordering a sandwich, ask to go light on the mayonnaise.
 Another trick you can use is limiting the total amount of toppings or condiments you have in your dish. Many condiments, even full fat or full calorie items, don't have tons of calories per serving. It's when you have multiple toppings or multiple types of condiments in one dish that the total calories of your dish can get a little high.


If you're ordering a salad, limit the total amount of "calorie-heavy toppings." These are the ones like croutons, grilled chicken, cheese, bacon bits, beans or avocado. Limit yourself to 3-4 toppings and keep the serving size to 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) or less. Extra vegetables like bell peppers or tomatoes don't push the calorie level too high.
Use the same theory when ordering an item like pizza. Feel free to add as many veggies as you like, but only stick to one or two "calorie-heavy" toppings like cheese or pepperoni.
Frozen yogurt bars are another place that toppings can get out of control. Go wild with the fresh fruit, but limit yourself to 2-3 "calorie-heavy" toppings like candy, nuts, chocolate syrup or granola.
Some sandwiches also come with multiple toppings and sauces. Stick to one higher calorie sauce (like mayonnaise) and 1 or 2 calorie-heavy toppings (like avocado or bacon).
 When you're in the grocery store and need to purchase a condiment, dressing or some sort of topping, make sure you pay attention to the food label. This will guide you on the overall healthiness of the product and help you determine whether or not you should buy it.


The nutrition label contains a few things. It'll tell you the serving size, calorie, sugar, carbohydrate, fiber, cholesterol and fat content in addition to listing the ingredients that are contained in the product.The first thing you need to look at is the serving size. It's listed at the top of the nutrition fact panel. For most condiments or dressings, the serving size will be somewhat small. It might be 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) or even 1/4 of a cup. Make sure to take note of this because if you consume more than 1 serving, you need to increase the total calories, sugar and fat per serving.
Also take note of the total calories per serving. You don't want to use a high calorie condiment and have it push you over your designated calorie limit for the day.
Review the other information on the nutrition label as well. Make sure the amounts of different nutrients fit in with whatever current diet or eating pattern you're following.
 One item that, unfortunately, that is still found in many foods is trans fats. Trans fats are considered very unhealthy and most health professionals recommend you avoid them at all costs.Trans fats are typically used as a flavor and texture enhancer and to help prevent foods from spoiling. They are found in a wide variety of foods including baked goods, fried foods, refrigerated doughs (like cinnamon roll dough), and chips.They have been linked to high cholesterol and heart disease and should therefore be avoided.
In addition, trans fats are found in some of your favorite condiments and toppings. For example, there is frequently trans fats in non-dairy and regular creamer, margarine, and some creamy salad dressings.
Look for partially hydrogenated or hydrogenated oils on the ingredient list. Trans fats may also be listed on the nutrition fact panel underneath "total fat". Make sure this says "0 grams (0.0 oz)" and there aren't any trans fats listed in the ingredient label.
 More prominent than trans fats in condiments and toppings, is sodium. This salty ingredient can come in many forms and is typically quite high in a variety of condiments, sauces and toppings.


Sodium is another nutrient that you should look for on the nutrition fact panel. It's found under "total cholesterol" on the label. Also look for "low-sodium" on the front of the label. This means there's less than 140 mg of sodium per serving.Items market as "low-sodium" are a better bet and may be a healthier choice.
A diet that's high in sodium has been linked with an increased risk for high blood pressure. This can also lead to heart disease and stroke over time. Limiting high sodium condiments and toppings can help you decrease your overall sodium intake.Some of the highest sodium containing condiments and toppings include: soy sauce, pepperoni or sausage, bacon bits, hot sauce, low-fat salad dressings, teriyaki sauce, pickles or pickle relish, olives and cheese. Some of these items are low in calories or fat (like pickles or olives) but still contain a large amount of sodium.
 Like salt, sugar is another common culprit in many of your favorite condiments, sauces and toppings. You'd be surprised about the total sugar in many items. Make sure to read the labels and stick to low-sugar versions of your favorites.


Condiments that are typically higher in sugar include: ketchup, BBQ sauce, teriyaki sauce, marinara sauce, sweet dessert sauces (like chocolate or caramel syrup), candied nuts, dried fruit, honey mustard and sriracha sauce. Also note that many reduced fat or fat-free salad dressings and condiments may have higher amounts of sugar to help improve the flavor when the calories are reduced.The total sugar amount is also listed on the food label. You'll find it listed under "total carbohydrates" on the food label.
Look for condiments that are labeled "no sugar added" or "sugar-free." No sugar added items do not have any added sources of sugar, however there may be some natural sugar. Sugar-free items contain less than 0.5 g of sugar per serving but also may contain some artificial sweeteners.