 Look for spears with tightly closed buds. Avoid asparagus with open or seedy tips.;
, Wilted or limp asparagus is most likely old or has been mishandled.
 Stalks should be round, not flat or ridged.
 Choose another bunch if the ends are woody or they appear dry.
 Fresh asparagus will be odorless.
 Younger asparagus will have thinner stalks that don't require peeling. Sometimes more mature asparagus with thick stalks requires special preparation.
 Don't wash before storing as it hastens decay.
, You can wrap the ends of the stalks in a wet paper towel and place in a plastic bag to help keep your vegetables fresh.
 Grab a stalk and apply pressure at the bottom. It will naturally snap where the woody part ends. Alternately, you can lay out the asparagus in your bunch and cut all ends to the same length.
 You can cook young asparagus without peeling it, but more mature stalks may require peeling.


Use a paring knife or vegetable peeler to slice off the stiff outer layer of the stalk. A paring knife will allow you more control. The tough skin will be thicker at the bottom of the stalk and become thinner as you reach the tip.
 You want to cook stalks of approximately the same size together. If you mix different sizes, they may not cook evenly.



Tie your asparagus into a bundle using cooking twine. Gather 6 to 8 stalks and place a 30 inch (76.2 cm) piece of twine under the bundle and cross each half of the twine over to the opposite side. Continue wrapping the twine and tie off at the end of the stalks. Make sure to start wrapping below the tips.
Bring a pot of water to a boil. Add asparagus. Wait until the water comes back to a boil and start timing-asparagus should cook in 5 to 8 minutes.
 Tying your asparagus in a bundle is also a good practice when you steam it as it protects the fragile tips from breakage. Steam approximately 10 to 15 minutes.



Heat oven to 450 to 500 degrees F (232.3 to 260 degrees C).
Brush a cookie sheet or other pan with olive oil or use a vegetable oil spray. Lay asparagus out on the pan.
Brush vegetables with oil, or spray again with vegetable oil. Add salt, pepper, or other seasonings and cook 15 to 20 minutes, or until spears are slightly browned.



Coat asparagus with oil.
Use direct, medium heat when you cook asparagus over the grill. You can either place the spears directly on the grill or use a grill basket or skillet to help protect the tender tips.
Grill approximately 6 minutes.



Place asparagus in a microwave save bowl or container. For 1 lb. (.45 kg) asparagus, add 1/4 cup (59 ml) of water. Cover with plastic wrap.
Cook at full power for 4 to 7 minutes for asparagus spears and 3 to 5 minutes for cut pieces. Turn asparagus halfway through the cooking time.



Cut asparagus into 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) pieces.
Heat some oil or butter in a frying pan. Add asparagus and cook over medium high heat until tender, usually 3 to 5 minutes.
If wished, you can also add egg for additional flavor and texture.

