 The fur on an exotic shorthair cat is thick and dense like its relative the Persian. However, unlike the Persian, the fur is plush and short. It almost gives the cat the general appearance of having the coat of a teddy bear.This coat makes the exotic shorthair much more easy to keep groomed than a Persian. Unlike a Persian, which should be groomed daily, an exotic shorthair rarely needs to be brushed. This is why the exotic shorthair is nicknamed the "the lazy man’s Persian."The only area on the cat that may have longer fur is the tail, but this is not always the case.;
, The exotic shorthair comes in a wide variety of fur colors. Its coloring can be anything from white all the way to black and every color in between, including variations of brown, orange, and grey. This makes it very difficult for non-professionals to use coat coloring as a way to identify the breed.

This is not to say that there isn't a standard for the coloring of an exotic shorthair. It just means that the standard is extremely varied and complicated.
 An exotic shorthair's eyes are very distinctive. They should only be green or blue green, or brilliant copper in color. They are also very round, which complements the roundness of the cat's body and face shape., Like its relative, the Persian, the exotic shorthair has a delightfully flat face that is warm and inviting. Its eyes are set far apart and its face is very round and large in proportion to its body. It has an extremely stubby nose that is set in line with its eyes, which is key to its distinctive look.The cat's nose is almost flush against the head, as the cat's muzzle is very short.
 An exotic shorthair has small ears for the size of its head but this smallness highlights the cat's round and soft head. The short little ears are spread far apart and, although sticking up, are low to the head.The ears are rounded at the tips and tilted slightly forward, which also increases the rounded appearance of the cat's head.
 The exotic shorthair cat usually looks big boned yet well proportioned. The general look of its body proportion has been described as "rounded." This strength of build may also be described as "sturdy" yet not large or obese.The cat's legs are slightly short for the size of its body. This also adds to the perceived roundness of the cat.
Part of the reason the cat has this appearance is the plushness of its coat. The fullness of the fur adds to the roundness of the cat's appearance.
 Exotic shorthair cats are known to be easy going and relaxed. They love to lounge around and curl up in their owners laps. They also don't get disturbed by much, so are not apt to run away and hide if a new person comes in your house or a loud noise is made., The relaxed nature of the exotic shorthair means that they like interacting with their humans but they do not need attention all of the time. For example, depending on the specific cat, they might sleep with you or take a nap on your lap, or they might prefer to spend their sleeping time alone.Some people assert that male exotic shorthair cats are more cuddly and affectionate than female exotic shorthair cats.This may, however, depend completely on your specific cat.
 Unlike a Persian, which is known to be very docile, an exotic shorthair can have more liveliness. They like to play and run around more than a Persian and they tend to stay active into adulthood.Your adult exotic shorthair is likely to enjoy the simple pleasures of a cat's life, such as playing with a dripping faucet or climbing in and out of a cardboard box.
 Exotic shorthair cats are very quiet cats. Their voices are seldom heard and they do not meow incessantly when begging like other breeds can. While there are always exceptions, if your cat is very, very quiet, it may be an exotic shorthair.Instead of meowing for food or attention, an exotic shorthair is likely to sit right in front of you and make intense eye contact with you until you give it what it wants.
 If you are unsure about your cat's breed, discuss it with your veterinarian. They are likely to be well versed in popular cat breeds and are likely to see a wide variety in their work.

Discussing your cat's breed with your veterinarian can also allow you to get information about potential health problems that are common with your particular breed of cat. Once your veterinarian identifies what breed your cat is, ask them about any issues that might be common in this type of cat.
 If you cannot identify the physical characteristics or behavior yourself, consult with an expert. This could be a cat behaviorist or trainer, or someone that is familiar with the breed standards of the exotic shorthair, such as a breeder or member of a cat breed club.

If you want to find a breeder or a cat breed club, consult the website of a national cat organization, such as the Cat Fanciers' Association. They should have lists available of breeders and local clubs available.
 If you want definitive verification about what type of cat you have, get a DNA test done on it. You will need to contact a company that does cat DNA testing and have them send you a sampling kit. Once you have collected a sample of your cat's saliva, you will send it back to the company to be analyzed and then the company will send you the results.There are a wide variety of labs that do DNA testing on pets. Some are private labs and some are labs connected to organizations, such as veterinary schools or animal appreciation organizations.
DNA testing is done for a fee, so you may want to shop around to see what company will do your cat's DNA testing for cheapest. However, you may also want to search for online reviews of companies to verify that they provide quality service.

