 If you aren't charged up with good vibrations and energy, how are you going to help your husband?;
, Sleep is an important factor, rejuvenating your batteries for the task of being caretaker, shopper, mom and lover, that list is eternal. We have it rough gals and we make it look simple. So get that beauty-sexy sleep at least seven, if not eight hours a night. Take a little calcium before bed, makes dreamy time deeper. Should you take it before or after the sex? Before I would say, no interruptions please.
 Too many carbs may be dragging your body down. In the morning start the body with protein, that left over chicken or steak from the barbecue last night will be great. If not make sure there is a high quality,low sugar protein shake in your cupboard at all times.
 Water intake is an important factor. You need it for keeping the bowels moving and getting rid of toxins as well as getting glowing, beautiful skin. What goes in must come out, after the nutrients are taken out of the food (what little there are)your body needs to eliminate. Water is a conductor and we need it for the electrical impulses to keep it pulsing.
 It prevents wrinkles, plus it raises serotonin, throw out the anti-depressants. A good workout also makes you happier and healthier. Do not be afraid to work up a good sweat, it's good for your body!

, It makes your skin amazing and smooth. Look at the people who eat out of the ocean, their skin is amazing. Eat salmon at least three times a week. It works like an iron to wrinkles.
 A multi-vitimin is essential to optimum health and stamina, so you will need it.
 That can improve your relationship.
 This could make your man very vulnerable and other women can smell a man whose needs are not met.
 Ask him "How are you feeling, can I do anything for you babe"? He will probably say no but you need to be available to your man, whenever, wherever he needs you.
 Don't ever let the other girls take over your relationship with him.
 Men love it, need it and women do too, you just forget how much. It releases oxytocin in the brain. You'll get that secure feeling and that's the time you bond with your man. Sex is great for wrinkles too! It spices up your relationship in many great ways.
 Men need to eat or they will be super cranky. Beer is good too, have on tap his favorite kind. Build a bar if you have too! Be his favorite bar maid.
 It might sound nasty, but it could secretly be the key to a great relationship.
 You might think that the lipstick/blush looks terrifying for you, but if he thinks not, then do it just to keep him happy.
 principle. Women are the complex gender, men are easy to figure out. What ever the issue is it can be dealt with, a little attention and a lot of love go along way. Even when you don't feel like it, do it. It will take your relationship to a new level and he will wonder what happened to his girl. Maybe he will come home in a good mood when he knows you will be waiting for him with a smile and some other perks.
 It's going to be hard work, everything that's worth anything takes hard work. It's fun to bring new ideas to your relationship. Bread gets stale and so do relationships.

