 Twice a day with your optimal product will fight many of the most common skin problems and leave your face feeling healthy and looking great. Blemishes on your face can be combated by either the use of a product or an organic solution. Deciding which to use really depends on your skin type and acne severity. More sensitive skin may need a gentler product, while less sensitive skin may require a harsher product to see results. Clearasil and Proactive are popular choices for use on acne, though there are countless to choose from at your local drugstore. For those who prefer an organic method, lemon juice, dandelion sap, honey, and other materials have proven to work as well.






;
, This ensures a fine facial structure and clean look. Keep your eyebrow lines neat, upper lip hair and chin hair groomed. To trim eyebrows, meet with a professional who can wax or pluck your eyebrows. They really do the best job, and will make sure that you don't take too much off, as this can lead to problems in the future. If you want to do it yourself, take a washcloth soaked in hot water and press it onto the area where you are about to remove the hair. Then remove the few stray hairs with tweezers. Do this every night before bed for best results.
 If you have dry skin, you especially need to make sure that your face is getting the moisture it needs. Use a gentle moisturizer to keep your skin feeling soft and glowing.
 Your body needs plenty of hydration during the day to keep removing wastes and oils from your face. You should probably drink eight glasses of water a day.
 Many people have bad habits of messing with acne or leaning their face on their hands. Your hands have oils on them that will clog pores, increasing blemishes. No matter how tempting it might be, don't pop pimples or interfere with anything facial- though it may seem like it will make it better, it actually makes it much worse and instead of dealing with a two day pimple you now have a two week long project. A tip here is changing your pillowcase often- the oils linger on the fabric, getting on your face during the night.
 Use a lip hydrator often and make sure to moisturize your lips. A simple way to do this is to rub a sugar-and-water solution on them and then moisturize, as the sugar removes dead cells and rejuvenates the lips. Keep a stick of lip moisturizer on you at all times and use throughout the day. Be careful not to use too much Chapstick though. Your lips can literally get addicted to the chemicals that prevent/heal chapped lips; they will stop making that chemical themselves, and it's a painful addiction to break!








, Ultraviolet rays will damage your skin over time and it's essential that you protect your face from harmful radiation. Use a good sunscreen or makeup with sunscreen in it, even a little, before going out, and you will have fresh, healthy skin. Another way to protect yourself is to wear clothing that will cover you, like a hat.








