 If their speech is halting or labored, it may take them more time to get through a sentence. Give them utter patience, and don't rush them to finish what they're saying. This takes the pressure off and makes them feel more at ease., Show them that you're interested in what they're saying by looking at them, and making eye contact if they're comfortable with it.


Remember that they may have different listening body language than you do. If you aren't sure whether they're paying attention, watch to see if they react to what you say (e.g. giggling when you compliment them, asking questions) or just ask them.
 Due to social uncertainty, past mistreatment, or abuse-related PTSD, some disabled people may feel scared and confused if you are angry or hostile towards them. If you're getting very upset, take some deep breaths and try saying "I need some alone time" so you can handle your emotions privately.


Take some quiet time. If you need to speak to them to address the issue, wait until you are able to handle it with a level head. They won't be able to listen well if they are scared or confused by your strong emotions.
If the disabled person does something that upsets you, communicate it calmly and clearly. Try using "I" language in the template "When you ______, I feel _____."

, They are facing barriers beyond your comprehension, and that can make conversation difficult. Never yell at a disabled person, or blame them for their disability.


If you find yourself feeling frustrated, disengage. Go for a walk, do something else, or say "I need some alone time for a little while."

, If you notice that they seem distressed, ask them "Is something wrong?" and "Is there anything I can do to help?" For example, a disabled person might feel distracted by all the movement in a crowded restaurant, and prefer to eat at an outdoor table where there are less people. People can talk much better when their needs are being met.
 Disabled people are people like anyone else, and can be fun to talk to and befriend.

