 To make a bottle ecosystem, you will need a 2 quart (2 liter) plastic bottle. It is best to use a clear plastic so that you can see inside the bottle and make observations. Cut off the top of the bottle, just below the neck.To ensure your cut is straight, you can put a piece of masking tape around the bottle and then cut along the edge of the tape.Use a pair of scissors or a utility knife to cut all the way around the top of the bottle.
Set aside the neck of the bottle with the cap for later use.;
, Use a small garden shovel and add 2-3 inches (5-7 cm) of potting soil to the bottom of the bottle. Lightly tap the soil with your hand to help it settle. Make sure you do not press too hard because you do not want to pack the soil tightly.If desired, you can add ½ an inch of pebbles to the bottom of the bottle for drainage. This is be done before adding the soil, but is optional.
 The depth of the holes will vary depending on the type of seed you are planting. It is recommended that you start by planting green beans. They are hardy seeds that should grow easily. Read the directions on your seed packet to know how deep to make the holes. Use your finger or a pencil to make the holes in the soil.If you are planting beans, the holes should be 1 inch (2.5 cm) deep.
Make the holes near the edge of the bottle. This way you will be able to easily see the roots growing.
 Once you have dug the holes, place one seed in each hole. You should be able to fit approximately 5-6 plants. Cover the seeds with dirt.Aside from beans, you could also try planting a variety of herbs, such as mint, basil, and oregano., Then, place two pinches of grass seeds on top of the soil. Lightly cover them with dirt. If you would like, you can also try adding insects and worms to the ecosystem., Prior to sealing your ecosystem, you need to water the seeds. Sprinkle water into the bottle. You want the soil to be damp, but not soaked. Let the water seep into the soil and then sprinkle a bit more. You want the water to fully permeate the soil.If you tilt the bottle and water runs up the side, you have too much water.
 Now, take the top of the bottle with the cap and turn it upside down. Place it inside the ecosystem so that the neck and top of the bottle are hanging a few inches above the soil., In order to hold the top of the bottle in place, and to seal the ecosystem, you should tape around the edge of the bottle. This will attach the top of the bottle to the base.You will no longer need to add water to your bottle ecosystem.
 Now that the ecosystem is sealed, you should place it in a sunny spot. For example, a windowsill is a great place to keep your bottle ecosystem. The location should receive indirect sunlight for most of the day.You can also add a label to the base of the ecosystem with the date and identifying number. This way you can record notes and compare it with other bottle ecosystems that you make.

