 The backing layer(s) will be the piece onto which you will mount the actual text of your invitation. Using multiple layers gives your invitation depth, interest and can emphasize the color scheme or theme of your event.


Pick a medium- to heavy-weight piece of Cardstock for the first layer of your invitation. This will give some weight and firmness to your invitation. This kind of paper is most readily available in solid colors.
Chose one or more coordinating papers to glue to your first backing sheet. Pick papers in different patterns, related colors or different textures to add interest.
Layered invitations are not folded before being inserted into the envelope, so don't worry about creasing the slightly heavier stock or multiple layers.
 To end up with the correct size insert, it makes sense to first print out the text for your invitation. Once you see how much length and width you need for a text box, you can work back from there to arrive at the finished sizes of your backing paper(s).
 How much of your backing paper shows depends on what size you cut each layer. You can standardize your cuts so that, for example, a 1/2" border of each backing paper shows, or you can create different size borders and allow varying amounts of different papers to show along the edges of your invite.


Measure your paper carefully and cut it using a paper trimmer or scissors. A paper trimmer will help ensure straight, even cuts, but as long as you take your time and are careful, you can do as good a job with a pair of scissors.

You can purchase scissors that have a decorative blade so that when you cut, your paper will have an interesting edge.
 Use a glue stick to glue your layers to one another. Lay your back layer down on the table and glue the next layer on top of it. Some people can simply "eyeball" the paper and know where to glue in order to create even edges. Other people need to measure and create small pencil dots so that they can line up the paper exactly when creating their bordered look.


Press the paper down firmly and allow it to dry completely before gluing the next layer in place to ensure layer number one doesn't move when you apply pressure to adhere the next layer.
The invitation text should be the last the layer glued into place.
If any of your layering paper is particularly delicate, use double-stick tape rather than glue to avoid the chance any bleed through.
 Once all your layers are glued in place and completely dry, you can add some decorative elements if you'd like. If you've used more than three layers (remember, your invitation text counts as a layer) or bold paper designs, you may not want to add anything else at this point. However, if you think an additional element may complete the invitation, go ahead and put one in place.


Punch two holes at the top of the invite, thread a pretty piece of ribbon through and tie in a bow.
Glue three buttons, stickers or punched-paper shapes in one corner of your invitation.
Get out your sewing machine and zig-zag stitch around your layers for a custom look.
Rubber stamp a large image on the back of your invitation as a bit of a fun surprise for anyone who turns the card over after reading the invite.

