 To make cassava and plantain fufu, you'll need a large pot for boiling the ingredients, plus a special large-scale pestle and mortar that you'll use to pound the fufu.

You'll also need a large saucepan, a knife, a bowl, and a ladle or small bowl.
If you don’t have a large pestle and mortar, you can use a smaller scale one and work in very small batches to make single-serving fufu.
 Peel the plantain and cut it into one-inch (2.5-cm) chunks. Cut the cassava into one-inch (2.5-cm) disks. Peel each disk, and then chop the disks into cubes.

It’s important to use sweet cassava instead of bitter, because bitter cassava requires a different processing method to remove all the harmful cyanogenic glycosides present in the root.You can substitute yam for the plantain and cassava in this recipe to make yam fufu. Just make sure you use yam, which has white flesh and brown skin, and not sweet potato, which is sometimes mistakenly called yam., Fill a large pot with water and bring it to a boil over medium-high heat. When the water is boiling, add the cassava and plantain chunks and bring the water back to a boil.

Boil the cassava and plantain for about 15 minutes, or until you can easily insert a knife into the flesh., When the cassava and plantain are cooked and soft, strain them and reserve the water. Either use a slotted spoon to remove the chunks, or place a strainer over a large bowl to catch the water when you strain the chunks.

The water you used to boil the cassava and plantain now contains starches from both, and you'll use this later to help bring the fufu together.
 Add the plantain to the mortar one piece at a time. Mash each piece a couple times with the pestle to break down the larger chunks before adding another piece. Repeat until all the plantain pieces have been mashed into a chunky pulp. Continue pounding, and start folding the plantain dough over on itself in between each pound so that you remove all the smaller chunks as well.When the plantain is ready, you'll have a smooth dough that’s free of chunks.
Remove the plantain dough from the mortar and place it in a separate bowl.
It’s easier to work the large pestle and mortar with two people, where one person concentrates on pounding with the pestle and the other person manages the ingredients in the mortar.
 Repeat the same process with the cassava. Pound one piece at a time until all the cassava has been mashed. Then fold the dough between each pound to remove all the small chunks.

When the cassava is ready, it will have the appearance of a smooth, white dough.
 Return the plantain dough to the mortar. Pound the doughs together with the pestle, folding the dough between each pound to fully incorporate the plantain and cassava.

If the dough starts to stick, add the reserved starch water in ¼ cup (60-ml) increments.
The fufu is ready when the two doughs have been fully incorporated and the fufu is soft and fluffy.
 Use a ladle or small bowl to portion out the fufu. Work each fufu portion in your hands to form it into a doughy ball before serving.