 While we associate it with food, a calorie is a unit of heat-producing energy.So, if you eat a calorie-laden meal before going to sleep, you’ll help stoke your inner furnace. Instead of loading up on donuts or other empty carbs, though, choose a meal that’s high in protein. This will keep your metabolism running at a higher rate for longer, which also results in increased body heat., Drink a bit of something that’s hot, but not filled with caffeine, shortly before going to sleep. Doing so can provide a warm feeling in your chest and stomach, which in turn makes you feel warmer. In addition to decaf coffee or teas, good options include hot milk, apple cider, or even powdered lemonade in hot water.Too much caffeine will keep you awake, and it also acts as a diuretic, which means you’ll be more likely to have to get up and go to the bathroom.
Try to drink just enough of beverages of any type (including plain water) to keep you hydrated but not make you need to urinate during the night. Finding the right amount for your body will take some practice.
 Getting up to go to the bathroom during the night will expose you to the cold, reduce your body temperature, and require you to repeat the process of layering up just right. However, holding in a full bladder expends energy (and thus body heat), making you colder regardless.Guys may be able to keep a designated “yellow bottle” in their sleeping bag to urinate in. The warm bottled urine may even provide a bit of extra heat! Human anatomy dictates that ladies are probably better off just getting up to go pee, however.
 Heat up some drinking water and fill one or more plastic drinking bottles with it. Stash them inside your sleeping bag, near your feet. They’ll help keep you warm and provide you with something to drink in the morning.Warm packs that you “snap” to start a warming chemical reaction will also work, but without the refreshing morning beverage.
If you’re using both warm water bottles and a “yellow bottle” for nighttime urination, be sure not to confuse them in the morning!

, Stones warmed near a fire will retain heat for a surprisingly long time. Wrap up larger stones in a towel or extra clothing, and place them strategically around the tent interior. You can do the same with smaller stones and place them right inside your sleeping bag.Make sure the rocks aren’t too hot to handle!

, You can use fuel-fed heaters that are made specifically for tent use, or, if you have access to electricity, plug-in models. Make sure that you use a heater rated for in-tent use and follow the instructions to the letter, however. For greater safety, you may want to run the heater only at bedtime and wake-up.Improperly situated, operated, or ventilated tent heaters can easily cause deadly fires or carbon monoxide poisoning.
 In case of emergency, you should always pack one of those shiny silver blankets that reflect light and heat. While they might trap in too much moisture if used as an in-tent blanket, their reflective properties can be quite useful. Simply hang the blanket from the tent ceiling, over top of where you’re sleeping. The blanket will help reflect your escaping body heat back down toward you during the night., Depending on the camping company you keep, you might be eager or hesitant to hop into a shared sleeping bag with a companion. But, regardless of your preferences, it’s a simple fact that two bodies releasing heat inside a sleeping bag will keep it warmer for longer. So, even if it means you have to cozy up with Cousin Larry, it’s probably better than shivering all night long!