 When listening to a family member, do not let your mind wander to other things. It's important to strive to stay in the present to make your family member feel heard and valued.Avoid distractions when talking to a family member. Put your phone away and give them your full attention.
Never think about other things when someone is talking. Instead, focus only on what's being said. If you feel your mind wandering, return your thoughts to the speakers words.;
, When talking to someone, you often are focusing on what you're going to say next. This tendency can can get more intense when talking to a family member. If you're, say, discussing a family problem or disagreement, you may be eager to share your thoughts. However, do not think about how you feel or wish to respond. Focus only on the speaker and their thoughts and opinions on the matter.You can think of how you will respond later. Now, pay attention to what is being said. Make understanding your family member's perspective your priority.
Remember, you will be better equipped to think of a thoughtful response if you actually understand what's being said. Communication will be better overall if you are able to truly understand the other person's point of view.
 You want the speaker to feel valued. Make sure to show you're listening. You can convey you're paying attention via non-verbal cues. Nod as the speaker talks, smiles and laugh when appropriate, and maintain eye contact., It's okay to embrace a pause. A couple of seconds of silence in a conversation is not a bad thing, and allows the speaker a chance to fully express themselves. Instead of immediately launching into your response, pause for a moment after the speaker finishes talking. This will allow you to make sure they're completely finished talking.People have a natural tendency to pause when they speak. If you notice the speaker has paused, do not assume they're done talking. Give them a few seconds before you respond.
If the speaker does not start talking again after a few seconds have passed, it's safe to assume they've finished talking.
 Part of listening is understanding. If there's anything the speaker said you did not understand, ask. When someone finishes talking, ask for clarification if necessary. This will convey you are truly listening to your family member and value their perspective.Ask questions that encourage open discussion. For example, "What do you think of the situation?" and "Where do you think we should go from here?"
Avoid asking "why" questions. These can come off as judgmental and make the speaker feel defensive. For example, don't ask, "Why did you decide to take that job?" Instead ask, "How did you come to that decision?"

