 Wind chill is the effect that wind has on our skin in cold weather. It is not something that makes the actual outside temperature less but it is the combination of the cold air and wind impacting on our skin. It does not have any temperature-reduction effect on non-living objects (although the wind itself can obviously affect things like camping stoves for mountaineers etc.). Our skin feels colder because its internal body heat that usually generates a "boundary layer" of heat surrounding our body is "blown away" by the wind hitting it. Removal of this tiny layer of warm air from around our body leaves us exposed directly to the cold air. It is even more evident if your skin is wet because this draws away the heat very quickly and leaves you with the feeling of "bone-chilling".;
, The wind chill factor is a way of calculating the impact of a wind on a human body. Recent wind chill factor measurements are provided in a temperature format for the public because this is the easiest way for us to understand it.
 This is a formula that is easiest to calculate using an online calculator. Search for a wind chill calculator to use. Or, if you're mathematically minded, you could try it the hard way, which involves using a formula; see, for instance: USA Today wind chill formulas.
 When you hear the wind chill factor, it is safest to assume that the wind chill temperature is the temperature for which you should prepare. Wear clothes appropriate to that temperature, sun screen, hats, gloves/mittens, boots, etc. Stay indoors if the weather is going to be too cold with the wind chill factored in.
 Apart from having good clothing as a barrier between you and the cold, you can help reduce heat loss through exercising constantly (walking, skiing, snowshoeing etc.). You'll notice how quickly you cool down when you stop moving after activity. Try eating high protein/energy foods such as nuts, energy bars etc and drink hot drinks - even hot water with a dash of cayenne pepper is known to provide an instant heat spike that will help your body glow in the cold.

