 If you are a contact lens wearer, switch to wearing your glasses until it is healed. Contact lenses can stress the damaged cornea and also cause infection. This can make the pain of a scratched cornea much worse.Talk to your doctor about when it is safe to put your contacts back in. Healing times will vary and only your doctor can give you a safe recommendation as to when you can use your contacts again.
Wear sunglasses to help with light sensitivity., Eye patches likely do not help heal minor scratches and may slow down healing.In some cases an eye patch may be recommended to aid in comfort during the healing process.An eye patch may be necessary for light sensitivity following an abrasion., When you injure your cornea, it can create an itchy sensation that you may feel tempted to scratch. Try to avoid rubbing your eyes, as doing so can increase the damage done to your cornea and infect the eye.If you're struggling with the temptation to scratch your eyes, try doing something that occupies your hands. You could, for example, take up knitting while the cornea heals.
You can also do something like wear mittens as this can make rubbing your eyes difficult.
 For small abrasions, your doctor may prescribe ice compresses for 24-48 hours to reduce swelling. After this, warm compresses should be used., Eat lots of fruits and vegetables while your eye heals to get all the nutrients you need to help speed up the healing process.You need to eat foods rich in antioxidants and vitamins. This will help your body heal faster and fight off any potential infections.


Vitamin C can help with eye health. The recommended daily amount is at least 90 mg for men and 75 mg for women. Extra health benefits occur above 250 mg. Good sources of vitamin C are broccoli, cantaloupe, cauliflower, guava, bell peppers, grapes, oranges, berries, lychees, and squash.
Vitamin E can also help your cornea. The recommended daily amount is at least 22 IU for men and 33 IU for women, but more benefits occur at levels above 250 mg. Good sources of vitamin E include almonds, sunflower seeds, wheat germ, spinach, peanut butter, collard greens, avocados, mango, hazelnuts, and Swiss chard.
Vitamin B can also help your eye heal. Sources of vitamin B include wild salmon, skinless turkey, bananas, potatoes, lentils, halibut, tuna, cod, soy milk, and cheese.
Lutein and Zeaxanthin can help if you consume more than 6mg a day. Both lutein and zeaxanthin are naturally found in the retina and lens. They work as natural antioxidants, aiding in absorption of harsh light and UV rays. Both are plentiful in leafy green vegetables.Discuss any dietary changes with your doctor before adding supplements. Always follows your doctor's advice before changing diet.
 When you allow your body to rest, it can put its efforts towards healing your injured eye. Try to take it easy for the days following the injury. If possible, take time off from work and school.

