 Blame the cortical lottery.About half of all humans are born in the negative half of the "affective style" spectrum. In a nutshell, some people are just born pessimists.


Thanks to your genes, you are predisposed to focus on threats, and lack confidence to deal with them. You develop coping styles that rely heavily on avoidance and other defense mechanisms. You work harder to manage your pain than to fix the problems. You tend to think that the world is unjust and uncontrollable, and that things turn out for the worst.Knowing this can help you stop trying to fit a square peg in a round hole, so to speak. With all the emphasis on happiness, your life might be more functional knowing that you're miserable by default, and that nothing is unusual or dysfunctional about that.;
, In order to be functional, it's good to become familiar with ways to move around on the spectrum of misery and happiness. There are three clinically-proven methods to move negative affective predispositions toward the positive end of the spectrum; either avoid these methods completely or use just enough of them so that your productive misery doesn't kill you:


Meditation,Cognitive Behavioral Therapy,Medication (mainly selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors)., Work as hard as you want, accumulate all stuff that you want, and get fabulously famous. This will raise your expectations, you will keep wanting more, and be no better off than you were before., Those who think that money can't buy happiness just don't know where to shop.Buy things that make you happy. Preferably, ostentatiously expensive things, like a Gucci Soft Stirrup Crocodile Shoulder Bag, Shipwrecked 1907 Heidsieck (if you can't afford that, Cristal works too), Nike Air Force 1 sneakers or, if you are a revolutionary, the Nike Ajax surface-to-air-missile. Unlike spending on unforgettable experiences with family and friends, spending on "stuff" won't keep you happy for too long. This is the "adaptation principle" at work., Humans never fully adapt to noise, especially if it is variable or intermittent.It is guaranteed to increase your stress. Move to a busy intersection, if you can.
 People don't fully adapt to long commutes, particularly if these involve driving in heavy traffic. Even after years of commuting, those who deal with heavy traffic arrive at work and home with higher levels of stress hormones.Bonus points if you have long traffic-ridden commutes because you bought a big house in an expensive neighborhood far away from work. Although people don't adapt to traffic, they quickly adapt to having more space., A sense of control is one of the most effective ways to increase your sense of engagement, energy, and happiness.You may need to assert some control to produce your painting, novel, music, or revolution, but try not to assert more control than is absolutely necessary.
 Misguided attempts by schools, self-help gurus, and the popular press to raise self-esteem in children have fostered narcissism, and other dark sides of high self-esteem.The popular obsession with "Beauty" has led to disorders such as anorexia and bulimia. But although attractive people are not generally happier than unattractive ones, some improvements in a person's appearance do lead to lasting increases in happiness.So if you don't think highly of yourself, or of how you look, you're exactly where you need to be.
 This is the big one.The strength and number of your relationships trump all other factors in your pursuit of misery.Bad relationships make people miserable, and miserable people attract bad relationships(misery does, in fact, love company). People never adapt to personal conflict.You can count on that bullying patron, editor, lead vocalist, grim-and-determined comrade, or spouse to constantly add to your misery, even when they are not physically present (just ruminate on the conflict).
