 Choose people who are joyous, not malevolent in intent. Aim to have a pleasant, fun evening, and be ready to watch your other friends make you laugh once they are drunk.;
, Most people will be drunk, they won't realize where they are, so why not go somewhere that you like because you'll be the only one seeing and enjoying it for what it is. Call it the trade-off for being the designated driver.
 Don't assume that not being able to have alcohol means not being able to have delicious drinks. Try virgin versions of the alcoholic drinks, mocktails and interesting smoothies or shakes. You can try different flavored waters and iced teas. If you're the type to like hot drinks, have coffees, teas or hot chocolates to warm the cockles of your heart.
 Perhaps this friend never drinks or perhaps he or she is also a designated driver for the same occasion. This can be a great person to team up with and observe the general deterioration in manners and communication as the evening wears on. You'll both be a source of mutual support for the non-drinking approach to the event and won't feel so left out.


Turn this into a people-watching occasion. Look for the funniest things happening or try to guess what people are thinking, doing or relating to each other, all from a distance.
Have fun watching the crazy, funny things your friends do. For example, telling tall tales or dancing eccentrically. Don't forget to capture the highlights of the evening on camera, reminding them of their last night's antics. This will be the best part of the evening, and you'll be able to laugh about it, even several weeks later.
Do not go posting the photos online; that's a big lack of manners and respect for your friends. Simply share them among yourselves.
Do not poke fun at your friends or make them feel bad. Know when to tell them it's time to stop and think about going home.
 You will likely find that drunk people are rather unguarded in what they say and a lot of things get said that wouldn't be said normally. Scout's honor when you hear it all but it is an interesting way to stay engaged in what's happening at the party without feeling left out.


Be the agony aunt or uncle. When the mood gets somber and the tears start falling, and the sob stories begin, be there for your friends. While it may not seem like "fun", there is an element of enjoyment in being able to help friends, to hold their hands and hug them better. Listen to them and tell them that everything is going to be okay.
 Enjoy the role of helping out, which should also include being alert to telling a friend when he or she has had enough and that it's time to go home. Being strong for your friends is part of being a designated driver and it's a role that earns respect.
 When it's time to go home, count your friends: forgetting one would be a shame! Make sure your friends are not about to throw up. If they seem likely to do so, either wait it out for awhile or push them to do so before getting in the car.


Keep the windows open to give them fresh air and ventilate your car to get rid of the stench of alcohol.
Drive slowly and smoothly in order not to stir up your friends' fragile stomachs.
Perhaps bring a bucket or some sick bags, just in case.

