 Drag and trash the unused apps. Manually search and remove application-related preference and support files, or try to use uninstaller tools like AppCleaner, CleanGenius, AppZapper to uninstall applications. Use programs that you can download from the Mac App Store so that you are downloading a trusted and verified file that meets the standards of the App Store.


To make sure that you delete any application bundles or additional, read this article on how to uninstall files on a Mac.;
, It may sound obvious, but clearing out the trash regularly will help your computer run smoother.


You may need to restart or shutdown your computer for the space you've reclaimed to properly show on your hard drive.
 Maintenance programs like XSlimmer checks which code your computer needs for a given program and removes the rest.This will reduce the space taken up on your disk and get your computer running faster.
 Provided your files aren't already compressed, compressing them will make them dramatically smaller, freeing up extra space on your hard drive. In order to find out how to compress files on a Mac, click here.


Once your files are compressed, move them to an external hard drive, USB thumbdrive or CD for storage. Keeping files you don't regularly use on your computer will slow it down.
 Your system should automatically run UNIX maintenance scripts, but some earlier versions of Mac OSX only run these scripts between 3 and 5 AM, during which time most computers are either asleep or shut off, depriving your system of regular maintenance.Download a free app like OnyX to do scheduled maintenance and clean up system logs and temporary files.
If you want to clean up system logs and temporary files manually:

Access terminal by navigating to Applications → Utilities → Terminal

In Terminal, type in "sudo periodic daily weekly monthly" and hit Enter
Type in your Mac admin password
Wait for your system to run the maintenance, after which you'll be returned to Terminal



, An iPod, iPhone, or iPad will automatically run a backup on specific files when you plug the device into your computer. Trashing older, obsolete backups will help free up space on your computer.


To access the backups, navigate to Home → Library → Application Support → MobileSync → Backup folder. Locate the newer backups and the older backups. Delete the older backups.
 Drag unneeded files to the Trash. Apps like to save here, and this can result in used space, so be vigilant about what gets put in here.
 These files are often unnecessary and take up valuable space on your device. Get rid of them if you no longer need them.


Deleting DMGs: DMG files are disk images. Once you've mounted your disk image and installed your app, you're free to eject and trash your DMG. To eject, simply drag the mounted volume to the trash.
Deleting IPSW: Navigate to Library → iTunes → iPhone Software Updates and locate any unused bundles.
 Most of the time dragging software to the trash will still leave files from that program on your mac.


Open the Finder window and locate a hard drive icon on the left sidebar
Once selected, you should see a folder titled "Library." Select it.
Once selected, locate the folder titled "Application Support" and see the list of program folders that did not get deleted by the Trash.
Drag any folders of programs you uninstalled into the Trash. Empty Trash.
 It is accepted knowledge that the installing and uninstalling of programs on macs over time can lead to changes in permissions for programs. Sometimes this gets obsolete and causes unnecessary processing. Think of your local DMV office. This won't affect the size of space taken on your hard drive. But it will increase efficiency which equates to increased speed.


Open Disk Utility (Finder --> Applications --> Utilities (folder))
Select your hard drive and select "verify permissions" (if you do 1/month, should take 9 minutes. If it's your first time in 2 years, may take 30mins).
Once "verify permissions" is complete, select "repair permissions" (the time it takes applies like above).
 Some changes take effect immediately. But others only process the change when the computer turns off and starts up again. So give your computer the refresher it needs if you have a tendency to keep it running 24/7.

