 Some versions do not contain metal, and they will not cause any trouble if you choose to travel through airport security screening areas.;
, These cards are official, usually produced from the doctor's office or the creator of the pacemaker, and they can warn security officials of hidden metal within the body.
 Depending upon your age, this can be anywhere between 6 months to 1 year before even long car travel is recommended. Consult your doctor about when you are recommended to resume traveling.
 Ask the doctor if there are any activities that you should avoid on your trip. Also, seek advice for what to do if you feel your device is in disrepair when you are away from the hospital.
 This is a good idea whether you are traveling by plane, train or boat, because you are informing and noting for the travel companies that you have medical concerns. You can indicate whether you do or do not need a wheelchair.
 You will likely be taken to a different area of the screening center, where they can use a wand to ensure the position above your heart is the only place that beeps to indicate hidden metal.


There have been some reports that metal detector gates can affect pacemakers or Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators (ICD). For this reason, a metal detecting wand would be preferable. There is no evidence to show that the in-flight environment affects pacemakers adversely.
If your doctor has told you that any metal detection wands or metal detection gates may have an adverse effect, you can ask the travel security staff for a private pat-down, after showing them your pacemaker identification card.
 Scar tissue may mean that the area is sensitive for an extended period of time and this can ease the burden.
 These can interfere with pacemakers and should be turned off before you enter a home or hotel with this type of system. Inform the staff, family or friend ahead of time.
 Do not linger in these gates. Step back into the store or library, show the guard your pacemaker ID card and submit to an inspection, if necessary.


Never linger near large electronic devices. This could be anything from a device in a museum to a large speaker system. These devices can interfere with the pacemaker.
 The maker of your device, such as Medtronic, has information on their website with addresses to the local hospitals or doctors' offices that can help you repair the pacemaker should you fall ill.

