 The first line you will draw is a vertical line. The vertical line of a T chart should be the longest line of the T chart. Use your ruler to measure the width of the page and find the middle. Place your ruler vertically in the center of the page and draw a line from the top to the bottom of the page. If you would like a margin around your T chart simply erase parts of the top and bottom of the line until you’ve reached your desired margin.


If you are not using a ruler, use your eye to roughly guess where the vertical centerline of the chart should go.
Use your preferred writing utensil, like a pen or pencil. If you are using a permanent pen or marker then measure and mark your margin before drawing your line.;
, The horizontal line should be drawn near the top of the page, leaving a small margin for you to label once finished. The size of your margin will depend on the size of your chart. A general rule is the larger the chart, the larger the margin. Place your ruler, leaving enough space for labeling, and draw your line from left to right. If you would like a margin, simply erase as you did with your vertical line.


Make another visual guess as to where the horizontal line should be placed if you are not using a ruler.
Be sure to measure and mark the margin of the horizontal line before using permanent pens or markers.
 The top quadrants should be labeled with content or subjects you are going to compare or analyze. You could be making a pros and cons list, in which case pros would go in one quadrant and cons in the other., The bottom quadrants should be reflective of their corresponding vertical quadrant subject. For example, if you are making a pros and cons list, and you’ve placed pros in the top left quadrant, the pros of your subject should be listed in the bottom left quadrant., Use line tools in programs like Microsoft Word to draw digital T charts for presentations, emails, or personal use. Follow the same method as you would with drawing a T chart by hand; the vertical line first followed by the horizontal line. Use text boxes or text insertion tools to label and fill in your T chart.
 Begin by taking the two subjects you would like to compare and filling them into two different cells in the top row of your excel spreadsheet. These top two cells will be the headings of your T chart.


Consider making these two top cells bold so that you can distinguish them from the bulk of your data.
If you choose to make this T chart into a graph, these two labels will be the labels of your axes.
T charts can also be used to make T accounts as well as visualized graphs., Once you have labelled your row cells you will be able to begin filling out the column cells. Be sure that you are filling in column cells that correspond with their row cell heading.


Just like when making a T chart on paper, you can use this Excel chart to list separate views on a given subject, strengths and weaknesses, or pros and cons.
 Once you have finished entering your data points you have the option of making a graph. Graphs in Excel allow you to visualize your T chart in ways that might make the information more appealing or understandable.

