 Emojis are useful because the person that you're texting can't see your face or gauge your mood. Things like sarcasm can sometimes get lost in a text, so emojis help clarify how you actually feel about something. Don't go overboard and use emojis to replace every word because it can be too much for some people.You can say something like "Chemistry was really interesting today. :)"
Or something like "Chemistry is the most interesting subject in the world. :|"

, It may seem counterintuitive to take your time when you're in a text conversation, but it will actually help build interest. Texting too frequently may turn the person off. Try to act naturally and text when you have the time. This approach also allows the other person to think about their responses, which may make the conversation more meaningful., Pictures are a great way to give the person you're texting insight into what you're doing. Remember to keep the images appropriate and don't send too many selfies. If you send interesting photos to the person, they will want to keep texting you., Long detailed conversations about serious things can sometimes get lost in a text. It's best to leave these conversations for when you can talk on the phone or have a conversation with them in person.


If the person opens up to you, don't be afraid to respond. Try to follow their lead.
Lighthearted topics include how their day went, a show you both enjoy, or a song that you just heard.
 Try to assess their comfort level and your relationship with them. If you are exclusively friends, avoid saying flirtatious things or you may make them uncomfortable. If you are on more flirtatious terms, however, feel free to flirt with them over text.


If they don't respond to your texts, they are busy or they aren't interested in talking to you. Either way, you should back off and give them time to respond.
If you are just friends, you can say something like "Hey dude. I'm monumentally bored. Wyd right now?"
If you are on romantic terms you can text something like "Hey there. I'm bored. Trying to entertain me? ;)"

