 The form that you must fill out to legally change your name in California is the Petition for Change of Name form, or the NC-100. On the form, you have to include your name, your attorney's name if you have one, your address and your phone number. You should also include the mailing address of the court where you will file your petition and the court's branch name. You must answer all questions and check all boxes on form NC-100. Provide your present name and your new name. Make two copies of this form.


The questions on the form are basic person information questions, such as name, address, residence, phone number, e-mail, and what your new name will be.
The form has additional lines if you are changing the names of others, such as a child or a near relative.
You may get the form NC-100 at the superior clerk of court's office or from the California Courts' website at: http://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/nc100.pdf

You can get the court's branch name by asking at the clerk's office or by checking online to locate a court in your county. You can also find the superior court near you, travel directions and phone numbers online at: http://www.courts.ca.gov/find-my-court.htm, You will be asked to provide your current name, where you were born, your current address, and the reason for the name change. You can get form NC-110 at the clerk’s office or on the California Courts' website at: http://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/nc110.pdf


You should make two copies of this form as well., This form, also known as the form NC-120, also is required for a name change in California. The form does not require you to give any new information, but simply asks that you list your current name and proposed new name. This form is available at the clerk's office or can be accessed online from the California Courts' website at: http://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/nc120.pdf


You should make two copies of this form., This form, also known as the form CSM-010, acts as a cover page for your name change petition. You can get this form at the clerk's office or online at the California Courts' website at: http://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/cm010.pdf

, You should request a list of any other forms required by the court in the county of your residence. This can include criminal background checks. The court that is located in your county typically distributes lists from the court clerk's office. All of the required paperwork must be completed before the official filing and request for a hearing date at the court in the county of your residence.


Some county branches provide a link to the required list on the court's website., You need to file the forms with the California Superior Court. You also need to pay the required filing fees. You can locate the appropriate branch where you should file your paperwork by using the California Court listing on the main website at: http://www.courts.ca.gov/find-my-court.htm]


Remember to request a date for your name change hearing when you file the forms.
 When you change your name, you usually have to buy a legal advertisement in a newspaper in your county. You have to publish the Order to Show Cause for Change of Name once per week for four weeks. This is all the information that was requested in form NC-120. Your advertisement must include your current name and the name you are changing it to. It also has to include detailed information about the hearing, including the address of the court, the department and room, and the date and time of the official hearing. There are exceptions, though. You do not have to publish your name in the paper if you are changing it to reflect your gender identity, or if you are changing it to avoid stalking. Check with your court's law library to see if you have to publish your name.


Ask the clerk of courts for a list of newspapers where you may publish a valid legal ad. The cost of the ad will vary from paper to paper., Most name-change hearings are fairly straightforward. If the judge asks you any questions about your reasons for changing your name, answer clearly and honestly. Bring all of your documentation to your hearing. This includes proof that you published the advertisement for the required amount of time. If the judge approves your request, you'll be given a name change court order, probably by your local civil court clerk.


If the judge denies your request, get a copy of the denial and try again.
Either way, you need to make a copy for your records., If you are changing your name because you have recently changed your gender, you no longer have to file any separate official paperwork with the State of California. You can simply change your gender with the State Registrar. You do this by petitioning for a new birth certificate from the Registrar. You must have a signed statement from your physician indicating that you underwent appropriate treatment for gender transition.


Once you file the petition, the Registrar will hold a hearing and judge the validity of the physician's letter. Once it is approved, your new birth certificate will be available within 30 days.
Once you get your new birth certificate, you can continue with the proceeding to change your name.
This is only true if you were born in the State of California. If you were born in another state, you have additional forms you have to fill out.