 A lot of the time, the computer serves as our primary form of relaxation. If you've fallen into a rut in regards to your recreational activities, try to take up some new hobbies to combat excessive internet use.


If you want something you can do at home after work, invest in crossword puzzles, sudoku, board games, and cards. If you live with a roommate, family, or a significant other propose a weekly game night.
Declare internet free days or time frames and use that time to engage in other activities. Oftentimes, getting out into nature can help curb internet usage. Try going for hikes on weekends or brisk jogs after work.
If you're the type who does a lot of reading online, consider buying physical books and subscribing to magazines related to your interests. Nightly reading can help you get away from the computer.
 A high amount of internet usage is sometimes associated with pre-existing conditions like depression and anxiety. Or you might be suffering from internet or computer addiction itself.


Know the symptoms of psychiatric disorders. Do you have a persistent sad, empty, or numb mood? Do you experience feelings of guilt or worthlessness? Do you have trouble making decisions and meeting deadlines because of these feelings? Have you had physical side effects, like weight lose or gain, insomnia, headaches, and digestive issues?Do you use the internet or computer to avoid or combat these feelings? Do you experience feelings of euphoria when going online that temporarily alleviate negative moods?You can find a psychiatrist by visiting your insurance provider's website and seeing where you plan is accepted. If you're a student, you can usually get free counseling through your university.
Be patient. It can take awhile to find the right counselor and you're uncomfortable with one therapist you can ask for a referral to another therapist in your area.
 If you use the internet to encourage an active social life, you'll end up spending less time in front of the screen. Use your computer to your advantage. Make plans and meet new people.


Make plans with friends. Facebook events, google calendars, and e-vites can be used to reach out to people and make plans. As most people spend a great deal of time online they might be more likely to respond to and remember an online invitation than one in the form of a phone call or paper invitation.Use sites like Meetup. Meetup is a website that advertises groups around any given city relevant to a wide array of interests. Create a profile on Meetup and go to events near. It's a great way to get out of the house and meet new people.Skype of Google Chat with long distance friends. One of the reasons being online too much affects us emotionally is because we feel isolated. If you use the video chat feature on Skype or Google Chat to converse with long distance friends, instead of increasing your sense of alienation the internet can bring you closer to others. While this seems counterintuitive, you might ultimately end up spending less time online if you're in a better mood.

