 Be aware that an adapter’s sole function is to match the shape of a particular outlet. Do not expect it to convert the voltage provided by that outlet. If you’re visiting a country whose outlets provide a higher or lower voltage than your own, determine whether you need to purchase a converter in addition to your adapter.Using an electronic device with the wrong voltage can destroy your device.
 For each country that you’re visiting, check the amount of voltage that their outlets provide. Expect most countries to use between 220 and 240 volts, while others use between 100 and 125. Compare that with your own country’s standard voltage. If they’re the same, you don’t need a converter, but if they differ, anticipate having to possibly buy one.As with plug types, the amount of voltage used in some countries may vary. Belize, for instance, uses both 110 volts and 220. If this is the case, check with your hotel to find out how much voltage you should expect there., Refer to each device that you’re bringing and/or their owner’s manual. Find the “indications” or “power supply” label on the device itself, or look up the same in your manual’s index. If you’re searching for it on your device, look for a mold, imprint, or sticker on the plug, charger, or power supply.If you don’t have a manual and can’t find the label on the device, contact the manufacturer or search online for the product specifications.
 Modern products (especially those likely to be included in international travel) are often designed to work with varying amounts of voltage, so don’t rush out and by a converter just yet. Check the required voltage on the power supply label. If your device is dual voltage, it will work with both voltages specified there. If it’s single voltage, however, you will need a converter in order to use it abroad.


The voltage will be expressed by the number of volts plus either the symbol “V” (for “voltage”) or “AC” (for “alternating current”). A dual-voltage device will read something like “110/220V” or “120-240AC,” while a single-voltage device will simply read “110V” or “220AC.”
Generally speaking, devices will still work despite slight differences in voltage. So if your label reads “110V” and your destination supplies 120 volts, it should be safe to use without a converter.If your device is dual voltage, remember to check the instructions before using it with different voltage. Find out if it adjusts to different voltages on its own or if you have to manually adjust its settings beforehand.
 Expect the power supply label for each device to indicate both the voltage and wattage needed. In order to find out which voltage converter is right for a particular device, find out its wattage first. Look for a number followed by the letter “W” (for “watts”).Many if not most devices that are often included in travel usually use fewer watts (generally between 23W and 50W). However, devices that generate heat (like irons and hair dryers) use far more, as much as 1000W or 2000W.
Some labels may provide information about “amps” (expressed as “A”) instead of wattage. If this is the case, multiply the number of amps by the voltage to determine the wattage. For instance, 120V x 6A = 720W.
 First, decide between “step-down” converters (to be used with devices in the 100-125V range in countries with higher voltage) or “step-up” converters (for devices in the 220-240 range in countries with lower voltage).Next, determine which of your devices are “electric” and which are “electronic,” since not all converters work for both.Then search for converters with at least two to three times as many watts than the wattage needed by your devices. For instance, if your device uses 50W, choose a converter with at least 100W or 150W.This may seem like more wattage than necessary, but many devices use more wattage than indicated when they are first turned on and “power up” before they settle down into normal mode.
It’s better to have more watts than needed than fewer, so always err on the side of caution if possible and go with one that has three times as many watts than needed.
Electric devices have mechanical motors and/or heating elements (such as a hair dryer), while electronics operate by chips and circuits (like a smartphone).

