 One of the best treatments for allergies is always prevention. If you can avoid the allergen source, then you can eliminate your allergies. This is very often easier said than done, but it is an important first step.For example, if you are allergic to shellfish or nuts, you should avoid eating these foods. If you are allergic to cats, you should refrain from getting cats as a pet or limit your exposure to cats.
 Medical options for the treatment of allergies are medications, such as decongestants, antihistamines, and other medications that prevent the release of histamine and other substances involved in the allergic response.If your allergies are not too severe and seem to be respiratory, try treating them with an over-the-counter antihistamine, like diphenhydramine (Benadryl), cetirizine (Zyrtec), and loratadine (Alavert, Claritin). If your allergies improve, then continue with this treatment.
Antihistamines can cause a person to be drowsy. Make sure you know how these medications affect you before driving or operating heavy machinery. Look for non-drowsy versions of these medications to take during the daytime.
Immunotherapy can be useful in preventing allergies. These can take the form of allergy shots, which is part of a process known as desensitization. During this, you essentially train the immune system to tone down the allergic response. Depending on what you are allergic to, your physician may recommend another form of immunotherapy, such as tablets or drops that you put under your tongue.
 If you think you are allergic to a type of food, like dairy or gluten, then you will want to eliminate those foods from your diet. This will take several weeks. Work with your doctor on this to make sure you still get all the necessary nutrients. Start out by cutting the suspected foods out of your diet. Notice if your symptoms get better when you eliminate the food. Record everything you eat in a food an symptom diary.After a few weeks, slowly reintroduce the trigger food. Note any symptoms that you experience after eating the food.
This can help you identify any foods you need to permanently cut or limit in your diet.
 There are a few different ways you can treat your allergies naturally. You can try implementing dietary changes to increase the nutritional quality of your foods and emphasize nutrient rich foods. You should also avoid foods associated with increasing sensitivity to allergens, including alcohol, caffeine, dairy products, food colorings, red meat, sugar, and wheat products. There are also a number of natural treatments that you can try for your allergies. These natural approaches are dietary, herbal, homeopathic, and supplemental.If you are uncertain which herbs to take and dosage than a naturopathic physician should be consulted to evaluate total body health, allergies and interactions between existing medication.
Supplements can include the use of vitamins to boost and support your immune system. You can try supplements, such as quercetin and other bioflavonoids, that act as natural antihistamines.
Herbs can be used to specifically to treat the symptoms. For example, dong guai is a natural antihistamine. You can take homeopathic medications that depend on your specific symptoms.

