 Some metals are made up of a single component, like gold and copper, but others are combinations, called alloys, like brass and steel. Each one has unique properties, which means some chemicals will work and others won't. Calculate the density of your metal to help determine if it is one of the following common metals/alloys:



Aluminum, or one of its alloys, which are often silvery-white. It is a light, common metal that shares a density of 2.7 g/cm³ ( .098 lbs/in³) with most of its alloys.

Copper, or one of its alloys, which are usually reddish in color. Deoxidized copper has a density of 8.9 g/cm³ (.322 lbs/in³), copper nickel 8.8 g/cm³ (.318 lbs/in³), navy brass 8.6 g/cm³ (.311 lbs/in³), and silicon bronze of 8.7 g/cm³ (.314 lbs/in³).

Iron, or one of its alloys, which are relatively lustrous and gray in hue. Cast iron has a density of 7.5 g/cm³ ( .271 lbs/in³), wrought iron shares the same density as steel at 7.8 g/cm³ (.282 lbs/in³), and stainless steel of 7.9 g/cm³ (.285 lbs/in³).

Silver, or one of its alloys, are bright and shiny. Silver has a density of 10.5 g/cm³ (.379 lbs/in³) and nickel silver 8.4 g/cm³ ( .303 lbs/in³)., Now that you know the kind of metal you're working with, you'll need to research what kind of chemical treatment will work best for patinating that kind of metal. Some common treatments include:


Jax Chemical Company's pre-mixed metal coloring solutions. Many of these are formulated to work well on copper, brass, and bronze.
Baldwin's Patina, which is suited for copper and steel clays as well as brass, bronze, and copper metals.
Liver on Sulfur (LOS), which works for many metals and alloys, with the exception of brass, gold, aluminum, and stainless steel., Contaminants on the surface of your metal could negatively impact the end result of your patination. For most light to moderately dirty metals, briskly scrub it with dish soap and water, then air dry.


For dirtier pieces of metal or a deeper, more thorough cleaning, soak the metal in degreaser overnight, rinse it clean with water, then allow it to dry.
Handling the metal with clean gloves can prevent you from accidentally transferring oil from your hands to the metal and influencing the patination., Many of the chemicals used to create a patina give off dangerous fumes that can cause harm or death if they build up, so work in an area with good airflow. Read and follow the directions that came with your chemicals carefully to ensure the safest and best results.


Generally, your bare hands should never come into contact with chemicals. Wear plastic or rubber gloves at all times when handling chemicals, or metal with chemicals on it.
Keep chemicals from your eyes and mouth with protective eye-wear and a mask. Many of these are poisonous, and can lead to irritation, illness, or worse., Depending on the chemical treatment you've chosen for your metal, you may have to apply it directly to the metal's surface, prepare it in a container then dunk your metal, and so on. Follow your treatment's label instructions for best results.Many chemical treatments will change color depending on number of applications and/or soak time. Generally, LOS will yield yellow/gold on the first dunking, pink/red on the second, turquoise/purple on the third, and gray on the fourth.
Some chemical treatments may need to reach a certain temperature to work best. LOS, for example, should generally be prepared in very hot water., There may be harmful chemicals still on your metal after you've applied the treatment. Frequently, this can be made safe by covering the metal completely with baking soda and then rinsing it clean.Gentler or more environmentally safe chemicals may only need a quick rinse with clean water before your metal is safe to handle barehanded.
Harsh and specially formulated chemicals may require specific neutralizing agents to render the solution harmless.
 Some chemicals will continue to be dangerous after preparation. These chemicals should indicate this on their label and provide instructions for neutralization and disposal.


Your chemical may have come with a separate neutralizing agent, but in many cases, baking soda can be added to neutralize chemical solutions.
LOS breaks down with exposure to light and air. Leaving your container of LOS open in a sunny, well ventilated area for a day will neutralize it.Any chemicals left out to neutralize over time should be kept safe from children and animals in a well ventilated area.
 You can preserve the color and consistency of your patina while adding polish with a sealant, like a clear coat of acrylic, beeswax, or renaissance wax. However, for the most realistic look and continued patination, unsealed might be your best option.