 Even if you think the person will agree with you, putting in your two cents can lead to a debate. If the person mentions something like religion, it is fine to state what your beliefs are but not saying why: "I am ____" or why "It is good/bad to be ____.";
, If you know a certain response will lead to the other person bringing up a certain topic, keep it short. This will deter most people from making any more comments that could lead to the topic. If someone's comments seem to be trying to goad you into a certain reaction, say "mmhm" or "okay" or nod. That way you can hopefully make the other person uninterested in talking about it further.
 Pets, children, the weather, anything of the sort should work. Talk about normal, everyday occurrences. Ask the person about his/her life too, so you won't be stuck scrambling for ordinary topics to talk about. Stick to agreeable and not insulting items (puppies are cute, rain is cold). Think "coffee-break talk" that will not get too wound up at a job or between events.
 If you really don't want to deal with the guys that want to ask you about your personal beliefs all the time, try avoiding them. Be friendly and say hello, but you don't have to force them/yourself to talk. If you see someone coming after you to start an argument, focus on something like work or leave to go to the bathroom. Send a message that you are busy and would like to focus.


If the person is a relative or someone you can't avoid, make sure to keep conversations short and talk about mundane things. Talking about the weather is acceptable.
 Even if you really disagree with someone, arguing can encourage them to keep talking. So, keep responses to one or two words, or nod your head once in a while. If the other person sees that you are not taking a side, they will drop the subject if there is nothing to argue about.


Either disagreeing or agreeing can be inflammatory, so staying neutral is a good way to not fan the flames.
 When the other person is making you scream internally, keep a calm exterior. Don't be defensive or angry. Some people want a reaction out of you or are looking for enemies. Keep a straight face (poker face, anyone?) and be the person that can't be bothered.
 If someone's not listening to your conversation, you tend to stop talking. Do some important work, or look around, past the speaker. You don't want to seem rude, but you want to silently say, "I'm not really into this". If you can, adopt a glazed, far-away look. If you have to say something, say it in a bored, neutral tone. Be as boring (but not rude) as possible.


If someone started arguing when you were working, even better. Don't look up and keep working, making sure to focus on the work and not them. Appear busy.
 Say you have to go somewhere or to the bathroom (avoid going to the bathroom too often). Make it generic but plausible ("That reminds me, I have to call ____ soon. She/he will be worried if I don't"). Pretend to "remember" something like the fact you might have left your keys in the car. Tell them it's not a big deal, but act like it is and that it's urgent. Hopefully they will finish up their argument quickly and leave you alone (even if you said you're only going away for a few minutes).
 Shrug if someone asks you something, or say "I prefer not to say". If they push you into answering, stay firm and calm on the fact that you don't want to answer. If they ask about your opinion on an opinion, say, "Everyone's different" or "That's nice..." in a boring voice. Don't straight-up answer the question.
 If someone mentions an unrelated topic briefly, re-introduce that innocent topic to lead the way out of the argument. Connect to something else that is easier to talk about.


For example, if they say, "Animals have no souls", then you can say "Animals, huh? They are cute. In fact, I have the cutest parrot named Bob. Bob loves talking! Have you ever heard a parrot talk?". Make the transition smoothly.
If they try to change the subject again, don't try to change it back. Just say, "Well, I've got to go. See you" or appear very tired/bored.
 So, be agreeable and accommodating in a valid way -- not too silly or off, like a dead head.