 It's extremely important you keep this as it may be vital in case you feel the need to make a report. Write down what happened, as clearly and objectively as possible. Add a sentence or two about your reaction if you would like. Write it as soon as possible after it happens, so you remember it well, and add the date and time.

"January 5th, 9 am: Ms. Burr saw me quietly flicking my fingers while I worked on my math problems. She said 'Quiet hands,' grabbed my hands, and slammed them down on the desk. It hurt and I began crying really hard. She told me to focus and get back to work."
"September 30th, 2:30 pm: Mr. Davis pointed at the girl in the movie and said 'What a r*tard.' The whole class laughed loudly and uncontrollably. I wanted to shrink into a hole and never come out. I felt like no one wanted me to exist."

, No matter how terrible your teacher is being, focus on staying polite and well-behaved. This makes it clear to others that the teacher is picking the fight, and you are trying to avoid it. You may politely ask them to stop, say you'd like to use the bathroom (to exit the situation and calm down), or start crying if you need to.

Politely and firmly assert your boundaries. Say "Please stop," "please leave me alone," or "please don't touch me." This makes it clear to onlookers that you don't like this, and the teacher is blatantly disregarding your boundaries.
If you are physically attacked, do what you can to get away. Your goal is to put distance between yourself and the teacher. Don't hit, kick, et cetera unless it is the only way to break free. If so, scream for help, to make it clear that you're trying to leave the situation.
 If you feel scared, say "I'm scared." If you feel like you're going to cry, let yourself cry. This will let onlookers know that this really is affecting you, and that the teacher is out of line., This only sets you up to possibly be taken to a second location, or locked into the room, for more abuse. Leave the classroom as soon as you realize you're alone.

Make excuses if needed, such as "I need to go to practice" or "My dad is picking me up and I don't want to be late."
If it takes you a long time to gather your things, ask if a friend can stay with you while you pack up, so you can leave together. If you don't have any friends in the class, maybe a friend can come over from a different class to walk you to the next one.

