 What you wear impacts how you feel about yourself, so if you pick pajamas with pleasing colors, patterns, and styles that reflect your personality, you just might sleep better. Also, pay attention to the outside temperature before putting those pjs on. If you realize that you are too warm or too cold after getting under the covers, do yourself a favor and change into something else. , Your head, neck and spine need support when sleeping. Waking up with a sore back or a neck is no fun. Different pillows are made for different sleep styles, so choose based on your needs.


Back sleepers. Firm pillows should be used by those who generally sleep on their backs. You can use a pillow under the knees, too, in order to ease pressure on the lower back. Down or polyester-filled pillows will work; choose whatever suits your needs and price point.
Side sleepers. Firm pillows can also aid side sleepers, and using two—one that supports the neck and one under the knees—is beneficial. Long, firm body pillows are available, too. Investigate the different materials. Many people like memory foam because it conforms to your shape.
Stomach sleepers. If you sleep on your stomach, try placing a pillow underneath your hips. You might not even need one for your head.
 Pet parents love to have their dogs, cats or other animals close at all times. Those fluffy, loving creatures provide us with much joy. There are some safety concerns, though, so make careful decisions regarding allowing pets in your bed. Risk of illness. Although the risk is low, sometimes animals can transmit germs/bacteria to their humans, which can result in the human becoming ill. To prevent this from occurring, limit bed use for pets. If you can’t live (or sleep!) without your pet in the bed, make sure they see the veterinarian regularly for shots and checkups.
Puppies might act out. Some dogs/puppies can become more aggressive if they always sleep with humans. Additionally, puppies might take longer to learn how to potty.
Flea and tick risks. An animal that goes outside can easily pick up fleas and/or ticks if they aren’t given preventative sprays or medicine to deter the pests. Then, fleas and/or ticks could wind up in your bed. Fleas are just a nuisance, but deer tick bites can lead to Lyme’s disease.
You need space. If a few dogs or cats are taking up a big portion of the bed, you won’t have the space that you need to roll over or just spread out. Also, you might worry about suffocating a smaller animal, which definitely won’t help you sleep!

