 This can be a simple post or an elaborate cat tree. You should make sure it is at least 3 feet high. Most cats enjoy stretching will scratching. Whichever you choose, make sure to choose a good spot. Place it near something your cat currently likes to scratch.


Try adding some catnip on the post for an extra sensory experience.
Scratching posts are also great for keeping your cat’s nails filed down naturally, which is an effective method of preventing painful scratches.If your cat is very young, get it a scratching post or board right away. Teaching the kitten that it should only scratch in allowed areas is important in order to discourage bad behavior in the future. Try rewarding the cat or kitten for scratching where it is allowed.;
, Your cat may prefer a simple pad to a post. If your cat seems to like scratching carpet, look for a pad that has that as a covering. Corrugated cardboard is another popular material for scratching pads.Scratching pads are generally less expensive than posts. They also take up less space.
Give your cat positive encouragement for using the pad. Try saying, "Wow, good kitty! Great job!". Use a upbeat, soothing tone of voice.
 Climbing posts, cat grass, and toys are all great ways to keep your cat entertained and busy. If your cat stays engaged, it’s less likely that your cat will entertain itself with scratching up furniture. Go to your local pet supply store and ask an associate for help picking out some new items.Many cats like balls. Try ones that make noises and ones that light up.
Cat toys are pretty inexpensive, so you can experiment to find ones that your cat enjoys.
Try some toys, such as stuffed mice, that have cat nip in them.
 Sure, cats are pretty independent. But your cat also wants you to provide it with affection and stimulation. You can pet your cat, groom it, and play with it. Sometimes cats will scratch out of boredom. The more you interact, the less likely your cat is to be bored.


If your cat looks like it wants to enjoy a good clawing session, direct it gently to one of your permitted clawing zones and items.
 Your vet can help you glue these safe, effective caps onto your cat’s nails. They last for about six weeks before needing to be replaced, and are available from vets, or some pet shops. Also, a quick internet search will likely yield a great deal of online shops to buy them from. If you feel comfortable applying the caps yourself, you can, or simply see your vet.Make sure to follow the instructions on the package. You don't want to make your cat uncomfortable by putting the caps on incorrectly.
 Add a rug or some other item that can protect the surface of the furniture. For example, cats don't like their paws touching things like double-sided tape, foil, sandpaper, and even plastic runners on your carpet. Identify the things your cat tends to stay away from, and place these items over the ones you don't want your cat to scratch.Try placing these items on your couch when you go to work. You can take them off when you come home and are available to supervise your cat.
 Cats tend to dislike the smell of citrus. Try using a citrus essential oil to keep them off the furniture. Mix a few drops of oil in a spray bottle of water. Shake it up and spray lightly on the areas you want to keep your cat clear of.You can also try wetting a few cotton balls with the mixture and placing them around objects you want your cat to leave alone. The scent of menthol works, as well.
Cats also tend to dislike the scents of vinegar, lavender, and coffee grounds.
 Perhaps consider keeping the lounge room sacrosanct and cat-free. If there are certain rooms your cat seems to scratch up the most, just keep your cat out of these areas. Keep doors closed, and keep the cat contained to certain areas.


Try giving the cat its own special spot, or perch. Maybe there is a certain window the cat likes to look out—provide the cat with a perch or pillow to sit on. If the cat feels happy in one spot in the house, it might be less likely to get bored and explore for new things to destroy., Declawing isn’t as safe and easy as having your cat’s nails trimmed. It is an actual surgical procedure that involves using a scalpel, laser, or strong clipper to remove the bone on the end of each toe.Since declawing isn’t medically necessary for cats, there really aren’t many real reasons or scenarios that make declawing a necessity.
If, for example, the cat is especially prone to scratching and lives with a person dealing with a compromised immune system, then maybe declawing could be an option, to protect the health of the people in the household. Otherwise, cats really do not need to be declawed., Your vet will likely tell you that declawing is an unnecessary and potentially harmful procedure. Like any other major surgery, declawing comes with possible negative side effects and consequences. Recently declawed feet could potentially lead to infection, pain, and trouble walking.Try asking questions such as, "I would prefer not to declaw. What would you recommend I do to deter scratching?"
Communicate regularly with your vet. If you notice a change in your cat's behavior, make sure to mention it.
 High stress levels can be the underlying cause behind your cat's scratching. If a cat is nervous or frightened, it might scratch as a way to mark its territory and feel more secure. Take care to try to give your cat a calm, happy life.Create a soothing environment. Try to keep your cat from exposure to loud noises.
If there is a major change in the cat's life, such as a move, talk to your vet about how to handle this.
Take your cat for regular check-ups.

