 Nicotine replacement therapy, or NRT, is widely considered a successful means of dealing with intense cravings.There are many over-the-counter NRT products available, and according to a decades-long study by the Food and Drug Administration, combining NRT products shows no significant health threat.Nicotine replacement patches, nicotine gum, and nicotine lozenges are all common NRT products that have been shown to be effective in treating nicotine cravings.Stronger NRT products are available with a doctor's prescription. These include medications, such as bupropion (Zyban) and varenicline (Chantix).Unlike over-the-counter NRT products, these prescription medications are best used on their own, rather than in combination with other products, unless your doctor gives you express approval to combine NRT products. Talk to your doctor if you think prescription-strength NRT products may be right for you.
 Whether you're trying to quit altogether, or just trying to break a too-frequent smoking habit down into what you view as a more-manageable social habit, having a support system can be a valuable aid. If you know of other friends or relatives who are going through the same withdrawal cravings, call or text one another, or get together to go for a long walk or run. If you don't know anyone who's actively trying to quit or reduce their smoking frequency, you can join an online support group.Find online support groups by searching online for smoke cessation support groups. Many long-term members have gone through what you're going through, and can likely offer support or advice on how to manage your cravings., E-cigarettes, also called vape pens, are a non-combustible alternative to smoking cigarettes. These products typically contain a flavor component and nicotine, although some e-cigarette cartridges also come in nicotine-free varieties.While e-cigarettes are not necessarily safe, they do allow smokers to avoid inhaling actual smoke while managing (and, ideally, reducing) the amount of nicotine being consumed on a day-to-day basis., If you're having a hard time breaking your nicotine habit, it may be helpful to go to public places, such as restaurants and certain parks, where smoking is prohibited. Being around other non-smokers may be inspiring, and if nothing else you know that you will be incapable of lighting up while you're in that location., It's okay if you slip up once in a while and smoke on an "off" day. But it's important to recognize that this is akin to taking a cheat day on a diet. You can't keep indulging day after day if you want to avoid becoming a chain-smoker. The important thing is to absolutely cut yourself off after one single cigarette, if you must have one.Try reinforcing your own imposed limit by only carrying one or two single cigarettes on you at any given time. You can store it in a hard-box cigarette pack that is otherwise empty, or purchase a small metal cigarette case.
An even better strategy would be to avoid bringing cigarettes with you when you leave the house on "off" days. That way, if you do submit to your cravings, you know you'll only be able to smoke a cigarette if someone is willing to give you one of theirs.

