 Though almost anyone can get a stye, certain factors can increase your susceptibility. By eliminating the conditions that can contribute to styes, you lower the risk that you will get a stye in the future. Unfortunately, not all of the risk factors for styes are easy to change or eliminate. Listed below are the factors and conditions that are known to increase a person's chances of getting a stye:


High levels of stress
High levels of fat in the bloodstream
Diabetes mellitus
Blepharitis (inflammation of the eyelid)
Seborrhea (an inflammatory skin disorder)
Certain other chronic debilitating diseases
Being between the ages of 30 and 50 (in this case, the increased risk is very slight)

, Styes can be avoided by washing your hands regularly with soap and water, especially before touching or rubbing your eye.Rubbing your eye with dirty hands can transfer bacteria from your hands into your eye, leading to infection. Washing your hands kills the vast majority of this bacteria.


Even with clean hands, try to avoid rubbing your eyes. Even clean hands can irritate your eyes.
 Sharing objects and products that are used in or around the eyes can contribute to the spread of styes. Don't share eye makeup, towels, sunglasses, or other personal items with other people, especially if these people have a stye or a history of styes. These objects can spread styes and other eye infections.
 The bacteria that cause styes can be spread via makeup. Discard old or contaminated eye makeup and be sure to keep your good makeup in a clean, safe place. Wash your hands before applying makeup to your eyes. As noted above, avoid sharing makeup with a friend, especially if you or your friend have a history of styes.
 The initial infection that causes a stye often occurs when one of an eyelid's meibomian glands becomes clogged. Thus, one good way to prevent styes is to decrease the likelihood that a gland will become clogged in the first place. Wear sunglasses or other protective eyewear in environments with a high level of airborne particulate matter. If you work at a construction site or in a manufacturing job, you should always protect your eyes from debris.


If you have a history of styes, then you may be naturally more susceptible to styes than the average person. In this case, you may want to take the time to wash your eyes daily with warm water, a clean rag, and/or baby shampoo.

