 The app that you purchase should have an internet browser on it. To find apps like these, search "Download Manager" on the App Store. Typically, these apps will have an arrow facing downwards on the app cover.;
, (Explanation is further in the instructions)

,, Make sure that when you click the video link, it keeps you on the Bing website rather that the actual YouTube website. The reason why is that YouTube does not allow videos to be downloaded on its site. However, you can still download YouTube videos if you are still on the search engine's website. If it takes you to the YouTube website, you can't use that video, and you have to find another. The reason why Google can't be used as the search engine is because when you click on a video it always takes you directly to the website.
 A popup should come up to open, close or download the video. Click on "download."

, Name the video whatever the name of the song is. Change the extension from "mp4" to "m4a". On the "Files" section of the app, the video should come up as an audio track that can be played.
 Go to your device's section and click on "apps." Scroll down the page and there should be a section called "File Sharing." Click on the app that you purchased.
 Open wherever you save your documents (eg. go to finder if on Mac) and drag and drop the song there.
 Drag the song that is on your files (where you dragged the song to) into your library. The song will now be recognized as an iTunes song.
 On the options, click on "Get Info". On "Details", Fill out as much of the information as you would like (but at least have "Song" "Artist" and "Album")

, Find a picture of the album cover, and download it.
 Put in the cover that you downloaded.
 On the left column under settings, click on Music.
 Make sure that it is check-marked.
 Your device will be backed up and synced. The song should be put on your device (If it doesn't just try again). Your phone can now be unplugged and your song will be in the Music app. Enjoy!

