 If you are a talented marketer, but you have a hard time devising your thoughts on paper, you may want to seek a partner or pay an editor to clarify your ideas.;
, In order to write and sell ebooks, you must first develop Internet marketing expertise. Use a blog or website to refine your voice before you write the ebook, and you can use it to sell your ebook in the future.
 If they involve topics you are interested in writing about, then buy them and read them. They can be both competition and inspiration to take a new tack on the subject.
 If you find a lot of people asking you a similar question during work or on your website, you may have found a subject that can be addressed in an ebook.
 Like any long-form writing, it should have structure. Include explanations about the problem, prior solutions, new solutions and alternatives.
 Internet marketing books must be written amidst a changing market. You must either write the book quickly to take advantage of the market or change the book as the market changes.
 Use infographics, examples and images. Ebooks that feature text without images are less likely to be read and receive recommendations.


Use your own Internet marketing ideas with your ebook. Most customers will view your book on an e-reader or on a computer, so make the content rich, as well as useful.
 Ask friends, business partners and editors to read and edit the book before it is published.
 Look at services like CreateSpace, Clickbank, Smashwords, Barnes and Noble and Lulu. Some ebook publishers include editing services with their product.
 Some Internet marketing experts choose to give their book away after people register on their website landing pages. You should do research on other marketing books, to see what price is typical for a book of the same relevance and size.


Although giving your ebook away is a great way to increase your exposure, charging a small price, between $5 to $10, may make your ebook appear more valuable.
 Write guest blogs on other marketing sites, apply to give speeches at marketing conferences, write articles, send free books to industry leaders, create a Twitter account and publish testimonials.


Consider offering a small portion of your ebook for free on your website. A chapter or portion of a chapter with insightful text and infographics is an excellent selling tool, but does not require you to give away the entire thesis of the book.
 Many online publishers allow you to produce a limited number of paperback copies. Bring these to interviews, meetings, conferences and your office.

