 Take a mental step back and examine your biases. Are there certain beliefs you grew up with that led you to make a careless generalization about a group of people? Are there gut-instinct bad feelings about a certain race that you can't explain? Did you make a joke in bad taste that hedges on toxic stereotypes? By thinking reflectively, you’ll be able to obtain a more three-dimensional view of the charge against you.


Relate the accusation against you to other accusations of racism you’ve heard before. How is it similar or different?
Think about what might prevent you from coming to a new understanding of your relationship to race. Stay aware of your own ideas and thoughts as you reflect on your racist act.
Try to think in more abstract terms. Put yourself in the accuser’s position. How would you see yourself? How would what you said or did make others of another race feel?
To better understand the lived experiences of those with marginal racial identities, you should make an effort to read about issues relating to their lives and talk to them with an empathetic ear.You'll be surprised to hear the range of opinions relating to how they're perceived in the world.
 One of the blessings of online communication is that there is less pressure to think quickly. You're allowed to take some time to process your feelings and assemble your response., Maybe you were aiming to make people laugh by wearing a lion costume in blackface to a Halloween party, but it really annoyed a bunch of your friends. Ask yourself if your joke is really worth upsetting a whole group of people and potentially tainting your reputation forever. After someone tells you what you did or said was racist, swallow your pride and apologize.


Say, “I’m really sorry. What I said was pretty awful. Thank you for talking to me and helping me realize why. Can you forgive me for my insensitivity?”

, Don't blame it on the way you were raised,claim that it isn't a big deal, say racism isn't real because a black person was mean to you once, or say it's their fault for bringing it up. It's important to take responsibility for your actions, even when it's hard. Remember the difference between an explanation and an excuse.


The first step in doing so is admitting “I am not a bad person, but I do have negative racial biases which have a hurtful impact on those of another race.”
Don’t attempt to justify your racism as acceptable given some special context. For instance, if you were robbed and you describe the criminal who robbed you to the police using racist terminology, you’re still being racist. Just because you were robbed by someone of a certain ethnic or racial background, you do not have carte blanche to discard basic decency and respect.