 They will be more likely to remain loyal customers if they believe that you are willing to communicate directly with them.


Make it easy for your customers to find your contact information: print it on your receipts, and make it easy to find on your website.
 Depending on the complexity of the problem, consumers tend to have different preferences when it comes to handling problems with a business.


For example, a lot of customers seem to prefer being able to use email or the company's website for small issues like searching for a product. They often prefer this to being forced to talk on the phone or travel to a business location and meet with an employee. , In more difficult situations (such as disputing a charge) many customers become frustrated with automated systems and want to talk to a real person.


Make sure that if your customers call your business, they can quickly connect with a live person. If they come into the store, be certain that they are immediately directed to the person who can handle their concern. , It's important that you and your employees be consistently courteous to your customers, and it's especially vital that they are treated with respect when they bring their concerns or complaints to your attention.


The biggest gripes that consumers have that would lead them to leave you for another brand or service are rude and unresponsive customer-service representatives and being shuffled among employees without resolution of the issue. , While you strive to run a smooth operation and do your best to anticipate your customers' needs, it's inevitable that there will be problems you'll have to address. When a problem is brought to your attention, it's important that you resolve it as soon as possible. Let the customer know that it's your immediate priority.


For example, perhaps the wrong dishwasher model was delivered and installed at the Chen household on Friday. Reassure them that you'll personally oversee correction of the problem and that it will be handled on Saturday, even if your crew normally doesn't work on weekends.

