 To help you decongest, think about adding short, warm showers to your routine. A warm shower or bath that lasts for 5–10 minutes can reduce congestion by stimulating the drainage of mucus and soothing sore muscles. Keep the water temperature around 105-115 degrees F (40–45 degrees C). Make sure the water is not too hot or cold, especially if you have a fever. Lukewarm baths can also benefit children and infants with nasal congestion.


Limit your time to 5-10 minutes in the shower. People with sensitive skin should only take a warm shower once or twice a week to prevent their skin from drying out.
Keeping your body clean can also help reduce the risk of further viral or bacterial infections., For a natural humidifier, consider getting a houseplant. Due to a process called transpiration, in which water vapor is released from the flowers, leaves, and stems, plants can help regulate indoor humidity. Indoor plants also help clear the air of carbon dioxide and other pollutants such as benzene, formaldehyde, and trichloroethylene.


Good indoor plants include aloe vera, bamboo palm, weeping fig, Chinese evergreen, and various species of philodendron and dracaena., Smoking deprives the body of the necessary oxygen required to repair and build cells by narrowing the blood vessels that carry blood to the leg and arm muscles and to the brain. This can lead to many respiratory and heart illnesses, difficulty breathing, and even stroke. Cigarette smoke can irritate nasal tissue, often leading to frequent headaches and chronic coughing, also known as smoker’s cough. If you already suffer from congestion, this can increase the duration and severity of your condition.


Try to avoid secondhand smoke and other hazardous fumes which can also cause irritation and discomfort. Ask your doctor about ways to reduce and quit smoking.If you cough a lot at night, or have excess congestion at night, try to lie on the side that is least congested to breathe comfortably and allow the mucus to drain.