 The person who gave you the check needs to have written your name, their signature, the date, and the amount of the check (both as words and as a number). Without all this information, your bank may not be able to process the check.


If the person who wrote your check made a mistake, go to the person and request a new check. Some banks will accept a check that has been corrected with initials, but this can also look suspicious. Getting a new, correct check will make it less likely that you will encounter any problems at the bank.
If someone wrote a check to you with incorrect information, then the old check will have to be voided. It is also a good idea to shred any checks that you cannot use.;
, Flip over the check and look for the grey lines located on the upper part of the check. Sign your name on one of the lines as it is spelled on the face of the check.Most checks say "do not write, stamp, or sign below this line" beneath the endorsement area, because the bank needs this space to document their completion of the check.
 To deposit or cash your check, all you need to do is sign on one of the grey lines. Nothing else is required to endorse a check.If more than one person is listed on the check and their names are connected with and, then both people have to sign the check in order to endorse it. If the names are separated by or, then just one person has to sign the check.Make sure your endorsement is within the endorsement area to prevent confusion or error at the bank.
Make sure the name you sign matches the name on the check. For example, if the front of the check says "Bob Johnson," don't sign your name "Robert Johnson." Likewise, if your name is misspelled on a check (e.g., Sara Jones, if your real name is Sarah Jones), then sign the check as it is written on the front of the check. You can then write the correct spelling for your name below it.
 Ask the bank teller to deposit the check into one of your accounts, or simply exchange it for cash. Keep in mind that an unrestricted endorsement (a signature alone) means that anyone who has the check can cash it. Because of this, you should protect a signed check like you would cash. Consider waiting until you get to the bank where you will deposit your check to sign it.If you don't have a bank account, you can cash your check at the bank of the person who issued you the check. The bank's name should be written on the face of the check. Note that the issuing bank may or may not charge a fee for cashing your check.