 Perfume and cologne can help you smell seductive on a date. Choose a perfume that fits your budget and makes you feel seductive. Try visiting the perfume counter of a local department store to sample several different types of perfume.


Choose a perfume or cologne if you desired a distinct, concentrated fragrance.;
, Lotions are also a great way to add fragrance. They also have the added benefit of providing moisture to your skin. Try applying a quarter-sized amount of scented lotion to your chest, neck, and wrists. You can also apply scented lotion all over your body if you desire a stronger scent.A scented lotion is a great way to add gentle, seductive fragrance for a date.
 Some people consider certain scents sexy, and other to be less seductive. Avoid strong florals, powdery fragrance, or fragrances that smell like dessert. Instead opt for a seductive scent like musk, citrus, jasmine, or ouds., Ask the person with whom you are going on a date what type of fragrance they like. If you are going on a date with your girlfriend, ask her what kind of aftershave or cologne she thinks smells good. If you are unsure what kind of fragrance your date prefers, make sure you only use a little., You don’t have to wear cologne, perfume, or scented lotion to smell seductive on a date. Instead try layering a neutral body wash with unscented lotion. You can also wear unscented deodorant.
 You should apply a lotion, perfume, cologne, body mist, or aftershave right after you shower. Once you dry off, apply the fragrance to your skin. Moist skin is very receptive to fragrance., When you apply perfume or cologne to your pulse points, the fragrance is absorbed quicker. Since these areas are warmer than the rest of your body, the scent will be magnified. Try applying one spray of perfume or cologne to the back of your knees, the back of your wrists, or your neck., You do not want to overwhelm your date or other people with your fragrance. Try spraying your fragrance about half an hour before you leave the house for your date. Stand at least one foot away from the fragrance when you spray it, and then walk through the mist., You should avoid spraying perfume or cologne to areas like your underarms, as it will not work as a deodorant does. The fragrance will simply mix with the smell of sweat instead of banishing any odors., You can intensify the fragrance of your choice by using a matching body mist, lotion, or shower gel. For example, you can bathe with a scented shower gel and then use a matching scented lotion when you get out of the shower. This will help the scent last longer., To smell your best, you will need to make sure your body and hair are clean. Try bathing as close as possible to the time of your date. Opt for a soap or body wash that has a neutral scent, or one that matches the scent of your lotion, cologne, or perfume., It’s important that you also clean your hair before the date. Shampoo and condition your hair while you are bathing. Go for shampoos and conditioners that have a neutral scent, if possible. Avoid shampoos and conditioners that are strongly scented., Consider wearing deodorant or antiperspirant on your date. Many consider products that include both deodorant and antiperspirant to be the most effective at controlling both odor and perspiration. Try a product that is unscented.


If you sweat excessively, talk to your doctor about a prescription product.
 It is important that your breath smells as fresh as your body. Brush and floss your teeth right before the date. To make your breath extra fresh, try using a mouthwash like Listerine after brushing and flossing your teeth.
 If you are trying to smell seductive on a date, try not to smoke. Smoking leaves a recognizable odor on your clothing, breath, and skin that many people find offensive. If you want to smell seductive, try not smoking before or during the date.If you do smoke during the date, try brushing your teeth or using mouthwash afterward.
 Strong-smelling foods like garlic, onions, or fish can thwart your effort to smell seductive on a date. Avoid these and other foods with strong odors. You should also avoid eating foods that give you digestive trouble., Try wearing clothes made from breathable fabric, like cotton or wool. Breathable fabrics can help you stay cool, which can mean less sweat. Consider wearing looser-fitting clothes, and avoid clothes that are too tight or ill-fitting.