 The best place to start is by analyzing your diet, what foods are you eating that could contribute to this discomfort? There are many different foods that can contribute to these feelings of unease in the gut. First, do some quick research on how the gut works; learn the process that your gut goes through whenever you put something into your body. This will give you an understanding on what exactly you are trying to fix.;
, Remove difficult to digest foods from your diet. This doesn't necessarily have to last forever but it is a good idea to do it for at least 3-5 days to give your digestion an opportunity to relax a little bit.


These foods can vary from person to person so it's not a simple process to figure this out, but there are some surefire foods that need to go and these include: dairy, gluten and wheat, all processed foods, coffee, smoking (anything), and refined sugar. After the elimination of these from your diet you should feel immediate results.
 Break your total calorie intake into six (or more) equal portions. Do not drink water right after the meal and take a walk. Try to stay active and avoid lying down right after a meal.
 Stress levels play a direct role in your digestion. Are you stressed out all the time? This can cause an issue. As much as you might not believe what it, you must consider doing activities that reduce your stress in a healthy way: yoga, meditation, walking the dog, biking, being outside, and so on.


Lots of people smoke cigarettes or pot to relieve stress, which is highly unhealthy unfortunately causing more harm then good.
The most popular unhealthy stress-reducer is eating, especially bad food and junk food. No diet will ever work for you if your body is in a constant state of stress. Stress attacks your digestive system through a complex breakdown of various hormones.
 Now that you have determined what you are going to do as a healthy stress-reliever and have eliminated all "volatile" foods from your diet you should start to see improvements. This reduced diet can't last forever though, it's time to try to reintroduce things quite slowly. Every two days, reintroduce a new food.


Very important: During the reintroduction stage make sure you are reintroducing things one at a time, no mixed ingredients, one new food item every 2 days. For example, try to eat a little bit of cheese (a little bit), if this upsets your stomach then remove cheese again. Two days later try to introduce some gluten or wheat (FYI scientific research indicates that gluten and wheat are unhealthy for everyone, even those who can digest it.) And so on, until you have an idea of the foods that were causing you issues in the first place.
 The steps laid out above are very general; consider them "general guidelines to repairing your digestion." They will only get you on the right track, but everyone is different. This being said there is copious amounts of information on the Internet and lots of it is good. Lots of it is scary and there sheer volume of it is very intimidating. Take it one step at a time, keep on truckin' along until you find something that works for you.

