 Keep gauze in to protect the surgical site and change it out regularly until the bleeding stops. Firmly biting the gauze, without causing pain, will help control bleeding. If you’re finding your bleeding persists, try biting down on a moistened, cool tea bag: tannic acid in the tea will help clot blood.Normally the bleeding should stop after one hour.


Avoid excessive or forceful spitting, as this will dislodge blood clots.
Give your dentist or oral surgeon a call if bleeding persists for more than a day.
 Use whatever medication your oral surgeon prescribed or recommended. If you were not prescribed medication, you can use ibuprofen or another over-the-counter pain medication without exceeding the normal daily dosage (check the label). Consult your doctor if you experience severe pain: they might prescribe medication if they haven't already or increase your dosage if necessary.If there was an infection you may need to take antibiotics as well. Follow your dentist's instructions and make sure you take the full course of antibiotics.
Make sure you inform your dentist of any allergies to medications.
 Swelling will reach its peak within two to three days of surgery, but regularly using ice packs as soon as you get home from surgery can help keep it at a minimum. Apply a zip-lock bag of ice or ice pack to your face on the side or sides where surgery occurred. Keep the ice on for 20 minutes, then take it off for 20 minutes., It’s important to keep your mouth clean, but do not rinse your mouth within the first 24 hours if you’ve had a tooth or teeth extracted. Gently rinse your mouth with salt water every two hours and after meals after the first day passes. Don't brush your teeth for the first two days, unless your surgeon says otherwise, and continue to take care brushing around the surgical site as it heals in the future.You can also rinse with diluted mouthwash. Dilute mouthwash in a 1:1 ratio with water and rinse after meals and before going to bed.
 Keep your mind off swelling and discomfort by keeping plenty of entertainment within arm’s reach. Stay distracted by watching TV, playing video games, texting, and reading. Focusing on something other than how sore your mouth feels helps to pass the time.


If you’re bedridden for multiple days but are feeling up to it, try getting some light work done, especially if you’re able to work from home on a home computer.
Remember to avoid strenuous physical activity for at least a week. Don't try to exercise or play any sports.

