, Type ‘WiFi File Explorer Pro’ in the search window and download the file to your Kindle Fire. Be aware that a small charge is made. Choose the ‘Pro’ version and not the version called ‘WiFi File Explorer’ (which is severely limited)., You will see a http:// address at the bottom of the program. Go to your PC Windows Internet Explorer (IE) and type this URL (include the http://) into your URL address window. You should see something like Fig. 1.

(Important: Always start the WiFi File Explorer Pro program on your Kindle Fire before you go to the URL on your computer. It seems the web site won’t come up unless you already have the program started on your Kindle. Keep that in mind if you are having problems.)
This website, along with the ‘WiFi File Explorer Pro’ program running on your Kindle, allows you to send files from any PC directory to your Kindle Fire. What you are looking at is a list of files and directories located on your Kindle Fire.
 A window will open and you can name your new directory anything you wish (so you remember where your files came from, try naming it FromMyPC). Okay, find this new directory in the list and double click it so that you are inside that new directory. Remember, you must be inside your new directory BEFORE you do any file transfer., Click on the highlighted link ‘Select Files’ as shown in Fig. 2.

This window is in the lower right-hand corner of PC screen.
 A window will open and you can search for any file on your PC that you want to send to your Kindle (try one file as a test). Next, click the button ‘Upload Files’. This will send the PC file to your Kindle using the internet and the wireless internet connection in your home., If you don’t have a file manager on your Kindle, you may need to download the free file manager program ‘File Expert’ from Amazon.com. This is a great program to see all your Kindle files. Once the program is downloaded from Amazon, start it up by clicking on the File Expert icon. Next, click on ‘My Files’ and then ‘SD Card’. Scroll down the list of directories and see if your new directory (FromMyPC) is listed. If it is, open it up and see if the file you downloaded from your PC is listed. To load the file, just click it and a window will pop-up. You’ll have the option to open the file (Open As) as an image file, a music file, a video file, or a text file.