 Atomizers are readily available at vape shops, mall kiosks, and online. You could choose a low-resistance atomizer to get a hotter atomizer coil. This will result in more rapid evaporation of the liquid and a larger vapor cloud.Low-resistance atomizers are labeled on their packaging, as well as on the atomizer itself with the letters “LR,” usually around the threaded edge.


Rebuildable atomizers offer the opportunity to swap out coil types, resistance wires, and wicking materials. These are for the hardcore vape enthusiast.;
, When your atomizer is new, you should blow out the primer from the atomizer. Primer, or primer fluid, protects the atomizer from oxidation between the time of its manufacture and purchase.Blow the primer out of the atomizer from the top (the open end) toward the bottom, where the threading is. Blow it out over a napkin or paper towel.


Do not inhale the first 20 to 50 puffs from the atomizer. They will have an unpleasant taste due to primer residue. Instead, let them evaporate out of the top of the atomizer and float off into the wind.
You should also rinse the atomizer in alcohol (rubbing alcohol, rum, or vodka) or denture cleaner. Blow (or shake) the liquid out of the atomizer and let it dry.
 The atomizer is an important component in both two-piece and three-piece e-cigarattes, and consists of a heating coil to heat the e-cigarette liquid until it becomes smoke. The battery connects to the atomizer, and the two are mediated by a circuit board.Check both ends of the atomizer for a threaded area; this is the end that will easily screw onto the battery.
 The drip tip is a short attachment through which you drip e-cigarette liquid onto the atomizer. The drip eliminates the need to take off a cap from the top of the atomizer each time you want to add liquid. While one end of the atomizer is attached to the battery, the other end should be attached to a drip tip. The drip tip simply snaps into the open, non-threaded end of the atomizer.


There are many kinds of drip tips. They can be of plastic, resin, or metal.
Make sure that the drip tip is the right size for your atomizer in advance. Most atomizers and drip tips are of the standard 510 variety. If you are unsure, ask the advice of a vape shop associate.
 There are many varieties of e-cigarette liquid. For a healthier choice, use a nicotine-free e-cigarette liquid. Choose a liquid flavor that you like. You could select:cherry
mojito
green tea
coffee
mint
candy
green apple

, Let the liquid sit in the atomizer coil for a few seconds so that the liquid is more fully absorbed.


Be careful when adding the e-cigarette liquid. If you get it on your hands or skin, you might absorb potentially toxic levels of nicotine. Wear disposable gloves so as to avoid getting any on you accidentally., Put the drip tip in your mouth, angled slightly down. Press the button on the battery end of the e-cigarette and inhale. The liquid absorbed into the wick and atomizer coil should evaporate into smoke.


Vaping is not allowed in many public places, workplaces, bars, and restaurants. It is also banned on airplanes and most public transit systems. Check your local and state laws to ensure you know where you can and cannot use your atomizer.
Use your atomizer at home or at a friend’s house for an enjoyable and relaxing experience.
 Selecting the wick is the first step in modifying your rebuildable atomizer. Rebuildable atomizers are customizable, and perfect for die-hard Vapers who wants total control over their vaping experience. Genesis, or top-fed, atomizers usually use stainless steel mesh rolled into a tube and torched for a wick. Other atomizers that are either bottom-fed or dripper style use silica or ekowool.Steel mesh wicks must be between 300 and 500 threads per square inch.Ecowool more readily absorbs e-cigarette liquid than silica, but is also more expensive.If you want a more natural material in your wick, you could utilize cotton or hemp.
 The atomizer coil is the part of the atomizer that heats the wick. There are two types of coils: single coils and dual coils. Single coils have only one heating element, while dual coils have two.The type you choose depends on your personal preferences. Compared to double coils, single coils use less battery power and are easier to work with when rebuilding, but their vapor density is lower.


E-cigarette liquids that are high in acidity (such as fruity flavors) will wear your coil out faster than liquids that are lower in acidity.
The voltage you run through your coil will also affects its lifespan. Running a lot of power through the coil will cause it to burn out more quickly.
Finally, the more you use your vaporizer, the faster the coil will wear out. Heavy users might wear a coil out in a week; for less frequent users, the coil might last three weeks.
You will know when you need to change your coil because the atomizer will not vaporize the liquid properly, or at all.
 The amount of wire you use will determine its resistance. Resistance measures how easy it is to pass electricity through a conductor, and is measure in ohms. The more wire you wrap around the wick, the higher the resistance will be. A higher resistance will cause the atomizer’s power to go down and save battery life; a lower resistance will lead the power to go up and rapidly deplete your battery’s life.


If you want less vapor from your atomizer, use a higher resistance. Do the opposite for more vapor.After wrapping the wire around your wick in tight spirals,
Wire gauge is usually between 28 and 32.Torch the wire (usually Kanthal wire) before adding it to your atomizer. This will burn off any manufacturing residue that you might otherwise inhale when you heat the wire in the atomizer.
Avoid sub-ohm atomizers. In other words, do not build atomizers with a resistance of less than one. This runs the risk of electrical instability and could cause the atomizer to explode., By combining various elements in different arrangements, you can control how much evaporation your atomizer produces.Part of the fun in using an atomizer to vape is the ability to swap different builds with others in the vape community and figure out how to get the smoothest smoking experience possible. Modify your rebuildable atomizer until you’re happy with it.


Ensure the battery is not attached to your atomizer while rebuilding.

