 Rub a drop of white vinegar onto the cloudy surface with your finger. If the cloudiness clears or moves around, you're dealing with a hard water film. Continue to the next step. If it stays cloudy, the glass is probably scratched.This is almost always permanent, but there are ways to prevent it from occurring.


Do not skip this step. If you mistake scratched glass for hard water film, the treatments can make the scratches worse.;
, Hard water films are caused by alkaline minerals in the water.A mild acid will neutralize these minerals and dissolve the film. Here's how to apply it:


Rinse the glass in plain water. Traces of soap can react with vinegar and leave a greasy residue.Soak a sponge in vinegar and rub thoroughly over the cloudy area.
Rinse in hot water.
 If the film is still there, give the vinegar more time to work:


Wrap vinegar-soaked paper towels inside and outside the glass. (For large loads, submerge the glasses in vinegar instead.)
Wait 15 minutes.
Rinse in hot water.
 If vinegar won't cut through the film, try this treatment instead. The heat of the dishwasher should help.


Remove all metal objects, dishes with metallic paint, and dishes with delicate patterns.Add citric acid crystals or a film/spot remover instead of dishwasher detergent. (Check product label for specific instructions.)

Adjust your water heater setting to 140ºF (60ºC). If the dishwasher is hooked up to a sink supply, run the hot water until hot.Run the dishwasher as usual. Run a second rinse cycle with plain water if the product label directs you to.
 The hard water will continue leaving film on your dishes. Take steps to prevent this:Try using more detergent. Fill both of the detergent dispensers if you need to.
Test the hot water in your house with a thermometer. If it doesn't reach 140ºF (60ºC), raise the temperature of your hot water heater.
Buy a "rinse aid" and add it to each load according to label instructions. This product helps the water roll off your dishes, carrying minerals and food away before the dishes dry.Install a water softener in your home for severe problems. This will also reduce hard water rings on sinks, bathtubs, and toilets.

