 Vegan cooking is different from regular cooking. Vegans cannot use eggs as binders in their baked goods or other dishes. Vegans must also use vegetable products as substitutes for popular meat products. As such, the array of spices, the various cooking times and temperatures, and the main ingredients that you use in vegan cooking may be new and unfamiliar to you. A good vegan cookbook can help to expand your knowledge of vegan cooking and provide you with suggestions about various vegan meals that you can prepare.;
, Vegans know that they must rely more heavily on spices because the foods that they eat will not have the natural flavors that animal products often have. Meats have fat which can flavor meat and provide a rich and hearty taste to any dish. Cheeses come in a wide variety of flavors and consistencies for use in different dishes. Vegans cannot eat any of these products. In order to ensure that your menu preparations are never bland, it is important to invest in high quality spices with which you can shake up some traditional vegan dishes.
 In a vegan kitchen, there are not a lot of shortcuts. Individuals who are committed to the vegan way of life are often required to prepare a lot more in the kitchen. Because they cannot rely on ground meat products, cheeses, or even milk, vegans must spend a lot of time finding new ways to prepare vegetables, legumes and grains. Investing in high quality kitchen appliances and tools will have a positive effect on the overall quality and taste of your vegan dishes.


A food processor will help vegan cooks to mill various grains and legumes and use them in different conglomerations.
A high quality set of cooking knives will make food preparation much easier.
 There are several food items which are forbidden on a vegan menu, but there are many more foods that are welcomed and accepted in the vegan way of life. Stocking your pantry with these approved foods will make it easier for you to prepare something that will not conflict with your vegan way of life. There are several food items that every vegan kitchen needs to have.


Legumes: stocking your pantry with legumes such as beans and peas is a necessity for any vegan. Veganism relies heavily on legumes because they can be used in so many different ways. Vegans can mash up black beans and make vegetable burgers or add chickpeas to a soup or stew to provide thickness and heartiness. No vegan pantry is complete without legumes.
Canned Vegetables: the vegan diet features vegetables prominently. Vegetables are rich in nutrients and vitamins and can be eaten with absolutely no guilt whatsoever. Vegans can stock up on canned vegetables with incredibly long shelf lives so that there are always veggies on hand when it's time to cook a vegan meal.
Grains and Flour: vegan cooking is not complete without a variety of high quality grains and flour with which to prepare delicious hearty meals. Because vegan cooking cannot feature any animal products, many vegans use grains and flours to add richness to dishes. Grains such as quinoa and oats can thicken stews and soups. High quality flour can be milled by hand or purchased already milled and used to create delicious desserts and baked goods.
Oils and Butters: because vegans cannot use any dairy products, traditional butter made from cow's milk is out of the question. Many vegans stock their pantries with butter alternatives made from soy and other vegetables. Nut oils and butters like peanut butter, almond butter or cashew butter also feature prominently in a vegan's pantry.
Tomatoes: tomato products are a staple in any vegan's pantry. Tomatoes are loaded with healthy vitamins and antioxidants which can destroy harmful free radicals. Filling your pantry with canned tomato products will allow you to make rich and hearty sauces, soups and stews. Tomatoes keep for a long time in cans.
Pasta: Instead of cooking a slab of meat, many vegans choose to create richness and heartiness by serving vegan pasta dishes. Pasta is a comfort food, and stocking a vegan pantry with pasta is a necessity. There are many different types of pasta that can be used to create a variety of different dishes.

