 Rather than writing a personal blog, create and maintain a blog on a specific topic. Readers are more likely to return regularly to blogs that provide reliable content in a specific subject area.


Reflect upon your interests. Perhaps you are an enthusiastic gardener or a voracious reader of celebrity news. Targeting a blog to your interests will help keep you engaged as a writer, and your passion for the subject will likely translate into enjoyable content for your readers.
Focus upon an area of expertise. Maybe you work in computer programming, or have learned how to provide restricted-diet foods for your family. Use these skills as a foundation for developing a blog that will provide useful instruction for your readers.;
, Careful attention to blog maintenance and to providing fresh content will help you grow and maintain a steady audience.


Create a regular schedule to keep yourself on track. Perhaps you'll plan to post a set number of times per week, or designate different content for different days -- a recipe each Monday and Wednesday, for example, on a culinary blog, with plans to share shopping advice on Tuesdays and an amusing anecdote on Thursdays.
Learn how to schedule postings in advance. Popular blogging sites typically give you the option of drafting posts and then scheduling them for release at a future date and time. Doing so will enable you to keep your blog active even if you're out of town or otherwise occupied.
 While the process of setting up advertising links via ad players such as Google Ad Sense, Amazon Associates, or Pay-Per-Post is fairly straightforward, it may take several months before you start to receive ad revenue. Ads typically pay on a format of "cost per thousand readers," or CPM, so drawing readers to your blog is very important.


Search for related blogs and post comments to draw readers to your site. Always remember to link your URL.Scan the Web for opportunities to participate in "link ups" hosted by prominent bloggers. Link ups offer you the chance to submit a blog post that will then be posted alongside other bloggers' posts in a collection of links.
Consider learning "search engine optimization," or SEO. This is a technique for improving the rate at which search engines such as Google list your blog postings in their search results. A quick Web search will yield tools to help you learn how SEO works., Payoff, however, comes both in the form of ad revenue and in the community successful blogs can create.


The number of hours successful bloggers put in per week varies, but remember that in addition to writing content, you'll need to spend time on advertising, networking, bookkeeping, and efforts to maximize your social media and search results. Consider 20 hours per week a reasonable starting point in terms of time commitment, then evaluate your own work pace and habits once you're underway.Plan to spend at least an hour or two drafting and an extra hour editing each post. Always, always proofread before posting to ensure your content is tidy and easily read.

