 Place bone-in chicken breasts in the pressure cooker and brown them slightly in oil over medium-high heat, without closing and locking the cooker. Then remove the chicken, pour out the remaining fat if you wish, and add in rice, the appropriate amount of water, and the chicken on top to pressure cook for 15 minutes.


Add other seasonings like salt and pepper to the chicken, and add carrots or onions to cook in the leftover fat from the chicken, before you add the rice and chicken back in to pressure cook everything.
Make sure to close and lock your pressure cooker when all ingredients are added, bring your burner to high heat to achieve full pressure, then lower the heat to maintain pressure.
After 15 minutes cooking time, remove from heat and do a quick release of the cooker lid, tilting it away from you to avoid hot steam., Use the pot-in-pot method, and place oil, onions, and garlic into the inner pot and saute over medium heat for 2 minutes. Then add mushrooms and saute for 3 more minutes. Choose arborio, or risotto, rice and add it along with the appropriate amount of water or cooking liquid to the inner pot to pressure cook for 8 minutes.


Close and lock your pressure cooker after all ingredients are added, bring your burner to high heat to achieve full pressure, then lower the heat to maintain pressure.
After 8 minutes cooking time, remove from heat and do a quick release of the cooker lid, tilting it away from you to avoid hot steam.
Add heavy cream, parmesan cheese, and basil to the hot risotto after cooking to complete the dish., Saute oil, onions, and cubed chicken in your pressure cooker with the lid off over high heat. Then add rice and the appropriate amount of water or cooking liquid to the pot to pressure cook for 5 minutes. Then release pressure and add flour, milk, cheese, and broccoli to the cooker to saute for 4 more minutes.


Close and lock your pressure cooker after the rice and cooking liquid are added, bring your burner to high heat to achieve full pressure, then lower the heat to maintain pressure.
After 5 minutes cooking time, remove from heat and do a quick release of the cooker lid, tilting it away from you to avoid hot steam.
Whisk together flour and milk before adding it to the cooker, then add cheese and broccoli florets to finish simmering all ingredients together.