 It is a very good way to stay at a place (while traveling) for free. It's not just about crashing for free but also about meeting some nice people (your hosts) who allowed you to stay at their place for free. If you have friends or acquaintances in another city, ask if you can sleep on their couch when you visit. If you do not, however, you can join online at "couchsurfing.com". Through this website, you can take advantage of people offering a couch to sleep on in another city. In return, though, you will need to offer a room or couch of your own to fellow couch-surfers interested in visiting your hometown.
 Since it's not always easy to find a place to stay for the night via Couch surfing or other sites like that so preparing for that becomes necessary. Camping is a good option for those situations. Although in many cities there are not many proper places to camp but if you are a little thorough in your search you can always find a crack. Like camping in the backyard of a church(People who come to visit these places are more tolerant and kind.), a small area with a lot of trees and bushes. Keep that in mind you don't need a big place to sleep, a 6X2 feet area is enough. Note: Camping is not just setting up a tent but it may involve the use of a tent, caravan, motorhome, cabin, a primitive structure, or no shelter at all. So using a sleeping bag in cities would be good enough.
 Find places like bars, or any other hangout spots where you would be able to find people. Start socializing with people to earn their trust(don't hide anything like if you are traveling you must be carrying a bag and other things so don't hide it). People are more likely to help you if you are honest about it. If someone like your attitude and is kind enough they would allow you crash at their place.
 Make sure you are confident and act as if waiting for a flight or train.
 In most cities there are many homeless shelters, especially at religious places. Google 'homeless shelters' from your phone. Note:In case you have an international phone carrier or can't connect to The Internet for any reason you can always connect to a local wifi. When you are traveling in cities you would find a lot of WIFI connections and most of them would be password protected but if you try a little harder you can find a WIFI connection which requires no password. Other places to look for free wifi spots would be McDonald's, Wendy's or any restaurant where you find a wifi signal (if you find a place like this but its wifi is password protected you can always ask any of the employees for it). If you still have a problem you can always ask someone with a working phone to look for one for you. Note: If you feel uncomfortable going into these place to use wifi just stand outside for a while to connect to their wifi, do some research and leave. Some of the homeless shelters don't admit people after a certain time, so make sure the timing of admittance in these places before going there.
 Of course they would not exactly be motels/hotels but they do provide a roof on your head if you are looking for one. You are likely to find some abandoned places in a city like some old buildings, warehouses which have not been used for years so they might also be a place to stay. These places are not recommended as these places are also attract hobos, junkies, criminals. So analyzing the place before staying the night would be a very good idea.
 If you are willing to let someone else stay in your home, you can join a home exchange program that will allow you to offer your home up in exchange for a stay in someone else's home. You can house-swap regionally, nationally, or internationally. The easiest way to go about finding someone to house-swap with is to join a home exchange website. Some of these websites are free, while others require a small registration fee. The length and terms of your house-swap are usually agreed upon by the two parties involved.
 People who are planning to spend a long time away from home occasionally hire someone to house-sit for them. House-sitting may require you to do nothing but keep the house clean and lived in, or you may have to perform basic tasks like watering plants or checking the mail. Look online for national or international classifieds, or go to websites that specialize in house-sitting services and find out what you need to do to advertise your services. You may need to have a background check performed beforehand, though.
 You will not receive a paycheck, but at minimum, you can find a place to stay in a foreign location. Many of these farms will even provide you with your meals. The biggest and most commonly used organization for volunteer farm work is WWOOF, or World Wide Opportunities on Organic Farms, but this organization does require you to pay a small fee to join. Completely free opportunities will require you to comb through classifieds and free forums.
 You might need to perform physical labor, like building houses, or you might be doing something a little more academic, like teaching basic English or art. Most of these programs require you to submit a portfolio or resume and will also require you to pass a drug test and criminal background check.
 Hostels are already known to provide cheap accommodations for international travelers, but some hostels will provide room and board to a traveler in exchange for that traveler’s skills. You may need to clean, cook, or do yard work, but in return, you can receive a free room and, if you are really lucky, free meals. Contact hostels in the area you are interested in and ask if they have labor exchange opportunities.

