 The exact curriculum for your technical training may vary depending on the exact apprenticeship program that you joined. However, expect to attend roughly 144 hours of instruction each year that your program lasts. Subjects covered in this class setting may range from:Basic carpentry and math skills
Blueprint reading
Structural framingBuilding code requirements
Safety and first aid

, Again, the exact number you need to fulfill may vary according to your program, but expect on-the-job training to take up the bulk of your time. Anticipate having to complete approximately 2000 hours of paid training per year while working on site with one or more journey workers. Obviously, the aim of this is to bring you up to their skill-level by the end of your program, but in the beginning, expect instructions in simpler tasks like:


How to use both power and hand tools safely and proficiently.
Basic carpentry like measuring and cutting studs.
 First, complete the OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) safety courses when specified by your program, which is a must for all programs in the U.S.Additionally, if you became an apprentice through a college, keep in mind that earning an associate’s degree may be part the program. Anticipate having to take general education courses in conjunction with your training.General education courses may include subjects like English, math, and science.
60 or more credits of general education may be required on top of your technical and on-the-job training.
Many colleges offer online courses for their general education requirements to make life easier for apprentices.
 Expect most if not all programs to finish with one or more exams that you must pass in order to become certified as a journey worker. The exact nature of these vary from program to program, but whatever form they take, bone up and study. Prove your skills and knowledge so you can achieve your hard-earned credentials.A journey worker credential will enable you to work on your own, without supervision. This qualifies you to pursue work as an employee for an established contractor or start your own business.
 Technically, there’s nothing keeping you from calling yourself a "master carpenter" once you become certified as a journey worker. However, hold off on advertising yourself as such. For now, stay humble and simply bill yourself as a journey worker. Then aim to do the best job possible.Gain even more experience by pursuing additional training. Keep up on new carpentry methods and materials. Round out your skillset in other related areas in construction (including construction management)., Keep in mind that online reviews and social media make it quite easy for potential customers to check out your previous handiwork. Expect people to be far more negative in their comments if you billed yourself as "master" and then botched a simple job. Wait until you've earned a solid reputation with clients and employers so they will back your skills up and confirm that you're a "master" at your trade.A good rule of thumb to follow is to gain roughly 10 to 15 years of experience before billing yourself as a “master.”

