 You will need equal amounts of both colors. Choose yarn that is the same weight and texture, and preferably the same brand. The house colors are as listed below:


Gryffindor: Red and Gold
Hufflepuff: Black and Yellow
Ravenclaw: Blue and Bronze (books) or Blue and Silver (films)
Slytherin: Green and Silver;
, It does not matter which color you start with; they will even out in the end. This pattern will create a simple block-style scarf, with equal sized stripes.
 You can knit the stockinette stitch, which is alternating rows of purl and knit stitches.This will give you a knit texture on one side, and a bumpy (purl) texture on the other. You can also knit the garter stitch, which is knitting every stitch on every row.This will give you a bumpy (purl) texture on both sides.
 Cut your yarn down to about 6 inches (15.24 centimeters). Pull out your second color and have it ready to knit with. Leave behind a 4 to 6-inch (10.16 to 15.24-centimeter) tail., Once again, you can do a stockinette stitch or a garter stitch. Which ever you choose, make sure that it matches the one you used for your first color., Keep doing this until the scarf is the length you want it to be. Most scarves are about 60 inches (152.4 centimeters) long.
 Knit two stitches onto your right needle needle. Use your left needle to pull the first stitch over the second stitch and slip it of off your needle. Keep knitting a stitch, and using your knitting needle to pull the previous stitch off the needle, until you have one stitch left., Once you reach the end, cut your yarn down to 6 inches (15.24 centimeters). Thread it back through the last stitch, then back through the loop you made. Once you have a tight knot, use a yarn needle or a tapestry needle to weave the tail back into the scarf. Cut off any excess yarn., Go back over your scarf where you had the color changes. Tie the tail ends together, then weave them back into the body of the scarf. You can do this with a yarn needle or a tapestry needle. Cut off any excess yarn.