 Soak a clean washcloth in warm water, then hold the warm washcloth over the abscess for roughly 30 minutes. Repeat this procedure four times daily.This should only be done on abscesses smaller than 1/2 inch (1 cm) across. Larger abscesses need to be cared for by a doctor.
The warmth can speed your body's natural healing process and encourage the abscess to drain on its own. Hold the compress over the abscess lightly, though, and do not apply much pressure.
Thoroughly clean the washcloth in between treatments and do not allow anyone else to use it. Following both actions can help prevent the infection from spreading. You should also wash your hands each time you apply the compress.;
, Never try to "pop" an abscess by applying pressure. On a similar note, you should not try to pierce and drain the abscess by yourself, either.


Pressing down on the abscess could force the infection and attached debris further into the body. The infection could spread, but even if it doesn't, it will still be harder to care for once it sinks into deeper tissues.
If you attempt to pierce the abscess with a needle or similar instrument, you could accidentally injure a nearby blood vessel. You may also cause the infection to spread further, making it more difficult to treat.
 You need to be especially mindful of keeping things clean while caring for an abscess. Your hands should always be clean when you touch the abscess, and any washcloths or other materials used during your treatment should also be cleaned thoroughly.


Note that recurring infections may require more thorough, full-body cleansing with a special antiseptic soap. Your doctor may also prescribe an antibiotic cream for the inside of your nose. Taking these steps may prevent re-infection by the same bacteria, thereby preventing future abscesses.
 When an abscess opens and drains on its own, you'll need to keep an eye on its progress. Most of the pus and debris should drain within two to three days, and it should heal completely within 10 to 14 days.


Keep the area very clean. Cover it with bandages throughout the day, but uncover it for at least 30 to 60 minutes each day so that it can air out. Doing so may prevent the infection from worsening or spreading.
It will usually be very easy for the infection to worsen during this stage, so you should be ready to call the doctor if the abscess becomes more painful or otherwise worsens.
 Sometimes, you may need professional medical care to get rid of an abscess. Call your doctor if the abscess worsens or doesn't go away with basic home treatment.


If the abscess is larger than 1/2 inch (1 cm) across, you'll need your doctor's help. You should also seek medical help if the abscess is located in a sensitive area, like the rectal or groin area, or if it continues to grow and becomes more painful.
Abscesses that continue to worsen may spread their infection and require medical treatment. Call your doctor if you have a fever of 101.5 degrees Fahrenheit (38.6 degrees Celsius) or if red streaks start developing away from the abscess.
Visit the emergency room if you have a fever of 102 degrees Fahrenheit (38.8 degrees Celsius) or higher, or if red streaks start developing around the abscess and lymph nodes begin swelling in response. Facial abscesses larger than 1/2 inch (1 cm) across may also need emergency treatment.
 When you visit the doctor, he or she will ask you for specific information related to the development and status of the abscess.


You'll need to know how long the abscess has been present and whether or not any injury occurred that may have caused it.
Tell the doctor about any allergies you have or medications you're currently on.
Describe your current symptoms to the doctor. Most notably, let the doctor know if you had a fever while at home.
 Many abscesses will not clear with the use of antibiotics alone, but in some cases, your doctor may still recommend this type of treatment for persistent or notably large abscesses.Since antibiotics are usually prescribed before any specific bacteria has been identified, you'll usually be given a "broad spectrum" variety that can kill many different kinds of common bacteria.
If your doctor collects a sample of pus from the abscess, it can be analyzed, and a specific type of bacteria can usually be identified. At that point, your doctor may give you a more concentrated, specific antibiotic.
 In many instances, your doctor will choose to open and drain the abscess. Draining an abscess is only safe when done by a medical professional.


Your doctor will likely numb the area with general local anesthesia during the procedure. When dealing with notably large abscesses, your doctor may also give you a sedative.
The area will be cleaned with antiseptic solution and sterile linens or towels will be placed around it. Once everything is prepared, the doctor will carefully cut into the abscess and drain out any pus and other debris.
After draining the abscess, your doctor will likely insert sterile gauze or similar packing into the freshly drained cavity to keep it open for a few days. This gauze will then be covered with a bandage.
 When a small abscess develops beneath the skin, your doctor may need to drain it by inserting a long, fine needle through the skin and into the abscess itself.


After you're given local or general anesthetic, the surgeon will locate the exact position of the abscess with an ultrasound scan or computerized tomography (CT) scan. He or she will then pierce the abscess with a fine needle.
The wound will usually be opened slightly so that a small drainage catheter can be inserted. This catheter will collect the pus and debris as they drain. In most cases, it will need to be left in place for approximately one week.
You'll usually go home on the same day as the initial procedure, but in some cases, you may need to stay in the hospital for a few days.
 When an abscess inside the body is too large or too deep to reach with a needle, your doctor might recommend surgery. You may need to remain in the hospital for a few days after the surgery, too.The exact method of surgery will vary depending on your specific circumstances, but typically, you'll be given an anesthetic and the surgeon will make a larger, deeper incision in the skin to access the abscess.
The incision usually allows the surgeon to wash all pus and debris out of the abscess during the procedure itself, so very little, if any, should remain after the surgery is complete.
Recover can still take several days, though, and you may need to remain in the hospital so that doctors and nurses can monitor your progress.
 Regardless of how your doctor drained the abscess, he or she will likely give you instructions on how to care for the wound once you go home. Follow these instructions thoroughly.


You'll probably feel relief immediately after the procedure ends, but if you still feel pain, your doctor may give you pain medication to take over the next few days.
Antibiotics are rarely prescribed when an abscess is drained, but if your doctor does prescribe an antibiotic, take the medication until it runs out.
You'll likely need to soak, wash, and bandage the wound for seven to ten days after the initial drainage procedure.
Note that any pain or discomfort caused by the abscess should lessen a little each day. Likewise, any heavy to moderate drainage should only last for about two days, and the wound should heal completely within 10 to 14 days when cared for properly.
 Depending on the circumstances, your doctor may or may not schedule a follow-up appointment with you after draining the abscess.


When scheduled, this appointment will usually take place a few days after the initial procedure. During the appointment, your doctor will likely remove the packing inserted into the drained cavity and check on the wound's progress.
If no follow-up appointment has been made, your doctor should tell you how to safely remove the packing material at home.
You should contact your doctor about any fever, redness, swelling, or increased pain. Do so immediately and regardless of whether or not you scheduled a follow-up appointment.

