 If you already have text in the document, the first thing you must do is highlight it. Put the mouse cursor at the start of the text you want to center. Click and hold the left mouse button. Move the cursor to the end of the text you want to highlight. The text should now be bordered by a transparent blue box.;
, Follow these directions:Look at the toolbar at the top of the Word window (the space with all the options). The word "Home" in the top left should be selected (it will be by default). If it isn't (or you're not sure), click on "Home."
Next, look under the "Paragraph" header, which is below "Home" and to the right. You should see three small buttons that look like pages with the text aligned to the left, center, and right.
Click the button with the text aligned in the center.
 The text you selected should now be aligned evenly between the left and right margins. Now, click where you would like to continue typing and proceed with the rest of your document.


If your text didn't center, you may have accidentally deselected it before hitting the center button. You need to center your text while it's selected without clicking anywhere else on the page.
 If your document is completely blank, click the "Center" button from the directions above and any text you type will be center-aligned.


If you want to add centered text at the end of your document, click at the end of your document, hit the enter/return key to start a new line, and click the "Center" button.
 This keyboard combination will switch you back and forth between left-aligned text and centered text.If you use it while text is highlighted, the text will change to centered (and back if you hit the keys again). If you use it on a blank line, it will change the alignment of the cursor so that the next words you type are centered.
 The buttons next to the "Center" button in the toolbar allow you to get different text alignments. They all work the same way as the center button does. From left to right, the alignment buttons are:


Align left
Align center
Align right
Justify (similar to center except that words will automatically be stretched so that all the lines are the same width).

