 You should not try to wake up your child during a night terror. Instead, remain calm and stay by your child's side until the night terror passes.Try not to interact with your child unless necessary. You should remain by your child's bedside to keep an eye on him or her. If your child is in danger of getting hurt, only then should you intervene.
After the night terror has passed, you should gently wake your child. Encourage him or her to use the bathroom before falling back asleep.
 This can help your child get better quality sleep, lessening the frequency of night terrors. Try to have your child go to bed at the same time each night. Do things that will help your child wind down before bed.Try reading a book to your child every night before bed. You can also sing songs to your child, or listen to music together.
Avoid television before bedtime. Television can get a child excited, making it difficult for him or her to sleep.
 Try to notice if there's any pattern regarding your child's night terrors. You can start waking your child up shortly before night terrors are likely to occur to lessen their frequency.If you disrupt your child's sleep patterns regularly, this may cut down on the frequency of night terrors. About 15 minutes before a night terror would usually occur, gently wake up your child.
Do this for 7 days in a row. If you're successful, your child will have less night terrors in the ensuing weeks.
 After a night terror occurs, have a sit down talk with your child. Ask your child about any stress he or she is experiencing. Night terrors may be triggered by anxiety.If there's anything bothering your child, work on helping your child relax. Practice relaxation techniques with your child before bed.
When you talk to your child about night terrors, be gentle. Make sure to introduce the subject in a way that will not further stress out your child. Make it clear that night terrors are not dangerous.
 If symptoms do not improve, you should take your child to a doctor. In some cases, medical disorders like sleep apnea can be an underlying cause of night terrors. You want to rule these disorders out to make sure your child is safe.You should also consider taking your child to a therapist. Night terrors may be related to stress and anxiety. A therapist can help your child better manage his or her emotions.

