 If you are using a cigarillo-sized hand roller, you will need approximately two-to-three grams of tobacco. The exact amount will be determined by the size of your wrap and personal preference.

Hand rollers come in several different cigarette, cigarillo, and cigar sizes.
Each of these rollers functions the same way.
 A hand roller has two rolling pins: one that slides and one that remains fixed. To open the hand roller you will need to slide the proper rolling pin to the side.








This will expose the filling chamber.
 Be careful not to use too much or else the rolling pins will jam. Do your best to evenly distribute the tobacco throughout the chamber for a nice and even smoke.
 Slide the rolling pin back to its original position to close the hand roller. Don't worry about any tobacco tips that may be protruding from the rolling pins, these will be pulled in once you begin the rolling process.
 Roll the non-sliding pin downward until it has rotated at least one-full time.








The more times you roll the pin, the thinner and denser--more packed--the cigarillo will be.
Cigarillos that have been over packed may be difficult to draw from.
 If the wrap you are using has an adhesive strip (used to seal the cigarillo), be sure to place the strip at the top and make sure that it faces toward the non-sliding rolling pin.
 Like you did when you were first packing the tobacco, gently rotate the non-sliding rolling pin downward. The cigarillo wrap will be pulled into the hand roller as you roll. Stop rolling when only the very edge of the wrap or adhesive strip is exposed.
 You can lick the wrap directly, or you can moisten your finger and run it along the edge.
 Once you can't see any more of the wrap, go ahead and rotate the rolling pin one full rotation.








Remember to roll the pin that does not slide open.
 Your cigarillo will need a few minutes for it to properly "stick" to itself and seal. Once it is dry it is ready to be smoked.









To roll a cigarette, simply use cigarette paper instead of a tobacco leaf or wrap.
If you are rolling a cigarette, you can choose to roll with or without a filter.

