 Princesses always have good hygiene, so that means brushing your teeth, washing your hair and all your personal cleanliness. The fundamentals of personal hygiene should do the trick. Taking care of yourself should not be too much of a task, so keep it simple.;
, Don't: bite your nails, smoke, take drugs, pick your nose, scratch your butt. Start slowly but surely, since you can't stop a bad habit overnight.
 This is the most important part of being a princess. With all of the events you'll get invited to, you will be scrutinized. One false move could give you a bad reputation. Make sure to say 'please' when you want something and 'thank you' if you get it. Say 'excuse me' when you want someone to move. Say 'excuse my reach' when reaching in front of someone. Learn how to curtsy. Table manners are also important, so having some is very important.
 The princesses of today are not as reserved as they were a century ago, yet they are still modest enough for our time. Take a cue from the Duchess of Cambridge and go for dresses (an appropriate cut so you won't show too much skin) that fit well, simple blouses (no graphic tees, because that isn't too professional), jeans (Yes!) on casual days and almost never on your royal duties (Please note that there are some exceptions to that rule), skirts that go down and cover at least your thighs, and clean shoes such as flats. Simple, professional and elegance are key words when looking for princess-like clothing.
 Mascara, lipstick, blush, and eye shadow is really all you need to get a natural look. Natural hues are all you need.
 Be kind to every animal you encounter. Stroke a cat, give a bone to a dog. Race a bunny, give cheese to a mouse. Be friends with everyone. Do not envy or be jealous.
 This is one of the hardest steps, but being a princess means you have lots of responsibility. Make your bed in the morning and set the table for dinner. A true princess helps out.
, Snow White worked hard, did her chores, and contributed to her home, both with the dwarves and while living at the castle. Being responsible like this is especially important for princesses! You should do the same and help out where you can, doing your chores, getting a job, and generally being more responsible.
 She went everywhere just to find her sister and make him/her feel better. If you make one of your friends mad or sad, try to cheer them up, but know when it's enough.
 Cinderella was kind to everyone, from cruel sisters to tiny mice. This kindness was what made her inner beauty and brought about her happy ending. Be kind like Cinderella, even when you don’t have to. People will be mean to you or may not have much to offer you, but like Cinderella shows, that doesn’t mean you have to be horrible right back.
 Princess Aurora, also called Sleeping Beauty or Briar Rose, was kind and friendly with all the animals in the forest where she lived. She lived harmoniously with the environment around her and you should do the same. Respect nature, and do your part to protect the environment.
 Life can be hard sometimes and we can often get really caught up in school or other responsibilities, but Ariel shows us that it’s just as important to find joy in life. Ariel collected things and saw the beauty in things that no one else could see. Like Ariel, you should enjoy the world around you and find happiness in the things you do.
 Belle had it rough with the Beast, but she also saw someone who had real opportunity to be a better person. She helped him to heal his own pain and find happiness in life. Like Belle, you should help people be better. When you see someone that’s having a hard time, try to help them instead of just writing them off as a bad person. This graciousness is a truly princess-like quality!

, Jasmine didn’t listen to what was normal for her society, she saw problems and she fought against them to improve her own life. Follow your own heart, like Jasmine, and do what you know to be right. This can be hard sometimes, even mean going against what’s normal, but you’ll be a happier, stronger person, just like Jasmine.
 Pocahontas had good reason to be scared of the English settlers, just like the rest of her people, but instead of judging them for being different, she worked to understand them and find middle ground. She saw that we are all the same people, the people of the world, and she worked to bring peace and prosperity for everyone. Search for understanding and peace, like Pocahontas, smoothing out arguments and problems between the people in your life so that everyone is treated fairly.
 Lots of things that we have to do in life will be pretty scary. Mulan was certainly pretty scared when she had to go off to war to protect her family and her country. But bravery, or doing what you have to do even though you’re scared, is a quality that you’ll need if you’re going to face the challenges in your life. Be brave, like Mulan, and take your problems head on.
 Tiana learned from her father that you can have almost anything your heart can dream up but you have to work hard to get it. Tiana did just that and got everything she needed! Work hard like Tiana to make your own dreams come true. Study in school and get where you want to be by working the right jobs and getting a good education, rather than depending on someone to come to your rescue.
 When Rapunzel and Flynn got into trouble in the bar, instead of being afraid of the scary men there, she treated them all like normal people and became their friend. Like Rapunzel, don’t judge people. You shouldn’t judge a book by its cover and people will always surprise you.
 Merida had to save her mother after making a pretty serious mistake, which was hard and scary but very much the right thing to do. Like Merida, you should do the right thing, especially when it’s hard. This is one of the defining qualities of a princess and almost every princess on this list has had to do this exact same thing. It may not always be easy, but you can follow your heart do the right thing, and find your happiness.
 She is loyal, strong, brave, caring, and beautiful. She never gives up. She follows order. She met WALL-E and she doesn't want any harm to him and she's being kind to WALL-E. The right thing to do to be like her is to be brave, strong, kind, never give up, and follow orders.Smile. Be friendly and outgoing. Or if you are shy, flash that beautiful smile of yours to everyone you see.
 Princesses don't get upset over the little things. Don't let your little sibling ruin your day, even though he purposely spilled milk on your favourite skirt! It isn't the end of the world.
