 Situating yourself properly before beginning a shoulder press is extremely important in executing a proper and effective press.









Make sure your feet are shoulder-width apart – or even a little bit more.
Prepare to inhale deeply as you pick up and complete the shoulder press.;
, The way you pick up the bar will set you up for how you conduct your shoulder presses. Thus, you need to pick the bar up purposefully and with force. Make sure to:









Inhale deeply.
Gripping the bar overhand, slowly lift the bar from the rack, or carefully squat lift the bar from the floor up to shoulder height.
Have your thumbs wrapped around the bar.
Rest the bar on the heel of your palm.
If you have a bar rack, you can set it on the rack and pick it up from there.
When the bar is at shoulder height, your hands should be a full shoulder width apart on the bar, and your forearms should be vertical to your body.
After picking up the bar, your arms should be bent at less than a 90-degree angle., Without rolling your shoulders back and positioning your arms, you won’t be able to properly execute the shoulder press. Make sure to:









Lean back slightly.
Squeeze or roll your shoulder blades together as your arms (now bent less than 90 degrees) contract even more.
Allow your elbows to slightly protrude in front of the bar. They should not be far out or behind the bar.
Extend your chest outward.
Brace your core muscles and keep your back straight., The single most important movement in a shoulder press is the upward motion. Without a measured upward motion, you could hurt yourself or achieve little progress toward your fitness goal.









Bend your head backward, slightly.
Push the bar up gently, and allow your arms to slowly straighten as you complete the movement.
After the bar is over your head, push it backward slightly. At this point, it should be aligned vertically with your head.Make sure that you start out with a light bar that you can easily lift above your head and gradually increase the weight as you gain strength. Otherwise, this exercise may lead to injuries.
 Once the bar is vertically aligned with your head, you need to hold it for just a second. Holding the bar will push you and is the key to strength training with a shoulder press.


Wait till the bar is at the top.
When the bar is at the top, shrug your shoulders a little and allow your elbows to lock.
Allow yourself to exhale fully., After holding the bar, you’ll have to bring it back down gently. If you rush this move, you may hurt yourself. Remember to:









Begin a slow inhale.
Make sure to bend your arms as you bring the bar down.
Repeat the movement your desired number of repetitions., The proper number of repetitions makes sure that you’re working toward your weight-training goals without taxing or injuring your body. When determining how many shoulder press reps you should do, consider:









Starting off with 3 sets of repetitions. Start low. For instance, do 3, 4, and then 5 reps.
Increasing the number of reps per set as you grow stronger and more confident. For instance, do 3, 5, and then 7 reps.
If you choose to lift a lower weight, feel free to increase your reps per set.Always start with a weight that is easy to moderate for you. Gradually increase the weight as you practice the move, develop muscle memory, and allow your connective tissues time to get stronger.
 A balanced training routine will make sure that you meet your weight-training goals in a healthy and effective way. Without a balanced routine, you won’t work out all the muscles that compliment your shoulders and upper body. Consider:









Working out your chest and triceps on Monday. Try pushups or bench presses.
Working out your shoulders and abs on Tuesday. Combine your shoulder presses with crunches or work on an ab machine.
Resting on Wednesday.
Working out your legs on Thursday. Try leg presses or leg curls.
Working out your back and biceps on Friday. Try dumbbell shrugs or rowing.
Cardio training on Saturday and Sunday. Think about running, powerwalking, cycling, or swimming., While shoulder presses may be the centerpiece of your workout routine, you should reserve some time for cardio. Without cardio, you won’t build the healthy physique you want.









If you’re working out for fat loss, you should balance your shoulder presses with a cardio workout 3 to 6 times a week.
If you’re doing high intensity training, balance your shoulder presses with a cardio workout 2 to 3 times a week.
If you’re simply weight training, balance your shoulder presses with cardio 3 times per week.
A cardio workout should be at least 30 minutes per session., Because shoulder presses are a demanding and high intensity exercise, you need to be very careful as to avoid injury. Make sure to:









Avoid super wide grips. The wider your grip, the less range of motion you have. This provides for a bigger chance of shoulder injury.
Never flare your elbows out, pointing away from your body. Instead, keep your elbows close to your sides.
Be careful bending down to pick up the bar. Instead, squat down and carefully stand up with the bar., The amount of weight you use when performing shoulder presses will determine the speed and type of progress you make toward your overall fitness goal.


Start with just the bar to see if you can lift it comfortably and without straining. For instance, a 180-pound adult with limited experience might start at around 80 lbs. (36 kg) or less, or even just the bar.
Add 5 or 10 lb. (2.27 to 4.53 kg) at a time. Adding smaller weight increments will lead to faster gains.
Avoid using too much weight in the beginning. It’s better to use less weight than you need until you have mastered the movements.
Stick with lower weight amounts to build a toned look.
Add more weight over time to build strength., While you may be able to self-teach yourself a lot, you should also consult a trainer for guidance about how to conduct proper shoulder presses.


Trainers will be able to advise you about holding the proper form.
Trainers will be able to make sure you are not hurting yourself.
Ask to talk to a trainer at your local gym. Most gyms have a staff of trainers who can provide group or individualized instruction.
 Spend a little time reflecting on whether your shoulder presses are having the desired effect. Without achieving your goals, your hard work will be wasted.


Be realistic about the amount of time it takes to see results. It might take weeks or months to see change.
If your goal is to gain muscle mass, you may be able to add 2 lbs (.9 kilos) a month. After about 15 weeks, you should be able to see substantial change.
If your goal is to build strength, you should be able to notice a change within 4 to 8 weeks.