 There are four or five missions on fantage, and every time you beat a mission, you move up a level. Be warned, some of them take a lot of thinking to do! There are a few websites that can give some of the directions for missions. You also receive a medal if you finish a mission at a certain time.;
, Go to the ID phone shop and buy a few stickers. Hand a few stickers out to your closest friends on Fantage. You could also have a sticker party at your place, where a bunch of people trade stickers. You can go to someone else's sticker party too. They usually shout out if they're having a party Downtown.
 Go to Models Inc. Downtown and enter some of the fashion shows. But in order to win, you have to have a lot of clothes and hairdos. You should also be half decent at posing too. You can also host some fashion shows as well. That'll definitely move you up some levels.
 Play as many games as you like on Fantage; there are a lot to choose from. Also, if you're a member on Fantage, you can get coupons, which double the Starz you get at the end of a game. Some games on Fantage that will give you a generous amount of "Starz" are Buzzer Beater, Magic Pop, and Staries.
 Try to play Fantage often, because every month, you move up a level. If you don't play on your Fantage person, you might not be able to play on it anymore. But don't be addicted to Fantage either - it can be unhealthy., Every other month, Fantage gives you a reward for inviting two friends to play on Fantage. However, they have to play for at least an hour.
 When there's a holiday in real life, there's most likely a holiday on Fantage, too. Usually it lasts around four to five days. When you log on Fantage every day of the holiday, you get a medal for showing up. You never know if you'll get a free rare item, too!

, If you're a premium member or have been a member on Fantage for at least 30 days, you can become a Reporter. But first, you'll have to take a test before you become one. Once you're a reporter, you get a Reporter Trainee medal.
