 'Spawn' - short for 'spawnpoint' - is the place where players spawn when they join your server. When your house is close to spawn, this is the first thing a griefer will see. A good rule is to build your house where you can't see it from the world's spawnpoint.
 It's obvious you shouldn't grief, and reverse psychology tells us people will do something when they're told to not do it., It might be tempting to ask someone for help and give them your coordinates via the chat, but this means everyone - including griefers - knows where your house is., Though this isn't a foolproof method, making your house less attractive means griefers won't think there are lots of valuable items. So trade your fancy, two-story, modern loft for a simple cabin, and see how it works out., Loose chests and random gardens, it's just asking for trouble. Instead, keep all of your chests inside, preferably deep underground, and keep gardens and stables where you can monitor them., This won't always stop them, but when you're dealing with a rookie-griefer, they might be too scared to continue griefing., You can't guard your house 24/7, but try to keep an eye on it as often as possible., You obviously don't want a TNT trap, because then your house will also blow up, but a pitfall trap filled with mobs or lava at the door will prevent the griefer from entering your house. Make sure you include a way of temporarily deactivating the trap, or you have to able to dodge your trap, so you are still able to enter your own house., When a griefer breaks a hole in the wall to trespass, silverfish will come out of the blocks. As you may know, attacking the silverfish will only summon more from nearby blocks. Your griefer may flee, or if he's well-equipped, he might be able to defeat them and enter your house anyways.

If you want silverfish blocks, you have to

Break silverfish blocks with a pickaxe with Silk Touch (silverfish blocks can be found in Strongholds or Igloo basements)
Cheat them in using /give monster_egg
Get in Creative mode and get them from the Creative inventory


Note that experienced griefers might be able to tell that they're silverfish blocks and just climb over your wall.
 This is a very extreme measure, but it is a very good method to prevent griefers from stealing and destroying your stuff., You might be able to stop them if you close a good deal., They can kick and ban the griefer.