 The loss of feathers can be a sign that the bird is stressed or sick. Healthy birds have a sleek coat that covers their entire body except for their beak, eyes, and feet.Check your birds' coat for:


Naked or bare patches
Scaly or red skin
Thinning feathers
Baldness on the head
A ruffled appearance

, Observe your finch at a distance to observe if they are fluffing their feathers when they think they are alone. Normally, birds will keep their feathers pulled in against their bodies; this will look like a sleek coat. Healthy finches may fluff their feathers for a few minutes at a time, but a sick finch will keep their feathers fluffed much longer. They may even sleep like this. If the bird knows you are watching, however, they may pull in their feathers as a defense mechanism., Gently press your fingers around the abdomen area. If you can feel a swollen belly or a hard protrusion, take the bird to a vet immediately. Egg binding is a common problem in female finches wherein the egg becomes stuck within the reproductive track and the bird cannot pass it. In addition to the swelling, your bird will be distressed, and this may look like the bird is trying to defecate. Finches can die within a few hours of egg binding., Finches are susceptible to conjunctivitis and avian pox, both of which appear on the bird’s eyes. Don’t touch your finch’s eyes, but observe them closely. Your finch may be ill if you observe:


Red skin around the eyes
Puffy or swollen eyelids
Growths on the eyes
Discharge coming from the eyes., The water vent is where the bird excretes droppings. This will be located between the bird’s tail and thighs. A healthy bird's vent will be clean and dry while a sick bird's will likely show signs of illness, including:


Matted feathers around the vent
Bleeding or swelling
Discharge or wetness, Birds have two types of liquid waste. The clear, watery liquid is urine. The chalky white liquid is called urate. Discolored droppings are symptoms of internal diseases.


Green or yellow urates can be a sign of either malnutrition or liver disease.
Brown urates can be a result of lead poisoning.
Red urine or urates can mean that your bird has internal bleeding, The feces should be the only solid waste coming out of your bird. Feces will be either a rusty brown color, a dark green, or the color of their food. They should also be tube-shaped, although they may come out coiled or broken up. Always keep an eye out for runny droppings or droppings of unusual colors, sizes, and textures, such as:


Black feces
Bright green feces
Undigested food
Foamy droppings
Excessively watery feces