 You should have a general idea of your selling goals. Where do you want to sell? Who do you want to sell to?


If you want to sell to kids at sporting events, for example, your price points and menu items will likely be different than if you want to sell food at local art shows.;
, Based on your goals, you should determine whether you want to create a stationary concession stand or something more mobile, like a trailer, which you can easily take to various types of events.If you plan to have a more niche and specific menu, a mobile concession business might be the best option for you.
If you already have a stationary venue you want to pursue, like a sports stadium, then you’ll want to plan for an immovable stand.
Be aware that different local laws may govern trailers and food trucks than immobile stands.
 As with any business, you want to first create your statement of purpose. This will help you to clearly envision what your business will be.


The purpose is a simple statement without any complex financial information.
An example of a purpose statement might be: “I want to sell Greek gyros to people in southern North Carolina, and I will target local farmers markets.”

,


Separate your goals into long-term and short-term goals.
Create your goals within different categories like customer service, marketing, profit, growth, and philanthropy.
You want to make sure that the goals you set are measurable, specific, and reasonable. Use clear, concise language. Make sure everyone you work with, no matter their positions, understands both your short-term and long-term goals.
 Understanding how you’re going to market your product can be an important way to get initial business and funding.


Social media is important, especially if you want to create a mobile concession stand. Spend some time working on your presence on sites like Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter.You should use your social media presence to drum up excitement even before you open your doors.
The name of your concession stand and your branding are important to your success.,


Common licenses required in food service include: a food service establishment permit, a general business license, a food safety permit, and an alcohol beverage license if you plan to serve alcohol.
If you have a mobile concession stand, you will need to comply with licensing requirements in all the cities and counties you serve.
Depending on your set up, you’ll need general liability insurance, auto insurance, and workers insurance.
 Most people do not have the start up money they need for their business up front.


You’ll want to look into applying for small business loans.
You can also approach private investors for start-up funds.
 You’ll want to work on creating your menu before you buy the equipment for your concession stand.


Your theme could have a cultural influence, like Mexican or Vietnamese style food, or it could simply be classic ballpark fair. This will depend on your personal passion, and your venue. For example, if you already know you want to sell in a football stadium, you’ll want to consider traditional food like hot dogs, nachos, and soda.
Your theme will make the dishes on your menu fit together and make sense.
 You don’t want all of your options to include really expensive ingredients or labor intensive processes.


You want to have a range of cost across dishes. You don’t want to have to stock too many ingredients at once.



You want to make a profit, but don’t set your prices unreasonably high. Look at the local competition for a guide.
Also, don’t try to lower your price to be more competitive at a rate that isn’t sustainable for your business and your costs.
 You can choose permanent printings or signs, or choose a menu board that you can change.


If you want to change your menu often, you can also use social media as a place to post your menu in addition to on a sign like a chalkboard.
If you plan on printing a sign, it is advisable to wait a few weeks after you open your stand to business. That way, you can make any adjustments to the menu that you’d like.
 Don’t make your menu too expansive in the beginning. You can always add on later.


You want to minimize complicated factors in calculating costs, and make sure your menu is manageable for your new business.
 This is the backbone of your business and crucial to beginning your set-up. You’ll want to consider size based on what you want to cook and where you want to have your vehicle or stand.


Think about buying used.Just like buying a car, there is a significant market for used concession stands and concession trailers. Spend time looking around.
Buying used can help you save money and own your stand more quickly.
 What equipment you will need depends upon your menu.You’ll most likely need a refrigerator for cold storage and space for dry storage.
You’ll want counter space to prep and plate.
The cooking machines you will need depend upon food. For example, if you’re making fresh French fries, you’ll need a deep fryer. Or, if you’re making popcorn, you’ll need a popcorn maker.
 If your menu requires more prep and equipment than your stand can hold, consider renting out commercial kitchen space for prep cooking and storage.


If you plan on setting up a concession stand in a stadium, these often have central, built in kitchen space you can use.
 As you are deciding on equipment for your stand, think about where you will put it and how that will work during a typical workday.For example, if you have a refrigerator, don’t set it up so that when you open the door it blocks another person’s workspace or the central area of the stand.
 If you’re hiring employees, start small.


It’s much easier to hire more people later than to cut back.
Start with your personal connections in the business and then move outward when looking for great employees.



During an interview, give potential employees a problematic scenario and ask how they would solve it.
 This is the best way to make sure that a potential hire is a good fit for your set-up.


Make sure to pay adequately for trial shifts.

