 Nearly all gift baskets have some type of theme, and choosing a theme makes it easier to plan the contents of the basket. Choose the theme of your gift basket before you do anything else.


Sometimes, the theme is based on an occasion or set of circumstances. For example, you might plan a Christmas-themed basket around the holidays, a "get well soon" basket for someone who's ill, or a house-warming basket for couple who recently purchased their first home. Since these baskets are fairly generic, they tend to be easier to plan.
Other times, you may determine the theme of the basket based on the receiver's personality or interests. For example, you might plan a spa basket for a workaholic who regularly needs to unwind, a romantic basket for your significant other, or a gardening basket for someone with a green thumb. Since these baskets are not dependent on outside circumstances, they tend to be more versatile.;
, You can include store-bought items, homemade items, or a combination of both in your gift basket. Make sure that the items you choose fit your chosen theme, though.


For example, if you choose a food theme, you should only include edible items or related non-edible items in the basket. You shouldn't fill a basket with cheese, crackers, and wines, then throw in a random packet of flower seeds or bottle of scented lotion.
To save money, consider shopping at dollar stores and other discount shops.Gift baskets contain multiple items, and if you don't set a budget for yourself, you can easily overspend while creating them.
 While wicker baskets are the most common choice, you can pick from baskets made of different materials.The "basket" doesn't even have to be a basket—boxes, bags, and jars may also work, depending on the overall theme.


Note that baskets can be made of wood, plastic, fabric, and metal. Wood baskets work well for traditional gifts, but they may not be durable enough for gift baskets given to children. For kids, choose a basket made of plastic or fabric.
You can also use gift boxes, gift bags, muslin bags, canning jars, plastic buckets, and wooden crates instead of actual baskets. These may even work better for the theme of the basket. For example, a plastic beach bucket would be perfect for a child's beach-themed gift basket.
 Regardless of the basket you choose, you should fill the bottom with crumpled paper or another type of filler before adding the gift items. This filler provides an even, decorative base.Crumpled tissue paper is one of the most common options, but shredded paper, shredded cellophane, and straw can also work well.If you're including any fabric items, consider folding and using the fabric as your filler.
 Place the gift items inside the basket, resting them directly on top of the filler. Stuff additional filler in between the items to help hold them in place.Typically, you'll need to place the tallest gift in the center of the basket. Arrange the other items from tallest to shortest around it, turning them so that they face the outer perimeter. Try to keep the basket looking balanced from all sides.
On the other hand, you could arrange the smallest items near the front of the basket, then place the taller items further toward the back. In this case, all items should face the front of the basket.
Regardless of how you position the items, make sure that the basket and individual items can remain upright when left alone.
 Wrapping the basket can secure the individual gift items while also protecting them from moisture or damage. Cellophane, shrink wrap, and tulle are among the most common wrapping options.Cellophane comes in sheets, which must be gathered around the basket from the bottom up, and bags, which hold the entire basket without being gathered. Either way, tie the opening closed with a ribbon.
Shrink wraps and shrink bags are placed over the basket from the top to the bottom. Gather the excess beneath the basket, then use a hair dryer or heat gun to shrink the entire wrap from the bottom up. No ribbons are needed.
Use tulle only if you don't need to protect the gift items from moisture. Gather the tulle netting around the basket from the bottom up, and tie the opening closed with ribbon. Cheesecloth and twine can also be used in a similar manner.
 You can include a full-size greeting card or choose to omit the card altogether, but gift baskets are commonly accompanied by a 3.5-inch by 2-inch (9-cm by 5-cm) card.You can use themed enclosure cards, blank miniature note cards, card stock, or heavy-duty scrapbook paper.Include the "to" and "from" information on the card, as well as a brief message about the occasion or the contents of the basket.
Tie the card to the ribbon or tape it to the outer wrappings. If desired, you can also slip it inside the basket itself before wrapping it up.

