 If your child hasn’t spent much time around other kids, get them involved in some playgroups, story times, or other social activities. It’s important for preschool children to know how to share, take turns, and play cooperatively with others. Give them opportunities to learn and practice these skills around other children their age.Your child should be comfortable with tasks and skills including waiting in line, listening to an adult, and being quiet when asked to be quiet. Practice these skills and make sure your child can do them well.Check out community classes for children such as gymnastics, music, or kids yoga.
 Your child may be expected to hang up their own jacket, zip up their coat or sweater, put on and take off their backpack, and tie or fasten their shoes. Practice these skills at home together. Make it a race to see who can do it fastest.Get your child comfortable dressing on their own and picking up their own toys without help so that they develop confidence on doing tasks on their own.


If your child brings a snack, make sure they know how to open their lunchbox or snack bag. Practice opening and closing containers and plastic bags. Ask your child to help pack their lunch and practice their food skills each day during preparation. , Children may be expected to complete certain activities using fine-motor skills. Help your child prepare by doing crafts with them. Help them learn to cut and fold paper. Provide coloring and painting activities and let your child glue small items. Buy some putty or dough for your child to play with to build their hand muscles.Have your child cut dough and shape it into letters, numbers, or shapes.
Hide a bead, coin, or another small object in clay and have your child find it.
 Allow your child to get used to following routines and schedules. This way, they can begin to learn about expectations and following directions. Get your child up at the same time each day and establish some consistency. Try to mimic a typical schedule your child may have for preschool. So, if your child needs to be at preschool at 8:30, start waking your child up so that they are ready by that time.If you are at home with your child, start doing activities that may mimic the activities in preschool. Have a schedule so that your child knows what to expect and can make transitions with ease.
You may want to have a picture schedule for your child. For example, arrange pictures of a book, musical instruments, and crayons in a row so that your child knows what activities come first, second, and third. This can help with difficult transitions and knowing what to expect.

