 Consistent, daily interaction with your guinea pig is very important for his overall wellbeing. If you forget to play with him or are not able to play with him until much later in the day (maybe you had to work late), he might become depressed or withdrawn because of the change in routine., Because guinea pigs are so active, keeping them in cages all the time can leave them feeling frustrated with lots of pent up energy. Letting your guinea pig roam outside of his cage will give him an opportunity to burn off excess energy.Before you let your guinea pig out of his cage, you will need to ‘guinea pig-proof’ the room where you plan to let him out. Guinea pigs like to chew on things, so make sure to put away or hide anything that he could chew on–electrical cords, mats, rugs, trinkets, etc.It would also be helpful to cover any accessible areas of furniture that he could chew on, such as the corners of couches, tables, or chairs.Place different toys and objects (eg, toilet paper rolls) in the room to give your guinea pig things to explore and play with while he is out of his cage.You can even put some treats on the floor for him to munch on while he’s playing.
If you have any other pets, put them in another room until after you place your guinea pig back in his cage.Supervise your guinea pig closely while he is outside of his cage to make sure that he doesn't run away or start chewing on something that he's not supposed to chew on.
 Toys are an important aspect of keeping your guinea pig happy. There are many types of toys that you can give your guinea pig, including nibblers, chew toys, and toy balls. In addition, you can make homemade toys out of toilet paper rolls, empty shoeboxes, and empty milk cartons.Although you may not interact directly with him when he’s playing with his toys, you can still spend time with him while he’s playing with them.


Nibblers and chew toys are usually made of a sturdy natural material, such as wood. Not only will these toys keep your guinea pig busy, they will help him keep his teeth filed down. Your guinea pig’s teeth can become dangerously long, so providing him with toys that he can nibble on will help maintain his good dental hygiene.Toy balls are also typically made of natural material and can easily be pushed around by your guinea pig.Ramps and stairs are fun toys if your guinea pig is in a multi-level cage. Make sure that the ramps and stairs are solid. Your guinea pig’s legs are short and could get stuck in the wires of wire ramps or stairs, causing injury.Exercise balls and wheels are not suitable toys for your guinea pig. His back does not bend like the backs of other pocket pets (mice, hamsters), so exercise balls and wheels can very easily lead to back injuries in guinea pigs.Clean his toys on a regular basis. Plastic toys can go in the dishwasher. Wooden toys should be washed by hand with a towel and allowed to dry completely before being placed back in his cage.Put only a few toys in his cage at a time so that he still has room to run around his cage. Switch out those toys when you clean his cage so that he has a new set of toys to play with.