 The very first thing you must do before getting ready to walk your dog, is to be calm. Bring your shoulders up and stand tall. Be confident before your dog and show him that you are his leader. If he does not believe that you are in charge, the next steps will not work.;
, This is the best position of submission that your dog can give you. Once he is calm you can then move to get his lead. Having his ears relaxed against his head is a good sign that he is calm and submissive. You must not continue if you dog is not submissive, otherwise you will increase his excited energy. Once you have the lead, you can put it on him. Make sure that the dog is still submissive.
 If your dog is excited he may try to run out of the door, be firm, and hold your dog back. You decide when to leave, your dog doesn't make the decision. Get your dog to sit beside you, you cannot go any further until this is accomplished. Once your dog is once again calm beside you, you can go out the door. You must again stop of course, to shut it, but make sure that your dog sits beside you.
 The dog must stay beside you at all times, unless he is specifically told by you that he can go ahead. Remember, you decide what happens, not you dog.
 Keeping it short, however, does not mean that you should hold it so tightly that there is tension constantly along the lead. Dogs can sense the tension, even if we humans do not mean to send it down the lead to them. Try your best to relax your arm, keeping a firm grip on the lead. Only tense the lead if your dog pulls you. You must only pull it for a second or so, enough to draw his attention away. Pull also, to the side, not up as this sends the signals better.
 Just because the walk is almost over doesn't mean that you can stop concentrating on how calm you are, or how your dog is behaving. Make sure that he is still beside you, and at your heel, and walk him calmly to your door. He may notice that you just want to get inside, and he will take advantage of that. He may see this as a weakness, so keep your shoulders high and remember that you are in control.
 Stand there and wait for a few moments. Make sure that he is calm. Get him to lay down on the floor beside you if you have to, if that is what it takes to get him to submit to you again. Your dog doesn't care that it is you or your family that paid for your house. All that he cares about is the energy you're projecting. Are you calm and in control? If not, then get in control. You must be in control before you can enter your house.
 Don't let him push past you. That is rude behavior, and he isn't aloud to be rude to you. You are the pack leader, and you go first. Once you're inside, you invite him in, and for a little while don't give him any attention. Get him to wait while you take off your coat and shoes. Tell him to lay in his bed while you change your clothes. Don't let him play just yet. You need to reinforce your control before you give him affection.
 Take off his lead and give him some water, making sure that it is under your terms, not his.
 This means that he has worked for his food as he would have done in the wild.
 He doesn't care where he lives, as long as he's got a good, calm pack leader who takes him on his daily trek and takes him to food and water.
