 No branch can bear fruit of itself." In order for Jesus to help, you need to be "willing to be made willing". Humble yourself to do God's good and perfect will so that Jesus can work through you. "How To Be Like the Publican" has some suggestions on humbling yourself.;
, Believe that Jesus died on the cross for the forgiveness of sins so that those who trust in him may have true life and be free from the present evil age - accept His free gift of salvation. Confess your sins/wrongdoings to God, asking for God to transform your inner being and life. Turning away from sin, and towards the great love of God in Jesus is how to daily have a relationship with your Heavenly Father.
 This is not only a major opportunity but a need. We need to be constantly connected with our Lord. Jesus prayed while he was on earth, and taught us to pray. If Jesus felt the need of prayer, how much more do we need to pray as well? God cares about you and everything that happens - from the smallest plea to the biggest need; what an opportunity. He is always listening and knows your needs, even if it sometimes feels like He isn't. Psalm 55:22 says, that if you "cast your burden on the Lord," then "He will sustain you." Prayer is both telling God about your goals in life, and asking for him to make you more like Jesus. That is why you would do well to ask for God's blessing before you read Scripture.
 Psalm 119:9 says, "How can a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to Your word." Setting aside time every day for the Bible is extremely important. Keep your mind fixed on it, and allow your heart to be grafted to Christ and molded by it. The Bible is God's word, and in it the story of God's redeeming work in this world is told! As you begin to see your place within God's story, you'll see why your life matters, and where it is going. By reading the Bible, you open your ear to listen to God. John 17:17 says, "Sanctify them by your word, your word is Truth."

, God tells us in James 1:17 that "every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father." That means we have hundreds of reasons to thank God! For breathing, for food, for jobs, friends, the family of God, forgiveness of sins, power to overcome evil, and more! The greatest reason to constantly rejoice and thank God is that, if you are trusting in Jesus, then you will be resurrected in the last day to enjoy an eternal life in the New Heavens and Earth, where God will dwell with us. There is no better hope.
 We may call out to God and say, "We are hungry to know you, to be full of your Spirit, to be free from the penalty of our sin! We want Jesus who satisfies more than even food!" Fasting is a way of putting your trust in God instead of in physical comfort. Christians are expected to fast, not out of any obligation, but because knowing Jesus means that we need to find satisfaction in him more every hour.
 John 15:10 says, "If you keep My commandments, you will abide in My love, just as I have kept My Father’s commandments and abide in His love." No one is able to do anything for God by his own strength: God is our strength. Without him, we can't do anything of importance! It can be hard to not sin, but with God's help through His grace, we can do our best. Be confident in Him.


Realize that there is liberty in Christ Jesus, to live in the Spirit, to not be tempted more than you can bear, no longer being a slave to self, as pride of life -- putting away habitual deeds of the flesh, as lust of the eye, envy, greed, judging others, prejudice and hatred.
 Read "Matthew", "Mark", "Luke" and "John", also "Acts", "Romans" plus other scriptures as time allows. Be quickened, mindful of God's still small voice, as in the Bible. For if you have God's life in you, you have the love of God, then "understand": Your thoughts should line up with Jesus' teachings, and His commandments such as, "Love one another." Do as He tells us in His word. Realize His empowerment and preach the gospel and heal the sick.But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwells in you.

