 The first step in preparing for any home project is to make sure you understand what you will be doing; this will prevent unforeseen messes, setbacks, and trips to the hardware store. This step is of special importance for those attempting a repair for the first time.


The Internet contains a wealth of information regarding home improvement projects. Video hosting sites like YouTube feature many "how-to" demonstrations of common home repair tasks. Discussion forums geared towards home improvement can be used to ask specific questions or address concerns as they arise in your project.
One of the most important things you can do when studying a home repair is to make a list of the tools and supplies you will need. This will prevent you from having to stop work midway through a project or trying to improvise when you don't have the right tool.;
, Before beginning work, check that you have everything you will need. This is especially important for tasks that must be completed at a certain speed, such as painting or working with quick set joint compound or mortar.


When assembling your tools, don't forget about personal protective equipment such as safety glasses, a dust mask, and gloves.
When undertaking any project that might require quick and occasional clean-ups, such as painting, it is helpful to keep paper towels and a damp rag handy.
 The final step to take before starting the project is to prepare your workspace. The amount of preparation needed will depend on the type of project.


If your home improvement project will involve any paints, solvents, or other products that produce harmful fumes, make sure your workspace is well-ventilated. Open windows and run a fan to help circulate air.
Finishing projects, like painting or varnishing, will be more successful if your workspace is thoroughly cleaned beforehand. Dust and dirt can easily be stirred up into your workpiece and mar the finish. Dusting, vacuuming, and wiping down any flat surfaces will prevent this problem.
If you have pets or small children, you may want to take steps to make your workspace safer for them. Place potentially harmful tools and products where they cannot be reached easily, and keep doors closed if possible.
 Once you have taken all the preparatory steps, you are ready to begin work. To help prevent messes or damage to your belongings while you work, proceed carefully and vigilantly through the project. If your project will span several days or longer, you may need to repeat some of the above steps each day.

