 The first step after catching your child cyberbullying should be a complete shutdown of your child's social media accounts. Ban your child from social media as part of a "grounding" period. When you are ready to let them rejoin social media, make a rule that you will have their log in information for a period of time so that you can monitor their activities. Once you are sure that they are able to responsibly use their accounts, allow them to have a private log in. Continue to monitor their actions as a friend or a follower.

Your child should earn back their social media privileges with time and good behavior.
Remind your child of the consequences of cyberbullying, and that you are doing this to help them as well as their victim.
 Bullying of any type is often a learned behavior to handle stress and usually indicates that something else is going on with your child.One key to stop your child from being a cyberbully is to identify why they are doing it in the first place.


In some cases children begin to cyberbully because they want to be popular, feel powerful, or because they want attention. This may suggest problems with self-esteem.
Some children cyberbully because they are being bullied or because they are the victim of abuse or trauma. Ask your child, “Is someone bothering you or is something going on we should talk about?”
Sometimes children cyberbully because they don’t know how to express themselves appropriately or realize the consequences of their actions. They may not understand that what they are doing is hurtful.
In some cases, cyberbullying results from modeling similar behavior. Consider how the members of your household relate to each other, or if you may have unknowingly modeled gossiping negatively about others. For example, you may say things like, "She's too fat to be wearing that," "I don't know what he's thinking with that haircut," or "I can't believe they thought their kids would make the all-star team." These kinds of statements can make children think it's okay to talk negatively to others.
 You can stop your child from being a cyberbully by addressing any problems they may be having. Talking to a teacher, counselor, or their pediatrician can help your child manage negative feelings they may be having. It can also help them deal with the underlying reasons for bullying and teach them better ways to express feelings.Talk to your child’s teacher about anti-bullying resources available through the school. You might say, “We’re having a problem with Sandy being a cyberbully. Can you suggest any resources?”
Consider speaking to your religious leader if you are involved in a religious community.
Ask your pediatrician for a referral to a counselor or therapist that can help you address any problems.
 Talking to your child about how their posts, messages, and comments may negatively impact the target of their cyberbullying is one way to stop your child from being a cyberbully. Explain to your child how their behavior may make the target feel and the possible consequences of their cyberbullying.


One way to do this is to identify a few unkind statements that someone has made or could make about your child. Ask your child to come up with the examples. Talk to your child about how those statements make them feel.
Tell your child to think about how the person feels when they see mean things about them on the internet. You could say, “It probably hurts Donnie’s feelings and makes him feel bad to see your comments.”
Talk to your child about the impact their actions can have on the target of their bullying.
For instance, you could say, “About 1/3 of people that are bullied start engaging in self-harm like cutting themselves.”Or you might explain that most youth suicides are because of bullying., Some children, especially those that are fairly young, may not understand that cyberbullying hurts the people being bullied and the person doing the bullying. You can stop your child from being a cyberbully by talking to them about the consequences it can have on their life.


Tell your child that cyberbullying can cause them to lose friends. You might say, “People might not want to be friends with you if they see that you post mean comments and hurtful pictures.”
Explain that cyberbullying can get your child in trouble or their account deactivated if their cyberbullying is reported. Try saying, “Your comments could make you lose your account.”
Talk about the fact that some children who bully have problems later on in their adult life.Be as specific as possible because children often have problems envisioning their life as an adult. Say, "If you've been a bully, others are less likely to trust or respect you. They won't want to open up to you. That means it will be harder for you to have friends."

, Once a post or comment is posted, it is usually there until the person that posts it removes it, or the site administrators do so. You can stop your child from being a cyberbully by making them delete any inappropriate posts or messages they may have made.


Most sites and apps make it easy to remove a comment that your child has posted.
If it's a Facebook comment, click the ‘X’ in the top right corner of the post and press "Delete Post".
SnapChat posts are automatically deleted after 24 hours and the messages are deleted immediately after the receiver views them.
Delete Instagram posts by tapping and holding your finger on the post. A menu will appear in the top right corner that you can click to delete the post.
 If your child has engaged in cyberbullying, they may need to apologize to the target and ask what they can do to make the situation better. Saying “I’m sorry” is one way to get your child to take responsibility for their actions and to let the victim know it won’t happen again.Your child may need to send the target of their cyberbullying a direct message saying something like, “I am sorry for my mean posts. I will never do anything like that again. What can I do to help you feel better?”
You may want your child to make a public apology by posting it on their page or profile. For instance, the post might say, “I recently posted mean pictures. I want to apologize to everyone I hurt by doing that. Please tell me what I can do to make it up to you.”

, If your child is a cyberbully, one way to stop the behavior is to make your child logout or deactivate their social media accounts.Staying online will make it easier for your child to post mean comments or embarrassing pictures. If necessary, you can take away your child’s electronic devices for a specific amount of time.


Consider designating a certain time each day as tech-free. For example, you may decide that the hour before dinner and during dinner is a tech-free time.
If you need to, put parental controls on your child’s electronic devices to limit their access to certain apps and social networking sites.
You can also enforce a complete cyber-break for a specified amount of time. For instance, if you find that your child is post mean comments you might limit their electronics use for a month.

