 Drink plenty of water. In general, it's recommended that men drink about 13 cups (3 liters) of water a day, and women drink about 9 cups (2.2 liters) of water a day.Not only will the fluids help soothe your throat, calming irritation that is causing you to cough, but they can also help thin the secretions in the throat., This is an age-old remedy for coughs and sore throats. Though it won't treat the chronic cough, it can help reduce any swelling and provide some relief.Mix 1 teaspoon of salt into 8 ounces of warm water. Gargle with this mixture every few hours.
 A cough suppressant works to block the cough reflex. It's important to note that a suppressant will not treat the main cause of the cough but may provide some relief, particularly if your cough is interfering with your sleep.For a long time, codeine was seen as the "gold standard" cough suppressant drug because it decreased activity in the part of the brain that brings about coughing. However, recent studies have suggested that codeine is not effective in suppressing coughs. Furthermore, there is an addictive potential to codeine and not all providers or patients are comfortable with this.A common cough suppressant is dextromethorphan (e.g., Triaminic Cold and Cough, Robitussin Cough, Delsym, Vicks 44 Cough and Cold). Be cautious with using over-the-counter cough medicines. Always talk to your doctor before using, and only use the dosage and follow the directions as specified.
Do not give cough medicines to children under the age of four.If your cough is productive, meaning it brings up mucus or phlegm, don't use a cough suppressant., Most throat lozenges, such as Halls or Fisherman's Friend, have medicine in them that works to numb the throat to provide a soothing effect.


You can purchase lozenges or "cough drops" (as they are commonly known) with eucalyptus or mint, which can further help clear out and sooth your airways.Do not give any lozenges to children under the age of 4, as they pose a choking hazard., Scientific research suggests that incorporating more fruit can help prevent a chronic cough thank to its high amounts of fiber and flavonoids.Research has shown success with apples, pears, and grapes, but you can also try other brightly colored fruits including blueberries, cherries, oranges, and strawberries.
 If you suspect your cough is caused by allergies, make an effort to avoid those allergens. Common allergens include pollen, dust, grass, scented soaps or perfumes, and animal dander.You can also take an antihistamine or decongestant to provide relief from an allergy-related cough.
 Using a humidifier overnight may assist you in keeping a moist environment which can alleviate dry air and help your airways stay clear. Warm or cool damp, misty air can help sooth a swollen throat and also provide some relief from a scratchy, hoarse throat.If you don't have a humidifier, you can also try putting a shallow pan of water in your bedroom overnight. This will add moisture to the air.
You could also take a hot shower. Following the same idea as the humidifier, the steam from the shower assists in clearing secretions from the nasal passages.
 Honey is a well known treatment for long-standing coughs. Studies have shown that honey is as effective at battling night-time cough as the cough suppressant dextromethorphan, with none of the side-effects.You can add a teaspoon of honey to hot tea to help soothe a throat that is sore from constant coughing.Do not give honey to children younger than 1 year old., A non-narcotic cough suppressant, benzonatate is believed to help alleviate cough symptoms by reducing the cough reflex in the lungs, thus relieving the chronic cough. Commonly prescribed forms of benzonatate include Tessalon Perles and Zonatuss.Tessalon Perles are non-habit forming capsules, and should be taken as directed by your doctor. This medication must be swallowed as a whole. Do not take more than is directed, as it could cause serious side effects.You may want to discuss using Tessalon Perles with your provider since it can interact with other medical conditions, including pregnancy and the taking of other medications.