 The number one factor that impacts RV loan approval is credit history. Most lenders will want a credit score of at least 640, but a score of 700 or better is more likely to obtain an approval at the best rate and most favorable terms. If your credit score is below this range, you may have to accept a higher interest rate or less favorable terms. With very low credit, you may not qualify for a loan at all., This is your monthly revolving debt, (mortgage, auto and credit card payments) divided by your monthly gross income. Your gross income is your income from all sources before taxes.


Lenders will also want to see proof of income, which is usually asked for in the form of your tax returns for the past two years.Most RV and marine lenders look for a maximum debt-to-income ratio of approximately 45 percent or less, however some will go as high as 50 percent or more with excellent credit., Each lender has their own formula for determining the amount they will loan on any particular RV. Most lenders will loan somewhere between wholesale and retail, depending on the previous factors listed above. However, some will loan up to the RV's retail value on refinancing.


Research the value of the RV you are buying and look for a good deal. This will help you get a loan because the collateral (the RV) will be worth an amount equal to or greater than the loan value.Again, the better the credit history, the more flexible the lenders are likely to be.
 A down payment will not only lower the overall amount of your loan, but will also ensure that you are not upside-down in your loan. Because a new RV may depreciate a full 20 percent in a year, you want to have at least paid off that much of its value in that time. Paying a full 20 percent down payment will help you do that and is standard practice among RV lenders.


If you can't afford the 20 percent, there may be special programs that offer lower down payments, especially for those with great credit.
However, if you can't spare the 20 percent, odds are you should wait and buy an RV when you can afford the down payment., Most RV loans are between 5 and 15 years. However, for larger loans, perhaps over $50,000 or $100,000, they are willing to extend the length of your loan. This will lower your overall interest rate and make payments more affordable. However, keep in mind that you will end up paying more interest overall (over the life of the loan).