 If you are looking to increase muscle size and strength in your upper back, trapezius, and hamstring muscles, lifting straps may be right for you. They allow you to lift more weight to work these muscles than your natural grip might allow. Specifically, they are good for the following exercises:Dumbbell or barbell rows
Shrugs
Deadlifts
Romanian deadlifts
Rack pulls;
, First, it is important to note that lifting straps are not allowed in power lifting competitions. If you are training to power lift, don't use straps all the time, because you need a strong natural grip.Make sure to do at least some reps with your natural grip, even if it means you can't lift as heavy a weight.
Additionally, these straps are only helpful for lifts in which gravity is working against your ability to hold on to the weight. Lifting straps do not aid in bench presses or similar exercises. Using them for these lifts may result in ridicule from other weight lifters., Lifting straps are sewn from heavy-duty cotton, nylon, or leather.The varying materials and styles of these straps provide different advantages to the lifter. Here are some guidelines in choosing straps.









Make sure they are well stitched and strong.
Cotton and nylon straps are firmer than leather straps and are less easily bent out of shape. Leather straps have a little more give. This makes them a better choice if you plan to wear them to clean, though many weightlifters don't believe straps should be used for this lift anyway.Nylon straps allow you to release the dumbbell the most quickly.Olympic/speed straps are shorter. These allow for easier and faster release of the barbell, but a less firm grip, because the strap wraps around the barbell fewer times.
Although you can buy padded straps, straps with hook-and-loop fasteners, and weightlifting gloves with straps or hooks built in, these don't offer much improvement in function or comfort and are more expensive. Further, hook straps don't fit all barbells and can negatively affect your technique for some lifts.