 The number of stitches you chain must be a multiple of 8 plus 4 for this pattern to work properly. That is because each shell will require a total of six stitches. Try 36 stitches if you just want to practice the shell stitch, or count to 8 then count to 4 as you make the chain. Repeat the sequence of counting 8+4 until you reach the desired chain length., Skip past the first stitch next to your hook and instead, single crochet into the second stitch.To single crochet, push the hook through the stitch, and yarn over and pull the new loop through. Then, yarn over again and pull the new loop through both loops on the hook., After the single crochet, skip the next six stitches and then do a double crochet. After you finish the first double crochet, continue to double crochet eight more times into the same space for a total of nine double crochet stitches in the same loop.To double crochet, yarn over and then push the hook into the stitch and yarn over again. Pull the new loop through the second loop on your hook. Then, yarn over again and through the first two loops on your hook. Then, yarn over again and pull through the remaining two loops. You should have one loop left on the hook when you are done., After you finish double crocheting nine stitches into one space, skip the next six stitches and then slipstitch into the corner of the shell to connect the yarn.To slipstitch, insert the hook into the stitch, yarn over, and then pull through., After the slipstitch, chain 5 new stitches and then slipstitch into the base of the chain to create a chain loop. You will work into the loop to create a new shell later on.Repeat the pattern of skipping six, double crocheting nine times into one space, skipping six, slipstitching into the corner of the shell, chaining 5, and slipstitching back into the chain.
 When you get to the last stitch in your row, finish it with a single crochet stitch.You should now have a row of shells equivalent to the number of 8 + 4 sequences you chained.


For example, if you chained 36, then that is equal to three 8 + 4 sequences and you should have three shells.
 To start the second row, begin by turning the stitches and chaining one. This will be your turning chain, which provides some slack to begin the new row., Next, locate the first stitch in the row (should also be a single crochet stitch) and single crochet into that stitch.This marks the beginning of your second row.
 To add texture to the shells you created in your last row, you will need to follow a pattern of sc, dc, and sc again. Work this pattern into every stitch on the edge of the shells. This means that you will be working three stitches into each of the nine stitches on the shell’s edge.Ensure that the loops of five chains stay in front of the shells as you work.
 After you reach the end of the row, single crochet again into the last single crochet stitch next to the last shell.This marks the end of your second row.
 To begin adding more shells for your third row, start by chaining 6. This will serve as the outer edge of the first new shell that you create in this row., Locate the first single crocheted stich and begin working double crochet stitches into this space. Double crochet into the space five times to create a new shell at the beginning of the row., Next, locate the fifth stitch in the next shell. This is the first shell that you created in your first row.Slipstitch into the fifth stitch on this shell to connect it with the new shell.
 Next, chain 5 new stitches and then slipstitch into the fifth stitch again. This will create a new chain loop, which you will use to create more new shells in your next odd row., After you connect the new five chain loop, begin working a new shell into the center of the 5 chain loop that you created on your first row. Double crochet into the center of this loop nine times., Continue to follow this pattern of slipstitching into 5th stitch of existing shells, chaining 5 stitches, slipstitching again, and working a new shell into the chains of 5 until you reach the end of the row.After you finish your third row, return to the texturizing steps from the second row and repeat these for your fourth row.

