 Unlicensed broadcasting is legal using a low powered transmitter which was discussed in Part 15 of the FCC’s rules. These devices are limited to 200 feet (61 meter) range. The transmitters are manufactured under the regulation of the FCC and have visible indicators for you to tell.One of the disadvantages of this system is that you have to accept any disturbance from a higher powered radio station.;
, Before you take into account the necessary expenses of a low power FM radio station, you should seek out availability. The FCC allows commercial radio stations to bleed into or overpower your radio station. Search through your local FM stations and find a station without any radio programming.


The key is to find the purest static channel. Make sure there aren’t other voices or sounds lingering in the background.
If there are a couple “clean” stations in a row, then you’re in good shape.
If you live in a metropolitan city like Chicago or L.A., you will have trouble finding a station like this.
You can do a quick check by visiting radiospark.org/rfree for a search of available stations in your area.
 You are a member of a community and feel the need to power a radio station that your community is lacking. Consider if other members of your community want the same type of programming on the airways.A good way to receive feedback is by creating flyers with information about your radio station.


Hang the flyers around town and in community active spots like a coffee shop, library, or a venue space.
If the station becomes popular, it is legal to profit from advertisements.
Say on the flyer, “What do you want to hear on the radio?” in big bold letters, and then explain what your station does.
 It'll help you keep track of what you need by making a quick list of all the equipment you’ll need to power the station. This includes a transmitter, antenna, and basic sound equipment (microphones, mixer, CD player, etc.). Take a quick inventory of media devices you own like a turntable, CD player, cassette player, etc.). Do a basic search online to determine a rough price of the gear you’ll need.
 Mission statements are meant to be a brief write up of your organization. This is an area where you can share the philosophy model you are basing your radio station around. Other items to include are your goals and your performance standards.


These are goals to strive for with a mission statement: to make it memorable, credible, inspirational, and simple.Take a look at some mission statements for nonprofit organizations online.
Here's an example from the station AshevilleFM: "At AshevilleFM, we're reflecting and adding to the rich stew of arts, culture and community involvement that is Asheville. We're bringing music, news, and the unusual to the airwaves at 103.3FM here in Asheville while having a global reach through our online stream with over 1.7 million hits a month.", Depending on how far you plan to take your station, fundraising in the beginning can benefit your long term goals. Look into some organizations that could be interested in your radio station. Once you find a local organization, draft a letter explaining your fundraising goals and include your mission statement.There are many websites that allow you to make a fundraising pitch online.

