 Generalized anxiety disorder, or GAD, involves feeling nervous or tense all the time, even when no obvious stressors are present. People with GAD may feel like something bad is about to happen, or they may imagine all the ways something could go wrong.GAD can produce physical symptoms like headaches, stomachaches, and muscle tension.;
, Social anxiety is an anxiety disorder that involves intense fear or self-consciousness in social situations. People with social anxiety are afraid of embarrassing themselves or being ridiculed by others, and some of them try to avoid social situations altogether.Common physical symptoms of social anxiety include blushing, shaking, sweating, and a rapid heartbeat.
A person who avoids participating in group conversations or activities, refuses to go to unfamiliar places alone, or who uses alcohol or drugs to relax before social situations may be suffering from social anxiety.
 OCD is an anxiety disorder that involves intrusive thoughts called obsessions and repetitive actions called compulsions. Someone with OCD tries to get rid of their obsessive thoughts with compulsive behaviors.For instance, someone with OCD might be anxious about germs and dirt. As a result, they might compulsively wash their hands or clean their kitchen.
 Phobias are intense, irrational fears of specific situations, objects, or animals. People who suffer from phobias usually know their fear is unreasonable, but may not be able to overcome their anxiety without treatment. Someone who has a phobia may avoid common situations like driving or taking an elevator.Common phobias include the fear of flying, the fear of enclosed or wide-open spaces, the fear of heights, and the fear of specific animals such as snakes.
 PTSD is an anxiety disorder that occurs in some people who witness frightening or life-threatening events. Violent accidents, terrorist attacks, and military combat are a few experiences that can cause PTSD. People with this disorder experience flashbacks, nightmares, or intrusive memories. They may avoid situations that remind them of the traumatic event or have panic attacks related to their flashbacks., Along with environmental and social factors, genetics plays a role in determining whether someone will develop an anxiety disorder. People whose parents or siblings have anxiety disorders are more likely to have problems with anxiety themselves., Studies have found that women are at a higher risk than men for developing every type of anxiety disorder except for OCD. However, gender isn’t everything – keep in mind that many men develop anxiety disorders, too., People who have been seriously ill or experienced traumatic events are at an increased risk for developing an anxiety disorder. Physical or emotional abuse, stressful living situations, and use of drugs or alcohol all put a person at risk for having problems with anxiety., People with nervous dispositions are more likely to develop an anxiety disorder. Shy children are also at higher risk for developing social anxiety later in life.Shyness and social anxiety are not the same thing. However, there is a correlation between the two.
 Perfectionism is a big predictor of anxiety. People with perfectionist tendencies often think in black-and-white terms. If they do not do something perfectly, they consider it a failure. This can lead to an anxious, self-critical mindset., Anxiety often goes along with other mental health disorders. In particular, people who are anxious also tend to be depressed. In cases where anxiety coexists with another disorder, each condition may make the other worse.For instance, someone with both anxiety and depression might feel anxious about their low mood and inability to get out of the house. This anxiety might paralyze them further, creating a vicious cycle.
 Excessive worrying is the biggest indicator of an anxiety disorder. If someone seems constantly anxious or on edge about things that wouldn’t bother other people, they may have a condition like generalized anxiety disorder.For instance, if your friend is worried about failing out of college one week and afraid her cat has cancer the next, with no indication that either of these things is true, she might have generalized anxiety disorder.
 Someone with social anxiety may appear very shy and withdrawn, or they may be visibly nervous when they interact with others. Notice whether the person stays on the fringes of groups, leaves social situations early, or sticks close by a friend to avoid socializing alone., Anxious people often feel like they are wound tight and can’t relax. This can lead to snapping at others or acting impatient.For instance, if your mother seems to be perpetually annoyed with you for small details like the way you cook or organize your room, consider whether anxiety could be the cause of her irritation.
 Anxious people often avoid going out unless they have to, which can cause them to become socially isolated. Does the person go out to see friends, participate in hobbies, or volunteer? If someone doesn’t leave the house except to carry out necessary tasks like going to work and buying groceries, they may be struggling with anxiety., Anxiety tends to produce physical signs you can pick up on if you pay attention. If someone blushes easily, trembles, or complains about headaches, stomachaches, or muscle tension, they might be suffering from anxiety., Sometimes anxiety doesn’t produce any outward signs at all. Anyone can be anxious, even people who seem well-adjusted and comfortable in social settings. If you’re concerned that someone you know might be battling anxiety, the best way to find out for sure is to talk to them.Open the conversation by saying something like, “I’ve noticed you seem a little on edge lately. Is everything okay?” Avoid making them feel self-conscious. They will probably appreciate that you care enough about them to check in with them.

