 When selecting travel shoes, review the activities you have planned for your trip. You want to pack shoes that will allow you to comfortably go through with your plans.If you're just going to be relaxing on your trip and not engaging in physically strenuous activities, there's no need to bring running shoes or hiking boots. A solid pair of tennis shoes and one or two pairs of dressier shoes are probably sufficient.
Pack shoes that can work for multiple occasions to cut down on space in your suitcase. Go for neutral shades and bring shoes that can be worn many different places. For example, comfortable flats can be worn at the airport, while out shopping or sightseeing, as well as going out to bars and dinner on your vacation.;
, Know what the weather will be like at your destination. Plan accordingly when choosing your travel shoes. If you're going somewhere warmer, a lighter shoe, like a light flat or even a sandal or flip-flop, should suffice. For a cooler destination, you may want to pack something like boots or thicker tennis shoes., Even if you're not going to be running marathons as part of your trip, if you're walking a lot you will want a comfortable shoe. It's a good idea to pack shoes that you can walk in, like tennis shoes or boots, if you're going to be walking a lot on your trip.If you're going to a major city, expect to walk a lot. In a place like Chicago, for example, you'll probably take public transportation most of the time and will be walking to and from train stations and bus stops. A solid walking shoe is important.
 Travel shoes should be comfortable, lightweight, and durable. Look for travel shoes that meet all three of these qualifications when selecting travel-friendly footwear.Opt for shoes that are comfortable but also easy to walk in. If you wear your every day shoes for many activities comfortably, these may make great travel shoes. This is especially true if your everyday shoes are lightweight.
If you're buying new shoes for a trip, don't be afraid to pay a little extra. Travel shoes should last a long time and extra price is worth added durability.
If you're doing a lot of outdoors activities, you should also look for shoes that are waterproof.

