 Believe it or not, GPS units are designed for a variety of uses, and the feature-set of each unit caters to different usage patterns. Some possible uses are:


Vehicle Navigation - Driving on the road
Off-Road Activities - Hiking, hunting, skiing, etc.
Water Activities - Boating, fishing, etc.
Aviation - Flying a plane
Geocaching - Navigating to waypoints for fun treasure-hunting;
, This essentially describes the shape & size of the technology, or how small of a space you want to use GPS functions in. Some possibilities are:


Handheld - A stand-alone unit that generally fits in one hand, with its own screen and buttons
Laptop sensor - A small, plain "box" that connects to your laptop, and lets software on your laptop do the rest of the work
PDA integrated - If you have a Palm or Windows Mobile PDA, you can get add-on sensors and software for them to do the same job as a laptop, but have it fit in the palm of your hand.
Marine/Vehicle mount - Something which will stay in your vehicle or boat at all times, and only provide vehicle/craft navigation
Wrist mount - Tiny GPS systems have been integrated into wrist-watch form, ideal for jogging and other outdoor exercise purposes. Some of these units come with built-in fitness sensors, like heart rate monitors.
 Ensure that both your laptop/PDA as well as the GPS unit are Bluetooth enabled if you expect wireless operation between the two. The rest of your functions will be determined by the software you use, which you can acquire independent of your hardware purchase. Despite this, all GPS units of this type will come with a packaged software bundle of some sort.
 that are right for you. Consult your retailer for options. Some marine GPS systems come with built-in fish finder features as well.
 Would you prefer a rechargeable unit?
Electronic compass - telling what direction you are facing while you are standing still. GPS units without this can only report your direction when you are moving.
Barometric altimeter - calculating altitude based on air pressure
Mapping - Displaying your current position on a map, uploading extra/custom maps into your unit
Data entry - Some GPS units only allow you to upload waypoints from a PC, while others allow you to enter them while in the field
Communications - Some GPS receivers have built-in two-way radios (ie: walkie talkies) to allow for communications as well as navigation. These units may provide position-sending functions so that you can locate others in your party
Removable memory cards for maps - Some people prefer to be able to swap maps while in the field, rather than connecting their GPS unit to a laptop. You may purchase a GPS that provides a CompactFlash (CF) or SecureDigital (SD) slot for map cards if this is important to you.
,
Department store - Stores such as WalMart carry GPS units in their hunting/outdoor departments.
Marine equipment store - Even handheld units can be often be found at boat equipment shops.
 Buttons that are too small, or located in awkward places, or units that are *just* too big to fit in a certain carrier, etc. can all be deal breakers. The best way to deal with these challenges is to be sure that there is a money-back guarantee or return policy if you find that the unit doesn't work for you in a practical environment. To this end, be sure to set aside time as soon as possible to test your new unit out as much as you can before your return policy runs out.

