 In this way, you have to write about something that you have a difficult time expressing. This will trick your subconscious to release its “protection” of your feelings and allow the real you to emerge.The goal in keeping a journal and writing about difficult topics to find the real is you is to be as brutally honest as possible. Challenge yourself to write about difficult things.
Being your journal entry with a title such as: “I don’t want to write about…” and complete it with a challenging statement.
In reality, people often avoid dealing with such topics because it is difficult to solve tough problems and it is easier just to put it off. Not dealing with tough issues, however, does not allow you to find out who you really are.
By dealing with what you don’t want to write about you will get straight to the point of exactly what you need to work out in your life.
 Before writing, think about who you were based on your life experiences and then who you are now becoming. What events transformed who you are? What has stayed the same? Periodically checking to find out who you really are is a good exercise to actively evaluate who the real you is.An important part of the exercise is to decipher what your core personal values are. By examining what has stayed consistent throughout your life, you will be able to reference back to what is good, beneficial, important, useful, desirable, and constructive to reveal your values. Once your values are determined you are on better ground to decide your priorities in life.
Once you determine your values, you can begin to ask serious and important questions about what makes you genuinely happy. For example, if you have small children at home, would a career that involves sixty hours a week and travel make you happy?

, In your private journal, make a list of your top ten qualities. Private, because you need to be free to make this list without being modest. The important part is that it is quite okay to be the real you. Being positive will affirm how truly wonderful a person you are.One way to think about this is, what would a close friend or family say about you if somebody that did not know you asked what you were all about? What qualities would they highlight to best describe you?
If you are having trouble really finding your true qualities, think of a general quality that describes you like “social.” Come up with more specific qualities that make you social, or how you are social.
Don’t avoid negative qualities either. Finding flaws will also let you know what you have to overcome to be a better you. Keep in mind that sometimes qualities develop to compensate for flawed qualities.
 Remove inner road-blocks to achieve clarity through self-reflection. Find the obstacles that are holding you back from becoming the real you. In other words, clear all the distractions out of your head and concentrate on how you can utilize to solve your problems.Imagine, for example, what you would ask your 99 year old self: questions such as “what essentials should I be aware of”; “what goals should I focus on”; and “what experiences should I seek out to impact my life”?
Make sure you ask yourself the right questions. Focus on asking yourself “How can I…” questions because they immediately bring the topic front and center, more solution-based, and empowering. For example, “How can I spend more time with my children?”
The point of self-reflection is attaining clarity and coming to a solution. By finding a better perspective in dealing with a problem, you can achieve positive change and gain a better understanding of yourself.
Once you formulate a solution, stick to the power of this new knowledge.

