 If you're the kind of person who doesn't prioritize her own feelings, you might end up feeling overwhelmed and stressed more quickly than someone who notices her stress level inching up. You might need to include checking out your feelings as a part of your daily schedule.


Try using a "feelings thermometer" to take your emotional temperature.Your thermometer might range from "Piece of cake!" to "Out of control!" or similar. If your temperature is too high, do something relaxing. If it's too low, it would be a good time to try something new.
If identifying feelings is hard for you, try looking at a "feelings chart"that can help you remember the different emotions, and identify the one that's true for you.
 It's great to be involved in a variety of activities, but if you don't have enough time to do them all, you'll end up stressed. Learning to say no is an important quality of living independently and successfully.Remember that saying no isn't always selfish, and saying yes isn't always healthy.
As you learn to practice saying no, you're also learning to prioritize your own mental well-being.
 If you won't be taking the SAT within the next year, you might be able to put off studying for it. If you have a major project due in one subject, see if you can put off studying for a test that won't occur until next week.If you've planned well, you should have scheduled adequate time for both. But don't waste time blaming yourself if you find yourself in a bind. Make the best of it, and prioritize what needs to be done first.
Remember that not everything has to be done perfectly. If you're taking a class "pass-fail" then you don't have to make a perfect grade in it. Doing something "good enough" is an important life skill for a perfectionist to master!

, It's a lot less stressful to set goals that you can actually accomplish, rather than setting goals that describe the kind of lofty ideals that you might prefer. If your goals are attainable, you'll be encouraged by the feeling of success that comes with completing a goal.For example, if you're in a new school, you might feel overwhelmed by how much you don't know about your new setting. An attainable short-term goal might be to learn your way around, and perhaps find one new person to talk to.
Setting goals that are attainable means that you'll have to know your own strengths and challenges.
 You might make a list of what you'd like your life to contain in the future. If you're in high school, you'll need to start thinking ahead to what you want to do after graduation. If you want to be a veterinarian, for instance, you'll need to think about how to balance your love of animals with your need to study trigonometry in order to get into a good veterinary college program.Post images, words, and reminders of your long-term goals near your study space.
If you aren't sure what your job goals are, that's okay. Instead, think about your priorities and values. For instance, if you know working outside is important to you, explore careers that are based in nature.
Talking with your parents, a career or guidance counselor, or another trusted person can provide some good support for this process.
 School stress isn't limited to academic pressures. Peer interactions, personality conflicts, subtle bullying and discrimination can all interfere with your ability to learn. To counterbalance the stresses that come from daily pressures, find someone to talk to. You can talk to your parents, trusted friends, a mentor or a professional counselor. Consider telling your teacher about any social issues that she may be able to help with.Try using role-playing around the situation, or develop scripts to use that can help you avoid conflicts.
Learning to stand up for yourself can help you feel less stressed over time.
Try to use "I" statements to talk about your responses to social pressures. For example, stating that "I feel anxious when you do this, because it makes me feel left out." This provides clear information about your experience while still identifying the problem to another person.

