 Everyone loves to laugh. Getting a girl to laugh can be a big part of getting (and keeping) her attention. This doesn’t mean that you need to transform yourself into a Jim Carrey-like comedian, but it does mean that you need to figure out what kind of humor you are best at. It’s good to remember that you don’t have to be funny every second, but throwing some humor into a conversation is often a great way to get a girl interested in you.No matter what sort of humor you’re using, its never good to wait for the girl to laugh. Quick, witty humor that only pauses for an instant is the way to go. If she thinks it’s funny, she’ll laugh. But don’t expect her to openly guffaw at your jokes--and never say something like “oh you didn’t think that was funny?” if she doesn’t laugh. That will just cause a serious amount of awkwardness to ensue.
Do your homework. If you don’t feel like you are a naturally funny guy, watch comedians on TV or study the funny characters in movies. See how they deliver their jokes, but don’t memorize jokes and simply repeat them--that can come off as rather stiff and stilted.
Use situational humors. While dishing out funny or witty one-liners can get a girl to giggle, try embellishing your humor but commenting on your situation or environment in a funny way.
Laugh when you genuinely think something is funny. Avoid fake-laughing, as that is generally pretty easy to see through. A real, whole-hearted laugh can be a very attractive thing.
Don’t use mean humor. While light teasing may be funny at first, use it sparingly. No girl wants to have a dude spend the entire night cutting her down with his words--even if he means it in a joking way. On the other hand, self-deprecating humor (humor that makes fun of yourself) can make a girl feel comfortable with you quickly because it shows her that you have enough confidence in yourself that you can easily make fun of yourself.;
, If you show passion for whatever you are involved in, chances are you will be catching more than a few female glances. Being passionate and good at something is attractive--it shows that you care about something other than yourself, you’re a hard worker, and you are passionate. It also shows that you have ambition--you don’t just want to be involved in something, you want to be the very best you can be.


If you are on a sports team, work hard to be the star or team captain. If you are on debate club, give it your all to lead the debates. If you are in a photography or art class, don’t be afraid to show off your artistic side (and skill.)
Don't hide what it is that you like. If you're happy, confident, and enthusiastic, people will start to get interested in what you’re interested in. Don't act like you hate what you actually like; just play it off like it's not a big deal and sell the really fun parts of what it is that you like.
 You don’t need to weep openly if a sad topic gets brought up, but make sure you are not an emotionless-robot when you are around her either. This means sometimes discussing how something made you feel. Saying things like “Oh man, that movie we watched in class today made me wonder how it must have felt to be trapped on the Titanic. It’s so scary and sad to think about” will show her that you have empathy--you can relate to how others are feeling, and feel things yourself., Most girls love guys who are polite and courteous. Don't do or say things that many people consider offensive, including swearing and making sexist/racist/etc. jokes or comments. If you act like a gentleman, demonstrating your respect for women and other people in general, girls will be more likely to welcome your company.


Saying things that you know would probably offend some people isn't a good way to make or keep friends. It might look "cool" to your guy friends, but it's a real turnoff to most girls. It's easy to diss something; it's much harder to believe in something. Be a man and believe in something.
 You don’t have to be the captain of a ship, or a world-class mountain climber--but you should be up for almost anything. Invite her on hikes, camping trips, a day out in the city nearest you. Go with the flow if you are hanging out with her and something exciting gets brought up.
 You stand a much better chance of making a good overall impression if you treat girls that don't interest you just as nicely as those that do. This doesn't mean that you need to talk to or flirt with every girl, but don't ignore them or treat them dismissively. You never know when a girl is going to suddenly get attractive, or who she'll become friends with. The best bet is to treat them all the way you would want to be treated.


Don't talk to a girl about another girl's attractiveness; it's distasteful and can degrade the girl's opinion of herself. Plus, it's just easy to accidentally say the wrong thing, or say something you didn't mean. Stick to talking about other girls with your guy friends.
You generally shouldn't talk about past relationships you've had, or other girls that potentially interest you with the girl you are most interested in. No girl wants to have to compare herself to your past relationships, and she really doesn't want you to compare her to them either. Make her feel like she's the only girl in your universe, and the universe will smile kindly on you.
 When you talk to a girl, give her your full attention. Listen carefully to what she says, and you may learn a lot about her and discover interests that you have in common.


Ask her lots of questions. This will signal to her that you're genuinely interested in her apart from her looks. Ask her what activities she likes, what music she’s into, what movies she’s seen recently. Ask her about her family, her aspirations and hopes. Any question that is sincerely and respectfully asked is game.
Give her time to speak. If you ask her questions, give her time to express herself, and don't feel bad if she's talking a lot. Remember, her talking a lot is a good sign!

, Confidence is a big turn on for most girls. If you walk with your head held high, don’t hesitate when discussing something that you know a lot about, or simply walk up to a girl without hesitation, you will get noticed. Know that you are an awesome guy--when you display confidence in yourself, it shines through and girls will notice.Bear in mind that you should not be too cocky. Confidence and cockiness are actually separate things. When you are confident, you have faith in yourself without holding it over others. When you are cocky, you are confident and you want everyone (really everyone) to know it. Cockiness can be a turn off for girls. They want someone who believes in himself without letting everyone know how awesome he is, all the time.

