 Add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of vegetable oil to a small skillet. Heat the oil over medium heat for 5 to 7 minutes, or until it starts to shimmer.You can substitute canola or peanut oil for the vegetable oil if you prefer.
 While the oil is warm, add ½ cup (70 g) of roughly chopped macadamia nuts to the skillet. Toast the nuts over medium heat until they are golden brown, which should take about 5 minutes.Be sure to stir or shake the nuts as they’re toasting so they cook evenly.
 When the nuts are finished toasting, remove them from the skillet with a slotted spoon. Place them on a plate lined with paper towel and let them cool for about 5 minutes., Once the macadamia nuts are cooled, add them, along with 12 ounces (340 g) of raw, skinless sashimi-grade salmon that’s been cut into ½-inch (13-mm) cubes, 3 ounces (85 g) of Maui onion that’s been cut into a ¼-inch (6.5-mm) dice, 1 thinly sliced scallion, 1 teaspoon (3 g) white or black sesame seeds, 2 tablespoons (15 g) of fried shallots, 4 teaspoons (20 ml) of soy sauce, 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of toasted sesame oil, and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of chili garlic sauce to a large bowl. Mix well so all of the ingredients are fully combined.You can use any sweet onion, such as a Vidalia, Walla Walla, or Bermuda, in the salmon poke.
You can use a combination of the white and black sesame seeds if you prefer.
You can use store-bought fried shallots, which you can usually find at Asian markets, or fry your own.
 After you’ve mixed the ingredients, stir in a pinch of kosher salt. Taste the mixture to determine if you’re happy with the seasonings, and adjust accordingly.Depending on your preference, you may want to mix in more soy sauce, sesame oil, and/or chili garlic sauce.
 Once you’re happy with the flavor of the poke, let it sit at room temperature for 5 minutes. The ingredients will have time to marinate together, so the flavors meld and deepen., After the poke has marinated for several minutes, divide it between several bowls. Serve it alone as a salad or appetizer, or pair it with steamed rice for a main course.The salmon poke serves 4 to 6 as an appetizer and 2 to 3 as a main course.

