 The whole point of negotiating with a debt buyer is to come up with a payment plan you can afford. For this reason, you must first take stock of your finances. Figure out how much you can afford to pay monthly for the debt.


Add up all sources of income: salary or wages, part-time jobs, savings, checking accounts, savings bonds, etc.
Deduct your monthly expenses. Instead of guessing your monthly expenses, take out your bank statements for the past six months and calculate how much you spent each month.
Cut expenses as much as you can. You might not have been fiscally responsible in the past. Go over your bank statements with a red pen and see what you can cut. Dinners out, trips to the movies, and monthly charges for Netflix are all things you can live without.;
, If you want to negotiate with the debt buyer, then you should aim to pay less than 50% of debt. That is how much most debt buyers settle for.For example, if your debt was $20,000, then you should try not to pay more than $10,000.


Accordingly, you should make your opening bid very low. Start by offering 25%.If your debt is $20,000, then offer $5,000.
If the debt is really old (say five years or more), then you can offer 5-10% of the face value of the debt.The older the debt, the less money the debt buyer spent to purchase the debt.
 You shouldn’t worry about being too low. The debt buyer likely bought your debt for pennies on the dollar. For example, your $20,000 debt might have been bought for $1,000.The debt buyer has incentive to give you a steep discount because it will still make a profit.


Also remember that debt buyers collect on only about 25% of the accounts they buy, so you can be aggressive in your negotiations., Get the debt buyer’s address whenever they call. Also try to get a fax number.You need an address to send a letter to.


Some experts suggest negotiating over the phone.Others recommend negotiating only through mail.Unless you have a reason to negotiate over the phone, you should probably negotiate using letters. This way, you will keep a running paper trail of all communications. Also, by negotiating in writing, you won’t accidentally slip up and say something over the phone that you might later regret.
 In your first letter, make you initial offer. Be sure to mail the letter certified mail, return receipt requested.The receipt will serve as proof that the debt buyer received the letter.


Your letter does not need to be detailed or complicated. Simply set it up as a business letter. In the body, type, “In response to the debt referenced above, I offer to pay to discharge the debt. Please contact me at the above address with your response.”

, The debt buyer will probably want to negotiate. Negotiation does not involve immediately saying “Yes,” so you shouldn’t be upset if the debt buyer rejects your initial offer.


Don’t immediately cave when you first hear “No.”Instead, remain calm.
The debt buyer might respond with a phone call to rattle you. Insist that they respond to you in writing and hang up.
 Let’s say you open negotiations by offering to pay 25% of the face value of the debt. The debt buyer then counters by asking for 90%. You should not accept their first offer.Instead, write another letter and increase your offer only by 5-10%.


In your letter, you can also mention the threat of bankruptcy. This should put fear into the debt buyer. If you declare bankruptcy, then you can probably wipe out the entire debt.The debt buyer then would receive nothing from you.
You could write, “I received your letter dated March 12, 2016. In the letter, you insisted that I pay 90% of the debt ($18,000). Unfortunately, I cannot pay that much. If I did, I would be forced out of my apartment and into bankruptcy. Instead, I propose that I pay $6,000.”

, Negotiation involves a lot of back and forth. Always remember your target—the maximum amount that you can afford to pay.


Remember that the debt buyer is monitoring your credit as it is negotiating with you. For this reason, don’t claim to be on the verge of bankruptcy if you are taking out new debt during the negotiations process. The debt buyer will see that you are not on the verge of poverty and will disbelieve everything you say.If the debt buyer absolutely refuses to come down to anything approaching your target, then you should meet with an attorney. An attorney might have tips for how to respond.
Also, the lawyer can let you know whether you should negotiate at all or wait for the debt buyer to sue you.
 There are two ways you can pay off the debt: in a lump sum all at once, or over a period of time using monthly payments. You should first try to pay the debt in a lump sum.By paying in a lump sum, you can avoid monthly interest charges and other hidden fees.The debt buyer might also be willing to accept less if you make a lump sum payment. In this situation, the debt buyer will not have to worry about you diligently making monthly payments. In exchange, the debt buyer might give you an even greater discount.
 If you can’t afford a lump sum payment, then you should ask for a repayment plan. Debt buyers differ in how much time they will give you to pay off a debt. It is not uncommon to have 12- or 24-month repayment plans. These lengthy repayment periods are usually offered if the debt buyer has been using its own internal collection department.If you want an extended repayment period, then ask.


Remember that if you ask for a payment plan, you might end up having to pay a higher percentage of the debt—10-15% more.However, if a payment plan works for you, then be sure to ask for it.
Your debt buyer might be using an outside collections agency. If it is, then you often only get one to three months to pay off the debt., Before paying, you should make sure that the debt buyer sends you the repayment agreement in writing.Read it closely and raise any questions or objections you have.


The agreement should also be on the debt buyer’s letterhead.
 You don’t want to miss a payment. After all, missing payments is what got you into this situation in the first place. Accordingly, you should set up a billing system which works for you.


Some people use automated payments. You can contact your bank and check if this is an option for you.
If you don’t want to use automated payments, then set up email alerts or some other system that regularly notifies you that a payment is due.
You also might want to avoid email statements. Instead, request paper statements. Email statements can get lost in the crush of emails you might receive and are easy to delete or overlook.
 Before negotiating, you should talk to an attorney. You want to fully understand your options. For example, you might be terrified of being sued by the debt buyer. In fact, the debt buyer might be threatening a lawsuit. You should schedule a consultation with a debt relief attorney and discuss the likelihood of being sued.


In truth, very few debt buyers will sue you. For one thing, they paid very little to purchase your debt from the original creditor. Bringing a lawsuit costs time and money.
Furthermore, debt buyers have to prove to a court that they own a valid debt. This means they must prove in court that you took out the loan and that the debt buyer has title to the debt. Often, debt buyers cannot prove these facts because they are sloppy with their paperwork.
 You should keep detailed records of your interactions with the debt buyer. Federal law prohibits debt collectors from engaging in abusive collection tactics. If the debt buyer has been abusive, then you have strong leverage during negotiations. Your lawyer can advise you whether the debt buyer has broken the law.


The debt collector cannot contact you at unreasonable times. For example, the law presumes that calls before 8:00 am and after 9:00 pm are inconvenient. If you work during the evening, then any call during the day would also be inconvenient if you are sleeping.
The debt collector can’t use obscene, abusive, or profane language.
Debt buyers can’t use violence against you or another. They also can’t threaten to use violence.
Debt buyers must also identify themselves when they call you., Another reason people try to settle with debt buyers is the belief that the debt buyer can remove negative information from their credit report. This is not the case. Only your original creditor can remove negative information.You should meet with a credit counselor to discuss your options and how they will impact your credit score. For example, you might not want to even negotiate. Generally, negative information falls off your credit report after seven years.If the debt is six years old, then you only need to wait one year for the information to fall off your report and for your credit score to improve.
Reputable credit counselors are usually non-profits. Credit counseling services are typically available at local universities, credit unions, housing authority offices, or military bases., You might want to negotiate because you are afraid that you might be sued. However, debt buyers have only a certain amount of time to sue you for the debt. This amount of time is the statute of limitations.For example, Connecticut gives creditors six years to file a lawsuit to recover on a debt.The debt buyer doesn’t have any more time than the original creditor to sue you, so it must bring a lawsuit within six years of your last payment.
You should check if the statute of limitations has already passed. If it has, then there is no need to negotiate. The debt buyer cannot sue you. Your only obligation to pay is any moral obligation you feel.
To find your statute of limitations, search the Internet for “statute of limitations debt collection.”

