 Look for books about ancient Egypt, particularly those on religion. While reading old texts can help you understand where the beliefs come from, you also want to read about how the ancient practices have been adapted for modern times.


Try Eternal Egypt: Ancient Rituals for the Modern World by Richard J. Reidy, Red Land, Black Land by Barbara Mertz, or Temple of the Cosmos: The Ancient Egyptian Experience of the Sacred by Jeremy Naydler.;
, Kemetism involves ritual magic as one of its components; however, it’s not like the magic depicted in movies. You won’t suddenly have powers that you can throw around, and you won’t be making pacts with any evil entities. Instead, it’s more of a spiritual manifestation, like with a miracle.


Ask yourself what magic means to you. Say, “Why is this faith important to me? What do I hope to gain? How does this help my spiritual growth?”

, You can find several websites dedicated to Kemetism, and some even have interactive forums where you can talk to experienced individuals. You can find a lot of information about the modern forms of the religion by looking at websites and blogs. These sites will also provide you a great outlet for discussing your new faith, which might not be available where you live., Some Kemetic temples offer online classes to help you learn about and join the religion. If you like a more organized approach or prefer a traditional path, then that might be right for you. You can find these programs online.Try a site like http://www.netjer.org/.
 If you’re lucky enough to live near a Kemetic shrine or temple, meet with the local priest or a member of the community to talk about the faith and find out if you can attend a service. You may even be able to find a mentor in the community who is willing to share their faith with you.Say, “Hi, I’m interested in being Kemetic. Would it be possible for me to attend a service at your temple?”
Try, “You seem very knowledgeable about your faith. Do you think you would have time to share your experiences with me or answer a few questions?”

, Kemetics look beyond themselves to the needs of the community, so focus your thoughts and goals on achieving what’s best for all. Work to create an unselfish mindset and to be kind to others.


Share your abundance with others.
Wish yourself and others well.
Cooperate with others and work for a common good.
Seek to create positive changes in the community., As part of Kemetism, you will honor the gods and goddesses. Since the Kemetic faith is polytheistic, it features more than one god and goddess, though they all work together. Most Kemetics choose a pair of gods or goddeses to focus on.Reach out to the gods and goddesses. Light a candle and burn some incense, then talk to them. Over time, one or two should emerge as the ones you should choose to honor., Choose a location in your home, such as in a cabinet, on a small table, or on a bookshelf, where you can build a small shrine. Place a statue, icon, or picture of the deity or deities you are honoring in the shrine, as well as an offering plate or bowl. Other items to consider include incense, flowers, herbs, oils, and gems.During your daily practice, add offerings such as bread, water, milk, or rice to the plate or bowl.
 As part of your practice, designate a time every day to perform prayers at your shrine. During this time, communicate with your gods and goddesses. Your daily prayers don’t have to be complicated, but they should be a regular part of your day.Try lighting a candle or incense in your shrine to help you focus on your prayers.
Choose a time of day that will be easy for you most days.
 Family is important in the Kemetic faith, so take steps to improve your family life. Eat meals with your family, speak kindly to the them, and plan time to spend with them. Remember those who have passed on as well, as your ancestors remain part of the family even after death., Kemeticism is about groups rather than individuals. Seeking out a greater community can help you better practice your faith.Bring your communal mindset to your everyday life. Be a good team member at work or school, and try to bring positive things to your community.
 An established group should have a trained priest that is knowledgeable about the ancient practices, which have been well preserved in books and on temple walls. The priest will perform the ancient ceremonies at a community shrine or temple.Use Google to look for temples or shrines in your area.
Try sites like meetup.com or Facebook to look for smaller community groups that may still hold rituals or may travel as a group to a temple in a nearby area.
 Depending on where you live, it may be difficult to locate other Kemetics. If so, try reaching out to online groups and forums to build your community. The internet can quickly connect you to other Kemetics all around the globe., If you can’t find another Kemetic group in your community, reach out to other neopagans to see if they’d be interested in collaborating with you. While your faiths may be different, they will have overlapping features. Having someone to talk to about your faith who is open will at least provide you an outlet to grow spiritually., Because your ancestors have passed on, they are closer to the gods and goddesses than you are, which makes them blessed., Include a photo and/or memento of your ancestors, as well as small gifts like flowers or a candle. If you remember your ancestors, then they live forever.Feature these items on a shelf or on your mantle. You may even designate a wall in your home for photos of your ancestors if you have them.
 In Kemetism, ancestors who are honored look after their descendants from the beyond, so thank them for their blessings. It’s part of the familial bond.As you walk by your ancestor shrine, say, “Thank you for giving me life and always watching out for me.”

