 Generally, you should be able to establish paternity by completing the acknowledgement of paternity affidavit. However, in some situations, you might have to go to court to get recognized as the father:


The mother was married during the pregnancy and birth. In these situations, many states will only acknowledge your paternity if a genetic test is done.
You missed the deadline for signing an acknowledgement of paternity.
The mother is claiming someone else is the father.
 You will want to talk with your attorney about what your obligations will be if the court agrees that you are the father. If you only want to be notified if the child is put up for adoption, then signing up with a putative father registry would make more sense.


You can find an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.Money might be tight. If so, you can stop into your county courthouse and see if there is a family law facilitator or self-help center where you can get questions answered.
You might also look for legal aid, which provides free legal help to people with low incomes. Your nearest bar association should have information.
 Most states have printed, “fill in the blank” forms you can use to establish paternity. There may be several forms you have to fill out. For example, in Massachusetts, you need a “complaint” to establish paternity.You might also need to file a motion for genetic testing.Visit the courthouse in the county where the child lives (which might not be where you live). Ask the court clerk for the forms.
You can also look online for forms. They may be posted on the court’s website, or a legal aid organization might publish forms.
 If you can download the forms in PDF format, then you can type your information directly into the form. If not, print off the form and use a typewriter or print neatly using black ink.


Provide all information requested. If something doesn’t apply to you, then write “N/A” or “not applicable.”
Once you complete the forms, you should have a family law facilitator or a lawyer look them over. Ask the clerk if there is anyone at the courthouse who can look at them., Make several copies of the completed forms. Then gather everything together and take them to the court clerk’s office. Ask to file. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date.You may have to pay a filing fee. The amount will differ depending on your state. Call ahead of time and ask the court for the acceptable methods of payment.
If you can’t afford the filing fee, then ask for a fee waiver form and complete it.
Remember to serve a copy of the papers on the mother. She will have a chance to respond.
 The judge might order a genetic test before he or she can issue a court order of paternity. You will probably have to take the test at a licensed facility. There are generally two kinds of tests used:


Buccal swab. The tech rubs a Q-Tip along the inside of your cheek and removes DNA.Blood test. The tech draws blood and then analyzes the DNA from the blood.
 The judge will review the test results and then issue an order about paternity. You should get a certified copy of the judge’s order from the court clerk.


After establishing paternity, the judge will probably move on to consider child support and child custody issues. You should talk with your attorney about each, since these are important aspects of fatherhood.

