 The night before the test, make sure you get plenty of sleep. Remember, pulling an all-nighter or cramming can actually undermine all your hard work and make you feel more nervous about the test., Being hungry while trying to take an exam can make it difficult to concentrate and might result in poor performance. Make sure you eat before the test.Scientists have determined that foods with antioxidants, omega-3 fatty acids, and fiber are brain boosters, so reach for some trail mix, eat oatmeal, grab a piece of fruit, or eat a tuna sandwich before you head in to the exam.
Don’t choose something greasy or heavy that’s likely to upset your stomach and make you feel ill in the middle of the exam. Also, avoid overloading on junk food and sugary drinks.
A little caffeine can help boost your brain power, but too much will make you feel jittery and anxious during the test, so don’t overdo it.Eating a few minutes before the test might make you feel sleepy and your body will focus more on digestion than thinking, so try to eat a couple hours before the test., It’s totally normal to feel nervous before an exam, but anxiety can make it hard to focus on the exam and cause you to panic. To prevent this from happening, try some of these techniques to settle your nerves right before the big test.Before the exam begins, try staring at the wall for a few minutes. A simple meditative exercise like this one can help soothe your anxiety.
Take a few deep breaths. This can stop your racing thoughts and lower your blood pressure.
Chew gum, if allowed, which can relieve anxiety.
Bring a snack with you if you’re allowed. It can help you feel more calm and distract you from feeling nervous.
Remind yourself that this test is only a small part of your school career, and if doesn’t go well, there will be other opportunities to improve your grade.
Think about something positive and fun that you can do when the exam is over. This will be a reward to help get through the exam and keep you motivated.
 While you might feel rushed when you start the test, don’t dive right in and start answering questions. Take the time to carefully read the directions and make sure you understand how you are supposed to complete the test and respond to the questions.If something is unclear or confusing, don’t be afraid to raise your hand and quietly ask the teacher or test proctor for clarification.
 After you read the directions, it’s also important to take a few minutes and skim through the exam. You will get a good idea of how many questions are on the test and what types of questions are on it. This will allow you to pace yourself and finish on time.A good approach is to start with easier questions and then move on to the harder ones that might take more time or make you feel more nervous. This way, you feel more confident when you get to the difficult material and don’t get bogged down or stuck.
 If there’s something you are worried that you might forget during the test, before you start answering all the questions write it down in the margin of the exam or on scratch paper.This can be especially helpful with dates, formulas, or key terms.
 If there are any questions that you aren’t sure about on the test, mark them with an asterisk or symbol and then move on. You can come back to them after you’ve tackled other questions, and won't waste time.You might think of the answer while you’re working on a different question or it might be easier to recall when you look at it again.
 While it can be overwhelming and upsetting if you don’t know the answer to a question, make sure you put an answer down. Something is better than nothing, and you won’t lose any credit for attempting the question.


You might even guess correctly or receive partial credit for your response, which can help you improve your grade on the exam.
 If you finish the test with time to spare, don’t throw away the opportunity to check your answers or review your work.


You might catch a mistake or be able to improve the wording of a response.
 While you might feel like chucking your test and never looking at it again, it’s important to hang on to the test and review it so you can understand what you did right and what you should work on.


Make a list of the study strategies seemed to help you, so you can definitely employ these next time. At the same time, write down what didn’t seem to help or what you had a hard time with during the exam so you can improve.
If you’re allowed to keep it, your old test can be a useful study tool.
Set up a time to meet with your teacher so you can review the test and learn what you can do to improve your performance. They will appreciate that you’re making an effort and want to do well.

