 What colors are already okay for an ocean theme and would fit in well? Which colors would likely not work that well? After deciding this, work out what you are able to change and what you have to live with. For example, if your bright red desk is the only desk you can ever have, consider covering it with a muted cloth rather than demanding a new desk. Work around anything expensive that is unlikely to fit the theme, as you probably won't be able to replace it. For cheaper things, such as bedding and cushions, change should be fairly easy to achieve, as you can make your own items or embellish existing things to give them a mermaid touch.;
, If you're allowed to change the wall color, that's a major makeover. Or, you may just wish to change the bedding, curtains and a few pictures. Once you've decided which areas will be made over, you can draw up the new design ideas. Some things to consider include:


Painting the walls blue, aqua or light green, to represent the ocean.
Adding motifs to the walls, wardrobe doors and curtains, such as shells, mermaids, crabs, dolphins, seals, etc.
Buying or making a duvet cover with a mermaid or sea design. Adding matching sheets, etc.
 Use this to guide your makeover and to keep you within budget. Where possible, rely on reusing things you already own or creating your own items (such as drawings and sewing things).


Painting your bedhead blue, perhaps? Then adding a mermaid or sea decal to it?

, If you're allowed to change the wall color, get your parents and/or older siblings to help you to paint the walls a new color.


Another alternative is sea-colored wall paper with a mermaid, shell, dolphin or sea-related trim. Wallpapering is hard work and pricey though, so be sure to ask for your parent's opinion and permission before getting carried away with this idea.
 Whether newly painted or an existing wall color, you can add posters and wall decals. Grab some fish cutouts or any ocean cut outs and hang them on your walls and hanging from your ceiling. If you can find mermaid cut outs, hang those too. Also use your own mermaid and sea drawings and color them in before pinning them up.


Add posters depicting the sea, such as tropical islands, dolphins swimming, shells, the glistening ocean, etc.
Draw pictures of sharks, dolphins, whales, mermaids, etc.
 Either purchase ocean-themed curtains or make your own. You could jazz up existing curtains by stitching on fabric motifs with sea-related designs on them. Or, stitch on shells that hang from little holes pierced in them.
 Here are some ideas:


Get inflatable palm trees and hula girls for the tropical look from dollar stores. Or get beautiful murals of the ocean fish and of course, mermaids.
Add some starfish and shells around the room so it seems as if they washed up on shore. Also, you can collect mermaid figurines and put them on a special shelf very neatly or as if they are in the sea enjoying their time with each other.
 If you have your own tail(s), hang them on your walls to show you are a true mermaid. But, hang them up so that they are easy to get down when you want to go swimming.
 If you live near the beach, go outside often to collect extra sea-related items for your room. Shells, driftwood, sand and ocean water (in a little bottle) could all be incorporated into your room over time.
 Only do this if you know how to care for fish, like doing so and have a good budget for keeping fish. It's a time-consuming and pricey hobby, so your heart must be fully in it.
 Buy ocean/mermaid jewelry. For example, a necklace with a seashell on it.
 A perfect, ocean mermaid themed bedroom!

