 Bettas like to observe what’s going on around them. One way to interact with your betta is to put his tank where he can see what you are doing.Although this is not direct interaction, it allows your betta to see you as part of his environment, which can keep him mentally alert and occupied.


Because he’ll be watching you, do not be surprised if your betta swims to the top of tank when you walk over to feed him.
Place the tank in a room where you spend a lot of time, such as the family room.;
, Bettas are very intelligent fish. Although you may not have thought it possible to teach a fish a trick, you can certainly do with your betta. One trick you can teach him is to follow your finger. This one is pretty simple—place your finger on your betta’s tank and wait for him to respond by swimming towards your finger. Move your finger in all directions on the outside of his tank and watch him follow your finger around.Reward your betta with a small piece of food each time he follows your finger.
 Place a small piece of food just above the water’s surface. You can place the food on a popsicle stick or even your finger. Because betta naturally feed at the water’s surface, this will be an easy trick for your betta to learn., Since bettas enjoy observing their environment, pique your betta’s interest by drawing on his tank. Use a non-permanent dry erase marker and draw different designs.Stand by and watch your betta swim towards the design and investigate it.


Experiment with different color markers and different shapes.
 Hold a small handheld mirror close to your betta’s tank. Since your betta is so intelligent, he will likely recognize his own reflection. When he does this, he will flare his fins,which can be a very beautiful display.


You can also teach him to flare with a pen. As soon as your betta flares at the sight of his reflection in the mirror, hold a pen up to the mirror. After a few repetitions, hold only the pen up to get your betta to flare. Make sure to use the same color pen each time.Your betta may become riled up after seeing his reflection. Although there is no recommended amount of time to hold up a mirror in front of your betta,watch his body language to see if he is getting agitated.
 In the wild, bettas swim in shallow waters.However, do not mistake this for your betta needing only a small bowl to swim in. Your betta’s tank should be at least 5 gallons,but bigger is always better—10 gallons or more.If you can find it, use a tank that is longer than it is high.This will mimic your betta’s natural shallow water habitat.
Small bowls and vases are not recommended for betta fish., Bettas swim in relatively still waters in the wild, so you should select a gentle filter that would not create a strong water current in your betta’s tank.Adjustable-flow filters are also an option, since you could adjust the strength of the filter to decrease the current.Do not select a tank that already has a filter attached (e.g., eclipse systems). These filters are not adjustable and tend to be too strong for bettas.Although a filter will help keep the water clean, you will still need to replace the water regularly to reduce nitrate levels and maintain overall good water quality.
Ask the staff at your local pet store about the strength of the filters available in the store. They should be able to help you choose which one will work best for your betta’s tank.
 Wild bettas live in shaded waters and are accustomed to regular cycles of light and dark from the sun. An aquarium light will be useful in mimicking this same light cycle. Turn the light on during the day and off at night.In addition to mimicking a natural light cycle, the light will also be necessary for the live plants in your betta’s tank.
There are several types of bulbs (e.g., full-spectrum, LED, incandescent) for lighting an aquarium. A full-spectrum bulb is most similar to natural daylight,and is thus a good type of bulb for your betta’s tank.
If you plan to add live plants to the tank, the bulb’s wattage should be approximately 2 to 5 watts per gallon of water.Bulbs are available at your local pet store. The staff at the store can explain how to safely install the bulb above your betta’s tank.
Do not use direct sunlight as a light source. It could stimulate algae growth in your betta’s tank., Your betta probably will not enjoy living in a tank that just has water in it. One way to decorate is to place live plants in his tank. Since bettas naturally swim in shaded areas, the live plants will provide your betta with shade from the light bulb.Dense areas of live plants provide ideal shade areas.When you are first setting up the tank, add the plants when the tank is half-full. This will make it easier to place the plants where you want them.Following the initial set up, consider switching out the plants during a water change, when you will be removing some of the tank’s water.
Fake plants are not recommended for your betta’s tank. They can have sharp edges that could damage your betta’s fragile fins.Aquarium caves are good decoration for your betta’s tank, and give him a place to hide.Hiding places provide shade and reduce your betta’s stress. Aim to have about three-fourths of his tank’s open area covered with different types of hiding spaces.Decorate your betta’s tank with driftwood. Make sure that it does not have any rough or sharp edges.Terra cotta pots are not good decoration for your betta’s tank. They have sharp edges that could damage your betta’s fins., Bettas are tropical fish, so warm water (78 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit) is best for your betta. Use a water heater and thermometer to respectively maintain and monitor the tank’s water temperature.Water heaters are not good for small tanks (less than three gallons), since the water could warm up too quickly and make the betta sick.Water that is too cold can suppress your betta’s immune system,leaving him more susceptible to infection and illness.
The staff at your local pet store can explain how to install the heater and thermometer in your betta’s tank.
Bettas prefer slightly acidic water. Maintain the tank’s pH at 6.5 to 7., Before adding your betta to the tank, you will need to run what is called a fishless cycle. This cycle allows for the growth of good bacteria in your tank’s filter that will keep ammonia levels near zero in the tank. The bacteria will convert ammonia to nitrate through a process known as the nitrogen cycle.A fishless cycle usually takes four to six weeks.You will need to use your own ammonia source, such as household ammonia, to start the cycle.
Use a test kit to maintain ammonia levels at 2 to 3 parts per million during the cycle. This will allow enough bacteria to grow to handle the waste produced from your betta.
Adding your betta to the tank before running the fishless cycle could expose him to high levels of ammonia (produced in his waste), since there would be no bacteria to break it down. Ammonia is toxic and could make your betta very sick (e.g., respiratory distress, erratic swimming, internal and external bleeding.
Nitrate is also harmful for your fish. The good bacteria cannot break down nitrate, but you would remove the nitrate when you change the water.
 You will have a hard time earning your betta’s trust if you add a tank mate that is not a good match. Bettas were originally bred for aggression. However, when they started being bred for color, the aggression was not fully bred out of them.Bettas, particularly male bettas, can be very aggressive towards other fish. On the other hand, bettas could be very submissive, leaving them vulnerable to attack by a tank mate.
Bettas are territorial fish, particularly during breeding season in the wild.
Female bettas are less aggressive than male bettas and can be housed peacefully with other fish.
In the wild, bettas do not travel in schools., Several types of fish may be suitable tank mates for your betta. One type is the white cloud mountain minnow. This minnow has a peaceful temperament and is unlikely to be aggressive towards a betta. It also has a similar diet to bettas.A clown pleco is a peaceful algae eater, and would help keep the cage clean. As an armored catfish, your betta would probably avoid provoking him. A clown pleco is fairly large (four inches long) and requires a large tank (20 gallons).
Pygmy corydoras are tiny bottom feeders and are not brightly colored, so they are unlikely attract the attention of your betta.
Ember tetras are small fish that are unlikely to nip at your betta.
Harlequin rasboras make good tank mates with bettas because they live with bettas in the wild.
Remember that bettas don't need a tank mate. Your betta would do just fine swimming by himself.
 A fish whose appearance is as bright and ornate as your betta will likely be perceived as a threat to him.For examples, swordtails would not be good because they have bright coloration. Fish such as guppies, angelfish, and high-fin tetras have long flowing tails.Gourami are similarly shaped to bettas, and could thus be seen as a threat.
 Bettas have a special anatomical feature called a labyrinth bladder, which allows them to breathe air.With the ability to breathe air, bettas usually eat at the water’s surface. In fact, their mouths are turned upwards to accommodate surface feeding., Bettas are carnivorous and need high levels of protein in their diet.It is very important to buy betta-specific commercial fish food—the standard tropical fish food is not going to have enough protein for your betta.Betta pellets are ideal for your betta. Make sure to read the ingredient label: the first few ingredients should be meat, and the pellets should be approximately 40% protein.
Consider purchasing freeze dried or frozen bloodworms, brine shrimp and daphnia, all of which are great protein sources. Alternatively, you can find pellets that already contain these protein sources.
 Feed your betta twice a day, about 12 hours apart. Since your betta’s stomach is so small (about the size his eyes), he will need only two to three pellets per feeding.Try to feed your betta at the same times each day.
Do not overfeed your betta. Overfeeding can cause bloating and other serious health problems in your betta.
Overfeeding can also lead to excess food accumulation on the tank’s bottom, which dirties and pollutes the water.
If you are feeding your betta separate bloodworms, brine shrimp, or daphnia, do so only once a week. These are considered treats and should not be fed very often.