 Situate a fabric pencil inside a compass, then set the compass so that it matches your desired height measurement. Draw a half-circle onto the interfacing and cut it out with sharp scissors.


Usually, a 9 to 10 inch (23 to 25 cm) hat is tall enough for toddlers and young children, while older kids and young adults might need a hat 11 to 12 inches (28 to 30 cm) tall, if not a bit taller.
When drawing the circle, place the fixed leg of your compass in the middle of the bottom edge of your interfacing. Draw a half-circle around this point, extending out and around the bottom edge from above. Note that the flat edge of your half-circle will be twice as long as the shape's height.
If you have your heart set on a specific height, add another 1 inch (2.5 cm) to that measurement for a seam allowance.
 Roll the interfacing so that it comes to a peak at the top part of the curved edge. Keep the bottom flat against your working surface as you work.


Once the opening at the bottom of your hat appears small enough to rest on the intended wearer's head, pin it in place and test the cone. If it rests securely on the wearer's head, move on. If it does not sit on the head well, though, widen or narrow the opening as needed to improve the fit.
 Once you achieve a perfect fit with your cone, carefully cut away some of the excess interfacing from the inside of the body. Remove just enough to get rid of any excess bulk.


Leave at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of overlapping material inside the hat.
 Unpin the trimmed interfacing and lay it flat onto your intended fabric. Pin in place, then cut out a piece of fabric that matches the outline of your interfacing exactly.

Make sure that the adhesive side of the interfacing faces your fabric as you cut the fabric out. The adhesive side is usually the glossy side.






Choose a fabric type you feel comfortable working with. Synthetic satin is cost-effective and has a traditional look, but the edges can fray easily and some hemming will be required. Felt has a less traditional look, but it is both inexpensive and easy to work with since it does not fray.
 Carefully press the interfacing on the fabric using an iron set to low heat. Press as needed until the two pieces of material are securely attached to each other.


If you are using a synthetic material, you will need to use a low heat setting and work as carefully as possible to prevent the fabric from melting.
Read the exact instructions for your interfacing before attempting to iron it on. While the procedure is generally the same for each type of interfacing, some may require slightly different steps.
 Roll the material back into a cone and pin in it in place. Hand stitch the side of the cone using a neat back stitch.

Alternatively, you could glue the edge in place with hot glue if you want a no-sew option.






If you are working with a fray-resistant fabric like felt, you do not need to worry about hems. If you are using a material that frays, however, you should hem the side edges with a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance before rolling the hat into a cone.
 Measure the opening at the base of your cone. Use a compass fitted with a fabric pencil to draw a circle of the same diameter onto a piece of interfacing. Draw a second circle around the first that is 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) wider. Cut out both circles so that you are left with a large ring of interfacing.

Pin the interfacing to your fabric with the fusible side facing down. Cut the fabric out, as well.






Note that you should add an extra 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) to both the inside and outside of the ring if you are using material that frays, like satin. This extra fabric will be used as a seam allowance for a hem.
 Use a hot iron to fuse the interfacing onto the fabric. Make sure that the pieces are securely joined before continuing past this step.


Use the same heat setting, time, and pressure to fuse the brim material as you used when fusing the material for the body of the hat.
 If you are using a material that frays, fold the inside edge and outside edge under by about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) each. Pin in place, then carefully back stitch by hand to secure the hem.


Skip this step if you are using felt or another fray-resistant material.
 Return to the conical body of the hat. Use sharp scissors to cut 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) slits around the entire body, each one spaced roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm) apart.
 Slide the brim onto the hat so that the inner ring rests flat on top of the flaps at the cone's base. Hot glue or stitch each of these flaps onto the ring from the underside of the hat.

Unless the bottom edge of the cone has frayed significantly, you should not need to hem it before attaching the brim. The glue or thread used to secure the brim onto the hat should prevent the lower edge from fraying, thereby negating the need for a separate hem.






As you sew the brim onto the hat, keep your stitches as flat as possible. Do not pull the thread too tightly or the fabric will bunch up., The basic structure of your hat is done at this point, so all you need to do is decorate it to your liking. Some ideas include:

Cut out stars and crescent moons from yellow felt and hot glue the shapes onto your hat.






Cover the seam with a strip of decorative ribbon, or wrap a long piece of ribbon around the hat in a spiral.






Look for small patches, beads, or craft embellishments to glue, sew, or iron onto the hat in a random pattern.
 After you finish decorating the hat, put it on and wear it proudly.

