 Due to the thickness of the typical Selkirk rex coat, and its likelihood attract dirt, you should brush the cat at least twice a week. Using a cat-specific hair brush—which you can purchase at your local pet-supply store—brush the Selkirk’s back, head, neck, stomach, and legs.If you’re unfamiliar with grooming a Selkirk rex, speak with the cat’s breeder or a professional groomer. Ask them for tips on how best to brush this unique breed. If you brush the coat incorrectly, you could stretch out the curls.;
, The curled hair of a Selkirk rex will have a tendency to tangle or mat. When this problem occurs, you’ll need to use a comb to remove these tangles. You’ll be able to purchase a cat comb at your local pet-supply store. When removing mats from the Selkirk’s coat, be gentle; never yank or pull on hair to remove a tangle. This will both hurt the cat and damage the fur.Be aware that, although Selkirk rexes are born with their distinguishable curly coat, the fur will straighten out when the kitten reaches about 6 months. The curls will return when the cat reaches maturity (about 1 year), and the coat will remain curly for the rest of the cat’s life.
 Like all other cats, a Selkirk rex will bathe itself with its tongue, and so it will rarely be necessary for you to bathe the cat. If it gets extremely dirty somehow and needs a bath, wash it in the tub with a moisturizing shampoo, so its fur and skin will not dry out. Dry the cat lightly with a towel, then let it finish air drying for a few hours.Bathing and combing a Selkirk rex is a good way to remove excess, dead hair that the cat has shed. Otherwise, this dead hair will shed as the cat walks around your house and brushes up against furniture and people.
 Like all cats, Selkirk rexes are prone to periodontal disease, and frequent tooth brushing can help combat this disease. Ideally, brush your cat’s teeth once a day—however, if that’s impractical, brushing the teeth once a week should suffice. When you brush the teeth, make sure to brush the cat’s molars, in addition to its canines and incisors.You can find a cat-specific pet toothbrush and toothpaste at your local pet-supply store. Ask the sales staff for their recommendation regarding the best type and brand of toothbrush for your cat.
 Although Selkirk rexes are not especially susceptible to eye and ear diseases, the eyes and ears will still need occasional cleaning. Daily, wipe the corners of the cat’s eyes to remove any excess fluid. At least once a week, look into your cat’s ears. Dirt and wax can accumulate inside the fold of the ear. If you notice an accumulation, wipe this out with a cotton ball.You can dab your cats eyes and wipe out their ears using a paper towel, or a cotton ball. Do not put a Q-tip in your cat’s ear; a cat’s ear canal is much larger than a human’s, and a Q-tip could cause damage.
 Although Selkirk rexes are sociable, curious, and friendly, it’s best to keep them as permanent indoor cats. Due to the rarity and novelty of this breed, a Selkirk is much more likely to be stolen than a more common-looking cat. The outdoors are also generally unsafe for housecats, due to cars and other vehicles, and threats from wildlife in rural areas.You should also spay or neuter your Selkirk, unless you plan to responsibly breed the animal.
 Selkirk rexes are generally healthy cats. However, like any purebred breed, there are certain genetic concerns that may lead to illness in a Selkirk. These can be detected by your veterinarian, so be sure to schedule regular veterinary appointments for your cat. Specifically, Selkirk rexes are genetically prone to contract Polycystic Kidney Disease (PKD) and Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HCM).If you’ve purchased your Selkirk rex from a breeder, ask them if there are any hereditary health problems in the cat’s genetic line. Check and see if the breeder has tested the cat’s parents and grandparents for any genetic illness., Selkirk rexes are intelligent cats and enjoy interacting and playing games with their owners. Try playing fetch with your Selkirk, or flick a piece of string around on the floor for your cat to chase. Selkirks also like to cuddle and will want to sit in your lap from time to time. Like all cats, Selkirks also need time to themselves, and will retreat to their beds or another safe space when they have had enough attention.When you visit your local pet-supply store, look for some toys that your Selkirk will enjoy to play with. These include: laser pointer, scratching post, a catnip-filled chew toy, and a feather or toy mouse on a string.
 Like many other feline breeds, a Selkirk rex will prefer a structured day and won’t necessarily handle alterations to the routine well. Feed them at regular times; for example, once at 10 am and again at 8 pm.Changes to this daily routine may disconcert or confuse your cat.
 Because Selkirk rexes are so social and thrive on interacting with humans, they won’t do well if frequently left alone. The cat may feel abandoned, and the trust that it has formed with you as the owner may suffer. To avoid this, try not to ignore the cat; spend quality time cuddling or playing with it when you’re around it.Selkirk rexes do well with children, and are also very compatible with other friendly cats or with dogs who enjoy being around cats. If you need to leave your Selkirk alone for many hours a day, another pet can provide suitable company.

