 In the broad sense, domestic abuse is any act of a controlling and abusive nature that takes place in the context of a domestic relationship, including dating relationships. Abuse can be sexual, physical, emotional, verbal, psychological, or economic. It can happen to anyone, regardless of age, race, religion, gender, or sexual orientation.Each state defines domestic violence differently. For example, most states require a physical or sexual manifestation which can be as little as a bare touch without consent. Some states, however, require that the perpetrator use enough force or intimidation that the victim is in fear of their physical safety., If you don’t know if a relationship is abusive, look for common red flags. If you see something that looks suspicious, you might wish to approach the victim and gently ask whether he or she needs help. Visit wikiHow’s How to Recognize Signs of Domestic Violence for information on how to identify domestic violence.


Common signs of physical violence include:

bruises
black eyes
marks on the neck or face


Emotional abuse is also domestic violence. Although it may not leave outward signs, it is still damaging. Common emotional abuse includes:

humiliating language, such as calling someone names (“stupid,” “ugly,” “crazy,” etc.)
constant criticism or “nitpicking”
violent or uncontrolled shouting or screaming


Domestic violence also includes financial abuse. With financial abuse, the abuser restricts the victim’s access to necessary finances. Financial abuse includes:

not providing access to money to pay for necessities like food, transportation, or medical care
requiring the victim to constantly check in about spending money, no matter how small the amount
not having access to a credit card and expressing fear about getting one



, If possible, you should write down the days and times in which you hear fighting or witness abuse. You should keep a record, even if you initially want to report the violence anonymously. You may change your mind and wish to give the police a statement at a later date.
 People remain in abusive relationships for various, complicated reasons. Sometimes the victim fears for her life. Other times, he or she may lack resources to actually leave the abuser. In other situations, victims are committed to the relationship and hope for change., Your first instinct may be to report any domestic violence that you suspect. However, doing so can create more problems for the victim than solutions. If the victim hasn’t created a safety plan, then getting the police involved could limit the victim’s options. Furthermore, police involvement could anger the abuser, leading to increased abuse.Instead of reporting domestic violence, you might want to reach out to the victim and ask what they want. You could help the victim come up with a safety plan, or you could put the victim in touch with agencies that help victims of domestic violence.Nevertheless, if the victim is in imminent danger, then you should call the police.If you hear physical fighting, objects being broken, or violent threats like “I will kill you!” then you should call the police immediately.

