 You need an idea, or a thought, to get your story started. think about what the introduction of a movie is like. think about how all the characters are introduced and how the scene is set.;
, what kind of traits do they have? how will these traits contribute to their actions later on in the story?

, One of these STORY WEBS will help you organize your thoughts and plans. what do you think you are going to write? what kind of conflict, or problem, could there be?

, You can use these sentences later. When you face WRITER'S BLOCK.
 You want to give the readers a taste of what the characters lives are like before you bring on conflicts or emotional changes in the characters life. About 13-20 pages should do it. These first 13-20 pages are your introduction. An introduction doesn't always have to be boring either. You can begin with the ballet recital, bake sale, or something else.
 This is so the reader can get to know the character better. (for example: you could make the characters family member die, and then reveal a big secret about them. that is an example of what will get a readers attention.)

, If the reader is constantly having changes made to the characters or setting of the story, then your reader will get confused. Try to add in extra events or moments of calmness or deep undisturbed emotion, so that the reader will have time to soak in all the information.
 If the book is already talking about a zombie rising, and the reader is still wondering what happened to the hairless cat locked in chains in the basement, then this will frustrate the reader.
 Editing is adding events that could have been forgotten, making sentences more in depth, and revising the story to make sure that the reader can access all the points and perspectives of the situation.
 Make sure that you read over the story yourself and make sure that you got to the point of the story.
 Have a trusting friend look over your writing. Discuss what your friend got from the writing, and see if it matches up to what was in your imagination while you were writing it.
 I did it!" like a chicken with your head cut off, then do just that. You have every right. Because you should be proud of your amazing story!

