 Tinnitus is a not a disease itself, but rather a symptom of other problems in the ear, brain, heart, or blood vessels. So if you can eliminate the underlying cause of the problem, the tinnitus may go away by itself. Therefore the first thing to do if you're suffering from tinnitus is to call a doctor.


Your doctor might run specialized tests, such as an X-ray, audiogram, residual inhibition, and evoked response audiometry.
Make sure to keep a detailed list of foods or situations that trigger or worsen your tinnitus, and tell your doctor about all medicines, vitamins, supplements, etc. you are taking.
Some common underlying conditions that can cause tinnitus include earwax blockages, fluid pressure in the inner ear, infection/inflammation, abnormal bone growth in the ear, blood vessel disorders, jaw misalignment, aneurysm (blood vessel ballooning), certain types of tumors, and nerve or inner ear disorders such as Meniere's disease.;
, Certain drugs have been found somewhat effective at reducing the symptoms of tinnitus, although the results vary from patient to patient, depending on the origins of the condition. Tinniticil is a good example. Talk to your doctor to see if any medications are the right match for you.


Some people find relief from severe tinnitus by taking tricyclic antidepressants, such as amitriptyline and nortriptyline. However these medications can cause some undesirable side effects, such as blurred visions, dry mouth and heart problems.Anticonvulsant medications such as clonazepam and gabapentin have been shown to reduce the loudness and annoyance of tinnitus in some people.
In Brazil a drug for treating alcoholism, called acamprosate, has been tested for treating tinnitus symptoms with significant success. The drug is currently undergoing studies in the U.S.Other medications which have been found to quiet symptoms of tinnitus in some people include anti-anxiety medications, antihistamines and even anesthetics.
 Some common medications have been found to worsen the symptoms of tinnitus. If you or your doctor believe that your medication regimen is affecting your tinnitus, it may worth reducing the dosage or cutting out certain drugs altogether. Some more common medications that can cause or worsen tinnitus are:


Certain antibiotics, such as polymyxin B, erythromycin, vancomycin and neomycin.
Some cancer medications, such as mechlorethamine and vincristine.
Diuretic drugs, such as bumetanide, ethacrynic acid or furosemide.
Antimalarial drugs and certain antidepressants.
Aspirin - when taken in large doses.
 Built-up earwax can harden and block the ear canal - leading to hearing loss, irritation and tinnitus. If this is the cause of your tinnitus, the symptoms can be greatly relieved and even cured once the blockage has been removed.


Clear excess earwax at home using baby oil, mineral oil or glycerin oil. These oils will soften the earwax, allowing it to clear by itself. You can also use hydrogen peroxide drops and over-the-counter ear drops to the same effect.
If these methods fail, you can have your earwax cleared by a doctor/nurse practitioner using one of several methods. The earwax can be removed using lavage (washing out the eardrum) or extracted using special medical instruments or suctioning. Alternatively, the doctor can prescribe stronger ear drops to soften the wax, and then for you to return for final clearing out.
Attempting to remove earwax using q-tips, can simply push earwax deeper into the ear canal and worsen the blockages., If your tinnitus is accompanied by hearing loss, getting fitted with a hearing aid can work wonders to get louder sound from outside to then by contrast lessen the annoying effects of rushing or ringing sounds.


Hearing aids may bring back the ability to hear ambient background noises, which may help to mask the tinnitus.
If you believe your tinnitus is related to hearing loss, see an audiologist who can help to select and fit a hearing aid that is right for you (to amplify the tones that you need to hear more clearly).
If your hearing is good/unaffected but the tinnitus is a problem, you can also get implants which stimulate the auditory nerve using an electrical impulse. This may temporarily stop the tinnitus.
 Sound therapy is a way of masking or drowning out the internal noise caused by the tinnitus using sound.


Although it does not cure the tinnitus, sound therapy can help patients to forget about their symptoms and allow them to concentrate or rest without distraction. Sound therapy can be used in two major ways:
Through small, in-ear devices that look similar to hearing aids. These emit low levels of white noise which help to over up the tinnitus.
Through some combination of music, a fan, air conditioner, air filter/purifier, aquarium or sound machine which can be placed in the patient's bedroom and other locations to distract one from the tinnitus. White noise (such as a TV on low volume while it is not on a station), various environmental sounds, or the noise produced by household appliances may help to cover up/distract from some tinnitus., They can worsen symptoms of tinnitus associated with blood flow. Caffeine was previously considered by medical professionals to worsen tinnitus, but recent research suggests this is not the case. Caffeine may actually improve symptoms, and prevent tinnitus getting worse or ever occurring in the first place.


This is because these substances cause blood vessels to dilate, increasing the flow of blood in your body. Increased blood flow is associated with some of the "whooshing" or rushing noises heard in the inner ear.
As a result, you should quit smoking and cut back on alcoholic beverages.
You should also make an effort to reduce your salt intake as high salt consumption contributes to high blood pressure, which is sometimes linked to tinnitus.
 Patients suffering from tinnitus are often found to have low levels of zinc in their systems.


As a result, some patients have found relief from tinnitus by taking zinc supplements daily.
Magnesium and B vitamins are two more supplements which are said to ease tinnitus symptoms. Folic acid is a common supplement for hearing health, and since most individuals with tinnitus also suffer from some degree of hearing loss, eating foods high in Folic acid may potentially help, if the deficit is nutrient deficiency related.
You can search for "tinnitus relief" supplements online that contain several vitamins and minerals that are said to work together in a single capsule.
 Ginkgo biloba is an herbal supplement which some say may naturally relieve symptoms of tinnitus.


This is perhaps due to the fact that ginkgo extract is used to improve blood flow, therefore reducing high blood pressure and ringing in the inner ear.
Consider trying ginkgo supplements that contain ginkgo leaf extract rather than Ginkgo seeds, as those seeds may contain natural, toxic chemicals., Biofeedback is a relaxation technique which can help people to control their body's reaction to certain stresses. In this way, patients can use their thoughts to alleviate symptoms of tinnitus.


During a biofeedback session, a therapist will hook you up to a machine via electrical sensors. The machine will then provide feedback on your body's physiological reactions, such as temperature, muscle tension and pulse.
Once you learn to recognize these reactions in your body, you might train your thought patterns, behaviors and emotions to respond to them. In this way, you could train your body to manage pain and stress through your thoughts alone.
Using biofeedback, you can attempt to train your body not to respond to the stresses that worsen symptoms of tinnitus.
 This is by working collaboratively with a psychotherapist to develop skills for testing and modifying attitudes/beliefs, identifying distorted thinking, and changing ineffective behaviors. Severe tinnitus can cause major adjustment problems for it's sufferers - it can worsen concentration, inhibit sleeping patterns and affect personal relationships.


Cognitive therapy may help tinnitus sufferers to cope with these issues, and prevent the condition taking over their lives.
Cognitive therapy will not get rid of tinnitus, but it can help sufferers to alter their reactions to it and help them lead normal lives.
Cognitive therapy is usually used in combination with some other form of tinnitus treatment, such as medication or sound therapy.
 Sudden, explosive like or prolonged exposure to loud noises can cause tinnitus or make existing symptoms worse.


As a result, people who work in noisy environments around loud machinery should take precautions to protect their hearing by wearing ear plugs or ear muffs.
Music can cause tinnitus if played too loudly on intensive audio or MP3 players for prolonged periods. You can solve this by turning the volume down to a safer level. People may also suffer from temporary tinnitus after attending a concert, but this should go away on its own.
Protect your ears by wearing earmuffs or earplugs when performing noisy household tasks such as blow drying your hair or mowing the lawn., Stress tends to aggravate tinnitus. Therefore you should always take time to relax and enjoy the company of your loved ones.


You can reduce stress by taking up activities such as meditation and yoga, practicing deep breathing techniques and avoiding stressful people.
Try to get at least 7 hours of sleep a night, as fatigue can substantially increase stress levels., Cotton swabs, or Q-tips, should not be used to clean earwax from the ears.


Cotton swabs can merely push earwax further into the ear canal where it can harden and form blockages which lead to tinnitus.
Typically ears are self-cleaning - the wax will dry up and fall out by itself, so there is no need for manual cleaning.
If excess earwax does build up, you can use glycerin, olive oil, peroxide or special ear drops to soften it, or have a physician clean out your ears for you.
 Regular cardiovascular exercise - such as walking, running and swimming - increases blood flow in the system, which reduces the possibility of some kinds of tinnitus which are linked to blood vessel/circulation deficiency.


Try to do at least 30 minutes of cardiovascular exercise four to five times a week for best results.
Following a balanced diet can also help to improve cardiovascular and nerve health and might prevent tinnitus.