 In many areas of North America, states or regions offer a free-to-use app through the 5-1-1 road information service.Search for something like "5-1-1 road closure app for Michigan" in the app store to find one suitable for where you live.


Local departments of transportation may also offer apps for checking road conditions. Search the app store for "traffic apps for Chicago" or something similar.
The main news stations for your area may also support apps that update weather and road conditions. Look for apps like these in the app store by searching it for a local news station.;
, Many of these navigation apps update road and traffic conditions in real time. Three common apps like this include Waze, Google Maps, and INRIX.Download these from the app store and use them to navigate to your destination.
 The website for your local news should provide up-to-date information on road closures and conditions. This information can usually be navigated to by selecting the “Weather” or “Traffic” button at the top or side of the page.


Some sites include interactive maps that provide additional information. Some, for example, estimate the amount of time it will take to reach your destination in current conditions.
 The websites of regional or local departments of transportation usually include road condition information. Depending on the services provided in your region, there may also be a number available to call the department directly.In some communities, especially smaller ones, you may have a road commission instead of an official department of transportation.
 Some countries have a national or international road condition information service. In North American countries, the road condition hotline (accessible by dialing 5-1-1 on a phone) often also provides online updates.Most region-specific 5-1-1 updates can be found with an online keyword search for something like, “5-1-1 online updates for Michigan.”

, Shipping and freight companies rely on accurate road information to transport things in a timely fashion. Do an online keyword search for “road conditions for truck drivers” to find road condition informational websites like these.


Two common websites used by truck drivers include TruckMiles.com and WideLoadShipping.com.Many of these sites are intended for drivers on the road and are formatted for mobile browsers., If the conditions are poor or certain roads closed, you’ll have to find a different route or stay home. Many map services, like GoogleMaps, Waze, and MapQuest, allow you to choose options like “Avoid Highways” for when highways are unsafe.Most services also offer a few alternate routes with every search for directions.


Send directions from the map service to your phone so you can reference them should you get lost. Avoid looking at the directions while driving, as this can dangerously distract you.Some drivers may feel most comfortable with a physical copy of the directions on hand. If this is true for you, print out the map and directions before leaving.

