 Always remove your false lashes with your fingertips. Never use a tool such as tweezers or even your fingernails to remove them. Otherwise, you may poke yourself in the eye. Just use the pads of your fingertips to gently peel off your false eyelashes.Start at the outer edge of your eyelid and grasp the edge of the false eyelash band. Then, pull gently at the band moving in towards your nose until the false lash is completely off. Repeat for your other false lash.;
, After you remove the lashes, there may still be some of the lash adhesive stuck on the lash band. Check the bands of your false lashes and gently peel away any leftover adhesive.Use your finger to peel away the leftover adhesive. Using tweezers may result in damaging your lashes if you accidentally grab the band and pull too hard.
 Use a cotton swab and some eye makeup remover to clean the lashes. Apply a small amount of the makeup remover to your false lashes and then wipe it along the edges of the lashes to remove any makeup that may have gotten on them, such as mascara, eyeliner, or eyeshadow.Place the lashes on a clean towel, paper towel, or piece of tissue while you are cleaning them.
Move the cotton swab from the band of the lashes to the tips. After you have done a few swipes, turn the cotton swab around, wet it with makeup remover, and continue cleaning the lashes. Keep doing this until no more makeup appears on the cotton swab.
Do not soak the lashes in water. This may affect the shape of your lashes.
 Place the lashes on a clean towel or paper towel to dry. Do not try to press them dry or use a hair dryer on them. Just allow them to air dry on the towel until they are completely dry.Don’t place the lashes in sunlight to dry either. This may cause them to lighten or change their shape.
 False lashes usually come with a half-moon tray that help to preserve the curve of the lashes. Place your false lashes back into this tray after you have cleaned them and they are completely dry.Make sure that you place the lashes against the half-moon shapes in the tray to help them retain their natural curve.
If you have individual lashes, then store them in the tray they came in.
 You can get a bead box in a craft supply store. These boxes have several small chambers that are the perfect size for a pair of false lashes. If you have several pairs of false lashes, then this might be a good storage option for you. You can pick one of these bead storage containers up at a craft supply store for under $5. Try to find one that has extra small storage slots so you can fit as many lashes into the container as possible.
 It is important to keep dust, dirt, and moisture away from your false lashes. This will help to preserve them and make them last as long as possible. To protect your lashes from these elements, close the lid of your lash storage container tightly.If you are using the container that your lashes came in, then make sure to close the lid tightly.
If you are using a bead box or another multi slot storage container, then close the lid tightly as well.
 Avoid storing your lashes anywhere that is hot, moist, or bright. These elements can change the shape of your lashes and may even make them unwearable. Instead, keep your lashes somewhere that is cool, dark, and dry.Try keeping your lashes in a dresser drawer or on a shelf in a hallway closet.
Avoid keeping your lashes in your bathroom or in direct sunlight.

