 If your toddler is over one year old, honey is a great remedy for cough and sore throat.A spoonful before bed or throughout the day will be a treat and will ease coughing and throat pain. You can also dissolve 1-2 teaspoons of honey in hot water or tea (but be sure to let it cool down before giving it to your child).


Honey should not be given to children under one year of age.
If your child shows any signs of allergic reaction, such as swelling, hives, or lethargy, you’re your pediatrician. If more serious symptoms occur, such as difficulty breathing, call 911.;
, Children can get dehydrated quickly when they’re sick, which is dangerous. Plus staying well hydrated helps to loosen up mucus and make breathing easier.Give your child lots of cool water and juice and warm decaffeinated tea with honey and lemon. Choose warm soup like chicken noodle for mealtime – the warm liquid soothes the throat and helps to keep your child hydrated.
 You don’t have to be a doctor to be able to recognize the common cough of croup. It sounds like a barking or seal-like cough; other symptoms might be a high-pitched sound when your child breathes in, fever, hoarse voice, and difficulty swallowing.Croup is caused by a virus, so does not require antibiotics. A cool-mist humidifier or steamed up bathroom, cool soothing drinks, or short exposure to cool air outside can help reduce throat swelling and improve cough.Children usually recover from croup with no problems. As always, seek medical care if your child has difficulty breathing or a fever over 104°F (40°C).
 Homeopathy is the practice of using natural substances in small doses to treat illness.It has not been scientifically proven to be effective.However, when practiced properly and correctly, many people find it beneficial and some medical professionals support its use.There is a risk of adverse effects when using homeopathy, especially with children, and careful dosing is important.If you are interested in homeopathic remedies, consult a professional and talk with your pediatrician.


Homeopathic remedies are matched to your child’s specific symptoms and the characteristics of their illness, so pay careful attention to how your child is feeling and acting.