


How much and how often depends on the weekly test results and isn't covered in this article. This article is to give new keepers a guide on how to perform a water change in the most effective, least stressful manner. Less stressful for both the fish and the keeper that is.;
, First of all you'll need water containers of enough capacity to hold all the water you are taking out of your tank and all the water you will be replacing it with. You'll need some dechlorinator that removes chlorine, chloramines and dangerous heavy metals from the tap water. Finally, you'll need a Gravel Vacuum.


All of this equipment should be available from your local fish store. For water containers though you may find that a DIY or camping store is cheaper. Make sure the container is 'food grade' though.
 To do this fill your 'clean' container with water from the cold tap and bring it up to the same temperature as the tank by either using boiled water or by adding a spare tank heater. Those with combi boilers can use hot water straight from the tap.
 If you plan to add medications, plant food, salts or other additives to the tank this should be added to the new water now.
 You're going to be walking around with heavy containers full of water. 1 liter (0.3 US gal) of water weighs 1kg so make sure they're not too heavy for you if necessary use multiple smaller containers. Also lay some towels down around the tank as its guaranteed there will be some drips and splashes. Leave the fresh water out the way for now but make sure all the empty containers that you will need are to hand.
 Put some slippers or shoes on to protect your feet and keep them dry.
 Wipe the inside panes of the tank to remove algae. A green kitchen scrubber (new and kept back for fish only) works, as do magnetic cleaners. Go easy, you don't want to scratch the glass.
 At the same time this collects all the solid waste that collects at the bottom. Siphon the water into the spare buckets or containers that you prepared earlier. For gravel just dig the end of the gravel vac in about 1 centimeter (0.4 in) and watch the dirt get sucked up then move the vac over a little and repeat. For sand it's a little trickier, wave the nozzle over the sand creating a small underwater dust devil. The dense sand will generally separate from the relatively light solid wastes.
, You might have to decant the water into smaller containers so that it's easier to lift up to the tank and pour.
