 According to the American Nurses Association, nursing today is designed for the protection, promotion and optimization of health and the prevention of illness and injury. Nurses are advocates in the care of individuals, families and communities.The standardized education of today’s registered nurses, in contrast to the past, reflects the high expectations communities and physicians have on the men and women who fill these roles. In recent years, the employment of nurses has grown and will continue to grow in part because of the aging of the baby boomer population and the associated growing rate of chronic conditions like diabetes.


The nursing profession is not just for women; there are over a hundred thousand registered male nurses working in the US., The foundation of all nursing practice is based in human anatomy and physiology. The chief mission of the nursing field is to protect, promote and optimize health. Key responsibilities for nurses include:Performing physical assessments and taking medical and family histories by interviewing patients on the day of surgery
Providing counseling and education about health promotion and injury protection
Administering medication and providing wound care
Coordinating care and collaborating with other professionals including doctors, therapists and dietitians
Directing and supervising care and providing education to patients and family, which enable patients to be discharged sooner

, Surgical nurses perform specific tasks in the operating room that both assist the surgeon and evaluate the current level of care. Surgical nurses are faced with specific challenges and responsibilities, which include:Doing pre-operative assessments of the patient and giving patients pre-op instructions
Ensuring the right medications are ordered on the day of surgery, the right blood tests were performed and that all allergies were noted on the chart
Working under the supervision of the surgeon but also able to function independently in the OR
Working in a hospital. As a surgical nurse, you will likely end up working in a hospital with a surgical ward and emergency care and trauma center. You may also work in intensive care units and recovery rooms., Beyond having a breadth of knowledge in medicine (and being someone who does not get squeamish easily!), a surgical nurse must also be skilled in other areas. In this sense, nursing is like any other profession in that there are specific individual qualities that make the job easier and a more natural fit for some people. It's important to determine whether your personality and abilities can accommodate the various responsibilities and tasks that come with being a nurse. Key qualities include:Interpersonal and communication skills. Being a nurse requires working with people everyday—doctors, other nurses, technicians, patients, caregivers, and others. To communicate information and do their jobs effectively and clearly, nurses need strong interpersonal skills, patience, and the ability to break down complex information into something that is accessible for ordinary people (i.e., non-specialists).

Compassion. Caring and empathy are valuable when taking care of individuals who are in sick or injured. Remember that patients may be scared or in pain and need to be comforted, reassured, and motivated to fight through their illnesses.

Critical thinking. Registered nurses must be able to assess changes in the health status of their patients and make a quick referrals.

Detail-oriented and organized. Nurses often work with multiple patients and healthcare professional at a time and so they need to be able to keep track of what has been done and what needs to be done. In addition, attention to detail is key; one small mistake in the operating room can have a big impact on a patient’s condition and life.

Stamina. Nurses are often required to perform physical tasks, such as lifting patients, and also work long shifts of between eight and 12 hours, which may include night shifts.

