 You generally must maintain accurate and up-to-date records regarding the company's ownership. Your list of shareholders should include each shareholder's name as well as the number and classes of stock they own.
If you have a shareholder's agreement, keep a copy of this along with your other ownership documents.
You also should include any resolutions made by the board going back at least three years that fix rights, preferences, or limitations of one or more classes of stock shares.
 An orderly file of the corporation's finances makes annual reports and other financial statements easier to compile. Generally these records should be kept for at least three years.
Accounts payable and accounts receivable ledgers should be kept for at least seven years, as should bank statements and reconciliations. Best practices require certain records -- such as balance sheets, general ledgers, cash disbursements and receipts, and cancelled dividend checks -- to be kept indefinitely.
If you have any questions regarding how long a record should be kept, err on the side of caution, and keep it.
Before you purge records, you might consider consulting an attorney or CPA on whether financial records should be retained.
 Unless your state law prescribes a longer period of time, you generally should keep your corporate tax returns on file for at least three years. The IRS recommends keeping tax returns and related documents at least as long as the period of limitations, which is the time during which you can amend a tax return or the IRS can assess additional taxes. This period is three years for most documents. Employment tax records should be kept for four years from the date you paid the tax or the date the tax was due, whichever is later.
Records of any items claimed for depreciation should be kept as long as that item is still depreciating. For example, if the corporation is claiming depreciation of assets on a seven-year timetable, records relating to the purchase of those assets should be kept for seven years.