 Rinse the leaves under cool water, then pat them dry. Next, trim the stems off; this will allow the leaves to lay more smoothly against your lantern. Because the leaves are going onto a curve surface, there is no need to press them.
 Find a bowl or disposable container, then fill it with equal parts of white school glue and water. Stir the two together using a plastic fork or spoon; you can also use a popsicle instead.


Avoid mixing too much glue-water at one time. This project may take a while, and you don't want the mixture to dry before you use it all. You can always mix up more glue-water later.
 How big you blow up your balloon is entirely up to you, but the bigger you blow it up, the more leaves you will be able to fit. Consider placing a small pebble or marble inside the balloon first. This will act as a weight, and help keep the balloon steady while you work.
 You can cut the rectangles if you want to, but tearing them will allow them to overlap better and give you a smoother finish. The size does not have to be exact.
 Dip your first strip into the glue-water, then run it over the rim of the bowl to get rid of any excess. Place the strip on top of the balloon and smooth it down. Keep applying the strips in a similar manner, overlapping them slightly.


Leave the bottom part of the balloon (the part that's inside the bowl or mug) uncovered. You want about a 6-inch (15.24-centimeter) opening. Don't worry if it appears jagged; you can always trim it up later.
If the balloon as to get too drippy, you can apply the strips of paper dry.
 Paint the back of each leaf before you press it against the balloon. You can use as many or as few as you want. You could even overlap the leaves, if you'd like. Keep in mind that the more leaves you use, the less light will be able to shine through.
 Use the same technique as before. Again, if the balloon starts to feel too wet, stop dipping the tissue paper into the glue, and simply press it on top of the balloon instead. The tissue paper will stick to the damp paper that's already on the balloon.
 Take the lantern off the mug or bowl and turn it around. Cut a hole near the tail end of the balloon. Slowly release the air from the balloon, prying it away from the sides of the paper as you do. If the lantern collapses, wait until you have taken the balloon out, then push the walls back out from the inside.
 Punch two holes near the top of the lantern, about ½ to 1-inch (1.7 to 2.54-centimeter) away from the rim. Next, thread some string through it, then tie the ends together to make a loop.


If the top opening is jagged, you can trim it down using a pair of scissors.
 Get a battery-operated or LED tea light and turn it on. Place it inside the lantern, then hang the lantern up, or give it to your child to hold.

