 Weapons in Skyrim range from staves to two-handed great swords. There is no right or wrong choice when it comes to weapons because the games skill versatility means that you can be a mage wielding a great axe, or a rogue with a sword and shield if you want. Some weapons are aesthetically more logical for a certain playstyle than others but because enchantments can be stripped off of one weapon and applied to another, the choice is not set in stone.;
, Where things get interesting is how the skill system works with weapons. Each weapon type has a skill tree associated with it. There are three weapon skills: Archery, One-Handed, and Two-Handed. Depending on which type of weapon you want to focus on you will want to level and receive perks for that weapon type.


Archery is best chosen if you want to use bows to do long range attacks.
One-Handed can be paired with Shields or used by a dual wielder. Using shields will add to your overall armor, and using two weapons will stack the bonuses applied from skill perks and enchantments if you take the dual wield perk.
Two-Handed is best chosen if you want to do high direct damage attacks. This bonus to damage is offset by the two hander being slower overall and making it more difficult to block attacks.
 You will want to choose your weapon type based on the way you play the game. If you are a sneaky character, dragging around a big two handed axe isn’t going to benefit you as much as a small sword or dagger. If you are a mage, going for a staff is a logical choice, but not completely necessary., By raising the smithing skill you will have the ability to craft various different weapons. These weapons are some of the best in the game and you can enchant them in anyway you wish using the enchanting skill., Using a grindstone will increase the quality of your weapons. They will then have increased stats and perform better. This is a vital part of keeping your weapons at their highest potential.
 You will find there are a lot of weapons you can buy from NPCs (Non Player Characters) or loot from bosses. Looted weapons will often be identical to the ones you can craft via smithing but occasionally you will find special weapons like Tsun’s Battleaxe which cannot be crafted. If you find a weapon that has a distinct name, keep it, as it is a unique find.