 Your attitude sets the quality and mood of your thoughts, which in turn influence your voice tone, the words you use, your facial expressions and your body language. Your attitude determines the quality of your relationships. When you project a "really useful attitude," one that is cheery, interested and helpful, other people will want to be around you. It's up to you to choose your attitude. When you project the opposite attitude, they will have the opposite reaction. Very important: make sure your words, tone of voice and gestures are all consistent. When faced with inconsistency among these three ways of delivering a message, people pay most attention to body language, and then to tone of voice -- and surprisingly little to the actual words.The thing is that you should recognize the fake friends and the real ones.;
, We like people who are like us, so the key to establishing rapport with strangers is to learn how to be like them. This requires you to deliberately control your behavior to become sufficiently like the other person to form a connection -- at least for a short time. Look around a restaurant or any other public place where people meet and socialize and compare those couples who are in rapport with those who are not. The ones who are in rapport lean toward one another, adopt similar arm and leg positions, and talk in similar tones of voice. In short, they seem to be synchronized. The quickest way to establish rapport with people you meet is to synchronize with them. Synchronizing does not mean you are being phony or insincere. Its purpose is to help you put the other person at ease and speed up the rapport that would otherwise take longer to develop. You are not expected to make your movements, tone and voice mimic the other person's, but just to act with him/her the same way you would if you were already friends.



Try to start synchronizing within seconds of making a new acquaintance. Five stages of a successful first encounter...
Use open body language. Uncover your heart by leaving your jacket or coat unbuttoned and facing the other person.
Be first with eye contact. Look the other person straight in the eye.
Beam a smile.
Be the first to identify yourself with a pleasant, "Hi! I'm Nick."
Lean subtly toward the other person to show your interest and openness, and begin to synchronize.
Pick up on the other person's feelings and identify with him by synchronizing your movements, breathing patterns and expressions. Use your voice to reflect back the mood conveyed by his voice. Don't copy him clumsily, but notice his posture, gestures, head and body movements and facial expressions and mirror them. Particularly important: Mirror his voice tone, volume, speed and pitch.
 Get the other person to start talking openly so you can find out what matters to him and synchronize yourself accordingly. Begin by asking open questions -- those that cannot be answered with a simple "yes" or "no" but encourage the other person to open up and reveal himself. Key words: Who? When? What? Why? Where? How? Keep the conversation going by answering a question with another question.

