 There are some circumstances and situations in life that can make a person more likely to attempt suicide.When you are talking about preventing suicide you should talk about these risk factors. Doing so will help family members recognize when someone may be suicidal.


Discuss previous suicide attempts. For example, you might say, “Trying to attempt suicide in the past is one of the risk factors for attempting suicide again.”
Talk about bullying and abuse. Victims of these situations may be more likely to view suicide as an option.
During the conversation bring up risk factors like suffering a loss and chronic illness.
 You can do a thorough job of talking about suicide prevention within the family if you talk about how to recognize the signs that someone may be considering suicide.Discuss clear signs like purchasing a weapon, prescription drugs, or talking about suicide.
Talk about things like the person giving away prized possessions. For example, you could tell family members, “It may be a sign that they’re suicidal if someone is giving away things they love for no reason.”
Mention signs like withdrawing from activities and becoming more isolated. You might say, “Look out for signs like the person not doing things that they usually enjoy.”

, This acronym may help a family member if they ever need to assist someone that is suicidal. Make sure you remind them to: Connect, Listen, Understand, Express concern, and Seek help.Using the steps of this acronym will help family members know what to do to prevent a suicide.


Tell family members to connect with the person to let the person know someone cares about them and what happens to them.
Remind family members to listen and that they don’t have to say anything. Just being present can prevent a suicide.
Talk to your family about trying to understand how a suicidal person may feel. Tell family members to try saying, “I can understand how upset and frustrated you are.”
Talk about expressing concern for the person and what they are going through. For instance, saying something like, “I’m concerned about you and what you are thinking about doing.”
Discuss when and how to seek help. Remind your family that the person's safety is the top priority and it’s okay to call a crisis hotline like 1-800-273-8255 or 911 if you think the person is seriously ready to attempt suicide.
 Once you and your family have discussed these measures, remember that you will have to be vigilant from now on. Often, people start talking about suicide before they do it, or they might discuss how they feel as if they are hopeless, pained, or a burden to others. In these cases, encourage them to get professional help or call a crisis hotline.Talk about making a list of people that can form a support team to check on the suicidal person. For example, you might say, “Let’s talk about who can help with a suicide support team.”

