 Unfold your scarf so that all of the material is exposed. Then, wrap the scarf around your neck once. Tighten the loop around your neck, or leave it loose and hanging near your bust. You can choose to have the tails hanging in either the front or around your back.


Make this a casual and trendy outfit by pairing it with a fitted t-shirt and jeans.;
, Wrap the scarf around your neck so that both the tail ends are hanging in the front. Then, simply tie a knot like you would to tie your shoes. You can tighten this knot to sit at the base of your throat or you can leave it looser for a more relaxed look. Knotting your pashmina during the winter will keep your neck especially warm.You can also try a more complicated knot such as a hacking, twisted, or chain link knot.
 Tie the two ends of your pashmina together to create a loop. If your pashmina has fringe, use a few pieces of fringe to make a double knot. If not, use the corners of the rectangle to tie two knots at the two places where the corners meet. Then, place this large loop around your neck so that the knots rest on the back of your neck. Double the loop around to create a large circular scarf with no ends hanging down., Wrap the scarf around your neck so that the two tails are in the front, with the right tail hanging a little longer than the left tail. Take the right tail and wrap it over and around the left tail, so that it is back on the right side. Wrap it again over and under the left tail, but when you get to the underside, pull it up through the loop, around your neck, and down through the smaller loop you just made on the left tail.


For a fun, trendy look, pick a vibrantly colored or patterned pashmina to wear like this. Pair it with an asymmetrical skirt or a pair of high-waisted jeans., Wrap your scarf around your neck and tie it in a loose knot similarly to how you tie your shoelaces. Create two half-loops or “bunny ears” out of the tails of the scarf. Cross these to form an “x,” and then wrap one under and between the two loops. You should be left with a large bow, which you can twist and adjust to your liking.


Wear a pair of matching chandelier earrings to create a graceful, elegant outfit.