 Developing breasts during puberty should be an exciting time for you, but since so much is going on with your body, you might be a little scared, and that’s okay. Once your “buds” start to get larger, and possibly pointier, it’s probably time to get your first bra. But the good thing is, there are a lot of different types of bras to choose from. The most important thing about a bra - at any stage in your life - is that it fits properly and is comfortable.A bra is suppose to help give you support and help protect your breasts, they are also great at covering up your breasts and giving your upper body a nice shape that looks good under your clothes., Shopping for a bra - at any age - can be a combination of fun and frustration. Bras, like shoes, are made to standard sizes, but those sizes can differ between manufacturers. Therefore, like shopping for shoes, it may take a couple of tries before you find the bra that’s perfect for you., While it is possible to measure yourself for a bra at home, it may be a good idea to go to a lingerie or department store if this is your first bra, or if this is the first time you’ve had a proper bra fitting done. When you arrive at the store, tell the sales associate you want to be fitted for a bra. They’ll take you into the change room and measure you in two spots - around your torso, just below your breasts and around the thickest part of your breasts. The first measurement is the “band” measurement and the second is the “cup” measurement.The measurement taken around your torso or chest, just below your breasts, determines the number portion of a bra size (i.e. 32, 34, 36, etc.).
The measurement take over the top of your breasts determines the letter portion of a bra size (i.e. A, B, C, etc.), also known as cup size.
 Once you’ve been measured for a bra size, the sales person will start to bring you a selection of options to try on. For larger breasted women, the bra size determined during measurement is a starting point. You may need to alter these sizes for different types of bras in order to find the fit that’s perfect for you. In the end, it’s not the size that matters, it’s the fit. Sometimes when you try on a bra you know instantly if it’s good or bad. Other times you’ll try on a bra and just aren’t sure., Sometimes you may try on a bra and can’t decide if it’s a good fit or not. Fear not, there are a number of things you can consider to help you decide if this is the right bra for you.Do the cups of the bra fit smoothly over your breasts? If there are any gaps or wrinkles, the bra is likely too big. If your breasts are overflowing the cups, the bra is too small.
Does the centre panel of the bra lie flat against your chest. The portion of the bra that lies between your breasts should lie flat against the bone in that area. If it doesn’t, the bra is too big or too small.
Is the portion of the bra that goes under your arms and behind your back straight and parallel to the ground? The bra ‘band’ (the bottom line of a bra) should be straight. It should NOT curve upwards on your back. And the portions of your bra that are behind your back should rest below your shoulder blades.
Are the straps digging into your shoulders? Most of the support of your bra should come from the bra itself, not the straps. If the straps are digging into your shoulders, or if only the straps are holding up your breasts, the bra is the wrong size.
Do the underwires lay properly under your breasts? Underwires should not poke you, stick out on either end, or pinch your skin. The curves of the underwire should also match the shape of the bottom of your breasts.
Do the shape of your breasts look right? The middle of your breasts - when in a bra - should be half way between your elbows and shoulders. And they should point forward, not downwards or to the sides.
Does your bra feel comfortable in all positions? Can you walk, sit down and move your arms around and your bra still feels comfortable? Can you easily slide one finger under the band of your bra without it being too tight? If you answered yes to all these questions, you may have found the right bra for you!

, As of everyday bras weren’t hard enough to buy, there’s also sports bras to consider. If you’re in the market for a sports bra, there are several things you’ll want to consider. First off, no sports bra is going to keep your breasts from moving around as your play sports or exercise, but a good fitting sports bra will minimize that movement so it’s comfortable. A sports bra is fitted using the same measurements as any other bra - a band and cup size. If you already know your measurements, great, if not, have someone at the store take your measurements. Once you know your size, you have to determine which style you want.Compression vs. encapsulation. Compression bras literally compress your breast tissue against your body to help prevent significant movement. However, they normally only work for small chested women and for lower impact exercises. Encapsulation bras, on the other hand, have formed cups that can hold larger breasts in place better than compression bras.
Racerback vs. wide straps. Racerback straps pull together at the back, which helps provide more support (and prevents the straps from falling off your shoulders). Wide straps, however, distribute the weight of your breasts more evenly across your shoulders.
Pullover vs. back clasp. Pullover sports bras are sort of like tank tops, you have to pull them on over your head, or step into them with your feet and pull them up. Because the bra is made of only fabric, there’s no way to make any adjustments to the fit of the bra. Back clasp sports bra have clasps similar to an everyday bra, which is much better for bigger breasts, as it provides much more support.
 Dressing elegantly when you have big breasts can be difficult. When buying shirts you should look for ones with a longer shape. This longer shape helps to lengthen your upper body and make your waist look smaller - giving you a more even look and balance. Sleeves that are 3/4 length help as well, as they draw the eye naturally away from your larger breasts. Depending on the size of your breasts, you may also want to avoid wearing tops with only spaghetti straps. For the neckline, look for a V shape, or something that has a lower plunge. A lower neckline makes a larger chest look more flattering.