 The best time to travel is during Bora Bora's winter, from April to October. In the winter, it rains less than in the summer and the air temperature is slightly cooler at around 80F (27C).The water temperature in Bora Bora remains constant year-round at 80F (26.6C). Even if you visit in Bora Bora's winter, the weather will likely be warm enough to visit the beach and engage in water activities.
If you're on a budget, consider scheduling your honeymoon during the off-season. From December to March, vacationer traffic in Bora Bora will be lower, and you may get cheaper deals on flights., You only have one honeymoon: talking with a travel agent can help you make sure you remember everything. Travel consultants familiar with Bora Bora will have insider knowledge and help you find the best accommodations for your money. If you're interested in taking the vacation road less traveled, consultants can also help you find little-known beauties to visit.


Honeymooners on a budget may feel hesitant about using a travel consultant, but travel agents often have contacts who can give you a better deal on flights and hotels. The price can end up being similar, but you'll get more for your value.
 To save money, research and buy flight tickets months in advance. The earlier you buy your tickets, the more you'll save. If you hired a travel consultant, ask them to help you locate flight tickets. They might know some cheap options.


Buy your tickets at least 2-3 months in advance. If you're planning to go during Bora Bora's busy season, buy your tickets during the off-season to avoid the rush.
To fly to Bora Bora, you must first purchase a ticket to Papeete, Tahiti. You can then fly from there to Bora Bora's only airport: Moto Mute airport.Plan in advance to buy both tickets so you're not left with sudden expenses when you reach Tahiti.
 Bora Bora is best known for its overwater bungalows, thatched huts on stilts that offer a clear view of the ocean and the perfect setting for a romantic getaway. Many couples plan their honeymoon in Bora Bora specifically for the overwater bungalows: to get the full Bora Bora experience, you and your partner may want to stay in one.


Overwater bungalows vary in price and quality. Talk with your travel agent or research different overwater bungalow resorts online to make your decision., Bora Bora also has plenty of hotels, if you are not interested in overwater bungalows.Most hotels offer complimentary breakfast and other amenities (such as bike rentals) for their guests. You and your partner might appreciate the extra support when staying in a foreign country.


Talk to your travel agent before making hotel reservations. They often have local contacts and can help you get a better deal.
 Bora Bora also offers campsites at a reduced price. If you and your partner love natural beauty, camping could be an inexpensive and enjoyable option for you. Bora Bora only has one campsite, so make reservations one or two months in advance to secure your spot., For couples on a budget, look for vacation rentals on websites like Airbnb or Couchsurfing. You may be able to find a house, condo, or other property rental to stay at for a fraction of the price. If you want the local experience, you can ask your host for recommendations on restaurants, sites, and nearby beaches.

