 Fortunately, many of your favorite dishes, like fried chicken, can be made healthier through a couple alterations to the recipe. To make healthier fried chicken:


Fix your favorite breading or batter the way you normally do. However, decrease the amount of batter on each piece of chicken, if possible.
Take your chicken pieces and dip them in egg.
Drop your chicken in a freezer bag with your batter.
Heat a skillet on medium high on your oven top.
Coat the bottom of the skillet to about an eighth of an inch with vegetable oil.
Fry your chicken pieces until they are golden brown., Oven-fried zucchini sticks are healthy because they’re not deep fried and because zucchini is a very healthy vegetable. In the end, they’re also a tasty and enjoyable snack for your whole family. To create oven-fried zucchini sticks:


Preheat your oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (232 Celsius).
Mix together cornmeal, flour, salt, and pepper in a bowl or a freezer bag.
Take medium-sized slices of zucchini and dip them in egg white.
Drop your zucchini slices in the bowl or freezer bag with the cornmeal and flour mixture.
Generously coat a baking sheet or tray with cooking oil.
Place your zucchini slices on the tray, put them in the oven for 8 to 10 minutes, and then flip them. Cook for another 8 or 10 minutes and then remove them from the oven., This is a treat where you’ll take a healthy vegetable and fry it to create a delicious snack or side. What makes this an even healthier treat is that it uses the oven-fried approach, rather than the deep-fried approach. Thus, your asparagus and its batter will absorb less oil.


Turn the oven on to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (232 Celsius).
Coat a cooking tray with vegetable oil.
Place 1/3 cup of low fat mayo, 2 scallions finely chopped, 2 tablespoons of miso, 1 teaspoon of chile-garlic sauce, and ½ teaspoon of sesame oil in a bowl and mix them together.
Put your asparagus on a dish and drizzle ½ of the mayo and miso mixture on top. Make sure each asparagus spear is coated with the mixture. Then, sprinkle panko crumbs onto the asparagus. Roll them around in it, to make sure they are coated with panko, too.
Place the asparagus spears on the oiled tray and cook them for 20 to 25 minutes. When they’re golden brown, serve them with the remaining mayo and miso mixture., Pan-fried hash browns make a wonderful alternative to fries because they absorb less oil. In addition, you can add a variety of ingredients to your hash browns to make them tastier and more nutritious. To make pan-fried hash browns:


Finely dice 1/4th of a medium onion and 1/4th of a medium red bell pepper.
Peel and shred 3 medium russet potatoes.
Put 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil in a large cast iron skillet and turn the heat to medium-high. Add your onions and peppers. After 1 minute, put in your potatoes.
Add pepper and as little salt as you can.
After 3 to 5 minutes, begin to flip the hash browns.
Remove them when both sides are golden brown.