 Not all dog beds are the same. There are pod beds for small dogs. Pillow beds that resemble a bean bag. Mattress beds that are totally flat. Travel beds that fold up for quick carrying. For a senior dog, an orthopedic or foam bed is generally the best option as it provides the most support and ease of access. So, any time that you see orthopedic in the bed’s description, take another look., A raised bed literally keeps your dog from laying on the floor by positioning the bed above the ground via four legs. Senior dogs prefer these beds as they maintain a warmer temperature, which is soothing for pained joints. They are also often easier to get into as they do not require stooping down low.Raised beds can also minimize the growth of bacteria by allowing air to flow under the bed area. This will reduce foul smells as well.
It is better to choose a bed with galvanized metal or aluminum legs. PVC tubing beds don’t hold up to chewing very well and can lead to choking if pieces break off.
To prevent joint strain, it is best to choose a bed that is no more than 10 inches (25 cm) off of the ground.
 Bolsters are a medium-firm raised ridge that can extend along part of the upper area of your dog bed. These provide a soft area for your dog to rest its head. It can also lessen anxiety in older dogs who may be worried about having their back exposed when laying down.Younger dogs may prefer beds with all-around bolsters, but these can provide access issues for older dogs who can’t step over them easily. Instead, go with a partially bolstered bed., This is a thick type of polyurethane cushion that is noted for providing firm and consistent support to both dogs and humans alike. Look for a foam that has a 3+ density measurement for the best quality. With this density even a memory foam pad that looks rather thick can actually provide a great deal of comfort for a senior dog’s aching joints.The best quality memory foam beds are made from one single slab. However, if you are looking for a cheaper version you can find beds that are made from multiple slabs stuck together.
If memory foam is not an option you can always look into egg-crate foam as an alternative or even the traditional poly-fill pillow style beds.

