 There are many symptoms that may indicate that your dog has ingested or inhaled something poisonous. Unfortunately, these symptoms vary widely. Do not assume that the presence of some of these symptoms indicates poisoning for sure, but do take steps to ensure your dog is safe if any of these symptoms occur.Symptoms may include, but are not limited to, vomiting, trouble breathing, excessive coughing or sneezing, swollen tissue, hyperactivity, tremors and seizures, fever, abnormal heart rate and rhythm, and coma.
If any of these symptoms are present and you suspect poisoning, call your vet and explain the circumstances.
 Many human medications can be seriously harmful, if not fatal to your dog. For instance amphetamines, including Adderall and cocaine, can be very dangerous to your dog. Consult your vet immediately if your dog has consumed human medication.Human pain medication, including ibuprofen, naproxen, and acetaminophen are all dangerous to dogs. Aspirin, though it is occasionally prescribed to dogs in small amounts, can be dangerous in large amounts.
Anti-upset stomach medications for people can be dangerous to dogs. These include products like Kaopectate and Pepto Bismol.
Decongestants are especially dangerous. These include cold & flu products that contain pseudoephedrine, as well as anything with antihistamines.
Ointments and creams containing baclofen, flurbiprofen, diclofenac, ketamine, lidocaine, dibucaine, 5-fluorouracil, and calcipotriene can cause serious harm to your dog - even if consumed in small amounts by licking your skin after you’ve applied the product.
Anti-cancer drugs, anti-depressants, and weight-loss drugs, as well as vitamins - especially iron tablets - are all also dangerous to dogs.
 There are several things your dog might have gotten into in the bathroom that may lead to poisoning. The ingestion of soap of any kind, for that matter, is likely to cause vomiting and diarrhea.Ingesting petroleum jelly will also likely cause your dog to have diarrhea. Mouthwash can also be dangerous to your dog.
Artificial aromatics, including scented candles, can also be toxic for dogs.
Beware of uncured grout consumption. The materials used to seal bathroom fixtures or tiles in place vary widely in toxicity. Many can cause drooling, vomiting, and ulcers. Once dried, these materials will usually only cause a brief upset stomach.
Keep your dog out of the toilet. If your dog drinks from a toilet that has recently been treated with a cleaning tablet, it is unlikely to cause more than mild stomach discomfort. However, stagnant toilet water can lead to bacterial infections.
 Cigarettes, nicotine patches, and the liquid used in electronic cigarettes can all prove extremely harmful to your dog. Do not hesitate to bring them in for veterinary care if you believe they’ve eaten any of these items., If you dog may have gotten into something stored in another area of your property, be sure to check for evidence of anything poisonous. Antifreeze is especially dangerous, as the scent and flavor appeals to some dog, though ingestion is often fatal.Other items that may poison your dog include ice-melt, chemicals for the pool or water softener, rat or mouse poison, insect bait/poison, fertilizers, and citronella products.
 There are likely many substances in your home that can pose a poisoning risk to your dog. Many cleaning products, for instance, may cause skin irritation and/or vomiting. Though most household products will not seriously harm your dog if used correctly or consumed in minor amounts, it can be helpful to identify the exact source of any potential poisoning.If you believe your dog may have eaten some carpet deodorizer or carpet shampoo, you can expect them to experience a mildly upset stomach, but otherwise be okay.
Bleach can lead to poisoning if spilled in a poorly ventilated area where the dog is confined, or is somehow ingested.
Inhalation or ingestion of essential oils can be toxic to your dog.
Take your dog to the vet if they’ve eaten unused fabric softener sheets. The chemicals contained in these sheets can lead to drooling, vomiting, ulcers, and fever. Used sheets can also be dangerous is eaten in a large quantity.
 Several plants that are commonly planted in people’s homes and yards can be poisonous to dogs. These include poinsettias, holly, aloe-vera plants, daffodils, chrysanthemums, azaleas, lilies, tulips, begonias, and more.Mistletoe and pine needles can also poison your dog.
Further, some weeds can be poisonous to your dog as well. If you notice a plant that seems to have been chewed or eaten, or your dog throws up plant matter, bring some with you to the vet.
 You likely already know that chocolate is dangerous for dogs to eat. Even a small amount can seriously harm your dog. Other foods that may be present in your kitchen may also poison your dog.In particular, hard candies, chewing gum or candy with Xylitol, raisins, grapes, avocados, and macadamia nuts are all poisonous to dogs.

