







30 centimeter (11.8 in)(1 ft) above the floor space for cats. Clean the area of the height of the back of a cat.

Try to maintain a stable home environment. Older cats don't handle "change" well. Change will stress the older cat, and stress can lead to health problems.;
, Does it avoid jumping up onto or down off of laps? - Ask your vet about Glucosamine and/or shark cartilage. Aspirin "can" be given, but the dosage must be regulated carefully by your vet.
Feeding - As cats age, they can lose their sense of smell. Unfortunately, the foods that smell good to them are not always the most nutritionally balanced ones... and kitty can become malnourished even if they are eating a good volume. Watch for "pickiness" in food as your first inkling that all is not well in this area. Feed your cat feline vitamin supplements, but cut back the volume of food if your kitty is overweight. Think "high nutritional value, low fat value" when choosing their food.
Kitty's claws. You can clip kitty's nails or file them down with an emery board to prevent the pain filled walking and stepping that come from broken and or overgrown nails.
Grooming - If your cat is starting to look somewhat tufty or tattered, it is likely because it has stopped grooming. This can be because of pain when moving, dental problems, etc. You may need to brush your cat's coat for them, and possibly bathe them as well. Clipping a long haired cat's coat several times a year is another good option.
Ability to handle temperature changes - Heat and cold may stress your cat more as it ages because it's body is losing the ability to regulate it's own heat. Keep your household temperature in a comfortable range for both you and the cat.




 He's 22 years old.

Litterbox usage - Age can cause a variety of problems here... arthritis makes it harder for the cat to get in/out of the litter box... Various kidney and digestive problems make visits to the box more necessary... Some things you can do include: keep the hair short around kitty's rear to help with cleanliness. You can treat the arthritis with help from your vet, and you can change litterboxes to a lower profile model. You can also consult with your vet about changing the cat's diet.

