 When the oil shimmers, it is hot enough to cook your vegetables.If you put them in before this, the oil won't be hot enough to brown them, and they may stick to the bottom of the pan.In adequate light, hot oil will become iridescent and colorful. When it takes on these characteristics, it's ready.
 If you are adding spicy ingredients like garlic or hot peppers, it's usually a good idea to add them first, as they will impart some of their flavor to the oil.









Minced garlic typically should be added one minute before the other vegetables.Hot peppers like jalapenos can be added five minutes before the other vegetables., Don't overcrowd the pan. You can cover the bottom, but you don't want more than one layer of vegetables.








If the vegetables are piled on top of each other, the steam from the lower vegetables may become trapped. The result can be steamed vegetables rather than sauteed ones.
If you have too many vegetables to fit in the pan without overcrowding, cook them in two or more batches.
 Turn your vegetables frequently by tossing or stirring them. This ensures even cooking on all sides.








You should NOT stir constantly, as you would with a stir fry. A few stirs should do the trick, depending on how long the vegetables need to cook.
 How long this takes will depend on the type of vegetables. Between three and ten minutes is typical, but you'll probably need to experiment some to get this right.








Vegetables with the longest cooking times include carrots, onions, and hearty greens like collards. These can take 10-15 minutes. Potatoes can take even longer, and some people simmer them in water first to make them saute more quickly.Vegetables with medium cooking times include broccoli, cauliflower, bell peppers, and Brussels sprouts. These can take eight to 10 minutes.Vegetables with short cooking times include mushrooms, corn, tomatoes, and asparagus. These can cook in as little as two minutes.Spinach and other greens have the shortest cooking times, as they will quickly wilt. A minute or two should do it.
If you are cooking vegetables with different cooking times in the same pan, add the ones that need to be cooked longest first, let them cook partially, and then add the vegetables that require less cooking time. Or, cook individually and then mix.
 Right before the vegetables are done, add any seasonings you wish to include. This could include salt and pepper, soy sauce, citrus juice, vegetable stock, oregano, or other dried herbs.Ingredients such as these should generally be in the pan for about one minute.
 When vegetables are done, remove from the pan quickly to avoid overcooking. Serve and enjoy!








