 Slightly wet hair will be easier to shape to the desired style. Don't style your hair straight after the shower, since soaking wet hair breaks easily.


A squirt bottle works well for light dampening.
If your hair is dirty or oily, wash it, then wait until it is about 80% dry.;
, Two or three drops of hair serum will make your hair shiny and smooth. Massage it into the full length of your hair, from the roots to the ends.


A hair mask, hair shine product, or conditioner will work as well. Try a different product if you don't like the end result.
You can even use a natural oil such as coconut oil or olive oil. To avoid greasiness, use only a couple drops, and keep it away from your scalp.
 Use a thin-toothed comb if you have straight hair. Use a wide-toothed comb or brush if you have curly or afro-textured hair. Slowly run this downward through your ends until there are no more tangles. Repeat with the rest of your hair, starting from a higher point each time.
 Make a part starting right above the center or edge of one eyebrow, and part it over to the equivalent location on the other eyebrow. This will separate the hair on the crown of your head from the rest of your hair. Keep this hair in place with a hair clip.
 Brush the remaining hair to a central location at the back of your head, just underneath the part. Use your other hand to hold this hair in place as your brush. Brush until all of this hair is smooth, then secure with an elastic hair tie.
 Remove the clip, then slip the hair tie over the ponytail and push it as close to the scalp as possible. Hold the end of the ponytail firmly with your non-dominant hand. Brush as follows to make your ponytail smooth and tall:


Brush straight upward until the hair is smooth and bump-free. You may need to briefly relax the hand holding the ponytail so excess hair can slip through. Clamp down again immediately.
Place the brush midway up the ponytail. Brush a few strands at a time, first rolling them back slightly, then sweeping them down to the back of your head. Repeat until all the hair in the ponytail has been brushed back.
 Slip another hair tie over the two sections of hair. Adjust your ponytail and the hair around it until you're satisfied with the appearance, brushing down any loose strands or bumps.


Optionally, take a small portion of the first ponytail and wrap it around the hair ties. You can even braid it first for a fancier appearance.
 Press down on your head with one hand, and hair spray the hair around the ponytail. Once your hair is dry, you will have no fly-away strands, and your hair will exude a shiny, sleek, professional style.


You can spray the ponytail itself very lightly, or leave it as-is.
