 When you take your dog for walks, make sure that your dog is properly socialized. This will prevent it from barking and growling at other people and dogs. You should also train your dog to walk beside you and not tug on the leash or pull you. Properly leash training your dog will help you keep your dog safe and under control during your walk.Walking your dog beside you is also important because it will help you assert that you are the pack leader. This will also keep your dog from getting ahead of you and running into traffic.;
, You and your dog will need to stay hydrated during your walk, especially if it is a long one. Bring a water bottle for you and your dog. You can carry this water in a backpack or have your dog haul it in a carrying vest.


Depending on the weather and intensity of the walk, plan for your dog to drink ½ to 1 ounce (14-28 g) of water per pound (1/2 kg) of its body weight. For example, a 60-pound (30 kg) dog will need 30 to 60 ounces (850 to 1700 g) of water.If your dog does not drink from a water bottle, be sure to bring a bowl.
 If you are going for a longer walk, you may want to pack some snacks for you and your dog. You can bring your dog some of its favorite treats or pack some healthy fruits and vegetables, which both of you can enjoy. Because some fruits and vegetables can be toxic to your dog, be sure to check with your veterinarian before you head out.Dogs enjoy fruits and vegetables like blueberries, strawberries, cantaloupe, bananas, carrots, and green beans.
Skip any fruit or vegetable that has large seeds. These can be a choking hazard.
Avoid poisonous foods like grapes, onions, tomatoes, nuts and mushrooms.
 During your walk, your dog will likely have to go to the bathroom. Be sure to bring a couple of small plastic bags to pick up your dog’s feces. Picking up your dog’s mess is not only courteous, it is the law in many places.


In many locations, failing to pick up your dog’s mess can result in a fine.
 Depending on the length of the walk, you may want to bring along one of your dog’s toys. For example, if you end up in a park or other open area, you can play fetch with a ball or other chew toy. This will help your dog burn off some of its energy and get some extra exercise.

