 All you need for a facial scrub is some cooking oil, sugar, and a bit of salt. Olive oil is a good choice, but coconut oil would work fine if you melt it in the microwave a little. Sea salt is also better than regular salt. Mix a tablespoon or two with enough sugar and a dash or two of salt to make thick concoction.If you heat the coconut oil, make sure to test it first so you don't put hot oil on your face. Use a pinky to test it.
To use the facial scrub, rub it on your face in gentle circles, avoiding your eyes.
Don't rub for longer than a minute or two, as you don't want to take too much skin off. When you're done, simply wash it off.
Making face masks can also be a fun thing to do!

, You could also spend some time giving yourself a fun new color on your nails. You can do it up right by soaking your hands and feet first and cutting your nails, but you can also just skip to the painting. Pick out a fun color and go at it. You can also look up fun nail designs on the internet to try yourself.Make sure you don't make a mess. Nail polish can be difficult to remove from surfaces, especially once it dries. Wipe up any spills right away.
 Another way to pamper yourself is to take a long bath by yourself with some nice music on. You could also put on an audio book. The point is to choose something that you find relaxing and enjoyable, and then let yourself soak in the warmth. Pick a candle in a soothing scent like lavender or jasmine or even use bath salts in one of those scents.

You can also just pick a scent you enjoy.

Add in some bubble bath for extra fun.
 Spend some time trying some new tricks with your hair. Try a fun updo, or create some crazy curls with your curling iron. Messing around with your hair can be silly and fun, plus you may find a new hairdo that rocks your world.Try a French braid if you've never done one. Gather a small portion of your hair at the top of your head. Divide it into 3 equal parts. Pull the right piece over the middle piece, making it the middle piece. Then pull the left one over the middle piece, making it the middle piece.
Now, add a little bit of your loose hair to each of the sections. For instance, gather a bit of hair starting near you left ear, and pull it into the left section. Pull from the middle for the middle section, and the right for the right section. Make sure you're gathering hair evenly.
Repeat the process, braiding and adding hair until you reach your neck, where you should add any remaining hair and continue braiding. Use a hair tie to hold it together.

