 The more, the better as this will make your search easier.


Branch of Service they were in (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps or Coast Guard)
Military unit names/location (4th Infantry Division or the USS FDR)
Dates the person served in the military
Birth date
Service number and/or social security number
Where the person was born or grew up
Location of where they entered and or exited the military

, You can often find people just by entering their information into a website search engine. Start with their name, the branch they served in, and their unit. You might not be successful, but this is an easy, free way to start your search.
 Particularly younger veterans are often active on social media. It can be an easy and free way to connect with the veteran you are looking for.
 Each branch has its own association for active members and veterans. They may be able to provide information about a veteran or forward letters if the veteran is a member of the association.


Association of the United States Army
Air Force Association
Navy League
Marine Corps League

, The VA has a complete list of these organizations. Many are service or even unit specific, so start with the ones that fit the veteran you are looking for. The following organizations may also be of particular help in locating a veteran:



The American Legion – The American Legion can sometimes forward mail to a veteran, though legion membership on the part of the requesting party may be required.

Disabled American Veterans – They may be able to forward a letter or guide you to more resources.

AMVETS – Another large veteran association, they may be able to forward a letter or guide you to more resources.
Vietnam Veterans of America – The VVA has a locator forum where you can post requests for information on Vietnam vets.

Jewish War Veterans – If the veteran in question is Jewish, they may be able to forward mail to him or her.
 Both Military.com and MilitaryConnections.com offer free services to members who wish to get in touch with former service members., If you’re searching isn’t turning up the information you’re looking for, you can turn your difficult case over to a paid service.


VetFriends – This service has a search engine that allows you to browse your military unit or ship by date. It starts at $9.97 a month.
The Nationwide Locator – A service run by retired army officer Richard (Dick) S. Johnson. If you provide his locator service a first and last name, plus an approximate date of birth, he can give you a list of names, addresses, and phone numbers for everyone with a matching name.There is a fee of approximately $30.Johnson can be reached at thelocator@aol.com.