 If you have a lot of old wine corks lying around, pick up a styrofoam wreath and a hot glue gun at a local craft store. Glue the corks upright around the wreath, covering all white areas. Then, allow the wreath to dry. Glue a ribbon in a loop to the wreath so you can hang it in your home.If you want, you can use paint to paint the wine corks a color to match your home.
This project tends to work best with a lot of wine corks. If you like the idea of a wine cork wreath, start saving wine corks over time.;
, With a utility knife, cut a small sliver of the wine cork on the long side to create a flat, smooth surface. This allows the wine cork to lie flat on a table without moving around. On the opposite side, cut a slit all the way across the cork. Then, insert your place card in the slit.For an added touch, paint the cork in a specific color. As this is a great project for a wedding, using your wedding colors can be a nice touch.
 A trivet is like a large coaster that you can use as a decorative item to set things like glasses on. Find an old picture frame, or buy an inexpensive one at a department store, and take out the glass. Arrange your corks in any design you desire inside the frame. Once you’re happy with your design, glue the corks in place to the backing board of the frame. Allow the glue to fully dry. When it's done, you can set things like coffee cups or vases on the trivet and display it in your home., Glass charms are a cute, simple decoration you can use to personalize glasses for occasions like parties, weddings, and other events. Cut your corks into half inch slices using a sharp knife. Use lettered stamps to stamp a letter onto each cork. You can use the first letter or initials of friends and family members for glass charms. Then, hold your corks flat on a table. Screw a tiny screw with a loop on the end into the corks sideways. Tie a ribbon around the loop in the screw to attach the glass charm around the stem of a wine glass. Now, you have personalized glasses for events.If you want to use people's initials, use smaller stamps so you can fit all the letters on the wine glasses.
 Wine corks can be used to create fridge magnets that can hold small items, like pens, so they're on hand in the kitchen when you need them. Simply take a small, thin pocket knife. Hollow out the inside of a wine cork. Then, attach a small magnet to the back of the cork using glue. Place your wine cork on the fridge.You can place useful items, like pens, in the holder or decorative items like small flowers.
 Making a keychain out of wine cork is one of the simplest crafts to do. Simply take a screw with a loop on the end. Screw it into the top of a wine cork. Then, place the ring of your keys around the loop., Coasters take around 19 corks each to make, so this project is great if you have a lot of wine corks saved up. Arrange your corks in a circular shape on a flat surface. Then, attach the corks to one another using a hot glue gun.For added decoration, loop a ribbon around the coaster and attach it in place with a hot glue gun. This can add a splash of color.

