 Examine the fur coat, looking for rips, tears, stains, or anything that can be further damaged during cleaning. Some damage may not be visible to the eye, so run your fingers along the edge of the lining, the collar, the armpits, the elbows and the shoulders. These are the parts that tear the most often and can be difficult to see. Check the pockets as well to make sure nothing is in there that can cause damage during cleaning.;
, Lay the fur coat down on the table with the lining out; then use a soft bristle brush on the lining and fur with petroleum based cleaning solution to remove dirt, residue, and stains.
 Brush all edges of the fur with a wired fur brush to try to remove any knotting or matting that has occurred from regular wear.
 Take a metal pan, use a measuring spoon pour six ounces of corn cob compound into the pan, then use your liquid measuring cup apply ⅓ of a cup of the fur cleaning conditioner to moisten the compound. Mix together thoroughly with your hands.
 Make sure you secure the door of the drum by sliding each lock into place and then turn it on for 20 minutes. After 20 minutes, the compound should be embedded into the fur.
 Once the compound is successfully embedded into the fur, remove the coat and put it into the rotating shaker. Again, make sure you secure the door of this shaker by sliding each lock into place. Leave it in for another 20 minutes; this will remove the excess solution from the fur.
 For this step, you will need an air compressor that releases at least 90 lbs psi air pressure. Use the air compressor to blow out the remaining cleaning compound that the rotating shaker couldn’t get off. This will also loosen up the hair for the glazing/polishing.
 For this step, you will need a fur glazing machine. Before beginning the process, the rotating cylinder needs to be heated up to approximately 300 degrees. Once the cylinder is heated, put the fur under the cylinder with the grain of the fur going in the same direction as the cylinder is spinning. Begin by having the cylinder roll over each part of the coat one section at a time. This step polishes, lifts, and grooms the hair to its natural state.
 The most effective way to do this is to turn the coat inside out so only the lining is showing, and to move the hose up and down the material. Make sure not to touch any fur with steam because it will ruin the pelt.
 Make sure the lining is intact and there is no damage in need of repair.
 This step is important because the fur needs to breathe after being cleaned. If the fur is laid down or hung up and mashed between two other materials, it would flatten the fur and cause knotting and matting.

