 One parent may have had a problem with contacts in the past. Maybe they don't want you to worry about your looks just yet. It might even be for religious reasons (some religions prohibit contact lenses except for medical necessity, believe it or not) Maybe they're not sure you're responsible enough.

You should not even consider doing this under most circumstances, because the consequences can be pretty bad if you are caught (though not as bad as coming home with a tattoo or piercing). If their reason is something you can talk your way around, it's best to convince them to let you get the contacts. (Plus, you won't have to use your own money.)
The only reason one would ever reasonably consider going to these measures are if they have the kind of parents who refuse to give reasons for their decisions and resent being questioned.



 

;
, You only need one parental consent signature. This works well if your parents are divorced and/or separated.
 You will not be able to use your parents' money if you go behind their back.
 If you're at least 15, you can almost certainly pass for 18 in most cases. Just add a couple of years to your birthdate (i.e. if you were born in 1992 tell the optician you were born in 1989 or 1990, etc.) Opticians virtually NEVER check ID. Contact lenses aren't like getting a tattoo or piercing. But don't make a big deal about your "age". Don't get into an explanation such as "people think I'm younger, but I'm 18." If an optician asks for ID, simply state that you forgot it. If they refuse to examine you, leave quietly and go somewhere else.
 Find opticians in your area. Or better yet, if you have the means to go somewhere out of your immediate area, do so. Visit one in person, other than where you go to get your glasses, and make an appointment. If they ask if you are at least 18, simply say "yes." Don't go into a story about how people frequently think you're younger. This will draw attention to yourself. If they ask for ID, show them your fake ID. It is virtually unheard of for opticians to validate IDs. If they even ask, and you have one, that is almost always good enough (especially out of state).
 Don't schedule your contact lens exam during school hours (don't tell the optician about school, though), and make sure you're scheduled for a day and time when your parents will be away from the house for a while. School holidays are great, because workplaces don't get as many days off as schools do. The best time to do this, however, is in the summer when school is out.
 When you see the eye doctor for your exam, beware that they will try to sell you the most expensive contact lenses they can (or whatever generates the best profit margin for them). Push to get a prescription for Acuvue 2 or a good two-week or monthly lens. They are the best value and as long as you take care of them, should be just fine. (Dailies are highway robbery in most cases)

, As long as you use them exactly as directed, it is very unlikely you will have problems. If you get an eye infection, you're probably busted.
