 The structure of each book club is a bit different, and there are no strict rules regarding how to designate a leader. In fact, some book clubs don’t have a leader at all. However, selecting a leader can help the conversation stay on topic and enrich the book club meeting.The book club’s host often doubles as the conversation leader.
You could also choose to invite a subject matter expert to lead the meeting. For instance, if you’re reading a book about the French Revolution, you might invite a local professor of French history to lead the conversation.
Alternately, your book club might decide to choose a single leader who runs every book club meeting.
English teachers, librarians, or authors often make good book club leaders.
 If you’re both the host and the conversation leader, having some questions about the book is crucial to keep the conversation focused and flowing. Even if you are not the conversation leader, though, having some questions ready to ask the group can make your meeting more enjoyable.If your book club is reading a well-known book, you’ll probably be able to find some study guides with questions in them online (or in book stores). For instance, if you’re reading 1984, you might run a search like "1984 study questions” through your preferred search engine.
If you’re reading a book that doesn’t have questions available for it online, read the book carefully and come up with some open-ended questions that can elicit thoughtful reactions from club members.
 Phones can be a serious distraction from conducting an effective book club. Before the meeting begins, ask everyone kindly to turn their phones off. Use a friendly tone when doing so., At the beginning of the book club, hand everyone a pen or pencil and an index card. Encourage them to write a question or comment on an index card. Collect the cards before you get started, then read them out loud (or hand them to the conversation leader to read aloud). Invite responses to these questions and comments.Having book club participants write their thoughts on index cards can allow club members who are less outgoing to share their thoughts, too.
This is also a useful method for facilitating conversation on controversial books.
 Hosting and attending a book club should be fun, but some people like to use book club time to chat with friends. Include a designated social time at the end of the meeting for such off-topic conversations. That way, people who are there to talk and think more about the book get the opportunity to do so.If a club member is talking excessively and wandering off-topic, help them refocus their attention on the book with gentle but firm directions.
For instance, if someone is talking about their weekend plans instead of about what they think of the book, transition back to the conversation by saying “Let’s talk about the third chapter. Was anyone surprised by the protagonist’s decision?”

