 If you are making this for a child, a regular chopstick will work just fine. If you are making this for a teen or an adult, consider getting one of those 15-inch (38.1 centimeters) bamboo cooking chopsticks.








Don't worry about the color; you will be painting it later on!
Can't find a chopstick? You can try using a long, wooden paintbrush instead. Just snap the brush part off, just below the metal crimp. You can also saw it off using a hacksaw.
 The handle should be about the length of your finger. Cover the handle area with hot glue let it harden. Add 2 to 3 more layers, if needed.









To create a wand like Harry's, draw vertical lines to make the handle. Make them thicker at the base of the wand and thinner towards the other end of the handle.
Some wands are plain but others, such as Hermione Granger's, have designs on the rest of the wand. You can use the hot glue to draw vines, squiggles, or spirals. You can create a neat design just by twirling your wand in your fingers while drawing a line., Some wands have a fancier handle base. If you'd like yours to have one too, you can hot glue a small bead or fancy button to the base of your wand. The bead or button should be the same width as your wand; it should not extend past the edges by much.









Think about the bead or button's design and don't worry about the color. You will be painting this.
You can always leave the bead or button unpainted, especially if it is a pretty crystal one!

, Most wants will be some shade of brown, but the Harry Potter movies also had wands that were white or black. You can even paint your want different shades of one color to make it look more like wood.


Consider using watered-down acrylic paints if your chopsticks are made out of bamboo. This way, the original texture still shows through.
 Take the darker shade, and use it to fill in any nooks and crannies on your wand. You can use a q-tip or a pointy brush to get to those hard-to-reach areas. Then, take your lighter shade, and use it to highlight all of the raised areas.


If your wand is black, you will only need the highlights. If your wand is white, you will only need the shadows.
 Bring the wand outside and set it down on a sheet of paper. Spray it with some clear, acrylic sealer, and wait for it to dry. When the wand dries, turn it over, and spray the other side. Repeat this step, if necessary.Sealing the wand is not absolutely necessary, but it can make the paint job last longer.
You can use a matte, satin, or glossy finish.

