 One solution is to answer the question literally. “Lately, I’m spending a lot of time working on my golf game.” Or, “I’m taking a course on computer programming.”If you do decide to discuss your unemployment, you will want a response that explains your situation while also reinforcing your own self-worth.


Do not blame yourself. You cannot control economic conditions. Unemployment is a normal part of life for millions of people.Emphasize the positive: you get to spend more time with your family; your catching up on your reading; your getting in shape; you have an opportunity to change careers.
Mention the steps you are taking to get a new job.
Frame your job loss as an opportunity to evaluate your career and to do something different or better.;
, Work provides structure to your day, and losing that structure can leave you feeling aimless, which in turn can lead to feelings of depression and worthlessness. A schedule will motivate you and keep you feeling productive:


Pick a block of time for your job search. Do it every day, and be done with it. This will both keep ensure you keep up with your job search and prevent you from feeling like you should spend all your time on it.
Schedule time for self-care activities like reading, working out, or hobbies.
Make sure you schedule daily activities that take you out of your home.
 Getting a job is important, but it is not a helpful goal for building self-esteem because it depends on people other than yourself. Instead, set goals like editing your c.v., reading 3 books a month, or working out 3 days a week. Achieving goals regularly will help to boost your self-esteem., When unemployed, many people begin to cut out activities not related to finding a new job because they are worried about money, feel guilty about having fun when they should be getting a job, or are simply embarrassed about being unemployed and don’t want to go out. It is important to your mental health, however, to make time for pleasurable activities that replenish you physically and psychologically, such as:Reading
Exercise
Hobbies
Meditation
Worship
Volunteer work
Keeping a diary – Write down both negative and positive thoughts.
 The average unemployed person spends more time watching TV and movies than doing anything else.Watching television can lower self-esteem in two ways. First, it exposes you to images - attractive, successful people - that make you feel worse by comparison.Second, it can make you feel like you are wasting your time and failing to be productive.
 Our environment has a huge impact on the way we feel. You can help yourself to feel productive and connected to your career by maintaining and seeking out the appropriate environments.


Keep your home clean and tidy.
Dress for work when you do job search activities.
Perform job search tasks in public spaces like a library or coffee shop. Activities performed in public have a greater impact on our self-image.Play relaxing music when working.
 Being unemployed can be traumatic. It is important to have people you can turn to for emotional support. Most people will be empathetic, but a few people, even good friends and family may look down on you, secretly blame you, or deliver subtle digs that undermine your self-esteem. It is important to avoid such relationships as much as possible and to surround yourself with people who are supportive and non-judgmental.

