 For this type of thong, you will need a piece of fabric about 10 inches by 12 inches that is somewhat stretchy. You'll also need some elastic for the waistband and leg holes in your thong. Pick a color you want to match your fabric because this elastic will show. If you find that elastic is uncomfortable, you can always try substituting it for some stretchy lace, although it may not attach quite as well to your underwear.
 Before you cut your fabric, you'll want to create a pattern for your thong that feels most comfortable to you. A good starting point is to cut a triangle out of a piece of paper with the two longest sides at 9 inches and the top, shortest side at 7.25 inches. Hold the triangle up to yourself and decide if it needs to be bigger or smaller, and then cut it to fit the dimensions you would like for your thong.When making your thong, the tip of the triangle should point down, so cut your fabric with that in mind.
 Once you have decided on the dimensions for the pattern for your thong, lay the paper pattern over your fabric, trace a triangle onto your fabric, and then cut it out. If you are using a very stretchy fabric you can cut the exact dimensions of the pattern, but if your fabric has only a little stretch to it you may want to cut a slightly bigger piece so you have more fabric to work with. , You will need elastic for the waistband, the back of your thong, and for the two sides of your thong. The elastic for the sides should be one inch shorter than the side length of the triangle (you will stretch it as you sew) and the piece for the back should be about 8 inches, but you can adjust for your comfort.
 Elastic for the waistband needs to be about one inch shorter than your hips or waist measurement, depending on where you plan to wear your thong. Use a measuring tape to measure waist or hips, and then cut a piece of elastic one inch less than that measurement.


Depending on where you want your thong to sit will determine if you use your hip or waist measurements, and will also determine the length of your back elastic. If you want a higher thong, you'll need more back elastic and less elastic for your waistband, but if you want your thong to sit on your hips you'll likely need more elastic for the waistband and less for the back elastic.
 Take your elastic and place it on top of your fabric at the edge, on the two longest sides of your thong (the sides that point downwards to make a V). Then, place a pin at the top of the side elastic and one at the bottom. You'll then want a pin in the middle of the fabric, so pull the fabric from both sides to stretch it out, and place a pin in the elastic towards the middle, while fabric is still stretched. When you let the fabric go your fabric may crumple up a bit, but once you sew the elastic into it and put it on, it will stretch to fit.
 Once you have finished pinning, using a stretch stitch or a zigzag stitch, sew along the elastic, pulling and stretching the fabric as you go so that it lines up evenly.
 After you have sewn the elastic to the sides of your fabric, you'll want to connect your back elastic to the front of the thong by attaching one end of the back elastic to the bottom point of your triangle, and sewing a small seam, making sure the elastic is in the back of the fabric.
 Before you sew your waistband to your thong, you'll want to sew the ends together, making a nice circle with your waistband. Then, sew the loose end of the back elastic to the waistband, making sure the back elastic is inside the waistband. , Fold the waistband in half, with the back elastic resting on the fold of the waistband. The opposite fold will be the center of your thong -- place a pin there. Then, take the center of the top of your triangle and line it up with that pin, connecting it with another pin. Your elastic waistband should be on top of your triangle fabric, to match the sides of the triangle.
 Sew along the elastic, connecting the waistband to the top of the triangle fabric and making sure to stretch the fabric as you go. Then, cut any extra threads and try your thong on, admiring your finished product! 