 You can combine the metabolism boosting powers of ginger, cayenne, and black pepper (as well as cumin and cinnamon) in this flavored basmati rice recipe. Pair this with roasted veggies and/or chicken for a more complete meal.Gather the following ingredients:

1/4 cup ghee, butter, or vegetable oil
1 hefty tablespoon of fresh grated ginger
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon cumin
big pinch of cinnamon
big pinch of cayenne
1/2 teaspoon (or more to taste) fresh ground black pepper
6 cups cooked basmati rice


Heat ghee, butter, or oil is small saucepan over medium heat.
Slowly add the ginger, salt, cumin, cinnamon and cayenne. Cook for 30 seconds, stirring constantly.
Remove from heat. Add black pepper.
Pour the seasoned ghee, butter, or oil over the rice and stir to combine.
Add additional salt and black pepper (if needed) to taste.
 You can combine the metabolism-boosting powers of turmeric, cumin, cinnamon, and cardamom (plus garlic, black pepper, and cayenne) by preparing a delicious spiced lentil soup. This recipe is vegan, gluten-free, and diary-free.Gather the following ingredients:

1 and ½ tablespoons olive oil
2 cups diced onion (1 medium/large)
2 large cloves garlic, minced
2 teaspoons ground turmeric
1 and ½ teaspoons ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1 can (15 oz.) diced tomatoes
1 can (15 oz.) coconut milk (full fat)
3/4 cup uncooked red lentils
3 and ½ cups low sodium vegetable broth
1/2 teaspoon salt
Fresh ground pepper (to taste)
Pinch of cayenne (optional)
2 big handfuls of baby spinach
2 teaspoons fresh lime juice


In a large pot, add oil, onion, garlic, and salt. Sautee over medium heat for five minutes.
Add the turmeric, cumin, cinnamon, and cardamom and stir to combine. Cook one minute.
Add diced tomatoes (with all of the juice), coconut milk, and broth. Add black pepper and cayenne (if using). Turn up the heat and bring to a boil.
Reduce heat and let simmer for 18-22 minutes, under lentils are soft.
Stir in spinach and lime juice. Allow it to cook one or two more minutes.
Season with additional salt and pepper to taste.
 You can combine the metabolism-boosting powers of garlic, parsley, and rosemary (plus cayenne and black pepper) by making pan-roasted cauliflower. Serve with a protein of your choice for a complete meal.Gather the following ingredients:

2 medium head of cauliflower (about 2 lbs.)
3 tablespoons olive oil
Salt (to taste)
Black pepper (to taste)
Crushed red pepper or cayenne (to taste)
1 teaspoon minced garlic
1 teaspoon fresh rosemary
1/2 cup chopped parsley
1/2 teaspoon lemon zest
1/4 cup roasted salted almonds, chopped


Cut each cauliflower into quarters and remove the core. Then, cut quarters into 1/2–inch thick slices. (Try to keep them all the same size).
Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add cauliflower and toss to coat. Season with salt and pepper.
Keep flipping the cauliflower, allowing the sides to turn brown. Repeat until cauliflower is tender (about 10-12 minutes).
Add crushed red pepper (or cayenne), garlic, rosemary, parsley, and lemon zest. Cook for one more minute.
Add additional salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle with almonds, and serve.

