 Draw one fairly large circle and to the left of it, draw another circle that is considerably smaller than the first – about a third of the size. The big circle will form young Anakin's head and the smaller circle will be the head of the adult Anakin.


Above each of these circles draw an additional two more circles, one inside the other as shown, with both circles overlapping the previous circle drawn for the head. These circles will be the guidelines for the hair and bangs, so make sure to draw the circles proportionate to the head.;
,


Draw a vertical line through the center of both of the circles and a horizontal line as well. The horizontal line on the larger circle (Young Anakin’s head) will determine as to where the eyes will be placed and the horizontal line drawn through the smaller circle (Adult Anakin) will determine where the nose will be drawn.
After that, draw two fairly small circles for each head, one on each side of the circles for the ears, make them proportionate as well.
Draw three circles inside the circumference of young Anakin’s head slightly overlapping outside of the circle as shown to form what will be the cheeks and chin.
 Draw a line inside the fork of the ‘Y’ to make the undershirt.


For Adult Anakin, draw a stick figure guide for the body as shown, illustrating the location of the arms, the shoulders two circles for the hands and for the shoulders, one long line drawn from the bottom of the head downward. Don't bother drawing legs, because the character wears a robe.
 Have them connect to the circles representing the hands. Have the arm to your right connect to the bottom circle and the arm to your left connect to the top one.

Draw a long curved rectangular shape with rounded corners to make up the robe. Draw it between both arms as shown with a line drawn though it forking out at the top to both sides of the head representing the collar of the robe.



First draw the head and add facial features.
Use the overlapping lines and guides within both faces to determine the appropriate location of the mouth, eyes, and nose. #* Then add the hair.
For adult Anakin draw a long cloak with a hanging hood.
Try to add as many wrinkles as you can. This will give tree-dimensionality and mobility to your drawing.
Add the light-saber.



Use watercolor for a fast coloring.
Follow the illustration for reference.
 Your drawing is done!

