 You do not want to use a weight that is either too heavy or too light for you. A good weight will be one that you are comfortable using for at least twelve or fifteen reps.To find a good weight, you may want to practice bicep curls with a dumbbell first before trying any of your new ab exercises.
 Before you begin, you should warm up with a short jog or run. Five or ten minutes is all you need to make sure that your muscles are ready for exercise. This will prevent injury and maximize your results.If you are doing cardio and weight training together, you should save the cardio for after your weight training. Only do five or ten minutes of jogging before you start lifting., Spine injuries can be devastating and permanent. To make sure that your spine is safe, keep it straight while doing weight exercises., For your weight training to be effective, you should move through the full range of motion as dictated by the exercise. Exercise with slow, controlled movements. This will work out all of your abdominal muscles as you train. Do not rush through a movement, or you risk injuring yourself., Unless otherwise indicated by the specific exercise, you should start your exercises with about eight to ten reps. Do three sets of these reps total. When you are more comfortable, you can increase the reps or the number of sets that you do. In addition, you can you’re your number of reps and sets based on what kind of training you would like to do.

For strength training, do up three sets of five to eight reps with a heavier weight.
For endurance, do up to three sets of fifteen or twenty reps using a lighter weight., Take a full minute of rest between each set. This will prevent you from overexerting your muscles. It will also help you perform more sets without injuring yourself.In addition to resting between sets, you should also rest between days. Do not work out the same group of muscles two days in a row. Give your ab muscles at least day (if not longer) to rest before you try again., Many people forget to breathe while they lift weights, but it is very important to breathe during exercise. Not only does it deliver oxygen to your muscles, but it also prevents injury and fatigue. For abdominal exercises, you should exhale as you tighten your abs. For example, during a crunch, exhale as you rise and inhale as you lower yourself.