 You can also do lunges, deadlifts, bridges, planks, leg lifts, and skater lunges to train your leg and abdominal muscles. On your first strength training day you want to focus on your lower body. These exercises will build strength in your legs as well as your core.Do squats to warm up your lower body. Make sure to stretch after you do these exercises because your hamstrings may be tight.
You can also try weighted squats holding the dumbbells at your sides.
Other good exercises include lunges, side lunges, or skater lunges, which can all be done with additional resistance by holding dumbbells at your sides or at your shoulders. Start out with body weight and then work up to holding weights.
Many leg exercises, including leg curls and leg extensions, can be done with ankle weights to increase the resistance.
Raise and then lower your heels, remembering to breathe through the exercise. This will strengthen your calves.
If you have a weight bench, hold the barbell over your shoulders and do barbell squats. Use the same form as you would with regular squats, making sure your feet are shoulder-width apart and that you're lowering your body with your legs, not your back.
This exercise mainly targets your quads and gluteals, but will also work the rest of your legs and your lower back.;
, Keeping your abdominal muscles and other core muscles is a crucial part of strength training as a woman. Make sure that you train your abs and core muscles two to three times per week. Some good exercises for training your abs and core include:Crunches, such as the basic crunch, bicycle crunch, and reverse crunch.

Planks, such as the basic plank and side plank.
Stability ball exercises, such as leg raises.
Vertical chair knee raises.
 You can create a routine that works your back and biceps on the second strength-training day.Do bent over rows using a resistance band or dumbbells.

Try supermans while lying face down on a mat or a carpeted area.
If you are working out in a gym, you can do standing and seated cable rows on one of the machines. These exercises target your upper, lower, and middle back. Pull-downs use the same machine and work your lats primarily, as well as your biceps, middle back, and shoulders to a lesser degree.
Focus on maintaining a wide grip on these exercises and using your full range of motion. Be sure to breathe properly through these exercises and keep your back as straight as possible, except when doing supermans where the goal is to arch your back.
When exercising your back, proper form is imperative to prevent injury. You may want to have a personal trainer or experienced weight trainer evaluate your form.
 You don't have to go to a gym to strengthen your shoulder muscles.You can also use weights at home.


If you are at a gym, or have a weight bench at home, you can do military presses with the bar or with dumbbells. Stand holding the bar at your shoulders, using an overhand grip, or hold the dumbbells at your shoulders and then extend your arms overhead.
Raise the bar or dumbbells over your head and then lower the weight to your shoulders. Do two or three sets of this exercise.
For arm raises, stand holding your arms at your sides, with or without dumbbells. Raise each arm each arm straight in front of you. Raise the dumbbell to shoulder height, then lower to your side. Do two or three sets of this exercise as well. You should feel the burn in your shoulders.
Check your breathing, and make sure you raise and lower the weights in a controlled way, moving at roughly the same speed.
You can also do slow arm circles with dumbbells in your hands to work all of your muscles at once. Try standing on one leg as well for a balance challenge.
 If you're working out with free weights or hand weights, these basic lifts target your chest and triceps muscles.To do a bench press, lay on your back on a weight bench with the bar over your chest. You also can do similar exercises using hand weights and laying on the floor. Bend your elbows and rest the dumbbells over your shoulders as a starting position.
To perform a fly, start with the dumbbells resting on your chest as you lie on your back. Push the dumbbells up and away from your body towards the ceiling and then slowly lower your arms out to your sides. Don't let your elbows go lower than your torso, at least when you are first learning this exercise. Then, contract your chest muscles and push the dumbbells back up so your hands meet, with your arms fully extended above your chest. Repeat.
Your movement should be controlled. Lift and lower the weight with the same speed – don't simply drop the weight after you've lifted it.
Pay attention to your breathing. You should exhale as you lift and inhale as you lower the weights. Don't tense up or hold your breath while doing these exercises.
Do two or three sets of each exercise, making sure to warm up by doing arm circles, shoulder circles, or jogging in place for a few minutes.
 Ideally, you want to strength train for 15 to 20 minutes a day two or three days per week. Focus on different muscle groups each day, making sure that you work out all your major muscle groups.For example, you might plan on two lower body days with ab/core work and one upper body day.
Make sure you plan a day of rest in between each of your strength training sessions. You may want to do light cardio such as walking on your off days so that you stay active.
One good thing about strength training is that if you are diligent, you may notice positive results in only a few weeks. The results will motivate you to keep going.
However you schedule your strength training, make sure you do it consistently. Switching up the days or times you exercise can impact your recovery process, which could slow your results.
 If you already have an exercise routine, you can build strength training into it by incorporating resistance bands or weights into the various moves in your routine.For example, the band can be anchored under your foot, or around a door knob, or over a closet railing or coat hook, or even tied around your legs. There are a multitude of exercises you can perform using resistance bands or therabands. Hold the band in place by putting part of it under your foot. Then, hold either end of the band in your hands, pulling it tight.
 Doing simple weight-lifting exercises such as curls and lifts will strengthen your muscles. Do a higher number of repetitions with lighter weights to avoid bulking up., If you find weight lifting intimidating, you can still add a strength training component to your workout routine. These weights wrap around your wrists or ankles to add resistance to bodyweight exercises.However, don’t wear these weights for too long. Wear them for a specific number of reps or for up to a minute at a time. Otherwise, you will put too much stress on your joints.


You can purchase wrist and ankle weights at most discount stores or at any sporting goods store.
If you're not looking to make a significant investment, look for used equipment at a thrift store or online auction site.
Try to find weights that will allow you to gradually increase the weight, so you can step up your resistance over time as you build muscle strength.
 A personal trainer or other expert can provide you with important tips to make sure your strength training routine will be effective. They also can check your form to make sure you're doing the exercises properly to achieve your desired result.It isn't necessary to hire a personal trainer to work out with you every day – you can hire someone for a single session to go over your routine with you and give you pointers.
If you have a local YMCA near you, they may offer low-cost sessions with a personal trainer that can help you assess your goals and build an effective strength-training regimen.
You also may benefit from using an exercise video or reading books about strength training for middle-aged women.
However, if you're getting your advice from a video or a book, keep in mind that this information is not personal to you and may not necessarily apply to your body or your situation.
 Even if you are trying to lose weight, you can't build muscle if your body thinks it's starving. Eating at least once every two or three hours maintains the right nutrition level necessary to build healthy muscle.Ideally you should attempt five or six smaller meals. However, if you can't work that into your schedule, have your three regular meals along with three or four healthy snacks.
Stock up on fruits and vegetables you can snack on, as well as healthy nuts such as almonds.
Try to eat at least 20 minutes before you plan to exercise, and then have a snack again about 20 minutes after your workout is finished.
For example, you might have a protein bar 20 minutes before your workout and a cup of yogurt 20 minutes after.
 Protein is essential to build muscle. If you're working on strength training, particularly as a middle-aged woman, you won't realize significant results unless you're eating enough protein.Include a balance of protein from different types of foods so you don't get tired of eating the same thing every day.
For example, eggs are a good way to get protein at breakfast. Dairy foods such as yogurt make good snacks. For lunch or dinner, you can add some protein with a chicken or turkey sandwich.
If you're a vegetarian or vegan, make sure you eat plenty of beans, legumes, whole grains, seeds, nuts, and soy products. Vegetables such as broccoli and spinach also are sources of protein.
 Fruits and vegetables have nutrients your body needs – many of which you can't get from any other source.Getting nutrition from food, rather than simply taking supplements, is the best way for your body to absorb and process the nutrients you need.
Fruits and vegetables also can fill you up so you don't feel hungry soon after you've eaten, despite the fact that they are low in calories.
Limit or avoid simple carbohydrates like pasta, rice, and bread. Low-carb diets can help with weight loss.
 Processed foods contain chemicals that your body doesn't recognize as food. Eating too many processed foods can result in weight gain that diminishes your strength-training results.Check the ingredient labels of any prepared food you eat and look for sugars. You'll often find it added to foods you'd least suspect.
Eating fresh, rather than frozen or pre-packaged foods, is the best way to avoid unnecessary preservatives and overly processed food items.
Check sugar content carefully on any protein or granola bars you get for snacks as well. Some of these products are advertised as healthy or low in fat, but still contain significant amounts of sugar.
 You don't need fancy sports drinks if you're doing a basic strength training routine. However, you do need to make sure that you're drinking plenty of water, and that you're drinking it throughout the day – not just when you exercise.Generally, you want to drink between 8 and 10 glasses of water. If you have a glass of water every time you eat, and you're eating six times a day, you've already fulfilled most of your quota right there.
Avoid sodas and other drinks – even "diet" versions – as they can supply you with too much sugar and cause weight gain. Soft drinks also can dehydrate you, making you more thirsty than you were to start with.
If you have trouble drinking water, you might consider adding lemon or other natural flavors to make it more palatable.
Gradually decrease the flavoring until you can drink plain water with no problem.
 Failure to warm up for at least five to ten minutes before you begin a strength training routine can result in muscle or tendon tears.Your warm up routine should always include exercises that warm up your core.
 If you're using weight-lifting equipment or machines, whether in a gym or at home, make sure everything is in proper working order before you begin your routine. You also want to inspect the area around the equipment for safety hazards.Move the equipment and make sure it is functioning as it is supposed to, without any loose screws or uneven movement.
Wipe up any puddles or slick spots that could cause you to lose your footing or grip.
Pay attention to your own clothing as well. Make sure you're not wearing anything that could impede your movement or interfere with your exercises.
Tie your shoelaces in double knots and confirm that the soles of your shoes won't get hung up on anything or cause you to slip while you're exercising.
 One of the main causes of injury during strength training is poor form while working out. If you cannot do an exercise using the proper form and technique, you should try something else instead.A personal trainer can be your best source to check your form and make adjustments if you're doing anything incorrectly.
If you don't have anyone to check your form for you, try to complete your exercises in front of a mirror so you can watch yourself. Find a picture or video of someone doing the exercise correctly, and compare yourself to them.
 If one muscle group is stronger and more developed than another, you can cause significant strain to the weaker group – particularly when you are doing exercises or activities that work your whole body.This sort of muscle imbalance also puts undue stress and strain on your joints, which can lead to significant injury.
If you've divided your strength training over the course of several days, don't skip a day if it will result in uneven development of different muscle groups.
 You should never take on more weight or resistance than you can handle. Make sure you can do an entire set of a given exercise completely and with good form before you contemplate adding weight.It often is more beneficial to increase the number of repetitions you're doing rather than increasing the weight.
When you increase weight or resistance, you may want to decrease the number of repetitions you do – at least at first – until you get used to the added weight.

