 This easy, one-syllable word is a popular term used to describe things that are fun or agreeable. It's used almost exactly like "cool" in English. You can say it by itself or use it as a versatile adjective. For example, "Es muy guay" ("It's very cool").


This word is pronounced "GWHY." It rhymes with the English words "pie" and "rye" (not "play" or "ray").
 as an interjection in Mexico. Just like in English, some Spanish slang terms aren't used in every Spanish-speaking country. This word is popular in Mexico and is used roughly the way an English speaker might use "Awesome!" or "Right on!" For instance, you might shout it after you watch an especially skillful play by your favorite soccer player."¡Órale!" is pronounced "OH-dah-lay." Put the stress on the first "oh" sound and use the quick, delicate r sound discussed above.
 This term literally translates to "tough," "strong," or "big," but the meaning is similar to "awesome" or "great."Use it as an adjective. For instance: "un vuelo macanudo" ("an awesome flight").


This word is pronounced "mah-cah-NOO-thoe." Note that the d is very soft — it's closer to the English th sound (as in "the").
 This is another term that's popular among Mexican Spanish speakers. The approximate meaning is "very fatherly" but it's used as a slang term for "cool" or "awesome."This word is pronounced "pah-d-DEE-see-moe." Getting the delicate Spanish r sound right after the d can be difficult. If you're having trouble, try putting the tip of your tongue behind your top front teeth and flick it back towards the middle of your mouth as you pronounce the d.
You can also say "¡qué padre!" ("how cool!") as an exclamation.
 This word literally means "barbarian" or "barbarous" — rough and uncivilized. However, in this context, it has a positive meaning similar to "great" or "sweet!"This word is pronounced "BADR-bah-doe." Be sure to put the stress on the first syllable.
 This versatile word has a few different meanings. You can use it as an exclamation like "awesome!" or "fantastic!" Alternatively, you can use it as an informal way to say "gentleman" or "dude." For example: "Juan es un bacán" ("Juan is a real cool dude").This word is pronounced "bah-CON." The second syllable rhymes with "pawn," not "one."

, This phrase, which literally means "pure life" or "full of life" is widely used by ticos (people from Costa Rica) in countless ways. You can use it by itself the way you'd use "great" or "right on, man."You can say it as a pleasant "thank you" or as a compliment. You can even use it as a greeting or goodbye, like "aloha" in Hawaiian. The phrase is so popular that it's practically the country's trademark slogan — you won't go long without hearing it in Costa Rica.This word is pronounced "poo-dah VEE-thah."

Don't use a hard d or t sound for "pura." "Puta" is an obscene curse word that you don't want to say by accident.

