 In the U.S., many brands abbreviate this as “NET WT” and list it at the bottom of the front of the bag or can. This is the weight of the contents of the package. For example, a net weight of 3 oz. (85 g) means the package contains three ounces/85 grams of food. This does not include the weight of the paper or metal in the package., Look for the words, “for cats” somewhere in the statement. This informs you that the food contains ingredients that satisfy feline nutritional needs. You should find this statement on the front of the package.


Make sure the statement fits your cat's stage of life. If you have a kitten (under the age of one) or a senior cat (over the age of 12), make sure the statement includes “kittens” or “senior cats.” Apply the same rules for pregnant and nursing cats. These stages have different nutritional requirements than adult cats who are not pregnant or nursing., Under U.S. law, this list must include the minimum and maximum percentages of crude protein (an analysis of nitrogen in plant and animal protein sources), crude fat (the amount of fat calories about to be burned), crude fiber (fiber that doesn't absorb water), and moisture.


For example, if you read “Crude Protein (Min.) 10.0%,” this means that crude protein is at least 10 percent of the net weight. It could contain more. An analysis of “Crude Fiber (Max) 1.5%” means that crude fiber is no more than 1.5 percent of the net weight, although it could contain less.
Some brands might include ash (the final product after food has been completely incinerated). This is a voluntary move on the part of the manufacturer. U.S. law does not require its inclusion in the analysis. Look for this information on the back of the package. It usually appears above the ingredient list., You can find this information on the back of the package, usually under the ingredients and in bold font. These are more like guidelines, as opposed to strict directions. Because each cat is different, ask your vet for specific feeding instructions.For example, the instructions might read, “Feed an average size adult cat 1 can per 2.5 pounds of body weight daily. Feed up to twice this amount for kittens.” If your adult cat weighs 10 pounds, the manufacturer recommends feeding them four cans per day. For a three-pound kitten, the guideline would be about two cans per day.
 You can find this on the back of the label under the list of ingredients. This statement gives the full name of the manufacturer and their contact information. Usually, the contact info will include a mailing address and a toll-free telephone number. It also contains a statement of their obligation to meet nutritional standards established by the Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) or its non-U.S. equivalent.