 Prepare four tart pans or ramekins by lining them with cut banana leaves.If you want the cakes to look as traditional as possible, bake them in 6-inch (15.25-cm) ramekins. You could use 4-oz (10-cm) ramekins, but the cakes will be thicker than usual and will also take longer to cook. Similarly, if baked in tart pans, the cakes will be a bit shallower than usual and may bake quicker.
You could also use a standard 8-inch (20.3-cm) round baking pan with a depth of 3 inches (7.6 cm) if you do not have a tart pan, ramekins, or ramekin-like miniature baking pans.The banana leaves are an essential aspect of this recipe if you want it to be as traditional as possible. They add to both the appearance and fragrance of the finished cakes.;
, In a large bowl, whisk together the rice flour, baking powder, and salt until well combined.


Most traditional recipes only use standard rice flour and do not used sweet or glutinous rice flour.
 In a separate bowl, beat the eggs lightly with a whisk. Add the sugar and beat again. Add the melted butter and beat once more.


Granulated sugar is used in most traditional recipes for bibingka, but for a slightly different taste, you could use brown sugar, instead.
 Alternate adding the flour mixture and coconut milk to the egg mixture, beating with a whisk after each addition. Only beat until the mixture is just blended, and avoid over-beating the batter.
 Divide the batter evenly amongst the four prepared pans, pouring it directly into the banana leaves.


Traditionally, you should lay slices of salted egg on top of each cake before baking it. Duck eggs are the most traditional, but salted chicken eggs will also work., Place the cakes on the top rack of the oven and bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the cakes are cooked through.


Check for doneness by inserting a toothpick into the center of each cake. If it comes out clean, then the cakes are fully cooked.
 Switch the broiler on to low and broil the cakes for another 2 to 3 minutes, or until the top of each cake browns.


Watch the cakes carefully during this time to prevent them from burning.
Note that this step is only optional. It will have very little bearing on the taste of the cake, but it can create a more appealing appearance.
 Remove the cakes from the oven and let cool for a few minutes. Brush them with additional melted butter, and if desired, sprinkle with additional sugar, grated coconut, and grated cheese. Serve while still warm.


You could eat the cakes out of the ramekins you baked them in, but for a better presentation, you should slide them out of their baking dishes before adding the butter, sugar, coconut, and cheese. Carefully tip each ramekin onto its side and gently slide the cake and banana leaves out. Place each cake on an individual serving platter and enjoy.

