 You must have less than 10 villagers in your town currently. 10 is the maximum number, and thus, you cannot trade if you’re at capacity!;
, If arranging a trade online, you need to make sure that you can connect to faraway towns. Essentially, you need to have an Internet connection.
 Any time you talk to a villager by pressing “A,” there is a small chance that villager will tell you she’s thinking of moving. When you are faced with that news and you are okay with that, choose the option that essentially wishes them luck with their move.


The text will always be different; it is the second option on the list (the first option attempts to convince him to stay).
 That villager will then tell you when he or she plans to move out. This is a relevant date to remember when initiating the trade process, so you may want to write it down.


Once your villager has started packing up, which you will be able to see when you visit his or her house, he or she will be ready for trade.
 If you want to make a trade with someone you know in real life, then things are pretty easy. The two of you can come to an agreement about what you’ll trade. If you don’t have someone you know personally that you want to trade with, then you’ll have to choose how you want to proceed.


There are many websites dedicated to Animal Crossing villager trades. Do note, however, that each one has different rules about posting. Reddit, for example, has a sub-Reddit dedicated to posting for trades, where users will specify what kind of trade they are seeking.
 Completing the trade will require the other person to visit your village, and when someone visits your village they have power to cut down trees, dig holes, and essentially give you grief.


Some of the online sites dedicated to trading have a system in place to try to assess the quality of the mayor you’re about to trade with. Most trades end up fine; it’s just good to be aware.
 In order for a trade to go through, the person who is accepting your villager must visit your town. In order to do that, you’ll need to give them your friend code, which can be found within the 3DS home menu on your friend card.
 Your friend will then go to the train station in their town, on the north end of the map, just to the left of the exit to Main Street. Talking to Porter the monkey by pressing “A” will then allow them to choose “Visit a faraway town,” which is how you travel to towns over the Internet (and why you need that friend code).


Soon, this person will arrive in your village!

, Do this by pressing “A.” The villager will say something along the lines of not having a destination yet. Then, the visitor has the opportunity to invite that villager to their town through a dialogue choice.


Shortly, your villager will be moved out, and the visitor will be welcoming that villager into their town instead.
 All of this works in reverse as well! If you’re looking online and see that someone is offering a villager that you want in a deal that you find suitable, then you visit their town and talk to that villager in order to get them to move in.


Again, remember that this only works if you currently have less than 10 villagers in your Animal Crossing town! You won’t be able to persuade the villager to come to your town if you’re already at capacity.
 Make smart decisions in trading. This guide has been operating under the given of trading one villager for another villager, but that’s not always the way it works. Sometimes, people just give away their villagers. Other times, people sell their villagers for bells. It all depends.


Either way, if you’re participating in the community of villager trade, then you’ll have a new villager to enjoy in your Animal Crossing town! Or perhaps you’ve just gotten rid of that one villager you didn’t like. Either way, via trading, you can get closer and closer to your ideal village makeup.

