 This will minimize stress on the calves since this will not be done right at weaning time, causing illness and weight loss in the weaned calves.;
, If weaning paddocks are not available, use small pastures (with good fencing!). Don't put the cows and calves in pens that consist primarily of dirt; this is to avoid respiratory diseases and pneumonia caused by dust that often crop up during and after weaning time.
 Creep-feed (or precondition) the calves so that they learn to eat from a feed bunk before being weaned.


Preconditioning calves is a great method to adopt to reduce stress for calves at weaning time. Preconditioning involves getting calves used to eating out of a feed bunk or trough, and drinking from a water trough. This should be done without the cows around, as cows tend to be more pushy and bossy around the feed bunk and water trough, not allowing the calves in at all. Use of a creep-feeder is best to get the calves used to eating out of a feed bunk.

A creep feed or precondition ration for calves should include a mix of grain silage (corn, sorghum, barley, wheat or oats) and legume-hay, plus a concentrate supplement that includes protein. Make sure the supplement you are giving them does not have animal by-products in it at all, as this could be serious if one or some of the calves develop symptoms of BSE when they get older (especially in those heifers that will be used as cows.)Also, keep the feed free of mold and dust, as this will cause calves to get sick with illnesses like pneumonia.
 Give calves their first immunization treatments while they're still nursing, and follow with booster shots as recommended by your veterinarian or the manufacturer of the vaccines. A herd-health program should have been established between you and your local large animal veterinarian so that you are prepared to give the calves whatever needs to be given in your area.


Treat for internal and external parasites as well.
, Handle and treat the calves with care and a bit of TLC. Confide with your veterinarian about use of tranquilizers during the weaning process to calm the calves and to minimize weight loss.
 Putting them on a grass-only diet of hay or putting them out on poorer pastures will help the drying up process proceed quicker.
 Keep an eye out for any signs of mastitis or swollen udders.

