 Not everybody can pull off bangs or bleach blonde hair. It might require some experimentation, and years of trial-and-error to find your ideal hairstyle.


Choose a hair color that is within one or two shades of your natural color so that it is easy to maintain, and won't look ridiculous once your roots grow in. If you want to go lighter, consider adding subtle highlights rather than a new overall color.
Take your face shape into account when finding the right haircut. The idea is to play up your natural features and avoid exaggerating the face shape. Consider the following hairstyle suggestions: Women with round faces look good with asymmetrical hairstyles with a side part.Women with square faces should try angled bobs, long or medium-length layered cuts, or side-swept bangs. Women with long, thin faces look good with short or medium-length hair with subtle waves, and should avoid getting blunt, straight-across bangs.Those with oval or heart-shaped faces can pull of pretty much any hairstyle (lucky them). The key is to experiment!;
, Not only will this improve your overall appearance, it will help prevent the development and spread of infections and other illnesses. Brush your teeth every morning and evening. This will help keep your teeth white, leave you with fresh breath, and most importantly, keep your teeth and gums healthy.
Shower every day, even if you don't want to wash your hair. If you don't have time to shower, be sure to at least rinse your face and underarms with a washcloth and soap.
Shave, tweeze, wax and/or pluck when necessary. If you're going for a "natural" or "rugged" look, that's fine too, but do it consciously, not out of laziness.
 Feeling confident about your skin is key, because it is the first thing everybody sees when they look at you. If you are worried about blemishes, scars, or sunspots, then talk to your dermatologist to find the appropriate treatment options. There are various creams and ointments out there to help fade dark spots or scars.


Wear sunscreen or a hat if you plan on being out in the sun for an extended period of time. This will prevent sunburns and dark spots, and even more importantly, will protect your skin from the harmful effects of sun exposure.
Drink water. Staying hydrated keeps your skin looking healthy and radiant, and gives you the energy you need to stay healthy. , This doesn't necessarily mean losing weight; it means whatever you want it to mean. If you would like to drop a few pounds, then reduce your caloric intake and incorporate cardio exercises into your daily routine. If you want to gain muscle, then do resistance training and be sure to eat a protein-rich diet.


Eat fruits, vegetables, and lean proteins. These foods are rich in the vitamins and nutrients your body needs, and will keep your body looking and feeling great.
Watch out for extra sugars. Be sure to read food labels and beware of extra sugars that are added to dressings, breads, and sauces.
Cut down on alcohol. Not only will this improve your skin by preventing dehydration, it will save you from consuming unnecessary calories. Join a gym or find an exercise buddy. Exercising with others will help keep you motivated.
 Regardless of the occasion or what's "in" at the moment, looking your best means wearing clothes that look good on you. Trends come and go, and not all of them are figure-flattering.


Show off your best assets, and cover up your worst ones. For example, if you have an hourglass figure, wear form-fitting dresses that show off your curves and avoid bulky or boxy clothes.
Ignore the size on the label. Many women go out of their way to squeeze into a pair of jeans that are too small for them out of fear of "going up a size." In reality, how you look in the clothes matters more than the number on the tag. Plus, nobody needs to know what size your pants are!

, Constantly pouting makes you look intimidating, serious, and boring. What's the point of looking beautiful if everybody is afraid of talking to you?

, If you want to attract others, you will have to put yourself out there. Try not to cross your arms, avoid eye contact or stand in the corner of the room. These are signs that you don't want to be bothered.
 Even supermodels have insecurities. The key is to have a sense of humor about your imperfections, and not let them drag you down. Even if you don't believe it, get in the habit of telling yourself you are beautiful, and that you look great. Eventually, you will trick yourself into genuinely believing it.
 Everybody wants to be around people who make them laugh. This doesn't necessarily mean cracking jokes every five minutes; even having the ability to laugh at other peoples' jokes shows that you are a happy, fun-loving person.
 If your skin is on the shinier side, choose a makeup with a matte finish, or use a powder. If your skin tends to be dry, choose a liquid foundation.


When testing foundation colors, be sure that you are in a well-lit area, using natural light if possible. Test a few different colors on your jawline, gently rubbing the foundation in. Use a hand mirror to determine which color is best. The perfect color should blend evenly into your skin so that you can no longer see it.
Ask an associate at the makeup counter to help match you with the right color if you are having trouble doing it yourself.
 Having an even complexion will make you look younger and more attractive. Examples of problem areas include dark under-eye rings, blemishes, scars, and/or dark spots.


Your concealer should be a shade or two lighter than your overall foundation, and of a thicker consistency.
 The key is to enhance your beauty without looking as though you've piled on makeup. Choose a routine that only takes a few minutes so that you can do it everyday. Use the following guidelines to achieve a natural, radiant face:


Moisturize your skin. This will help set the makeup and remove any dryness.
Apply overall foundation and concealer, if necessary.
Wear mascara. Even if you wear no other makeup, a touch of mascara will instantly enhance your eyes and make you look more feminine.
Add some pink. Shades of pink match all skin tones, since we all have a little natural pink in our skin. Applying a subtle blush to your cheeks will give you a warm, sun-kissed glow.
Apply a subtle lip color. Choose a color that is one to two shades deeper than your natural lip color.

