 Transitioning between the cat and cow poses is an excellent starting warm-up for your spine that will ease stiffness and get you to articulate your spine better. This yoga exercise also helps you bring awareness to your spine.Get on all fours with your wrists directly below your shoulders and your knees directly below your hips. Your back should be flat. Take a few deep breaths, focusing on each inhale and exhale and connecting your mind and body.
On an inhale, arch your back, lowering your navel towards the floor. Open your chest and lift your head up to gaze forward. Be mindful of your shoulders, keeping your shoulder blades in line with your spine and melting down your back.
On an exhale, drop your tailbone towards the floor and slowly curl your spine outwards, dropping your gaze as you release your chin to your chest. You should end in a position similar to a "Halloween cat."
Arch your back when you inhale to return to the cow position. Repeat this exercise for at least five breath cycles, or as long as feels comfortable for you.;
, You may be familiar with the plank pose primarily as an exercise to strengthen your core, but it also warms up your back muscles and provides good preparation for further yoga poses that target spinal flexibility.From all fours, extend your legs behind you so that you are on your toes and your body is a straight line from the crown of your head to your heels. Hold the position for at least five breath cycles, breathing deeply. Then release to the floor.
If you can't breathe through a full plank, you can modify the pose so that you are supporting your body on your knees and elbows, rather than your toes and hands.
 You can target the spine more directly by creating a vinyasa with the plank and cobra poses. With a vinyasa, you move from one pose to another with a breath for each movement.Start in plank, and on an exhale lower yourself to the ground, bending your elbows with your arms pressing close to your sides.
On an inhale, raise your upper body, leaving your lower body on the ground. Raise up until your arms are fully extended, opening your chest and lengthening your torso. Keep your shoulder blades melting down your back in line with your spine.
As you exhale, push your hips back and roll onto your toes to return to the plank position. Inhale, then on an exhale lower again. Repeat for five breath cycles.
 Downward facing dog is a good whole-body warm-up, and the mild inversion can be relaxing for your nervous system. This pose also is a calming pose that stimulates blood flow.From all fours, lift your hips toward the ceiling as you inhale, straightening your legs and arms so that you are roughly in an upside-down "V" shape. Stay on your toes, but press down toward the floor with your heels.
Lift away from your wrist joints, keeping your shoulder blades in line with your spine and your gaze soft. Stay in the pose for at least five breath cycles. On each inhale, focus on lifting towards the ceiling. With every exhale, focus on pressing down through your heels.
 Child's pose is a standard resting pose in yoga, but also benefits your spinal flexibility by encouraging a long spine and bringing peaceful energy and relaxation to your lower back.From all fours, slowly lower your hips on an exhale until your buttocks are resting on your heels. You may want to put a rolled towel or blanket behind your knees if you have any joint pain.
Walk your hands slightly forward so that you can extend your arms all the way out in front of you, and on an inhale fold your torso over your thighs, keeping your spine long. Lower your forehead to rest on the floor.
If you can't comfortably rest your forehead on the floor, you may want to use a block or another flat object such as a book so you can keep your spine aligned in the position. Hold this pose as long as you want, breathing deeply.

