 While you may want to educate all new and expecting parents on the benefits of breastfeeding, you should understand when such a conversation is appropriate. Gently ask the person, "how are going to feed your baby?"If they answer they are going to breastfeed, ask them if they have any questions. You can say, "That's great! Do you have any questions about it that I can answer?"
If they answer that they are going to bottle-feed, you can ask, "Do you mind if I ask about your reasons?" If they don't want to answer, stop the conversation. It may be a personal issue that they are not willing to discuss.
If they are not certain, you can ask, "Do you have any questions about breastfeeding that I can answer? I might be able to help you decide.";
, There are many myths on the internet about healthcare and breastfeeding. If you are going to educate others, you want to make sure that you are providing accurate information. As you research, try to find resources from scientific journals. Government health organizations and UNICEF are other good sources to find scientifically sound information about breastfeeding.


The Lancet offers a series of peer-reviewed articles on breastfeeding.The US National Library of Medicine has many free articles from scientific journals regarding the benefits of breastfeeding.The American Academy of Pediatricians offers a host of resources regarding healthy breastfeeding practices.The Center for Disease Control offers information about recent research in breastfeeding., When teaching others, you should inform them that breast milk is the best food and drink for an infant for the first six months of life. No other food or drink is usually needed during this period, not even water.There are many reasons for this, including:


Breastfeeding helps protect babies and young children against dangerous illnesses. It passes on the mother’s immunities to the baby.Babies who are breastfed are less likely pass away because of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS).Breastfeeding can improve eye and brain development in infants.Babies who are breastfed have lower lifelong risks of diabetes, obesity, and allergies., Many women might be concerned about how breastfeeding will impact their health. They might think that breastfeeding will decrease their sex drive or hurt their breasts.When educating them, you can let them know that this is not the case. In fact there are many benefits for mothers who breastfeed. These include:


Reduced risk of Type 2 diabetes
Reduced risk of breast and ovarian cancerRelease of oxytocin into the mother’s body, improving her mood and mental healthIncreased metabolism, When other people ask you about breastfeeding, you can refer them to good sources of information about breastfeeding. These include websites, pamphlets, books, charts, and videos.


You can post links over social media to help spread awareness of the benefits of breastfeeding.
You can share a helpful book or website with a pregnant friend who might be interested in breastfeeding.
 You might feel passionately about the benefits of breastfeeding, but understand that other women choose not to breastfeed for a variety of reasons, including medical reasons. While it is true that the majority of women are able to breastfeed, you never know what situation a mother is in.


If a woman is infected with HIV, there is a risk that she can pass the infection to her infant through breastfeeding.Insufficient glandular tissue, breast cancer, thyroid imbalances, or galactosemia might cause a woman to be unable to produce milk.