 Neatly line a 9-inch loaf pan with parchment paper, letting the paper edges hang over the sides.
 In a small microwave-safe bowl, combine the white chocolate chips, heavy whipping cream, and honey using a wooden spoon. Mix until well-combined., Place the bowl in the microwave for about 30 seconds. After microwaving, stir slowly using a spoon until the chocolate is melted and smooth., Add 10-15 drops of yellow food coloring into the white chocolate mixture. Stir with the spoon until the color is a vibrant bright yellow., Using a rubber spatula, scrape out the yellow chocolate into the loaf pan. Spread it all around with the rubber spatula., Place the loaf pan in the fridge to chill. Have the white chocolate layer chill for about 30 minutes, until it slightly hardens., In a small microwave-safe bowl, combine the white chocolate chips, heavy whipping cream, and honey using a wooden spoon. Mix until well-combined., Place the bowl in the microwave for about 30 seconds. After microwaving, stir slowly using a spoon until the chocolate is melted and smooth., Add 10-15 drops of orange food coloring into the white chocolate mixture. Stir with the spoon until the color resembles a bright, vibrant orange., Using a rubber spatula, scrape out the orange chocolate into the loaf pan. Spread it all around with the rubber spatula., Place the loaf pan in the fridge to chill. Have the white chocolate layer chill for about 30 minutes, until it slightly hardens., In a small microwave-safe bowl, combine the white chocolate chips, heavy whipping cream, and honey using a wooden spoon. Mix until well-combined., Place the bowl in the microwave for about 30 seconds. After microwaving, stir slowly using a spoon until the chocolate is melted and smooth., Pour the vanilla extract into the white chocolate mixture. Stir slowly with a spoon., Using a rubber spatula, scrape out the white chocolate into the loaf pan. Spread it all around with the rubber spatula, finishing up the layer., Place the loaf pan in the fridge to chill. Have the fudge chill for about two hours, until it hardens firmly and the layers are thick., Using a thin cutting knife, slice the fudge into triangular pieces that resemble candy corn., Place the fudge into a serving bowl. Serve with a glass of milk, if desired. Enjoy!

