 Physical activities, especially “cardio” activities, can help improve your family’s heart health in all sorts of ways. While there are different specific guidelines for people of different ages, doing physical activities as a family is good for everyone.


More specifically, children need an hour or more of aerobic activity every day, including vigorous exercise three days a week. Adults can get by with a bit less activity, but keeping up with the kids as much as you can will help keep your own heart young and healthy too.
Examples of moderate aerobic activity that you may enjoy as a family include walking quickly, riding a bicycle, and light hiking.
Examples of vigorous aerobic activity you may enjoy together include team sports that involve running, jogging, swimming, and hiking with elevation changes.
The American Heart Association recommends to aim for 30 minutes of walking a day., Many modern entertainment options utilize a screen. Chances are, people in your family spend plenty of time on television, internet, and/or video games. It’s important to limit the time spent this way, as largely sedentary lifestyles are unhealthy, and can contribute to conditions that put the heart at risk.


Set specific time limits for the amount of time everyone is allowed to spend staring at screens at home - including yourself.
Avoid using “screen time” as a reward, or withholding it as a penalty. It’s better to treat activities that feature a screen less attention all around.
When you do watch television, watch it together. Incorporate physical activity by challenging each other to do pushups, crunches, or stretches while watching, perhaps during commercials. Even better: during montages, get up and dance or jog in place with your kids.
 People who are overweight are at higher risk of many conditions that can contribute to heart disease. If you or someone else in your family is overweight, encourage them to address their physical condition and offer to join them in changing their behavior.


Folks hoping to lose weight need to exercise with moderate intensity for sixty to ninety minutes everyday.
Say things like, "Let's start taking walks before or after dinner every night. We both need to stay serious about getting some physical activity every day, and it'd be great to get some evening fresh air too."

