 There are many reasons why a teen might join a gang. Learning the potential draw of gangs for teens can help you identify if your teen is at risk.


Teens might seek out gangs for a feeling of belonging. If your teen feels like an outsider for any reason, he or she may seek out a gang for a sense of community.Peer pressure is also a major factor in teens joining gangs. If your teen has friends who are in a gang or associated with one, your teen may consider joining as well.Teens also don't always realize the danger of gangs. The idea of being part of a gang might be exciting, especially if your teen has been exposed to video games and other media that glorifies gang violence. If your teen has an underlying mental illness, such as a personality disorder, he or she might seek thrills through joining a gang.;
, Location is a big risk factor when it comes to your teen joining a gang. Be aware of any gang activity in your area so you know what your teen might be exposed to at school or in the community.


You can research gang activity in your area by browsing police reports and police data online. Most areas have a police blotter website where you can enter your zip code and see of any recent arrests or disturbances in your area.Talk to officials at your teen's school. Principals and superintendents should be aware if there is any gang activity occurring in their jurisdiction. Make an appointment with an official at the school and ask him or her about gang activity.
Many people feel certain locations make them immune to gangs. If you live in the suburbs, for example, you might think your teen is immune to gang violence. However, in a lot of big cities gangs eventually move into the suburbs. In the Chicago suburb Evanston, for example, gang activity has been on the rise in the last few years. Be vigilant about potential gang activity regardless of your location., Make sure you know the warnings signs regarding gang activity in teens. You should be concerned if your teen is displaying any of the following signs:


Wearing a certain color or color scheme suddenly
An increased interest in gangs, gangster music, and gangster movies
Bragging about having friends in gangs
Coming home with expensive items
Using hand gestures and signs to communicate with friends
Aggressive or withdrawn behavior