 It is recommended to buy tickets in advance.


This park encompasses both the Universal Studios and Islands of Adventure park, along with the Wet&Wild Park and few other hotels. Make sure you purchase tickets for whichever parks you plan to visit.;
,, Although most times this park will open at 9am Eastern time, there are a few days near a holiday when the hours are extended just a little bit (back to 8am). You can get this information here.
 Although most guests can take in each park adequately within a day a park, for those who need a few hours to ride every single ride, it's pertinent to purchase ticket time enough for an additional day per park you plan to stay at.
 Grab a map of all the rides from each park and run a search on each individual one. You should find one or more ride-thru on YouTube to sample the ride and what it will look like to you when you get there. You can find a park map of Universal Studios Orlando here and Islands of Adventure here, along with some ride-thrus at Wet n'Wild.
 CityWalk is one of the areas you can visit for a shopping and dining experience like never seen before. Similar in nature to Downtown Disney (soon to become Disney Springs), this metropolis hub is the home of shopping and dining experiences for Universal galore.
 Check park times, showtimes, and ride requirements for the rides you plan on visiting. Look for rides that offer little-to-no-wait opportunities (which Universal Orlando calls the Universal Express pass).


Also plan into the organization plan the ride requirements information for each ride. Look for this information here, as well.
 Information on shows that Universal Orlando offers are shown here.
 The address to the Universal Orlando is located at 6000 Universal Blvd, Orlando, FL 32819 .The cost to park your car at the Universal Orlando's lot will run you about $17 for cars and upwards from there (depending on complexity of vehicle).
 Wet and Wild users should head straight out their door and look around, as this park is farther away than where each of the other two major parks exist.
, Your bag should be secure to your body, and should be able to close, and you want to tuck it away on rides and not lose anything out of it.


Dress to suit the weather. Orlando is usually warm, and you will be walking, but rainstorms can also come and sometimes even end quickly (if and when they do). Choose comfy clothes and shoes. Look up the weather in Orlando before or the day of your trip.
 Comes in handy in case of rain, but also for wet rides!

