 While not necessary, you might feel more comfortable if you buy a few things and put them in your cart before buying condoms. This way, you are not standing at the counter with nothing but a box of condoms. You can also use the other items in your cart to cover up the condoms. This way other people will not be able to look in your basket and automatically see the condoms.
 Convenience stores and gas stations often sell condoms as well. These stores are smaller and have less people. If you purchase from a convenience store, you may have to talk to the cashier and let him or her know that you need to buy condoms, as most times they are located behind the counter. If you do not mind interacting with the cashier, but want to avoid large crowds, this may be an option for you.Sometimes the bathrooms have vending machines that dispense condoms and other small sex-related items.
 Throw away your receipt at the store. You do not want to walk around with a condom receipt in your pocket, wallet, or jacket. If you throw away the receipt as soon as you walk out of the store, you do not have to worry about a parent or friend finding out about your purchase. If your parents monitor your credit card/debit card spending you may want to buy the condoms with cash. You will not have to answer any questions about a charge in your card.
 Instead of using the checkout line, buy your condoms from a store that has an automated checkout, where you scan your purchases and bag them yourself. This will allow you to avoid talking to a cashier. Most grocery stores and large retailers have self- checkout stations.


If self-checkout is not an option, paying for the condoms at a more secluded register in the back (e.g. the hunting section or automobile section) is a good way to avoid crowds of people and you can sometimes also avoid long lines.
 Buying condoms in bulk will keep you from having to go to the store so much. Keep your extra condoms in a cool, dry place. Check the expiration date before you use the condom. If a condom is expired or damaged, it will not be effective.
 If you're over 18, you can visit an adult store to purchase condoms. You will not feel out of place at an adult store because everyone there is buying sex-related items. The people who work at an adult store are usually very knowledgeable about the merchandise and can answer any questions you may have about the different condom options.
 There are plenty of websites that will let you order condoms and have them delivered to your home. The condoms are usually delivered in plain, discreet packaging as well. They typically require payment for debit or credit card but will use a much more discreet name on the bill. You won't have "Jack's Sex Shop and Condom Store" on any of your card bills.If you don't have a credit or debit card,,, Teen clinics and HIV/STD prevention centers, Planned Parenthood, and some local health departments offer condoms free of charge with no questions asked. If you have questions, there will be people there who will be genuinely happy to answer them.


You can call the clinic or visit the website to make sure that they provide free condoms.

