 Vitamins (including B12) are essential for hair and skin health. When you have a deficiency, your hair can prematurely begin to lose some of its pigment or even fall out (it may fall out if you have a zinc deficiency), making you gray or bald (you'd want to avoid both). Vitamins are found in animal products such as beef, fish, eggs and chicken, as well as fruits, vegetables, nuts, and dairy.


Consider taking multivitamin supplements if you’re concerned about going gray too early. Taking supplements isn’t a magic potion guaranteed to keep your hair colorful, but it may give you a little extra time before it turns gray.
Vegans are more likely to have a B12 deficiency because it’s hard to get enough B12 through food other than animal products. Vegans should pay special attention to their B12 intake, through supplementation if necessary. Vegetarians can get B12 from milk and egg products.;
, Massage your scalp twice a week with egg oil and leave it on overnight. Egg oil contains anti-oxidant xanthophylls like lutein and zeaxanthin which arrest premature aging (graying) of hair and even reverses early stage grey hair. A tip for leaving it overnight is to cover your bed with a plastic sheet; it may be uncomfortable but it saves a ton of time when you want to clean your bed!

, Smoking tobacco has been tied to going gray before the age of 30. If you’re a smoker and you’re concerned about going gray, it’s one of many good reasons to take measures to stay away from cigarettes starting right now. If you just smoke occasionally, the habit might not be difficult to break on your own. If you’re a heavy smoker, you probably need some support to quit. Either way, it’s never too soon to get started. Any other form of tobacco use is equally harmful.


Smoking also causes hair to look prematurely dull and brittle. Damaged hair can fall out more easily than healthy hair.
Smoking also ages your skin prematurely and may even make its color look off (in some cases even the persons skin will turn gray).
Smoking furthermore ruins your teeth making them weak, lose color, causes gum disease as well as enamel damage and will cause premature loss of teeth.
 While unhealthy hair doesn’t turn gray any sooner than healthy hair, unhealthy hair is more likely to fall out. When new hair grows back in, it often has less pigment than the original hair, especially as you start to get older. Think about how you can change your hair care routine to keep your hair strong and undamaged so it won’t fall out.


If you bleach your hair, always keep it dyed, or use a chemical straightener, your hair might be more prone to falling out.
Hair extensions are known to cause hair loss, especially if they’re put in improperly.
Using a hair dryer, curling iron or straightener every day is damaging to hair, even when you use a heat protectant. It’s better to let it air dry and go natural.
Even brushing your tangles out, especially when your hair is wet, can cause hair loss and breakage. Be gentle with your hair and use a wide-toothed comb instead.
 While there are no conclusive studies to show that natural supplements can prevent gray hair, there are several remedies popular in India and other areas that are said to stop it in its tracks. If you decide to add a supplement to your daily diet, consult with a doctor or nutritionist first to make sure it’s a healthy choice for you. Here are some popular options:


Blackstrap molasses
Black sesame
Chlorophyll supplements
Nettle leaf
Seaweed
Amla (an ayurvedic herb)

, Probably the most popular myth about gray hair is that it starts growing in more quickly when you’re stressed. You’ve probably heard harried parents say “You’re going to give me gray hair!” to their misbehaving children a million times. The truth is, stress itself does not cause hair to grow in gray, so you can stop worrying that your job, family, lack of sleep and other issues are going to sap away your gorgeous color.


However, if you’re so stressed out that your hair is actually falling out, that’s cause for concern, since when your hair grows back in it could be lighter in pigment. If you’re that stressed out, it’s time to take measures to get some help. Consider talking to a therapist, meditation, and other practices that will help you feel happy and healthy again.
 That’s an old wives’ tale that has no factual basis. If you have a prominent gray hair and it annoys you every time you notice it, feel free to pluck it out without worrying that you’ll cause a mini explosion of grays.


However, plucking grays isn’t a great long-term solution. Firstly, when you pluck, you can damage the hair follicle and prevent hairs from growing back. Secondly, the plucked follicle is gray and will always be gray; it won’t come back in your other color. And thirdly, eventually you’ll have too many to pluck, so you’ll need to find a better solution.
 If you went through a long phase of dyeing your hair every color under the sun, you might have had someone tell you that dyeing your hair turns it gray prematurely. This isn’t true at all, so cast your worries aside. However, excessive dyeing and bleaching can damage hair, which can cause it to fall out and grow back in a lighter pigment.
 The sun will lighten your hair, but it doesn’t make your hair turn gray. Hair turns gray naturally due to the loss of melanin, which gives hair its pigment.Outside factors like sun exposure don’t make a difference when it comes to grayness.
 When your roots are just starting to grow in gray, there are powder, gels and other products you can use to temporarily mask the gray. Choose a product that comes in a color that matches your color. In most cases you’ll apply it to the roots once you hair has been washed and dried, then shampoo it out next time you wash your hair.
 If you’re not a fan of your new gray look, you may want to dye your hair permanently. Keep in mind you’ll need to touch up the roots often, too. There are a variety of options and hundreds of colors to choose from, so do a little research before dyeing your hair to decide what look will be right for you.


You may want to make an appointment with a colorist who has been professionally trained to dye gray hair. He or she can help guide you to a choice that you’ll be happy with.
You may instead want to save some money and use a boxed hair dye. Be sure to read reviews online before choosing a product. Buy a type of dye that specifies it’s for use on gray hair.
 Many women and men are embracing their gray hair and letting it grow in as it naturally does. Instead of trying to hide it, why not be proud of your hair? Gray hair can be just as eye-catching as any other color if you style it in a way that shows the world you’re still in the game. To keep it looking bright and healthy, look for shampoos, conditioners and other hair products designed especially for gray or white hair.

