 Before you participate in any activity, be sure to warm up all of your muscles properly. Warming up helps prevent against injuring your muscles, which can lead to increased wear on your joints. Begin your exercise at a slow pace and then gradually work up in intensity.Before practice or a competition, try to increase your heart rate and get your blood pumping. You should work up a little sweat but not be fatigued.
For example, if you are going to play basketball, run around briskly for ten minutes and then shoot hoops for another ten.
 Proper technique is essential for maintaining the joint health of young athletes. Using the right movements and motions ensures that you avoid damaging your muscles and joints. Although the correct technique may not be cool, it will help you avoid an injury and long-term pain.If you are unsure about the right technique, ask your coach, teacher or talk to a physical therapist.
This step is particularly important to remember when it comes to weightlifting and other strength training exercises. Poor technique can lead to irreparable joint and muscle damage.
For example, if you are playing football, make sure that you use the proper technique for tackling. Improperly tackling an opponent can lead to a bruised or dislocated shoulder joint.
 If you are designing your own workout routine, try to alternate between low-impact activities – walking, swimming and biking – and high-impact exercises – running or playing any team sports like basketball or volleyball. This will ensure that you properly strengthen certain muscle groups while avoiding excessive wear on your joints. If you are part of a team, your coach should design practices that strive for this balance.Try not to overdo it on the high-impact exercises. Too much can cause serious joint damage over time.
 Following a strength-training regimen will dramatically improve your joint health. Maintaining your muscle strength will stabilize your joints and keep excess pressure from building on them, which can lead to an injury. If you are a member of a team, your coach will likely put you on strength training regimen.Strength training can include simple things like lunges and squats or more complicated weight lifting and resistance routines.
You should practice weight resistance at least twice a week., If you notice any pain or soreness in your joints, make sure that you stop and allow yourself to recover. Besides being more susceptible to injury, young athletes can also suffer from joint issues, such as Osgood-Schlatter Disease.In fact, it is common for adolescent athletes to experience some joint pain.However, in order to avoid seriously damaging your joints, be sure to stop the activity and take some time off.If the joint pain persists or intensifies, be sure to visit your doctor.
Be sure to tell your coach and parents about any pain you experience.
 Once you are done with your activity, take some time and properly cool down. Walk or run briskly for about five to ten minutes. You may also want to take a few minutes and properly stretch out your muscles. This may allow your joints to increase their flexibility, which can lead to increased performance.