 Once you’ve identified the root of your problems, talk to your academic advisor about what you need to do to boost your grades. Your advisor will be able to tell you what classes you need to repeat, or recommend classes that might interest you and help to bring up your GPA.
 Now that you have lined up your courses and are moving back to recovering from the failure, make a serious plan to help you stay on track and succeed the second time around. Make sure you give yourself enough time to study and complete assignments on a daily basis.


It helps to figure out when you’re most productive. Many people work best in the mornings. Choose a time during the day to get your most demanding tasks done and stick to a routine schedule.
Take clear notes in class and during readings to make it easier to study for exams or organize papers later on.
Study with a friend. Finding somebody to keep you motivated and on task can help with your academic performance. Enlist friends to quiz you on material, and don’t be afraid to collaborate with peers whose work you respect.
 Universities are full of resources to ensure student success. The first step is being sure to attend all lectures, labs and tutorials available. Don’t squander an opportunity to learn and grow!


Join a study group. Studying with others helps keep you accountable, and makes learning a social and fun activity. Inquire into individual tutoring or assistance available on campus. One on one learning is a great way to go over tougher subject matter that might not get addressed during class time.
 While it’s important to dedicate yourself to your studies, everybody needs time to relax and have fun. Picking up a personal calendar to keep track of your upcoming dates and deadlines is a great way to help you be efficient so that you can enjoy your spare time worry free. Find extracurriculars that interest you. Making time to engage in activities that you’re passionate about will make it easier for you to de-stress and focus on work when necessary.
Make time for important relationships. Don’t force yourself to live in the library 24/7. Hang out with friends for a much needed break. College is also about growing socially, so it’s important to let yourself meet new people and create meaningful relationships.
 This is easiest to do if you love what you’re studying. Choose something you’re passionate about and approach the material with a curious and creative mind. Don’t try to simply memorize or cram for the test. Not only is this a poor method of information retention, but it makes the material seem mundane.


Complete readings on time, talk to peers and professors about concepts that interest you, and take the initiative to research ways to become involved in internships or volunteer opportunities in fields you might want to pursue.

