 When a cat is hit by a car, it might be rendered unconscious and in need of medical attention. However, it might also be dead. To determine the status of the cat, look for signs that it is breathing.For instance, you could monitor the cat’s flank. If the cat is lying on its side, its flank will slowly rise and fall as is breathes in and out.
Alternately, place a tissue in front of the cat’s nose. If the tissue moves forward and away from the cat’s nose, the cat is breathing in and out.
Finally, pinch one of the cat’s rear toes lightly. If the cat pulls away, it is alive.
If the cat’s body is stiff when you touch it, it is dead.;
, If the cat is rabid – and even if it is not – it might harm you, especially in its injured and fearful state. Instead, wait for qualified personnel to arrive.In some cases, qualified personnel might urge you to bring the cat to them, especially if the cat is unconscious. However, do not move the cat until contacting qualified personnel.
 The animal control agency can best determine how to help a cat hit by a car. If you can’t contact them (for instance, if you’ve encountered the injured cat outside of normal business hours), call the police. Explain the situation to the police calmly and clearly.For instance, you might say, “Hello. I’ve found a cat that has been hit by a car at . The animal is still alive and needs help. Please send an animal control officer to this location. I will remain here until help arrives.”

, If you can’t contact the animal control agency and the police will not help, contact your vet. Vets are specially trained to help cats that have been hit by cars or suffered similar traumatic injuries. Your vet will work hard to help your cat heal.Even if you are not a pet owner yourself (and therefore do not have a vet of your own), you might still know of veterinary clinics in your vicinity. Take the cat that was hit by a car to the nearest such clinic.
 If you don’t know of any vets in your vicinity, or if the animal shelter or rescue organization is closer to the location of the injured cat than the vet, report the cat’s injuries to the animal shelter first. Animal shelters or cat rescue organizations have the staff and facilities necessary to help a cat hit by a car. They might direct you to take the cat to them, or contact the cat’s owner., When a cat is his by a car, its owner will want to know. You might be able to contact the cat’s owner by checking for a collar. Cat collars often have tags with information about the cat, including its name, the name of its owner, and the number and address where the owner can be reached. Use this information to get in touch with the owner.Even if the cat does not have a collar and tags, it might still be possible to contact the owner if the cat has been microchipped. However, there are no visible signs differentiating a microchipped cat from one that is not microchipped. Take the cat to a rescue organization or animal shelter to determine if the cat has been microchipped.

