 Think about items that will attract Instagram users, and research what’s already out there – remember that you’ll want your items to stand out as something fresh or different.


Most of the items being sold on Instagram fall into the Beauty and Fashion categories. These kinds of items are likely to be most successful, as long as you are offering something unique.;
, Find a successful online store on Instagram, and note how it runs and what makes it work so well. Don’t copy its style or use its exact ideas, but let it serve as your inspirational example.
 Choose a username that’s unique and memorable, but nothing too long or difficult to understand. Make it easy to spell, and avoid using too many numbers. You want your potential customers to find you easily.
 Add your store’s logo to your new Instagram account, and then set it as your profile picture.


If you don’t have a logo and can’t make your own, contact a graphic artist. You want someone knowledgeable and creative enough to make you a memorable and professional-looking logo.
 Write a brief, polished, professional-looking description of your shop, with information about the items or services you are offering, and post it to your profile. And be sure to include your contact information! Instagram does not provide direct messaging, so you’ll need to make your phone number or email address available.


You can also download a messaging application, which will allow you to send and receive messages associated with your Instagram account. This might help, but you should still have alternative contact information available.
 Upload high-quality pictures of your items one at a time (not as a set), so potential buyers can comment on the photo of a particular product. In addition, upload important information like your payment methods and shipping partners. Your online Instagram shop is now open and running!

,, The hashtag is #inselly. All those pictures will automatically appear in your inSelly account, thus creating your own personal online shop.
 Add PayPal email to receive direct payments from buyers.
, When posting new sales offers comment "To buy click the link in bio" to allow your Instagram followers to buy items in just one click.
 This will allow them to buy your items.
 Every follower is a potential customer. Do some research online to figure out how to get as many followers as possible. For starters, try:


Connecting your Instagram to your Facebook, Twitter, and/or Tumblr accounts. Use all of your available social media accounts to promote your shop.
Following random people, especially those you think may be potential buyers.
Being friendly and acknowledging all inquiries.
 Make sure your pictures are of the highest quality possible.
 Online sellers often use hashtags like #forsale or #sale. In addition, you can use hashtags that describe the categories of your items. For example, if you are selling lipstick, you can use #beauty, #makeup, and/or #lipstick. Adding hashtags will earn your pictures more “likes.”

, Do not neglect your shop. Update photos every day, and don’t hesitate to re-upload items.
 You can send an item to local celebrities or bloggers in exchange for these people posting and promoting your products on their feeds. You may reach many new buyers this way.


The best way to approach this is to leave a comment with your contact details on someone’s Instagram photo. Ask if you can send them an item.
You are most likely to be successful at this technique if you look for celebrities and other people who typically post gifts from Instagram Shops.
 Ask politely for photo feedback when your buyers receive their items. Upload any feedback, cultivating positive impressions about your business.

