 From tracing you only draw it in that moment nothing more. Copying is better, doing so then you have a concept of what you drew. Find a simple character on a manga you like or on the web. More possibly head shots, Make sure they have relatively easy to draw hair. Fan art can be just as good as the originals. Practice drawing the pictures you have found, so you can develop a "feel" for manga style.









Things to note:


Eye Styles: This varies greatly, not just between manga, but also between characters in the same series. Eyes are a very expressive feature in Manga, and a character's eyes can tell you all about them.

Proportions: Manga style is all about manipulating proportions ,your character may be anywhere from three to eight/nine heads tall. Compare to a normal human figure, which is generally six or seven.
 Draw the lines for where arms/legs will go and their positioning. Draw the circle for the head first, a line for the spine, a line for the shoulders (a little below the head, so there's a neck), a line across for the hips. It may be easier to draw circles for joints . You're drawing a stick figure. This step is to block out the proportions and figure out what your character is doing; Standing? Sitting? A heroic pose?









More things to note!

Don't feel too worried about your proportions being messed up, more practice then! Usually you can go on and copy more pictures OR copy a page from your favorite manga. They can guide you on how to get an "active" drawing.
One day you will realise a style,a way you WANT to draw,a way where the characters look right to you and everybody else. Practice hard for that day to come.
 Add weight and depth to the various parts of your stick figure and you must do it well.










Head: Indicate which way it's facing with a line, and then add the chin and cheekbones. Remember that the chin may be very pointy depending on your style. Shorter cheek and round chin indicates cuteness.
Chest/Torso: Block it in with a circle, or a simple prism - more rectangular for guys, more triangular for girls. Make sure that with girls, the waist is thin, flaring out into rounded hips; while for guys, the shoulders are much wider, and the hips are narrow.
Hips: Can be indicated with a sphere/circle.
Limbs: Should be blocked in with ovals or cylinders, with circles/spheres for the joints.
Hands and feet: Can be left simple for now, though you might want to indicate their positions.
 Still don't worry about details for now, but clean up your lines, and generally just make the figure clearer. A kneaded eraser can come in useful here.
 Start drawing in the clothes, making sure they fit the form of your character. Shonen styles character will have fancy heroic clothes,comedy style has carefree or strange clothes draw the hands and feet, and fill in the, eyes, nose, mouth, hair, etc.
 Erase any other guidelines, and make sure you know which ones you want to keep. Again, this is one place a kneaded eraser comes in handy.
 Practice over and over. Once you are confident,start reference with other popular manga on paneling and story. Then good luck with your manga!








