 A formal suit is great for many occasions, but something in gray or black may not feel festive. Opt for a suit in a deep, jewel tone as this will convey some holiday cheer while keeping things fancy.Opt for colors like deep blues or reds. Dark greens could also work well.
Layer the suit with a cashmere shirt underneath, as this sheer fabric gives off a festive vibe.;
, Your old blue jeans may seem too informal for a fancy party. If you're not one to opt for a suit, try pairing formal dress pants with a nice button-down shirt. This can keep your outfit somewhat formal, appropriate for a fancy party.Dress pants often come in shades like black. However, if you want to nod to the season, you can try finding more colorful dress pants. Colors like greens, silvers, whites, and golds would work well for a holiday party.
If you can only find dress pants in traditional colors, try pairing them with a slightly more festive top to add some color to your outfit.
 Jeans are not out of the question for a holiday party. If you choose jeans, however, go for a fancier, designer brand over conventional blue jeans. Jeans in festive colors, like reds, or black jeans are more appropriate for a fancy party than plain blue jeans., Stick to classic dress shoes you would wear to work or a formal occasion. Loafers or desert boots work well.


If you want something a little more festive, choose slightly brighter colored shoes to reflect the season.
 A watch is a nice accessory, especially when paired with a suit. If you want to give your outfit a little something extra, try wearing a nice watch to the fancy party.If you have a watch that's a little brighter and more colorful, this may fit particularly well for a holiday party. A watch with bright jewels or sequins would work well.
You can also look for a watch with some holiday color, like red or green, incorporated into the design.
 Cufflinks are always a nice touch and are appropriate for a variety of formal events. However, silver cufflinks can make a great addition to a holiday outfit. The silver color is a little brighter and more eye catching, which is great for a holiday party.