 While it may seem counterintuitive, washing your hair can actually cause excess oil production. One reason is because shampoo strips your head of natural oil, and your scalp reacts by producing still more. Also, certain shampoos and conditioners, especially those containing silicone, can leave your hair with more oil or oil-like-substances.If you’re used to washing every day, start cutting back slowly and skip only one hair washing per week. Eventually move up to not washing your hair for two to three days at a time.;
, A gentle cleansing shampoo you will help you to avoid the problem of washing away too much oil. It will also prevent your scalp from producing too much oil. Also, periodically using a shampoo that contains either salicylic acid, selenium sulfide, or ketoconazole will deep cleanse your scalp of hair product build-up, which makes for a healthier scalp and less oily hair.Shampoos with tea tree oils can be useful because they absorb oils., No matter what products you use, you need to make sure that you are rinsing thoroughly. You should rinse for at least 30 seconds, but the longer the better. , Keep conditioner away from your scalp, as it can increase oil production. Conditioner is intended to help with the ends of your hair which can become brittle and dry.Look for products specially formulated for oily hair and use them sparingly.
 In addition to the above steps, you can also try a variety of home remedies that make your hair less oily. Many of them use inexpensive ingredients you probably already have on hand or can easily get from the grocery store, like aloe vera, baking soda, baby powder, and tea. The following are a few easy and useful examples.


Vinegar or Lemon Juice rinse: mix 2 tablespoons of white vinegar or the juice of a single lemon with one cup of water. Shampoo your hair, rinse with this mixture, then rinse with tepid water.
Beer rinse: alcohol is a drying agent, so try mixing a 1/2 cup of beer with 2 cups of water and rinsing your hair with the mixture after shampooing. Be sure to rinse the mix out of your hair thoroughly afterward so you don’t smell like a bar!
Oatmeal remedy: prepare oatmeal and allow it to cool, then apply it to your scalp and allow it to sit for 10–15 min. Follow with your usual hair care regimen.

