 You should never leave your keys inside your car. If your keys are accessible, your child may start the vehicle and get hurt from the exhaust fumes or in an accident with another object or vehicle.


Lock both the doors and the trunk of your car so that small children cannot climb into them. Your child may accidentally get trapped in the car if you leave your car doors or trunk unlocked., If you are backing out of the garage, always to check to see if there is a child behind your car. Look in the rearview mirror or use the rearview video camera to make sure there is nothing behind your vehicle when you are backing out.Your children should be in the car, in the house or otherwise safely out of the way when you are backing out of the garage.
If your children are playing in the driveway, ask them to move inside or to the backyard.
If you are driving a motorcycle or other vehicle, you should look behind you to make sure your children are not standing in the way.
 You should make sure your motorcycle would not fall on a small child. Your bike should be in gear and the parking break should be turned on. Put the side stand or center stand on.You can try rocking your bike back and forth a bit to make sure it is secure and the stand is working properly. , If your washer and dryer come equipped with a locking mechanism, you should use it. Close the door of the washer or dryer and then turn the machine off to engage the locking mechanism.


If your washer or dryer has a child lock, turn it on. A child lock will prevent your small children from turning the machine on and climbing inside.If your washer and dryer do not have locks, you could purchase a washer and dryer locking strap. Although not as secure as a lock, a strap to keep the door from swinging open easily should keep children safer.You should also keep any laundry chemicals out of reach of children.
 If you have a freezer in the garage, use a padlock on it to ensure children do not climb in and get trapped.Picnic coolers should also be kept away from children.You should also make sure any leftover ice in your cooler is taken out in order to eliminate any possible accidents involving water.
 If you are storing old appliances in your garage, you should make sure they are properly locked and inaccessible to children.

