;
, Sports Camp? Art Camp? Weight-Loss Camp? Whatever it might be, it's best you decide how you want to spend your summer/winter.
 Whatever suits you just fine is how long you should go. Sometimes it's hard to determine this sort of thing, so here's a quick tip: Try to go on more sleepovers, camp-outs, etc. and see how long you'll last WITHOUT missing your parents. Usually this time period is offered around camp. Let's say you go to a slumber party that last for three days, and you manage to not miss your parents for two. That's offered in camps. If you get a little homesick after only a few hours of arriving, you're not ready to go to camp alone. Consider family packages.
 Planning a good budget ranging from $80 to $200 is good, especially since this is the MAIN price range for camps.
 I am pretty certain that most camps do not allow electronic devices, such as an I-pod, I-pad, cell phone, computer, radio, etc. The only ELECTRONIC item you may bring is a flashlight.
 Some camps have an email system instead, so it's best to check out the camp website and look for they're messaging systems.
 If your a child then you might want to make sure of these things: You need to choose when you shower. It's best to shower DAILY since your outdoors often, and the outdoors odor sometimes can get stuck on you. You'll have to brush your hair, and if you take baths, you need to SHOWER instead. You'll be responsible for making your bed, changing, combing your hair, etc. You'll be responsible for not LOSING your items before leaving camp. Are you ready for this?

, It's not very likely you'll have a counselor that you/your child won't like because most counselors are hired for FRIENDLINESS and a HELPFUL PERSONALITY. Most camp websites give you the email to your counselor just in case you want to touch base with them.
 Be prepared for bullying if there happens to be a 'queen/king kid' of the camp. Prepare to look to counselors for help is someone is ever bullying you. If you think that the counselors can't do anything, your very WRONG. Counselors have the ability to kick the child out of camp, sending them home until next year.
 If your a shy person who really can't handle meeting new people for an entire week or day, then maybe you'd like to come with one of your friends to camp. It's much more helpful to know somebody there.
 Make sure you understand EVERY SINGLE DETAIL of who will be taking care of you/your child. There's some people you just can't trust which makes the camp UNLIKELY to be your destination.

