 Make sure to spend quality time with your family, and devote more energy to their needs. Remind them that you are a constant support in their lives, even if you travel on business.Take an active part in their daily activities and interests. Attend sporting events, recitals, and music lessons with them. Help them with homework.
Maximize your time in the evenings and weekends to do activities that help them learn and grow as individuals. Avoid defaulting to activities like watching TV together. Make activities unique and get outdoors when possible.
Listen to their hopes and dreams. Be a warm and comforting support for them. Avoid putting the burden of your work on them.
Plan an exciting adventure that you can have together as a family, like a camping or hiking trip.
 Children may feel abandoned by a parent who is away for long periods of time. They may feel like that can't rely on you to be a stable part of their lives. This can lead to resentment.Be nurturing when they seem upset, frustrated or anxious about your business traveling. While they may not fully understand your work responsibilities, particularly if they are younger, it is important to tell them often that they matter. Consider saying things like, "Even though I'll be away, I am always thinking of you."
Redirect the negative feelings to positive actions. Give them hugs, even if they seem to pull away. Show them that your love is unconditional.
Connect and check in with them as much as possible while you’re gone. Try fun and creative approaches, like playing online games with them. This will help them feel as if you are a presence in their lives even while you are away.
 Make sure that your partner or spouse doesn't feel overwhelmed and burdened every time you travel on business. Discuss with them about what support they need to feel less stressed.


Identify extra help that you can arrange when you're away. For example, consider having a babysitter or housekeeper help out when you're traveling to ease the load off your spouse. Or, help to order or prepare meals that are ready-made before you leave for a few days.
Make sure that your spouse has free time to rest and relax. Recognize that they also need "me" time.
Don't forget to appreciate what your partner does. Depending on how you show your love, consider giving gifts, words of love, or physical affection to make them feel special.

