 Any parts of your car that can be removed should be washed in a washing machine. This will get the dog smell out, and leave your car smelling fresher.Rubber mats, car seat covers, and any blankets you keep for your dog can be removed and washed.
Use a cool temperature to be safe when washing parts of your car. You may also want to use a gentle cycle.
Make sure to read the label before washing parts of your car. There may be special instructions to keep in mind.;
, You should do this on a regular basis. Dog hair in your car can cause a troublesome doggy odor. If you have a handheld vacuum, you can use that. You can also use your vacuums upholstery attachment. If you don't have a vacuum, most car washes have a vacuum you can use for a fee., Things like the dashboard, and buttons can be cleaned with a multi-purpose cleaning spray. You can find a spray at a grocery or department store. You can also use a spray you have in your kitchen.Use the spray on a small portion of your car first. Watch to see if the spray dries without causing any damage.
If the spray seems to be safe for your car, go ahead and spray down and clean the hard surfaces in the interior.
 Rent a wet/dry vacuum to apply carpet cleaner. This will remove set in smells from the fabric in your car. Make sure to test the carpet cleaner on a small portion of your car's fabric before using it on the entire floor.Once you know the cleaner is safe, spray down the floor and seats with a layer of carpet cleaner. If you're unsure of how much to use, refer to the instructions on your bottle.
Once the carpeting is covered in cleaner, suck up the cleaner with the wet/dry vac. Your car should smell significantly better.
 Odor may be caused by urine. If your dog had an accident in the car, it's best to address it right away. If left untreated, urine can cause an unpleasant lingering smell.Immediately place a few layers of absorbent paper towel over the urine. Allow the paper towel to soak up some of the stain.
Cover the towels with a few large layers of newspaper.
After soaking up most of the urine, rinse the area with cold water. Then, use towels or a wet/dry vacuum to soak up the water.
 Sometimes, you may not notice a urine stain right away. In these cases, rinse out the stain with water. If possible, use a wet/dry vacuum, as this will be better equipped at removing the stain.Apply a pet odor neutralizer right away. You can find one at a local pet store, online, or at a grocery/department store.
Allow the spot to dry. If there is still a stain after the spot dries, wash it out with carpet cleaner.

