 Ice cream won't wait for you and melts fast, making it hard to photograph.. To avoid losing those precious moments when the ice cream still looks fantastic, it is important to prepare all of your equipment and props in advance for still food photography.


Have all of your camera equipment in place, including tripod (if using), special lenses, filters, etc. A tripod can be an excellent piece of equipment for indoor ice cream photography; you can set the camera in place at the angle that pleases the eye best, relying on props (such as yogurt containers, etc.) to serve as mock ice cream until you've adjusted the camera to the exact settings desired.Once done, grab your ice cream, remove the props and arrange the ice cream in the predetermined positions, and shoot away for the next few minutes.
Check that the lighting is just as you want it (see below for tips).
For ice cream that will be sitting in a bowl or other prop, place the prop into the freezer for at least 20 minutes prior to taking the shot. That way, you will have a very cold prop for the ice cream to sit on, providing you with extra time to make adjustments before the ice cream melts.This is especially important for warm locations or if you're taking the ice cream outside in the sun.
For photography on the go, simply have your camera ready for those candid moments of people with their ice creams.;
, Early morning and the evenings are suitable times, out of the sun's glare.For indoor photography, choose cool, air-conditioned rooms. Naturally, the fact that you might want different, brighter light on your ice cream subject will impact your decision on the time of day to shoot.
 Are you setting up the photo of a specific ice cream after making or purchasing it, or are you simply hoping to come across ice creams being held by people outdoors as you walk about? Obviously, if you're setting up the ice cream shoot from scratch, there is a bit more effort involved.


Do you want the ice cream in a bowl, in a cone, on a plate? Perhaps its original packaging is interesting enough to use as well.
Do you want someone holding the ice cream, a pet licking it, or some other action shot? Will you need to set the shots up, or are you looking for candid shots on a beach, at a park, or at a special event?
Do you want the ice cream to be the main feature or to form part of a set-up with other food? If so, the other food will need to be prepared and arranged in place before adding the ice cream at the last moment (see arranging props above).
Do you want to photograph the ice cream in a kitchen, a dining room, or perhaps al fresco in your garden? Each option has its own challenges of light, background, temperature, and accessibility that need to be worked out in advance.
If photographing people with their ice cream, consider whether you want to take photographs of children (always delightful but can be hard work to have them stand still) or adults, individuals or groups, and so on. Is the situation appropriate to take photos on the fly or will you need to ask for permission?

At a bare minimum, it is polite to ask "Do you mind if I take a photo of you/your kids eating that ice cream?" If the potential subjects ask why, you can explain in greater detail.
 If you're setting up the shoot, what kind of ice cream are you photographing?


Is the ice cream scooped, sandwiched, curled, whipped, soft serve, or coated?
Is it a sorbet, an ice lolly, a popsicle, a cone, or a sundae?
Is it coated in exciting and tasty sprinkles, chocolate, or other ice cream toppers?

, The background may be determined by the reason for the photo shoot. If you're being paid to do a food shoot, you might be obliged to use their choice of dinnerware and such, but if you have a choice, there are some backgrounds that look great with ice cream. Here are some ideas:


A wood texture background will evoke home and comfort.
White background. White is a good stand-by background for many food types, as it doesn't crowd out the food and it provides plenty of background light to set off the food.A garden with green colors, or flowers as the backdrop.
A dark background can set off the ice cream subject perfectly, especially when you see nothing but the ice cream.

