 You'll have to approach her first to get anywhere close to making out with her.


Avoid approaching her by buying her a drink. There are many stories of men slipping date-rape drugs into someone's drink, so come up with a different approach that won't immediately make you look like you may be dangerous.
 Since you are trying to make out with her, find some topics which would keep the conversation fun while still denoting your interest in her.


Compliment genuinely. Saying something like "Nice boobs!" or "Great butt!" can creep girls out. Use common sense and tread slowly, and then calibrate on the basis of response from the girls. It also slowly gets you in a social mood.
 Remember, it's not the words but the intention behind the words that consists of more than 80% of the communication. Your prime intention should be to have fun; the rest is all secondary. However, use common sense before going to extremes and saying something extremely vulgar or sexual.


You don't have to say things that don't resonate with your personality or intention. If you did, the words will not be backed by intentions. It helps a lot to say something that you genuinely find it fun or sexual from a non-needy and fun mindset.




Be assertive. It's very important that you are assertive and lead the conversation. Women are subconsciously very attracted to guys who can lead.
 Emotions are accentuated by details; the more the details, the higher the intensity of the emotions. Have you noticed that your emotional concentration becomes higher, congruent to the topic you are trying to comprehend or explain, when you explain or listen things in detail? It's descriptive psychology. Talking about sad things makes you more sad, talking about happy things makes you more happy in the same way talking about sexual things accentuates related emotions.
 This is gold if you know how to do it properly. During the interaction, touch and hold her. You can't expect to make out with her when you haven't even touched her. There are many ways to do it; try whichever you find easier to do.


Touch her hands. Say something like, "Let me see your hands. I want to compare the sizes of our hands".
Hug her. A good way to know if she is comfortable with you is to hug her first. If she pushes you off or doesn't hug you back, though, she's probably not comfortable.
Try kissing her. If she is comfortable with hugging, try going for a kiss on her cheek, and if she's comfortable with that, then a peck on the lips. If she backs up or starts talking the second you get close to her face, she's not comfortable with a kiss.
 This can be very inducing and effective to make out with her.
 If she is responding well and having a fun conversation, then try to go for the make-out - just pull her closer and go for it. Only do this if you're sure she's comfortable with being kissed, though - just about any girl who got kissed by a random guy would feel uncomfortable if she didn't know he was going to kiss her.
 Sometimes, making out can get hot and heavy and lead to something further. It's important to take steps to make sure you two are protected and both comfortable with sexual acts.


Read the subtle hints to know if she wants to hook up. Asking her crudely (such as "Wanna bang?") is going to make her feel like a slut because of societal conditioning. Practice reading subtle hints to know if she's ready or not. However, don't take these hints as signs of consent; always ask her directly if she wants to have sex.

If she says no, respect it. Continuing with the absence of consent is legally considered rape.



Protect both of you against STDs, and her against pregnancy.

