 Ripe star fruit is firm and has vibrant yellow skin.


The more yellow the skin is, the sweeter the fruit will be. A yellow star fruit with a bit of brown along the edges is ideal.
A star fruit has approximately 30 calories. It is also a worthwhile source of fiber, vitamin C, carbohydrates, and water.;
, Use a sharp knife to cut the fruit across the broad side, dividing it into star-shaped slices that are roughly 1/4-inch to 1/2-inch (6.35-mm to 1.27-cm) wide.


Wash the fruit well before slicing it. Rinse it under running water, scrubbing it with your fingers until any loose dirt hiding in the crevices comes free.
The entire star fruit is edible, so you do not need to peel it or seed it before eating it.
Star fruit can be enjoyed plain and on its own without adding it to anything else.



Wash the fruit, using your fingers to scrub away any dirt while rinsing it under cool, running water.
Hold the star fruit steady with one hand. You can either hold it in your hand or brace the bottom against a cutting board or counter.
Glide a sharp, smooth kitchen knife along the edge of the star fruit. Make the cut where the green or brown part of the edge begins and slice thinly to only remove the discolored portion of the edge.
Slice off the ends. Cut 1/2-inch (1.27-cm) off both ends of the star fruit, removing any green or brown pointed tips.
Use a sharp knife to cut the star fruit into 1/4-inch to 1/2-inch (6.35-mm to 1.27-cm) slices. Cut across the broad side of the fruit to form star shapes.
Poke through the center of the star fruit with the tip of your knife to remove any visible seeds.
 The fruit contains a neurotoxin that healthy kidneys can filter out, but damaged kidneys are unable to do so.Go to a hospital if you experience symptoms of "star fruit intoxication" after consuming the fruit. Symptoms include insomnia, hiccups, vomiting, numbness, muscle convulsions or decreased strength, and confusion. These symptoms usually manifest themselves 30 minutes to 14 hours after an individual consumes the fruit. Rarely, star fruit intoxication can even cause death.
 Toss slices of star fruit with other tropical fruits to create a colorful blend of sweet-and-sour flavors.


Fruits that pair well with star fruit include banana, strawberry, kiwi, mango, pineapple, papaya, grapes, and citrus fruits.
You can toss the fruit salad gently with a lemon vinaigrette, orange glaze, honey, or fruit cocktail syrup to add another dimension of flavor.
For an even more tropical twist, garnish the fruit salad with a sprinkling of shredded coconut.
 Star fruit makes an appealing addition to simple green salads.


Make the salad simple, using ingredients like romaine lettuce, chives, sweet bell pepper, and avocado. Stay away from traditional garden salad ingredients like carrots, cucumbers, and shredded cheddar cheese.
Opt for light vinaigrette dressings, like lemon vinaigrette, balsamic vinaigrette, raspberry vinaigrette, or Italian vinaigrette. Tangy French dressings can also complement the flavor of star fruit well.
 Decorate dishes and platters with sliced star fruit for an edible garnish.


Add sliced star fruit to the tops of tropical-flavor cakes or ice cream.
Decorate plates of tropical entrees, like teriyaki-marinated chicken, with artistically placed slices of star fruit.
Cut a small slice into a piece of star fruit and hang it off the side of a cocktail glass.
 Use mashed star fruit in fruit bread or sliced star fruit in upside-down cake.Combine 2 cups (500 ml) flour, 1 1/2 tsp (7.5 ml) baking powder, and 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) salt. Add this to a creamed mixture made from 1/2 cup (125 ml) butter, 1 cup (250 ml) sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tsp (5 ml) white wine, and 2 cups (500 ml) mashed star fruit. Stir in 1 cup (250 ml) chopped coconut and cook in a standard loaf pan for 50 minutes at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius).
Arrange 3 to 4 sliced star fruit on the bottom of a greased 9-inch (23-cm) cake pan. Pour a standard yellow cake batter or spice cake batter over the star sliced star fruit and bake according to the recipe's instructions. Invert the cake onto a serving plate before serving.
 The flavor of star fruit pairs well with chicken, duck, and many types of fish and seafood.


After preparing chicken fried rice, tropical chicken stir-fry, or Asian-inspired chicken stir-fry, add fresh slices of star fruit to the dish.
Cut the star fruit into small pieces and add it to chicken salad, tuna salad, or lobster salad.
Grill chicken, tuna steaks, prawns, or duck and serve the star fruit alongside it, grilled or fresh.
 Cook chopped star fruit on the stovetop with sugar and tropical fruit juice. Use finer pieces of star fruit and more liquid to create a jam or larger pieces and less juice for chutney.
 Blend star fruit with other tropical fruits and juice to create a thick, fruity drink.


Blend 3 seeded star fruit, 1 diced mango, 3 cups (750 ml) orange juice, 2 cups (500 ml) ice cubes, 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) ground cinnamon, and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) honey until smooth. If desired, add chunks of pineapple, strawberry, or banana to the smoothie, as well.
 Mix pureed star fruit with fruit liqueur and rum for a refreshing alcoholic beverage.


Blend 1 star fruit with 1/4 cup (60 ml) orange liqueur, 1/2 cup (125 ml) rum, 1 cup (250 ml) orange juice, and several ice cubes. Garnish with slices of star fruit.
 For a non-alcoholic beverage, mix pureed star fruit with simple fruit juices or water.


Mix 1 lb (450 g) star fruit with 1 thumb of ginger, 1 tsp (5 ml) lime juice, 4 cups (1000 ml) of water, and sugar or honey to taste. Strain the juice and serve.
Add carbonated water to this mixture for a non-alcoholic star fruit spritzer.
