 Fill a kettle with water to the maximum fill line. For a stove-top kettle, place it on the stove and heat the water over medium heat. For an electric kettle, plug in the kettle, turn it on, and wait for the water to boil.

You can also boil water in a pot on the stove if you don’t have a kettle.;
, Despite the name, low tea is actually a very refined event that began with British royalty back in the 1800s. As such, you should always use your finest china and best teapots when you serve low tea.Any teapot will actually suffice when you want to serve tea, but you can always visit thrift and second hand stores to find fine china at an affordable price.
 When the kettle boils, pour a cup (235 ml) of boiling water into the teapot. Swirl the water around to warm the pot, and then pour out the water. This will prime the teapot and make sure that no heat is lost when you brew the tea., For each person, measure 1 cup (235 ml) of water and either 1 teaspoon (1 g) of loose leaf tea or one tea bag per two people. Add the tea to the warmed teapot, followed by the water. Allow the tea to steep for three to five minutes before removing the bags or straining the leaves.You can brew any type of tea you like when you serve high tea, including:Earl Grey
English breakfast
Peppermint
Herbal tea
Chamomile

, Not everybody likes their tea the same strength. Boil another kettleful of water and transfer the hot water to another teapot or a heat-safe pitcher. That way, guests can dilute their own tea if they find it too strong., The types of snacks you serve at low tea will vary depending on your tastes and likes, but scones are a traditional choice for afternoon tea. You can serve both sweet and savory scones, including:Plain
Buttermilk
Chocolate
Fruit and nut
Whole wheat
Berry
Cheese and herb
Ham and cheese

, Scones at low tea are most often served with jams, preserves, and cream. For example, Devonshire cream tea has a specific menu that pairs tea with scones, strawberry jam, and clotted cream.Other types of jams and preserves you can serve include rhubarb, ginger, raspberry, and mixed berry., Another important part of the low tea menu is savory treats, which are often small bite-sized and handheld delicacies. Some of the most popular savory snacks for low tea include tea sandwiches, cheese puffs, and savory tarts or pies., The number of sweet goodies you can serve at low tea are endless. Many of these items can be purchased at the grocery store, but you can also make your own if you have the time. Some popular options for sweet snacks at afternoon tea include:Fruit breads like banana bread

Cakes like sponge

Macaroons and French macarons

Cookies and biscuits, such as finger cookies, ginger nuts, and shortbread
Squares and tarts

, The treats at low tea are traditionally served on a three-tiered platter. The scones, which will be eaten first, should be arranged on the top platter, followed by the savory snacks in the middle. The sweet treats should be placed on the bottom tier, as they will be eaten last., Low tea is a mid-afternoon snack that takes care of hunger that occurs between lunch and dinner. Because of this, afternoon tea should be held between 3 and 5 in the afternoon, and the traditional time is at 4 p.m., Tea at low tea should be served with milk, sugar, and lemon, because everybody likes their tea prepared a different way. To make sure all your guests are accommodated, fill a creamer with milk and a sugar bowl with sugar. Finally, cut a lemon into small wedges and place the wedges on a plate.There are ways to drink tea with these simple ingredients, including:

Black (no additions)
With lemon
With sugar
With lemon and sugar
With milk
With milk and sugar
Milk and lemon shouldn’t be combined, as the acid will curdle the milk

, While low tea is taken in comfortable lounge chairs, you should lay out the tea and snacks on a kitchen or serving table. Cover the table with a clean table cloth. To set the table properly for low tea:Place the tea tray at one end of the table, and set the tea pot, creamer, sugar, and lemon on the tray
Set out the cups, saucers, and spoons to the right of the tea tray
On the left of the tray, place your plates, silverware, and napkins
Place the clotted cream, preserves, and tiered server with snacks in the center of the table
Lay individual serving spoons in front of the preserves and clotted cream

, It is customary for the host to pour tea for guests. When you're ready to serve tea and eat, stand at the end of the table with the tea and china and pour a cup of tea for each guest. Ask each guest how they take their tea. Always pour tea first, followed by sugar and lemon, and milk last.Carefully hand the cup, saucer, and a napkin to each guest.

While the host should serve the first cup of tea, it is acceptable to have close friends or family help with the serving.
 Once the tea has been served, guests can serve themselves snacks. It is proper to eat the scones first, followed by the savory snacks, and finishing with the sweets and cakes. This way, the freshly baked scones are enjoyed warm., Once everybody has tea and snacks, you can sit down together to enjoy your low tea. Place your napkin in your lap when you sit down. The snacks should be eaten delicately and neatly with your hands, but don’t lick your fingers. When you stir your tea, be careful not to clank too much.