 Poetry exercises don't need to be dry attempts at rhyming in a complicated pattern. That's a good way to end up beating your head against the wall. Lots of poetry exercises can be fun, resulting in weird fragments of language and poetry that you might use as a starting point for other poems, or leave as a poem entire.


Remember, poetry isn't Sudoku. It's not a requirement that poetry rhyme, or that poems use stilted language from the 17th century. Write like you're alive in the world of MTV and you're shopping in the cereal aisle. That's honesty.
 Poems are made of images and little details, not grand proclamations and statements. Show us the little moments and give the reader something to see instead of telling us what to think.


Poetry involves statement as well as image, but it needs to be combined to give it more weight. For example, it's much stronger to write: "My father's hard hat is clean, glistening with polish in the living room light. We buried him yesterday. It will always be clean" than to write, "My father died yesterday and I'm angry."
This is one of the reasons it's important to read new poetry if you're going to try to write poetry. Just as humans don't speak the same language as Shakespeare in the 21st century, we don't write poetry the same way either.
 When you're writing a poem, a lot of the joy comes from leaping between images and utterances, freely associating between things in the lines. This helps you to avoid cliches and have fun at the same time.


The old comparison of lips to cherries might be a little dried out. Look for fresher, more exciting similes for your poetry. Maybe the lips of your love remind you more of nightcrawlers you used to pluck to put in coffee cans to go fishing. Don't be afraid to surprise yourself.
Be playful! Some of the best poems will surprise you by deliberately pointing out similarities in things that initially seem to have nothing in common. Look for the celestial universe in the Pop Tart, or find the romance inherent in UFC.
 Sit down with a bad magazine, like Cosmopolitan or Maxim and give each weird, over-sexualized advertisement for clothes or makeup a funny caption. On a piece of paper, write down all your captions in a column and read it out loud. Look for strange connections and moments of tension in the poem.


Use the best couplet to start a new poem, or use the column as a poem in itself if you like it.
 Poems require some kind of tension to make them move. If you want to have fun with a poem, give yourself the challenge of a ridiculous, over-the-top, or downright silly title and make yourself take it seriously in verse. Come up with the worst titles for poems you can think of. Try titles like, "My Life is a Dead Dog," "Elephant Warts," or "Self-Portrait as Big Mac." Write beautiful poems with a lot of heart, soul, and images, and make it work.


Try reversing the tone of the title to give it some import. If your title is sombre, make the first line humorous or light. If the title seems ridiculous, use something serious and shocking the beginning. That's how you make poetry.
 Erasures are poems that start out as a page from a novel, textbook, or magazine, and are written by striking through, whiting out, or erasing the words. The poem is everything you have left.

