 Once you find a potential new date, show them you are interested! Giving a potential date some clear signs that you are available and interested is actually more effective than looking good.Also, if they know you are interested they may feel more comfortable asking you out. Talk to them whenever you can, keeping the conversation fun and exciting. Show interest by trying the following.


Make eye contact and smile.
Try a light touch such as touching their forearm or playfully batting their shoulder.
Show interested and excited body posture such as leaning towards them.
 If you are not comfortable asking them out, suggest ways to extend or expand your contact with them. Expanding your contact with them will allow you different ways to interact, but will also slowly let you both get to know each other better. Use your interactions and interests to find ways to naturally increase your contact. Try the following.


Give them your phone number in a subtle way, “That's a great picture, can you text that to me?”
Give them your number in a non-subtle way, by grabbing their phone and entering it in. “Here's my phone number, call me sometime.”
Ask about social media and connect there. Ask, “Are you on Facebook?” or “I'm obsessed with Instagram, do you have one?”
Connect with them over a game. “Oh, you play Words With Friends? Me, too! What's your ID, I'm going to start a game with you.”

, Yes, it can be a very anxiety producing experience, but it doesn't have to be.If you like someone, consider asking them out yourself. If you are new to an area, it gives you a bit more of an edge in asking someone out. You can ask them out traditionally, or you can talk about being new to the area. Consider the following.


Ask them to show you their favorite place. “That sounds like a really interesting place. Since I'm new to the area, why don't you take me there and show me what it's all about?”
Invite them along to check out someplace new with you. “I'm trying to check out the city and see all of the iconic places. I was planning to go to this place that is supposed to have the best food in the city, do you want to go with me?”
Suggest going for coffee, a meal, or drinks. “I'm really enjoying talking to you. Do you want to go out for coffee or drinks sometime?”

