 Gboard is a custom keyboard that enables integrated Google Search and Android-style glide typing on iPhones and iPads. Search for Gboard in the App Store and press “Get” to install. Upon launching, follow the explicit instructions displayed to get set up.;
, Tap the text field in the app you are using to compose your message. Tap and hold the globe icon on the keyboard and select Gboard.


Alternately, tap the globe icon to cycle through your available keyboards in sequence.
 The Google icon (multicolored "G") activates Gboard’s search feature. A search bar will appear directly above the keyboard.
 Type what you are looking for into the search bar and tap “Search” on the keyboard. The keyboard will be replaced by the search results. Swipe right or left to browse through the results.
 Tap the message body and enter some text. Tap the google icon and a popup appears in the predictive search: "Did you mean to search for ". Tap the popup (or auto-fill alternatives) to perform your search.
 By default, Gboard will search the web and return results as Google normally would. However, after your search, if you tap the image icon or GIF button at the bottom of the search results, you can filter your results down to either images (click the mountain picture) or GIFs.
 At he bottom of the screen select the "GIF" button, then type your search into the search bar, which will read "Search GIFs".


Gboard also allows you to access and search a series of pre-loaded emojis (e.g. by searching an emotion like "happy"), but doesn't search the web for new emojis at this time.
Close out and go back to your regular messages by clicking the "x" on the far right of the search bar.
 Results can be shared with your message recipient or viewed in the web browser using the two buttons at the bottom of each search result.


The "Share" button will copy the search result to the clipboard to be pasted into the text body.
The arrow button will open the link in a separate web browser window if you wish to view a search result in full.

