 Before the oven becomes too hot, move one of the racks so that it sits just above the lower third of the oven.Meanwhile, prepare a baking sheet by lightly dusting it with additional all-purpose flour (not the flour called for in the recipe) or by lining it with parchment paper.;
, Place the flour, sugar, and salt in a medium mixing bowl, whisking gently to combine.


If you want to make these crackers slightly healthier, consider using 3/4 cup (188 ml) whole wheat flour and 3/4 cup (188 ml) all-purpose flour instead of using all-purpose flour for the full amount.
 Pour the olive oil and water into the flour mixture, stirring well. Continue stirring until a sticky dough forms.


Some excess flour may remain at the bottom of the bowl, but if more than several teaspoons (5 to 15 ml) remain, consider adding an extra 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of water to help mix the flour into the dough. Repeat as needed.
 Lightly sprinkle a clean work surface with flour, then turn the dough out over it. Use a rolling pin the flatten the dough to your desired thickness.


Gently shape the ball of dough into a large rectangle after turning it out. Lightly flour the rolling pin and roll it over the dough, starting in the center and working outward.
For thick crackers, the dough should be about 1/8 inch (3 mm) thick. For thin crackers, the dough should be 1/16 inch (1.5 mm) thick., Evenly sprinkle the sea salt and sesame seeds over the surface of the dough. Use your hands to gently pat the seasonings into the surface.


While not strictly necessary, it may help to brush the surface with a small amount of water before topping it. The water may help the salt and seeds stick.
 Use a sharp knife to cut the dough into individual crackers.


The average size of a snacking cracker will be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) by 2 inches (5 cm), but you can change these dimensions as desired.
 Use a fork or toothpick to poke the centers of each cracker, creating holes in the dough. Doing this should keep the crackers flat.


You should also move the crackers to the prepared baking sheet. Use a dough scraper or spatula to do this, and arrange the crackers so that they are close without touching.
 Place the crackers in the oven and bake them until the edges become golden brown, flipping once in the middle of the baking process.


Thin crackers should finish in 6 to 8 minutes, so you should flip them after the first 4 minutes.
Thick crackers will need 12 to 15 minutes, so you should flip them after the first 6 minutes.
 Remove the finished crackers from the oven and cool them on a wire rack. You can eat them once they cool to room temperature.


Store extra crackers in an airtight container kept at room temperature. They should last up to one or two weeks.

