 One of the best ways to lose matches is to upload photos that are low quality. Thus, make sure you choose photos that are clear and are taken under circumstances that frame you as an attractive person.


Be careful when posting ultra-high resolution photos, as they may capture skin imperfections and other issues that could turn people off.
Don’t upload any photos taken with cheap webcams.
Avoid blurry photos or photos taken in mirrors.
Focus on photos that are taken in good and flattering lighting. For example, stay away from photos taken under florescent lighting., The number of photos you upload to Tinder correlates directly to the number of matches you get. This is important, as the more photos you upload, the largely the likelihood that you’ll turn someone off.


Provide between two and six photos.
If you must include a photo of a pet, dogs may help you get more matches than other animals.
Avoid uploading pictures of you as a baby or a child., An attractive headshot should serve as your main photo. It will give viewers an idea of what you look like in ideal circumstances. This is important, as potential matches will want a clear view of your full face before swiping you.


Make sure your face is clearly visible in your pictures.
Avoid mugging or duck-face. Keep it natural.
Your potential matches likely won’t take a chance on someone who’s hiding their face or doing something goofy.
Emphasize your best features. Studies show that men most regularly choose women with larger eyes and lips, while women choose men with beards and masculine features., By including a photo that shows you dressed up and ready to go out on the town, you’ll give potential matches an idea of the person they’ll encounter on a date. Without this type of picture, they’ll be left wondering about the person they might meet up with.


This picture should show you dressed up and looking your best.
Consider using a photo of you strolling under a street light in a nice part of your city or town.
You can use filters to alter date-night ready photos., While it may seem like a good idea to upload photos of you with others you care about, you have a much larger chance of alienating potential matches than winning people over.


Don’t post pictures of yourself with children.
You don’t want potential matches comparing you to someone else or scrutinizing the situations you’re in.
If you must use a group photo, it should be your final photo., Positive body language is key in getting more matches on Tinder. Not only will positive body language make you look more attractive, but it’ll help people get the impression of you as a friendly and likable person.


Don’t slouch.
Avoid crossing your arms or posing in a defensive or threatening way.
Smile! It may increase your appeal to others., If you're not getting matches, change your photos around. By rotating or using new photos, you’ll get an idea of what photos work and which ones don’t.


Look through your existing photo library for possible photos.
Take new photos, if you need. For example, get a friend to follow you around for an hour and take photos. Then go through them and see which ones might work.
Ask friends which photos they think are best. In fact, you might want to ask others who are successful on Tinder what photos they think will work for you.
If you have any professionally taken headshots or solo portraits, those are usually a great choice.