 If your child breathes through his mouth frequently, this may lead to misalignment of his teeth that will eventually need correcting with braces. Take measures to make sure mouth breathing does not occur with frequency.


Ideally, the tongue should rest just inside the upper teeth. When a child breathes through his mouth, his tongue is pushed down and outside pressures are exerted on the teeth. This can result in teeth becoming crooked over time. The upper teeth and the upper maxilla (the jaw) make a triangular, pyramidal shape and braces may be necessary.Oftentimes, nasal problems (usually nasal polyps), allergies, and asthma may be the reasons your child is breathing through his mouth. Make an appointment with a pediatrician to figure out the physical cause behind his mouth breathing and find ways to keep his nose clear to correct the problem.Children may breath heavily through their mouths or snore during sleep. This can be caused by a variety of factors, including enlarged tonsils. If you notice your child breathes through his mouth during sleep, make a doctor's appointment to determine the cause and correct the problem.;
, Bad oral habits, like sucking the thumb or fingers, can cause a misaligned bite that will require braces. If your child sucks his thumb, fingers, or a pacifier, find ways to discourage the habit.Thumb sucking is a reflex found in young infants that fosters feelings of security. Thumb sucking often continues into toddlerhood and beyond. Usually, thumb sucking is not a concern until your child's permanent teeth come in, which should happen around the age of 5. At that point, intervention may be necessary to make sure it does not affect how a child's teeth line up.It may also affect a child's bone structure and may be hard to correct, even with braces.
Positive reinforcement helps. Try praising your child when he is not sucking his thumb with small rewards like a piece of candy or a trip to the park.Identify any triggers for thumb sucking. Children may suck their thumbs in response to stress. Reassuring your child with soothing words or a hug when he seems stressed may prevent him from sucking his thumb.If you see your child thoughtlessly sucking her thumb, gently ask her to stop. Small, gentle reminders can discourage the behavior over time. You should avoid yelling or scolding, as this may increase your child's stress and lead to further thumb sucking., Bruxism is a periodical contraction of muscles in the face while sleeping that's often accompanied by behaviors like teeth grinding. While sometimes genetic, bruxism is often caused by stress. If you believe your child may be grinding his teeth due to high anxiety, finding ways to help him cope can lessen the habit and help him avoid braces in the future.Children cope with stress in a variety of ways. While some children may be easygoing by nature, many children have trouble dealing with even small stressors and may cry, throw tantrums, or run and hide in response to pressure. Many parents falsely believe children are unaware or unbothered by stressful factors in their own lives, such as problems at work or health concerns. Try to understand even if your child does not know exactly what's going on, he can be affected by stress as much as you are.Talk to your child about stress. Help him understand the physical signs of stress, such as tightened chest, increased heartbeat, etc. Having a word and explanation for such problems can make them less scary. It's often the unknown that's most frightening to children. Help him understand stress is normal and something everyone experiences to some degree.Providing physical support, like hugs, pats on the back, and kisses, can help a child relax when stress comes on. You should also provide emotional support through open communication. Allow your child to explain to you what is causing him stress and why, and you can help by listening, understanding, and reassuring him. Remember, young children often find it difficult to explain their emotions so your child may explain stress in abstract, bodily ways. He might explain a body part, like the heart or the head, hurts.If there are major life events occurring, such as a divorce or the death of a close family member, your child may need a therapist or counselor to help him cope. Many therapists work with children and you can try asking your pediatrician for a recommendation.

