 Read up on how an IQ test works and the criteria they use for their scoring. The more you know about IQ testing, the more you can say in a debate about it.;
, Studies show that low IQ scores in children with low socioeconomic status are affected more by their environment than by their genes.The score reflects lowered opportunities more than it does their innate intelligence.
 People with intellectual and developmental disabilities may score very low, or may have subscores that vary wildly. Consider whether these are accurate representations of them, and whether they could cause mislabeling of needs and abilities. If disabled students are told that they are below average, this may hurt their self-confidence and performance.Some capable students with disabilities may underperform on IQ tests due to unmet accessibility needs, and thus be underestimated.
 In telling children that they are innately smart, they may fear failure and shut down when challenged,or look down on children whose intelligence is measured as average or below average.


Gifted students with disabilities may be overlooked if their IQ is high.
Students with anxiety issues may not do well in timed or high-stakes testing.
 Creativity, mechanics, and social skills play an important role in future success, and IQ tests do not measure these.IQ tests tend to focus on pattern recognition and reading comprehension, while general intelligence has many more components

, A child who comes to school tired might score lower than one who is well-rested and well-fed that day. Sleep, diet, personal issues, stress, time of day, and more can all affect a person's concentration. One day may not provide an accurate snapshot.
 In what is called the "drop from the sky" method, examiners provide a set of questions in a controlled circumstance with a limited amount of time.This is not how problems frequently surface in the everyday world.
 Few issues are black and white, and it is important to gain a well-informed perspective by reading many different opinions. Evaluate the information you read and use it to form a nuanced, thoughtful opinion.


Are any of the opinions flawed? How so? Do they have personal experience and/or expertise?
Who is most affected by these issues? How do these people feel?
Are there some situations in which IQ testing may be the best tool available?
Are there other ways to achieve the benefits that IQ tests provide?

, Are there other tests that work better? Do these succeed where IQ tests fail, or do they carry similar limitations?


The Stanford-Binet test has been proposed for cases of severe intellectual disability., How did they judge intelligence before the creation of IQ testing? Is judging intelligence even necessary? Find out the history of measuring intelligence and reasons the former ways were changed. You may be able to quote historical figures that had similar viewpoints to you.
 Choose how you are going to oppose the IQ standard. Be it a letter to the editor, a blog, or public debate. It will be easier to battle for your cause once you know how you are going to go about it.
 Becoming trapped in dogma is dangerous. Be sure to listen when others talk to you (even if you don't like what they are saying) and absorb it. You may find that their argument has holes, or you may decide to adjust your opinion. Critical thought will help you form a nuanced and powerful viewpoint.

