 While Amazon is the best-known avenue for self-publishing books, a variety of companies offer these services. Careful research will help you determine which self-publication service is right for you.


Consult publications and Web sites such as Writer's Digest or the Self-Published Author to gather general information about self-publishing.Genre-specific writer's organizations may also offer resources for authors seeking to self-publish.
 Different self-publishing services offer different pricing structures. If you plan to offer your work on a variety of platforms, study each platform and be prepared to vary your strategy. With some platforms, the percentage of royalties you receive will vary depending upon the price of your book, while others use blanket royalty rates., Self-publishing offers the advantage of bypassing the gatekeepers of traditional publishing houses, but now you'll need to be your own marketing department. Nineteen percent of self-publishers earned no money from their work in 2013, and while poor quality work may account for part of this problem, poor marketing is just as likely to sink your chances of earning money from your work.


Maintain an author Web site with a blog and up-to-date news of your publications. Visit --and comment -- on blogs focused upon topics congenial to your work. Be sure to post a link back to your site.
Compose a press release announcing your publication and send it off to Web sites, blogs, and publications in your field. If your book is a Christian romance novel, for example, consider sending it to Christian women's magazines and to prominent Christian women's bloggers.
Make use of social media to generate buzz about your work. Start author pages on Facebook and Twitter, and post regularly. Seek out fellow authors and consider establishing networks to share and re-post news of your work.
New work may be your best marketing tool. Generating a steady stream of quality publications will help you make a name for yourself in the self-publishing market. Consider complementing full-length work with novellas or shorter volumes published in formats such as Amazon's "Kindle Singles."