 This starts with drawing a straight line with an empty space in the center. Beneath draw two "U"s attached to the line above. Repeat this process inside. Tina's vision is impaired, like her mother's.;
, Yes..  two dots. Crazy hard. While you're drawing the two dots, draw the outline of her face, making sure you begin your line at the bottom of her glasses, not the side. Towards the base of her face, draw slightly inward.
 Tina's staple hairdo is a bob cut with bangs. However, in her fantasies she has long locks in a high ponytail. For this tutorial you're just going to draw her hair as it is in most scenarios. Begin drawing her hair approximately 2 cm above her glasses. Where her hair ends before her chin make the bottom line wavy to suggest choppiness. Notice her bangs cover where her forehead would normally be and her hair ends right above her chin.
 Draw a tiny oval on the right corner (our left) of Tina's bangs. Right below her bangs draw two tiny eyebrows. Tina's nose is rather large and droopy, draw a u shape touching the bottom of her glasses. Her mouth is a straight line directly below her nose reaching to each side of her face. Slightly below her mouth draw a little bump, her chin.
 Start by drawing the sleeves of her shirt then her boobs which are just curves that begin on the inside of Tina's sleeves.
 They begin at the bottom of her arms, slightly draw outward to show the transition into her hands. If you look closely Tina only has four fingers, they also are weird looking. Close off her shirt by drawing a line from wrist to the other wrist.
 Star with two lines slightly outward from her fingers. Connect the two lines at the bottom with a slightly curved line. Tina's legs are very skinny with a lot of space between them, draw her feet attached to the bottom of the lines you've drawn as her legs.
 Next draw three stripes halfway down her leg, these are her socks.
, Before you begin coloring in Tina take a scrap piece of paper and begin finding colored pencils you feel would fit best. If you don't have your desired color, you can make it simply by overlapping two different colors., Her barrette is yellow, shirt is a light blue, skirt is dark blue, sock stripes are red and her shoes are black.
