 Before you begin to do art therapy, it’s helpful to understand what exactly this process entails. In psychology, art therapy is a type of psychotherapy, a counseling technique, and a rehabilitation program where people make art to improve their physical, mental, and emotional well-being.The central idea behind art therapy is that expressing one’s self through art can be used to help people reduce stress, cope with trauma, resolve problems, and better understand their feelings and behaviors.;
, As you prepare to do art therapy, it’s important to consider some of the potential advantages of this approach:On a basic level, art therapy can help reduce your stress level, elevate your mood, and improve your overall mental health. This approach often teaches you about yourself and makes you aware of things that you may not have consciously acknowledged.
People who are not comfortable talking about themselves or participating in more traditional forms of counseling and therapy can use art to express their feelings and emotions. This is one of the features of art therapy that make it especially successful with children who might not have the vocabulary to articulate how they are feeling or are shy and withdrawn.
Another benefit of art therapy is that it can be done alone or in a group setting. Similarly, you can participate in art therapy on your own, or work with a trained art therapist who will teach you how to participate in art therapy, guide you through self analysis, and make sure you derive the most benefit for your specific needs.
 While anyone can benefit and you don't need to be a skilled artist, psychologists have found that art therapy can be especially beneficial to the following groups of people: Children who may not have the vocabulary to articulate how they are feeling or what they are thinking.
People who are shy and withdrawn, or who are uncomfortable talking with a therapist or counselor.
Individuals who have autism, dementia, cognitive disabilities, and traumatic brain injuries.
Victims of abuse, as well as people dealing with mental illnesses such as post-traumatic stress disorder, bipolar disorder, and anxiety disorders.
 While you can perform art therapy exercises on your own, working with a trained art therapist can be helpful, especially at first. They will teach you how to participate in art therapy, guide you through self analysis of your work, and make sure you engage in exercises and therapy that meets your specific needs.If you have been diagnosed or believe you may have a mental illness, you will likely derive more benefit from working with a trained professional who can treat your condition and help you feel better as soon as possible.
Trained art therapists often have a master’s or doctorate degree in psychology, counseling, or art education. More colleges and universities are also developing degree programs focused specifically on art therapy.
 Art therapy is practiced in hospitals, rehabilitation centers, schools, crisis centers, nursing homes, and private practices. If you would like to do art therapy and work with a trained art therapist, here are a few tips to help you locate one:


Look online at the American Art Therapy Association’s registry of credentialed art therapists. This registry is organized by state and city to make it easy to find a trained art therapist in your area.
If you have heard of an art therapist or mental health professional who uses art therapy, see if they have been credentialed by the Art Therapy Credentials Board, the main art therapy professional organization in the United States.Many therapists discuss their training and specialties on their websites or in online profiles. Review these to see if they mention experience with art therapy. You can also call the therapist’s office and ask if they employ this approach.

