 Before you can figure out what zoning regulations apply to your home, you need to figure out how your particular property is zoned. While many more urban neighborhoods may have dual-zoned properties, homes in purely residential neighborhoods may have restrictions on home-based businesses.Pure residential zoning tends to have the most restrictions, depending on the population density of your neighborhood and its proximity to commercial zones.
Many states have enacted legislation favoring home-based businesses, which often includes a broad definition of home-based businesses that qualify as "no impact" and therefore are exempt from any zoning restrictions.
No-impact home-based businesses typically are those that add little to no additional traffic to the neighborhood, such as freelancers who rarely if ever see clients in their home.;
, Even if home-based businesses are permitted under zoning regulations, there may only be certain types of businesses allowed. Typically when types of businesses are forbidden the purpose is to maintain the residential character of the neighborhood.Certain types of home-based businesses, such as daycares, also must comply with other local ordinances such as fire and health codes.
Some states such as California require all local jurisdictions to allow specific types of home-based businesses such as daycares.
Keep in mind that although you may be permitted to have an office in your home, zoning ordinances may prohibit specific types of business activities.
For example, you may have a home office but not be able to meet clients there. This still could potentially save you money as you could meet clients in a public place such as a park or coffee shop, or explore office sharing opportunities in your area.
 The main reason neighborhoods fight the presence of businesses in residential areas is the increase in traffic as customers or clients travel to and from the business location.Residential zoning codes typically won't allow restaurants or retail stores that potentially would have customers flowing in and out throughout the day.
If you have a service-based home business, such as a law firm or an insurance company, there may be zoning restrictions that control how many clients you can see in a day, the hours you can see clients in your home office, and where they must park.
Your local zoning ordinance also may restrict how many employees you can have, or whether you can even have employees at all.
As far as parking, zoning regulations typically prevent your clients or customers from taking spots available for residents, or clogging up the streets.
You may be required to provide your own parking, for example by paving an area behind your house to accommodate the needs of your business visitors.
 Even if your business complies with all other rules and regulations, there may be restrictions on changes to your home's exterior or the posting of signs or other advertising that you must follow.For example, you may be prohibited from putting up any sign on the exterior of your home or in your yard that advertises your business to passersby.
Depending on the historic value of your home or neighborhood, any renovations you make to accommodate your business activities may be required to conform with the historic quality or character of your neighborhood.
Generally, you won't be allowed to conduct business activities outside, and you may be restricted from parking commercial vehicles outside or in front of your home.
 If your home is located in a neighborhood governed by a covenant or other regulations enforced by a home owner's association, you may need to seek additional permissions before you can operate your home-based business.These restrictions legally are considered "quasi-zoning" because even though they are created under contract law they have the same effect as zoning restrictions.
Keep in mind, however, that these covenants are not subordinate to your city's zoning. Even though your business may be permitted under the city zoning laws, if it is not permitted under your housing covenant you still have to take the matter up with your homeowner's association.
Since restrictions can only be changed by the applicable homeowner's association, many of which don't have the most open procedures regarding how to get permission to operate a home-based business, living in a home restricted by a covenant may pose challenges.
If you have to fight your homeowner's association, your best bet is to talk to your neighbors and get them on your side.
If those who would potentially be most affected by your home-based business have no problem with it, you may have an easier time getting the homeowner's association to grant you an exception.
 Many cities and states require any business operating in their jurisdiction to get a general business license. If one is required in your area, you typically must fill out an application with basic information about your business and pay an annual fee.Perhaps the easiest way to find out what permits or licenses you need to operate your home-based business is to visit the website of the U.S. Small Business Association (SBA) at sba.gov.
The SBA maintains a list of the types of licenses and permits required in each state, as well as links to state and local government websites that issue the required business licenses.
You also can search for your state's business agency. Additional information may be available from your state's secretary of state or department of treasury.
General business licenses typically are required if your doors are open to members of the general public as potential clients or customers.
 Depending on the type of business you have, you may be required to take tests, obtain certification, or be licensed by a professional board or government agency to practice in your state.Certain professions, particularly those in the medical, legal, and financial fields, require practitioners to be licensed. Maintaining your license typically requires adhering to a code of professional conduct and taking continuing education classes each year.
These licenses technically are required for any practitioner, regardless of whether your business is home-based or otherwise, but it's worth recognizing that you remain subject to these requirements and your business may be shut down if you don't comply.
For example, if you decide you want to open a home-based business to provide financial advice to clients, check your state's requirements to determine what services you can legally provide and which require professional licensure.
Keep in mind that professional licensure requirements may require you to maintain bonds or fiduciary accounts, and these requirements may differ depending on the size of your business and whether it's home-based or operates out of a traditional commercial space.
 If part of your business entails retail sales of products or services, you may be required to collect state and local sales tax from your customers. These requirements may differ if your business is based online.Generally, if you are required to collect sales tax, you must apply for a sales tax permit.
However, even if you don't sell taxable products or services, you may still want to apply for a sales tax permit if you want to be able to buy goods at wholesale prices for use in your business.
Typically you can apply for a sales tax permit online. Check the website of your state's comptroller or treasury department for information specific to your state.
 Some cities or counties require home-based businesses to apply for a home occupation permit, which basically allows you operate a business out of your home.Your city or county may divide home occupation permits into different types that require different fees and have different restrictions.
Generally, a home occupation permit will be cheaper if you won't be entertaining clients or customers in your home.
If you plan on having clients or customers in your home regularly, you may have to attend a zoning hearing to get special permission for your home-based business. Some cities or counties allow these types of businesses only on a case-by-case basis.
In most cases, if you have to apply for a home occupation permit you must first have a general business license and a specific tax ID number for your business.
Certain no-impact home-based businesses, such as freelancers who contract their services but do not receive clients in their homes, typically don't need a home-occupation permit.
 Even if you operate your business as a sole proprietorship, you can keep your business and personal finances separate by requesting an EIN for your business from the IRS.You can apply for an EIN from the IRS free of charge, so be wary of websites that will offer to obtain an EIN for you for a fee.
If you apply for your EIN online through irs.gov, you will receive your number immediately after you submit answers to questions regarding your identity and the location and type of business you're operating.
The IRS's online portal to apply for an EIN is available Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Eastern time.
Not only do you need an EIN to file taxes for your business, but you also may need an EIN to apply for other licenses or permits from your state or local government, such as a general business license or a home occupation permit.
Keep in mind that if you are operating your business as a sole proprietor, you can use your own Social Security and may not need to get a separate EIN. However, it may still be to your advantage to get a separate EIN for your business.
Talk to an accountant or certified tax professional to find out what would be best in your specific situation.
 Once you have an EIN, check with your state tax authority to find out what you need to do to register and pay business income taxes with the state each year.If you've decided to form your home-based business as a corporation or LLC, you are required to operate with the state of formation and the state in which you operate (if those are different).
However, keep in mind that some states require all business entities to register, regardless of the form. So even if you're running your business as a sole proprietorship, you still want to check with your state's treasury department regarding what you need to do to register.
While fees assessed vary greatly among states, expect to pay around a hundred dollars to register your business. However, if you're just registering to pay taxes, there's generally no fee for that.
Keep in mind that this registration differs from getting a business license, which is issued and enforced by your city or county government.
 One of the largest deductions people with home-based businesses often have comes from the amount of your rent or mortgage that you are allowed to deduct for the portion of your home that is used for business.The area of your home is measured as a portion of the total square footage of your home, and must be used regularly, exclusively, and continuously for business.
For example, if you do freelance work while sitting in bed, you would not be able to deduct the square footage of your bedroom as a home office because that room is not used exclusively for business (unless you never sleep in your bed).
However, if you have a spare bedroom that you have converted into an office and you only use that room for work connected with your business, you can deduct the entire square footage of that room.
You also can deduct the square footage of closets or storage sheds that you use exclusively to store business supplies or equipment.
The IRS provides two methods for the home office method, the regular method and the simplified method. If you use tax preparation software, you may be able to enter information for both methods and use the one that gives you the larger deduction.
With the simplified method, you simply enter the total square footage of your house and the square footage of the room or area that you use exclusively and continuously for business purposes. The deduction is a standard amount per square foot.
The regular method requires you to add up your actual housing expenses per year, then divide those totals by the percentage of square footage of your home that is used for business.
Housing expenses that are part of this calculation include mortgage interest, utilities, and homeowner's or renter's insurance.
 When you operate your business out of your home, it can often be difficult to completely separate office equipment or other property that you use in your business. This means you typically can only make a deduction on your taxes for the percentage of time that property was used exclusively for business purposes.The same is true for supplies you purchase for use in your business but end up using personally as well.
For example, if you buy bottled water for your clients, you can deduct that cost as a business expense. However, if you keep the bottled water in your home kitchen and your family routinely drinks that water as well, you technically can only deduct the portion of the cost that is used specifically in your business.
By the same token, if you maintain a separate mini-fridge in your office area and keep bottled water there for your clients and no one else ever drinks it, you can deduct the full amount.

