 Most admissions essays come with a prompt or a question you need to answer. Read the prompt or question carefully and then give yourself some time to think about it. Don’t just go with the first idea that comes to mind when you read it.Consider writing down a list of ideas that come to you after you read the question or prompt. Once you've written your list, look it over and see which topics or ideas jump out at you as something you could write about.;
, If you’re applying to colleges, you’re probably writing a lot of essays. Resist the temptation to just rework an essay from another application to fit the new prompt. It will be obvious to the admissions officer reading your essay if you're answering a different question., When you’re brainstorming ideas for your essay, think about the things that have made you stand out: what are your strengths? Your best personality traits? What types of compliments do you receive the most from your friends and teachers? These are good things to build an essay on.For example, maybe you're a creative thinker, or a great problem-solver. Emphasize this in your essay by writing about a time that those qualities helped you in your day-to-day life.
 When you’re thinking about possible themes for your essay, don’t just list all of the extracurricular activities you took part in during high school. A lot of other applicants will have participated in the same groups and organizations, and it's hard to set yourself apart using the same exact things other people use.It's okay to mention your extracurricular activities occasionally, especially if they help to explain or support some of the main points of your essay. Just don't make them the focus on your essay.
 Your essay also shouldn’t just repeat things that you’ve already listed elsewhere on your application. Tell the admissions officer something they can’t know about you from the other paperwork you’ve filled out.For example, you could tell a story that illustrates how much you enjoy helping take care of others as a way to explain why you want to do a pre-med major.
You could also explain how you overcame a particular fear.
 If you can tell a story in response to the prompt or question, do so. Telling a story will be much more engaging or interesting that just listing a bunch of reasons why you want to go to college. Admissions officers are often looking for students who can engage their audience, and the more interesting your essay is, the more an admissions officer will want to read it.


If you're not sure how to start this type of narrative/personal essay, you can look some examples up online to give you an idea of what you should be shooting for.

