 Make sure the title has been filled out correctly before completing the purchase. Verify the mileage, as filled out on the title. The form needs to include:


names of buyer and seller
date of sale
odometer number
VIN number
any other information necessary to the sale of the car

, A lien is a legal interest in a piece of property. Typically, you grant a lien to another party to secure a debt. However, sometimes people can get a court to grant them a lien in a car.


Most liens are held by the bank that gave the seller their car loan. The car is used as collateral for the loan. In that situation, the bank probably has held onto the title and the only way the seller can get the title is to pay off the lien.
However, a seller could have other liens on the car. Accordingly, don’t assume that there are no liens on the car simply because the seller has title. For example, a child support lien might have been placed on the car. Alternately, a mechanic could get a lien on the car for unpaid repairs. If you buy the vehicle with the lien on it, you now become responsible for the lien.If you have the VIN, you can check for liens at your DMV. This is a critical step, so don’t neglect it.
 Your state probably also requires that you sign the back of the title along with the seller.You should sign only after you have verified the information on the title and checked for liens.


Ideally, you should go with the seller to the DMV office and fill out the transfer form together there. Even if not required by the state, going together can protect you because you can check for liens while you are there.The DMV should also have a notary public in the office, in case your state requires that your signatures be notarized.
 You’ll need certain information to have the vehicle transferred into your name. Contact the DMV and ask what you will need. Generally, you’ll need the Bill of Sale showing the purchase price and the signed title.You’ll also need the VIN and current odometer reading, which should be on the title form. In some states, the odometer reading will be written on a different form.
 Take the completed title and visit your local DMV office. You will need to complete paperwork at the office to transfer the title to you.You can call ahead of time to ask what information you need.


You typically must pay a fee for the title transfer, which will vary by state.
You must turn over the title. Your state should send you a new title in the mail.
 You can typically register your car when you transfer the title, usually at the DMV. To register, you’ll need the following documents:proof of insurance
proof that you’ve paid sales tax
certificates showing the car has passed safety and emissions inspections

