 Before you decide what you’re going to be for Halloween you have to decide how much work you’re willing to do on your costume. Do you want something you can just throw together or are you planning on making something elaborate?;
, If you are attempting to make a costume the day before Halloween, you probably want to create a last-minute costume that can easily be thrown together using items, clothing, and supplies that you already have lying around your house.
 Once you know you how much time you want to spend on a costume, you’ll need an idea. A good place to start is to make a list of your favorite characters: from books, movies, or TV shows. Dressing up as your favorite character always make a great costume., Another good place to find inspiration for your costume is in current events. Recent news stories, celebrity mishaps, or current pop culture references always make a great costume., If you’re still stumped for a costume idea, start by picking up some great costume accessories that you love – a hat or a cape or a tiara – and build a costume around the accessory., Costumes that require multiple people can be fun and impressive if they are executed well.A few examples of group costumes include: bands, superhero groups, celebrity couples, or a set of characters from a book, movie, etc.
Make sure everyone in your group is committed to the group costume. If anyone backs out, it might ruin the costume.
 Arts and crafts stores are great places to look for costume materials, even if you don't know exactly what you want before visiting the store. As long as you go in with a costume idea, you should be able to find fabric to make it work., If your costume requires you to sew clothing, you will want to pick a material that is easy to sew or piece together, particularly if you are a beginning crafter.


For example, felt is inexpensive and can be glued together using a hot glue gun or even stapled together to create clothing. Basic cotton fabric is easy to sew with a sewing machine or by hand., Before you visit a fabric store, you'll need to take exact measurements of your costume. If you’re unsure how much you need for your costume, ask for assistance., If you’re not up for sewing your costume, secondhand clothing stores can be great places to find cheap, wacky clothes perfect for a costume. Sometimes these stores actually have homemade costumes for sale if you choose not to make your costume from scratch.
 When you’re choosing your materials, think about embellishments and accessories you can add to it. Many accessories can be purchased cheaply at arts and crafts stores.Look for accessories like crowns - from big tiaras to small flowers crowns - or capes or feather boas.
Good examples of easy to add embellishments include fake flowers, buttons, and glitter glue.
 When you’re searching for costume materials, look in the back corner of your closet or the drawer you never open in your dresser. You might have the stuff you need right at home!, If all else fails, a cardboard box can serve as a good base for a costume. The boxiness lends itself well to robots, washer or dryers, cars, or a TV.Box cutters work best for cutting through cardboard.
Decorate your box after you’ve cut out the holes for your arms, head, and body.
 Even if you’re not sewing together your costume, you should still gather the materials you’ve decided to use. Lay everything out and start to make a plan for how you’re going to put them together., Once you have your materials together, make sure you have the correct measurements for the clothes you're creating. Double checking these measurements before you create a template and begin cutting out fabric can save you a lot of wasted time and money.For pants, you will need the following measurements: waist, hip, crotch depth and full leg length from waist to floor.
For shirts, you will need the following measurements: neck, chest, shoulder width, arm length, armhole length and shirt length.
For shorts, use the pant measurements you have, only shortening the pant length to the desired length.
For skirts, you simply need waist and hip measurements. The length and fullness of the skirt will vary depending on what type of skirt you want to make.
Make sure that the material you choose to use is not see-through or itchy if you are making clothing as part of your costume.
 Creating a template for your costume on paper first gives you a chance to double check measurements. This is a good technique regardless of whether you're gluing or sewing your costume Transfer the template to a piece of felt with a pen and use scissors to cut out the template before gluing it together.
 Using your template, make clothing for your costume out of fabric. This might require either sewing or gluing material together. It's best to take this step slowly as you double check measurements and try things on as you make them., Using a glue gun, paste on objects or embellishments to the clothing you've made or the existing clothing you're using for your costume. For example, you and a partner could cover a green outfit in real or fake leaves, wrap a toy snake around your neck, and hold an apple in your hand for a quick and easy Adam and Eve costume.
 Once you’ve got the base of your costume, add your accessories. This might mean gluing or sewing additional material, or simply draping a cape over your shoulders or adding a tiara.
 You’ll want to check out how everything looks together at least once before you wear your costume on Halloween. Once you have everything put together, try it on with all of the accessories and make sure you're happy with the result. You should do this a few days before Halloween so you have time for changes if they're necessary.

