 Some dates are more formal than others. Be sure to show some more skin than you would in the work place and keep a giant smile. Staying confident will help win their heart.


Dressing for the occasion. Don’t wear a ball gown to go horseback riding and don’t wear a bikini to ice skate. Just because you look sexy, that will all go away if you can’t participate in the date. Be sure to dress for the date.
Don’t overdo it. Just because you’re going on a date, don’t be overly sexy. Too much make-up or clothes that are too revealing will have the opposite affect and make you look less than desirable. Stay comfortable so that you can show off your confidence instead of fidgeting in clothes that don’t fit. , There shouldn’t be any stress on a date. Be comfortable and confident in your skin, and you’ll become alluring.


Be comfortable in your body language. Interact with your date by offering to share foods or lending them a jacket if they’re cold.
If you’re trying to force yourself to be someone you aren’t, it comes off as confusing instead of confident. You can be quiet sexy, as long as you are sure of who you are.
 It’s tough nowadays but turning your phone off for a couple hours will go much further on a date than you could imagine.


Keeps you engaged. There is no need to spend more time on your phone than with your significant other. In order to turn the romance up, turn your cell phone off. Helps portray confidence. If you’re looking at your phone consistently instead of at your date, there’s a problem. They will feel underappreciated and unengaged. Looking at them instead shows that you’re confident and will help them feel at ease.
Encourages them to put their phone away. If you’re always on your phone, they will be too. Try putting it away for the entire night and they will likely do the same.
 All-nighters aren’t typically a good idea for a date. It makes it harder to focus and stay engaged. If you’re tired, it is ok to say so. Make a point to tell them if you had a good time and then leave. Make them miss you. Keep it classy. All the work you put in to have sex appeal throughout the date can be trashed in seconds if you don’t say goodbye. When something is sexually appealing, the chase is part of the fun, so say goodnight and go home.
Ensure your date that you had a good time. Even if the date wasn’t a home run, be sure to stay engaging all the way to the end.
Set a next date. If you had a good time, pick a day that works for you and ask them to meet you again. Being up front about it at the end of the date is much sexier than a next-day text.

