 A great start is getting to know how you can utilize technologies that are already available to you, such as your computer, tablet, or phone. Discover the different features and applications and how they may be beneficial to you as an engineering student. The best way to do this is simply by navigating through your device and familiarizing yourself with foreign applications. It is easiest to first familiarize yourself with useful applications that you are already somewhat familiar with.
 Technology is everywhere. It is easy to drown in new information and would be nearly impossible to learn about every new software application or device. As an engineering student, you will be working with a great deal of technologies, but you should not waste your time learning about technologies that are not related to your specific field of study., Ask yourself the following questions to ensure that you are focusing on applicable technologies:

Is this technology something my college would require us to use?
Does my engineering discipline deal with these types of technologies?
Will this technology be beneficial in the advancement of my academic or professional career?
Are there any similar technologies that I already know of?
Is this a type of technology that is slowly dying out, or is it constantly being advanced/changed?
Have I asked other peers or professionals whether or not this technology will be useful to me?

, Recent innovations are mainly introduced in the consumer space, and odds are, these new innovations will be a part of your future. One must not ignore the consumer space and only focus on fully developed technologies, as every advancement in technology started out in the consumer space., Social media has become a mainstream marketing channel. Networks such as Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, and Twitter will have advertisements and trends from tech companies and consumers., New technologies are always on display and/or advertised. It is required of most employees to stay up-to-date with the newest gadgets, so don’t be afraid to ask! You can also visit local electronic retail stores, although the technologies tend to be a bit older., The automotive industry is a great place to expand your knowledge on technological advancements. Car companies are constantly adding new features to their cars. Learning about these features will be useful to nearly every engineering student at some point in their career., Do not just look at new technology, experience it! While visiting retailers and dealerships, do not be afraid to get your hands dirty and play with the new iPhone or sit in the newest Lincoln Continental. There is no experience like hands-on experience, and you will learn most this way., Conferences not only expose you to updated information, they also help you to meet leading authorities and vendors in the tech/engineering industry as well as network with your peers., Use search engines such as Google to search for tech news articles. There are many websites that focus solely on future technologies and the latest gadgets., Libraries are a great resource many are beginning to overlook. Educate yourself on topics you feel are important and do not know much about. Look into books that address the future of technology to keep an open mind for what may lie ahead., Keep in mind the significance of being technologically literate as an engineering student. The advancements in technology engineers create translate into the scientific world and help scientists make new discoveries.