 While you might not be one hundred percent certain of the reason for being unfriended, based on your reasonable assessment of the reason, seek to understand it. For example, if the person had nearly 5,000 friends, it's reasonable for them to remove what they perceived as a more random person from their friend list in order to make room for more friends or family. You'd most likely do the same and should allow others that leeway too. In reaching acceptance, the following will help you:


Do not be upset or angry with the person. Instead, respect their decision to unfriend you. After all, if you unfriended someone, you wouldn't want them to despise you for it!
Realize that you cannot make people stay friends with you, either on Facebook or in real life. It just isn't realistic and fluidity of relationships is part and parcel of what life is.
Avoid reading more meaning into the unfriending act than was intended. Even if you think that the unfriending was a deeply cutting action, you owe it to yourself to realize that validation of your self worth comes from within you, not from external sources. Avoid lingering over any alleged hidden message!
If you know that this is a direct result of an argument, seek to mend the broken bridge between you. This is no different than if you had received any other indicator that the person was upset or annoyed with you. However, don't make a big deal about the unfriending itself––seek to resolve the disagreement, not the unfriending.
If the person who unfriended you was a close friend or relative, try gently confronting them about why they unfriended you. Perhaps it was an accident! Even if it wasn't, be friendly about asking them, never rude or accusatory.
Outside of a disagreement, if this is a person who you see regularly outside of Facebook, continue to be respectful and friendly toward them. Never be rude or interrogate them about their decision to unfriend you. If you do wish to raise it, be friendly and understanding.
 Don't linger on the fact that you've been unfriended, and don't try to change your Facebook profile in order to please others. If you're happy with what you say and post, don't change anything. Realize that it is your friend's loss if they don't get to have a glimpse into your life through Facebook. Refrain from dwelling on the fact that you've been unfriended, and never stalk their page to see what they're up to. Move on; you have tons of others friends who still enjoy your company.


Change any annoying behavior you've been indulging in. While you shouldn't change the way you are or what you're happy with about your approach to Facebook, do change annoying behaviors (as noted in the previous section). Spamming, too many updates, adding irrelevancies or boring people senseless aren't good approaches to using Facebook. Notice what you could do better, and make the change so that you can enjoy using Facebook without feeling like it's a source of negativity in your life.
 If you find yourself unable to forget about the person who unfriended you and it's causing to become obsessive (you're ruminating about it too much), it may be time to take a break from Facebook for a while. After all, it is one of the most addicting habits of this generation. Some suggestions for coping till your annoyance blows over include:


Deactivate your account or leave it right where it is, untouched for awhile.
Remove the app from your phone. You will want the app out of sight, out of mind, especially on a portable device that's accessible from anywhere! Give yourself a much needed break to get back some perspective.
Do other activities you enjoy, such as sports, the outdoors, art, music, or even write an article on wikiHow. Distracting yourself from the annoyance will soon put it back in its place––in the pile of petty nothings.


Don't focus on one little act that someone did and most likely never thought of again. Focus on living life, rather than seeing it reflected back at you on Facebook.
 If you feel like it will help, add someone new to your friend list. Maybe it is someone you've only spoken to once or twice at school or work, or maybe it's the new girl on the volleyball team. If you try to make friends with someone new, this will help you forget about the person who unfriended you.