 If you're playing in the standard survival mode, enemy zombies will spawn every night. You shouldn't have to walk far to find one or two once the sun goes down.


Make sure to bring a weapon or two that aren't likely to break. Swords are a good choice because they are easy to make and do good damage. See our article on making swords in Minecraft for more information.;
, You should quickly find a zombie or two. Kill the zombies you see, taking special care if you come across any with ranged weapons or high-level equipment. When killed, zombies may drop one of three items: rotten flesh, carrots, and potatoes.Be patient. You may need to kill a few zombies before you get your first potato.
If you can't see any zombies, listen for their telltale growl. If you hear it, you're definitely close!

, If you aren't seeing as many zombies as you'd like, you can increase the difficulty with the slider in the options menu. The harder the difficulty, the more zombies that will spawn at night.


Be careful — at higher difficulties, it's easier to get swamped by hordes of deadly zombies. You'll want a few high-damage weapons before you start (armor is also a big plus).
 It's also sometimes possible to get potatoes without resorting to violence. For this, you'll need to find an NPC village on the map. These will be small gatherings of houses, churches, wells, and so on that are populated by computer characters.Look for small gardens or patches of cultivated land. You will often find wheat, carrots, or potatoes planted in these places. Potatoes will look green on top (about 3/5 of a block thick) and will have a beige color under the green.


The problem with this method is that not every map has NPC villages. If you do find one, you may be able to get a few potatoes easily, but you may want to be prepared to kill zombies if you can't locate a village.
 Like other food items, potatoes can be consumed to satisfy the player's hunger and restore health. A raw potato will not restore very much health — it will only give about half a heart. However, in a pinch, this can be better than nothing., A much more efficient way to consume potatoes is to cook them first. Place the potato in a furnace block (the same way you would smelt metal ores or cook meat) and allow it to cook for a minute or two. When it's done, you will have a new item: a baked potato. This is much more satisfying than a raw potato — it restores three hearts when eaten., Like the other vegetables in Minecraft, potatoes can be planted in the ground and farmed. Unlike wheat, you don't need a special seed to grow potato crops — you plant the raw potato itself. This is the same way that carrots are planted in the game.To convert land for farming, you'll need to till the dirt and irrigate it with a source of water. For a good guide, see our main article on farming in Minecraft.
 Potatoes can also be used to make new baby pigs in the game. Pigs are the only livestock that eat potatoes, but they will also take carrots and beetroots. To breed pigs:Get two adult pigs close to each other.
Feed them both a potato (or carrot or beetroot).
They should enter "love mode" — you will see a bunch of hearts appear around them.
They will move close to each other. In a minute or two, a baby pig will appear.

