 This includes all aspects, from career advancement to family life to personal health and satisfaction. If you are always late, working to improve being on time should be one of your goals.;
, Break the list down into years, months and weeks to determine what has to be done when.
 What you use depends on your personal preferences. Use a written daily planner or an electronic schedule program. Electronic and computer based programs include PDAs, Microsoft Outlook, spreadsheets and software scheduling programs. You may need to experiment with a few methods before you find the right one for you that makes it easy to learn how to use scheduling to improve punctuality.
 Block out time for essential tasks, like work and urgent obligations.
 This includes tasks like getting ready for work, finding appointment locations, and getting directions. Be sure to allow a little more time that you think you will need. Schedule times for social activities and phone calls instead of letting them interrupt your work.
 Some preparation tasks should be done the day or night before an appointment, like laying out clothes and preparing lunch. Try to do some preparation tasks on a weekly basis to free up time in your daily schedule.
 Block out spaces of time to work on your to-do list items that were generated from your goal planning.
 It will take some practice and revision to make the schedule work.
 Following a set schedule may initially create some stress, but that is not always a bad thing; it could motivate you to keep moving and get things accomplished. However, don't over commit yourself. If you find the schedule is unreasonable, revise it as necessary. You may have to revise your goals as you go if you find that they can't be achieved in the time you have available.
 It's a good idea to think about delegating some of them or working smarter to make tasks take less time.
 Budget more time to complete the task at a later date. This will keep you from getting distracted and missing appointments.
,