 Dust mites can’t live when the humidity falls below a certain point, so allergy sufferers should keep the level between 30% to 50% humidity.Installing a humidity control system helps control the level of moisture in your home. To use the system, adjust the dial according to the outside temperature. A complete list of instructions tells you how to adjust the settings. You can find whole-home systems made by Aprilaire or Healthy Climate that start at around $285.You should also consider putting in a dehumidifier to remove the excess moisture in the air. This is particularly important for basements, which tend to maintain higher levels of humidity. If you choose to get a dehumidifier, it’s a good idea to install a hose that you can connect directly into a drain. This way you don’t have to continuously empty the drain pan, which when full turns off the machine.
 Several manufacturers have started to offer small, portable air purifiers for the home. These can be effective in dealing with dust mite sensitivities. As another alternative, there are also whole house purifiers that attach to a furnace for forced-air purification. Some of these installations can be pricey, but they can really improve indoor air quality and help with a full range of allergies.


Many options also exist on the more affordable end with single-room air purifiers that only require a new filter once every 4 to 5 months. Using a smaller unit will reduce the amount of electricity you use and also allow you to turn down or turn off the unit when you are away from home for extended periods., This regular household maintenance helps keep more dust mites and debris out of the air. It’s recommended that you vacuum once or twice a week to keep up with the problem. Not only will this clean your home, frequent vacuuming will lengthen the life of your carpet.


For other surfaces like hardwood floors, regular mopping will remove the mites and other dirt, which likewise makes your floors last longer by keeping dirt from scratching the surface.Simple cleaning can kick up dust mites and cause issues, so consider having someone without allergies clean your bedroom and home. You can ask a friend, family member, or even hire a private company to clean on a regular basis.
Vacuuming and dusting will temporarily help with dust mites but won’t control the problem. These allergens are also on other surfaces like beds, drapes, linens, and furniture. You will need to employ other methods mentioned herein to sufficiently treat a dust mite problem.
 While they provide warmth, rugs and carpeting could be the culprit. Severe allergy sufferers may think to use rugs sparingly, or completely get rid of the carpeting in their home. As an alternative, hardwood, laminate and tile floors are more conducive for avoiding dust mites., Sunlight kills mites, and it’s free. The main way to use our most abundant renewable resource is to hang your linens and drapes outside to dry in the fresh air and sunlight, or perhaps leave your shades open during peak sunlight times.Note that sunlight does kill the mite itself, but does not remove the allergen from the environment. You’ll need to use another method of cleaning and removal to eliminate the physical presence of the mites from your home.
 We love our dogs and cats, but not the dust mites they carry in their fur. Regularly bathe your pet to help reduce allergens like dust mites and pet dander. You might also think about getting one of the many breeds of hypoallergenic dogsand cats.Getting non-allergy producing pets and bathing your pets regardless is a step in the right direction, but always you’ll also need to regularly clean your home to help the problem.
 Don’t forget that mites live on fabrics and that is what stuffed animals are covered in. Clean your or your child's fluffy friend with heat by putting it in the dryer for 10 minutes. Be sure to avoid putting anything in the dryer that may melt, such as plastic.


Another way to clean these items is to place them in a plastic bag and put them in the freezer for a short time, then shake them off outdoors after they come out, as this will kill dust mites.Washing also provides an efficient method of cleaning. Use a mild laundry detergent and launder the animals for a high heat cycle. Place delicate animals in a laundry bag for protection.
 While using a pesticide can be effective, it’s important to mention that they may have a limited effect, as mites are immune to pesticides while dormant. That being said, you can choose to use a spray, powder, or fogger to help with your mite problem.When using a pesticide, make sure you use a natural, non-toxic product like an organic dust mite killer on items that cannot be laundered. Otherwise, you can choose one of several other options that should be done weekly. For example, you can apply Lysol spray on any surface or Good-Night dust spray, which you can use on mattresses and bedding. You will still need to wash the items after using such a spray.
Also try a carpet treatment like Allerseach X-Mite. Use this product by brushing the treatment into the carpet with a broom and leaving it for three hours. Afterward you need only to vacuum it up.