 A very irregular mood is the defining characteristic of bipolar disorder. A manic episode typically lasts for seven days or longer, a hypomanic episode lasts for four days or longer, and a depressive episode lasts for two weeks or longer. If your mood tends to follow a pattern of highs and lows, it’s worth investigating further to see if bipolar disorder could be the cause.You can gain more insight into your mood patterns by keeping a log. Use a journal to track your moods at certain intervals in your day, such as breakfast, lunch, and dinner. You might also add in information about what could have prompted a change in mood like a fight with a partner or a poor night's rest.;
, Mania – the term for a period of elevated mood – can cause feelings of optimism and high energy. It can also cause anger, irritability, and reckless behavior. People experiencing a manic phase may go on spending sprees, engage in risky behaviors, act hyperactive, or get in fights.Some people with bipolar disorder experience periods of hypomania, which is a milder version of mania. Hypomania can lead to a full-blown manic episode if it isn’t addressed.
 Periods of depression are a key feature of bipolar disorder. During a depressive phase you might feel hopeless, guilty, or empty. You might find it hard to think or lose interest in activities you once enjoyed. It’s also common to have sleep problems or aches and pains during a depressive episode., Do you hold yourself together all day, perform well at work, and then collapse with exhaustion as soon as you get home? Everybody gets overwhelmed sometimes, but if carrying out your responsibilities feels like a constant battle for you, bipolar disorder is one possible explanation.For example, maybe the idea of getting out of bed each morning requires a great deal of energy. Perhaps you are having difficulty completing schoolwork, preparing meals for yourself, or paying bills on time. Having trouble in various areas could be an indicator of a problem.
 If you’re having a hard time dealing with the demands of life, let your doctor know. Don’t downplay your symptoms out of a sense of pride or embarrassment. It’s your doctor’s job to help you, and if they don’t know how much you’re struggling, they won’t be able to prescribe medications or make other recommendations appropriately.Don’t say, “This week has been really tough.” Instead, say something like, “I’m missing classes and I can’t focus enough to study.”

, Regardless of your own impressions of your mood and functioning, you will need to receive an official diagnosis from a psychiatrist or other mental health provider before you can verify high functioning bipolar.If you feel like the first doctor isn't taking your concerns seriously, seek a second opinion. It may require several assessments to clarify your condition. It can be difficult to differentiate between bipolar disorder and other disorders, so it is important to have a thorough evaluation and to be honest about your symptoms.
Once you have received a diagnosis, you can talk with your doctor about if any treatment is required or if you simply need to make lifestyle changes to improve your mood.
 Episodes of mania and depression are often punctuated by periods when your mood is normal. Don’t assume this means you’re “better.” Keep following your doctor’s directions during these times, and avoid getting too stressed or taking on more than you can handle.It's tempting to take advantage of "good days" and load up your schedule. Avoid taking this route as it can worsen your mood and throw off your recovery. Turn down requests to take on more work or obligations right now. Focus on your health.
 Taking a mood stabilizer is a very important part of treating bipolar disorder. Follow your doctor’s instructions for any medications you’re taking. Do not stop taking medication without talking to your doctor first. If your meds are causing uncomfortable side effects, ask your doctor to change your dosage or switch you to a different kind.If you feel fine, that’s a sign that your meds are working – not a sign that you don’t need them anymore.
 Stress can exacerbate basically all mental health conditions, making minor symptoms become severe. When you’re stressed, you’re more likely to have a manic episode or spiral into a depressive funk. Keep your stress levels low by not overscheduling yourself, practicing relaxation techniques, and exercising your creative muscle regularly.Try out various relaxation techniques to see which ones work for you. Meditation, deep breathing exercises, and visualization are a few good exercises to consider.
It may also help to reach out to others for support and practice self-care. Make a standing date with your best pal to hang out and watch comedy films or videos. Laughter can help relieve tension, too.
 Check in with yourself regularly and evaluate how you’re feeling. Think about which circumstances and events tend to trigger a bipolar episode for you, and be especially aware of your mood at these times. It’s easier to catch a manic or depressive episode early than to stop it when it’s in full swing.Writing in a journal can be a good way to track your mood.
 Talking with your doctor will help you stick to your treatment plan and take an active role in your own well-being. Even if you don’t think you need to, continue visiting your doctor on a regular basis.You might say, "I have been recording my moods and noticing that they are stable" or "I've been having trouble sleeping lately." Be honest in order to get the best care possible.
 Knowing what to expect every day can keep your stress down and your mood level. People with bipolar disorder work best when they follow a relatively strict routine. Come up with a schedule that works for you, and stick to it.


Designate certain times for sleeping, exercising, working, and preparing meals, and try to stay consistent even on the weekends., You’re more likely to get stressed out or overwhelmed when you’re tired. Plus, lack of sleep can be a symptom of mania or even trigger it. Get at least eight hours of sleep a night, and build time for rest into your daytime schedule.


It’s best to go to sleep and wake up at the same time every day. Also, create a nighttime ritual that signals to your body that it's time to rest. Include activities like taking a bath, dimming the lights, lowering the temperature, and reading a mild book or story., The right foods can help you regulate your mood, while the wrong ones can make you feel worse. Aim to eat plenty of vegetables, whole grains, fruits, nuts, and legumes. Avoid processed sugar, which can send your mood into a tailspin.Consider tracking your nutrients to make sure you’re getting everything you need. Nutrient deficiencies can affect your mood.
Avoid caffeine and alcohol. Both can throw off your mood, and alcohol might interact with any medications you’re taking.
 Schedule time every day to take a walk, go for a swim, or hit the gym. Whether you prefer your exercise gentle or intense, regular workouts can ward off depression and boost your overall well-being.You can stick to a workout routine by asking a friend or family member to join you. This promotes healthy and positive social connection and allows you both to benefit from the mood-boosting impact of endorphins.
 Social support is an essential component of a healthy, balanced life. Make time for the relationships that matter to you, and see your friends and family on a regular basis.If the people in your life aren’t supportive or understanding about bipolar disorder, consider joining a bipolar support group to meet others who are dealing with the same issues as you.
 Make an emergency plan ahead of time instead of waiting until your mood starts unraveling. It’s often possible to prevent a full manic or depressive episode from developing if you spot the early signs and take action in time.A good emergency plan should include calling your doctor right away, engaging in activities to regulate your mood, and avoiding situations that make you feel stressed or angry.

