 Overdressing at a semi-formal event can make you stand out like a sore thumb. The main thing you should avoid is wearing a tuxedo -- a semi-formal event does not call for it. If you're going to a daytime event, remember to wear a suit that is a lighter color, such as beige. If you wear a dark color, like midnight blue, you'll look overdressed.


One way to avoid overdressing is to check in on what your friends or date are wearing. This will help you see what is appropriate. Don't just ask one other guy who is equally clueless; ask a variety of people.
 Remember that the word "semi-formal" still includes the word "formal." Therefore, you should avoid a variety of more casual items of clothing, such as khakis, jeans, shorts, or linen or seersucker suits. You should also avoid only wearing a polo shirt without a suit jacket.


Though people still debate over whether or not a tie is required at a semi-formal event, you should wear one, at least to a night event, to avoid looking too casual.
Sport coats are also considered too casual for semi-formal attire.
 This is a golden rule. If you're in doubt and deciding between two articles of clothing, one that you're worried is slightly casual, and one that you're worried is overly formal, err on the side of formal. It's better to show up dressed better than everyone than looking like you missed the "dress up" memo.


And remember that if you show up overdressed, there are little things you can do to make your look more casual, from taking off your tie to removing your pocket handkerchief.
 If you've asked a few people who are attending the event and all of them are flummoxed, you can go ahead and ask the host about the dress code, if he's someone you know fairly well. The host may have a slightly nuanced vision of "semi-formal" so it could help to have his input. Don't be shy -- it's likely that other people have the same question.


If the host helps you figure out what to wear, you can already be on the way to making yourself the life of the party by giving other equally-clueless guests advice before the big day.
 If you're dressed in semi-formal attire, it's time to step it up in the classiness department in your actions as well. Try to avoid the things you normally do in casual clothes -- burping, cursing, loudly talking on your cell phone -- and try to match the actions of the people in your environment. If everyone is throwing down at a big party or laughing at inappropriate jokes loudly, then that can give you the green light to relax a bit, but if people at the party are committed to keeping the environment a little more formal, try to avoid embarrassing yourself.


If you look more classy, then you'll naturally feel a little more classy.
One way to act more classy is to complement the women at the event on their appearance. They made an effort to dress up, so you can make a small effort by telling them they look nice.

