 Foam rollers are good for many types of hair, but they are particularly good for fragile hair as they are unlikely to snag or damage it. Select rollers according to the size of curls desired. The smaller the roller, the tighter the curl. Larger rollers create soft, gentle movement in the hair. You need at least shoulder-length hair to use larger rollers. You should be able to you’re your hair around the roller at least 1 ½ times.Large rollers may not work well for people with very fine hair, as they can get too heavy and fall out. You may need to experiment to find what's right for your hair.
 Using a curl-enhancing styling product is especially important if you have fine or very straight hair. Otherwise, your curls may collapse after only a few hours. Use the amount recommended on the container and spread it evenly throughout towel-dried hair.
 Using a tail comb works well for this step. Divide sections so that you have one section running down the middle of your head to the back of your crown (imagine a "mohawk"), one section over each ear, and one in the back. Secure each section with clips.









You can use basically any type of hair clip to hold your sections, but inexpensive sectioning clips like stylists use can usually be found in beauty supply stores or online. They make keeping your sections separate quick and easy.
 The width of the sections will be based on the size of the roller you're using: they should not be wider than your roller, and shouldn't be thicker than two inches or so..









Comb through each section before rolling. Use your tail comb to comb through your hair to eliminate any tangles and pull the section gently away from your scalp.
 Roll the hair in this section away from your face, toward the back of your head. Keep the hair taut as you roll by holding onto the ends with one hand as you roll with the other. After two complete rolls, tuck the loose ends in and finish rolling the curl.








If you want volume all the way along your curl, start rolling about an inch or so from the ends and roll the curl all the way down to your scalp. Secure with a clip.
If you want your hair to be straight near your head, start rolling about three inches from your head, and roll all the way to the ends. Then wind the roller down to your scalp. Secure with a clip., Divide each side section in half horizontally, using a tail comb to part the hair just above your ears. Roll the two parts of each side section under (rolling away from your face, toward the hairline at your neck) and secure with clips.









You may want to use larger curlers at the bottom and smaller curlers at the top for a varied look.
 Roll each part onto a foam roller, curling toward the back of your neck. Secure with clips.
 Blow dry until your hair is dry and warm to the touch. You need to get the hair warm enough to set the curl. Leave the rollers in for about 15 minutes, then gently remove them.









Don't brush your hair after removing the rollers! This will destroy the curls. If you need to, use your fingers to lightly separate your curls.
If you want more volume, bend over and let your head hang down. Shake your head a few times and run your fingers gentle through the curls. This will give you bigger, bouncier hair.
 Especially if you have naturally straight or very fine hair, using hairspray to further set your curls will help them keep their shape longer.









For long-lasting volume, flip your hair upside down before spraying.
You can also define individual curls further with hair wax. Just take a dab between your fingers and run them over the curls you want to define.

