 In many states you are in your full right to shoot the person, but this, for most people, is a bit drastic. You should decide ahead of time (even before you own a firearm for personal defense) what your personal morals will allow you to do in this and other situations. Read some information on tactical mindsets if you need help deciding.
 You need to give fair warning before shooting. If you have identified the intruder, and they have already tried to harm you, you may not need to provide additional warning.


Keep in mind there may be more than one adversary in the house; additionally, being shot is not synonymous with dying, so keep yourself behind cover as much as possible.
 Chances are you are unsure of who your adversary is or do not know his intentions. (Realize an intruder may mask their intentions — and someone who broke into your house is probably not there to borrow sugar.) Present yourself, by surprise if possible, and order the target with short, firm phrases. Once you have gotten your targets attention with "STOP!" "Hands in the air!" try directing the intruder by saying "Face away from me!" and "Get on your knees!"


Having him face away from you and keeping him on his knees prevents him from retaliating against you, and keeps him from moving anywhere quickly without a good deal of movement.
If he has a firearm in his hand, be sure to tell him to drop it! If he does not comply immediately, he is only contemplating the best way to shoot you with it. Re-emphasize the point with "...else I will shoot you!", then take appropriate action. If he decides to slowly set it down, tell him to "STOP!" and "DROP IT!" There have been many police shootings which involved a person slowly setting down a gun, then changing their mind and shooting the police instead. It will take at least 1/8th of a second from the time they start to bring up their firearm until your brain can react. This is plenty of time for them to fire before you know what is going on.
 Do the right thing and eliminate the threat. Hesitating will not save your life. You'll only have the luxury of defending your actions if you're physically there to testify. A breach of your property rights must be met with swift action.


You may want to consider also carrying either pepper spray or a taser for these situations. It will be much easier to defend your decision to spray or taser an intruder who is simply belligerent than it would be to defend shooting a belligerent intruder.
 Since you have already called the police, or have a cell phone on you, the police should not be too far behind.


If for some reason you do not have a cell phone on you, you did not already call the police, and a phone is not within visual range of the intruder, you can have him move while on his knees, be sure he doesn't turn to face you.
 Place yourself in a location of cover and be sure he doesn't have any buddies that may come around a corner. You have announced your presence to the whole house, so another adversary in the house will know exactly where you are, but you can't risk leaving the man you have left alone or out of sight.
 Again, this includes any small area where a miss on one man may be a hit on the other. Multiple targets add a great deal of complexity to a situation, but the truth is that most criminals do not work alone.


Telling multiple adversaries to "STOP!" is a bad idea. By the time you are able to engage one for not complying, the other could have attacked you. Try to decide ahead of time in your mind what you will do if you encounter multiple adversaries.

