 In addition to rubber bands, you'll need a few additional tools for making your bracelet with a loom. These tools include:


10-20 rubber or elastic bands in any color (or colors) you like.
A simple plastic loom. You can also construct a simple loom with two pencils, or by removing the two middle tines of a plastic fork.A plastic hook or pick tool.
A plastic "S" or "C" shaped clip. You'll need this clip to close your finished bracelet so that you can wear it.;
, You can use pencils, plastic forks, or other household items to form the two weaving pegs you will need for your loom. You can find a pick tool in most sewing or knitting kits. Crafts stores, such as Michael’s, and larger department stores, like Target, and online merchants, including Amazon, sell both fishtail braid kits and individual tools/supplies., Make a neat pile of the color you want your bracelet to be, or several piles of colors you want to use to make your bracelet. Having them available when you are weaving your bracelet will make the process go much faster.
 It's easiest if you turn the loom sideways so that it faces you. The direction of the arrows won't affect the finished product. It's more important that you are comfortable. Being comfortable you will finish your bracelet faster and with less difficulty.
 Do this by twisting your first band into a figure eight, sometimes called an infinity shape. Place each end of the band around one peg.









Push the band down towards the base of the pegs. This will make room for the next bands you add to your loom.
 Do not twist these bands into a figure eight, and do not cover one band with another. Slide your second and third band onto the pegs so that you have three regularly spaced bands on the same two pegs, with the bottommost band in a figure eight shape.
 Grab either end of your bottom band and, using your hook or pick tool, pull it up and over the peg so that it loops around the middle of your second and third band. Do this to both sides of your bottom band, so it is no longer attached to either peg.









The figure eight twist will still be intact, and now your bottom band will tied around the two top bands.
If you like, consider using a different color band at this point. This will give your bracelet a rainbow effect.
 You may need to slide the two bands already in place down to make more room for your new band. The new band you are adding will not need to be twisted, simply place it on the pegs above the other bands.
 Once you've hooked it, pull it up and over the peg in the same way you did the first band. Be sure you do this to both sides to completely release the bottommost band from the loom pegs.
 As you add bands to your bracelet, a fishtail pattern will develop. Keep going until you reach your desired length.









As you continue your pattern, you will see your fishtail bracelet grow out from between the two pegs.
You may need to push down or pull the fishtail to tighten the bands of your bracelet.
 Once you reach your desired length, slide your bracelet completely off of the loom. Your bracelet should have free loops on either side of the end that was connected to your loom. This is where you will attach your clip.
 Using either a "S" or "C" clip, you can connect the free loops at both ends of your bracelet to fasten it around your wrist.









Be sure you pull your pattern tight, otherwise it may have gaps or look poorly made.

