 Whenever you become pregnant, you will need to schedule your first prenatal care visit with your obstetrician. During this first visit, you will learn what to expect during each of your trimesters and begin to receive care that monitors both your health and the health of your fetus.During prenatal visits, your doctor will take your vital signs, take your family and medical history, talk to you about safety concerns, and help answer your questions.;
, Babies of women who do not receive regular prenatal care are three times more likely to have low birth weights and five times more likely to die than babies with mothers who do have regular prenatal care. Prenatal care is important to your health and the health of your baby, and regular visits allow your doctor to spot any health risks early on.During weeks 4 through 28 you’ll likely see your doctor about once a month. You’ll see them twice a month for weeks 28 through 36, and then weekly during weeks 36 until you give birth.
Women who are older than 35 or have health conditions may see their doctor more frequently., During pregnancy, your body releases certain hormones that can impact oral health, like progesterone and estrogen. These hormonal shifts make you more susceptible to gum disease, like gingivitis. You should see your dentist every six months for a cleaning and exam. It is important to brush, floss, and practice regular dental care throughout your pregnancy., Unless you’re experiencing complications, you should be regularly exercising throughout your pregnancy. Exercise helps to reduce your risk of some complications, lift your mood and energy levels, prevent excess weight gain, and improve sleep.Pregnant women should moderately exercise at least 30 minutes most days of the week.


Talk with your doctor about your exercise routine. They may recommend that you not exercise if you are having medical complications, like anemia or preeclampsia.If you didn’t regularly exercise before your pregnancy, you should begin with as little as five minutes of exercise a day and gradually increase the duration until you reach 30 minutes a day.

