 Curling your hair will give your hair texture, which will be very helpful in making your hair look shorter. Curling your hair also will make the bob appear more realistic because people will be less able to tell it's a faux-bob. Curl your hair however you like.Use a curling iron.
Sleep in rollers or use steam rollers.
Or, use a setting lotion spray and set the hair on rollers. Then, let it dry naturally overnight for a deeper hold., You want to create a top layer and an underlayer. Wrap the top layer (the hair above your ears) into a ponytail while you work on the underlayer. Leave the underlayer out to shorten into faux-bob., They don't have to be perfect or even, but you want a section of hair from the left side of your head and some from the right. Leave some hair in between the right and left sections on the back of your head. Separate the three sections with a clip.
 Teasing your hair will give it extra texture and lift,making it easier for you to pull off this faux bob style. Grab one of the three sections of your hair and tease it. Place the comb a few inches away from the scalp and start back combing the hair by pushing it up toward the roots.This will bunch the hair up at the scalp. (It will look messy kind of like a bird’s nest.)Then do the same for the other two sections.
 For this step you will need hair-ties. Braid each individual section of hair with a regular three-strand braid. Do not start braiding your hair from the scalp, but braid your hair about an inch or two down from the scalp. When you're done braiding, secure each braid with a hair tie.


Lightly pull the strands of your braid to get ready to pin them in place.
 Grab the bottom part of one of your braids and bobby pin it up under to the base of your head. Make sure the bobby pin is secure, then do the same to the other two braids.
 The top layer should be shorter than the rest. Make sure the bottom layer is completely hidden by the top then curl or straighten the hair as desired.


Be careful not to way down the top layer with too much product or your hair will look flat and greasy. Lift up the roots by teasing them slightly for added volume at the crown, which is a common look with a bob.

