 Vitamin B12 is found in its highest, natural forms in animal products.It is generally not found in high levels in plant foods. The highest food sources of vitamin B12 include:


Seafood, such as clams, crab, and mussels
Beef liver
Whole grain cereals
Fish, such as trout, salmon, tuna, and haddock
Beef
Dairy products, such as yogurts and cheese, especially brie
Eggs;
, To maximize your intake of vitamin B12, you need to eat the right portions of each food. Meats and fish should be eaten in 3 ounce servings. You can drink eight ounces of milk and eat one egg to get a quality amount.


Some foods have more vitamin B12 than others. For example, clams have 84.1 mcg, mussels have 20.4 mcg, lean beef has 6.9 mcgs, and milk have 0.9 mcgs per serving.
Make sure you have a few servings of each a day to get the right amount of vitamin B12 a day., To ensure the most benefits from vitamin B12, you need to get the right amount each day. The recommended amounts you should get of vitamin B12 per day are:


0 to 6 months, 0.4 mcg
7 to 12 months, 0.5 mcg
1 to 3 years, 0.9 mcg
4-8 years, 1.2 mcg
9 to 13 years, 1.8 mcg
Over 14 years, 2.4 mcg, During pregnancy, vitamin B12 can be critically important for the development of a healthy baby. Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding need 2.8 mcg per day. If you do not get enough vitamin B12 while pregnant, your child might suffer from developmental delays, failure to thrive, neural tube defects, megaloblastic anemia, and movement disorders. Pregnant women often get additional vitamin B12 through prenatal vitamins, which include other important vitamins as well., Since vitamin B12 comes primarily from animal products, vegetarians and vegans who are strict on their diets need to find another source of the vitamin. The most common way that vegetarians and vegans get vitamin B12 is through foods that are fortified with it. These foods include:


Cheeses, such as Swiss, mozzarella, Tilsit, and feta
Eggs
Whey powder
Cereals
Breads
Yeast spreads (Marmite)Strict vegans don't eat cheese and egg products, so they have to rely strictly on fortified foods, especially yeast products and whey protein.