 Your doctor will be the most capable of advising you on the specific types of exercise that will be safest and most effective for you. The important thing is that you keep your body active.


Exercise will not only help you feel better, it enables your body to burn fat more efficiently.
While your body will first look to burn muscle as you lose weight, exercise will preserve your muscle, and force your body to burn excess fat instead.
You will likely notice that exercise is both easier and more enjoyable after your procedure, as your rapid weight loss will improve the health and agility of your joints.Strive for about 30 minutes of aerobic exercise per day. If you miss a day, that’s alright, but make sure to exercise at least four days a week.
 The benefits of walking are multifold. At the hospital, you’ll likely be walking a bit as part of your recovery process (as it will help reduce the chances of developing a lower extremity blood clot, or DVT), you can go at your own pace, and you don’t need any special equipment.Check with your doctor about when you can begin walking on your own. Begin doing so as soon as they allow it.
Set realistic goals for yourself. A quarter mile is a good benchmark to start with, or decide to walk for five full minutes.
Whatever sort of exercise regime you choose, start slowly and gradually build on your abilities.
Once you can comfortably walk for five minutes – even if your heart rate is pumping – see if you can go for fifteen.
Going at a quicker pace during a walk will help you get a more productive work out in the same amount of time.
 Set new goals each week. Even if you just stick to walking, actively decide to increase your pace as your stamina increases. Mindset is important too: get yourself in the habit of exercising by making everyday decisions that increase your activity level.Wear a pedometer, a fitness tracker, or even use your smartphone to track your steps, and give yourself the option to set goals in terms of specific amounts of steps.
Park further out at parking lots. It seems silly, but not only will you end up healthier, you’ll have a moment to decompress when entering and leaving the places you go.
Pretend elevators don’t exist. Take the stairs whenever you have the option.
Further, stairs are a great step-up from regular waking, so you can incorporate them into a work out too!

, Pay close attention to your numerical weight. This will help you maintain weight loss after bariatric surgery, by boosting your motivation and satisfaction with the effort you’re putting in.By getting in the habit of weekly weigh-ins, you’ll also ensure that any potential increases in weight are quickly noticed.
If occasional increases in weight do occur, get back on the metaphorical healthy-living-horse that day by doing an especially engaged work out and eating one of your favorite healthy meals.
 One of the benefits of exercise is that it will also motivate you to eat healthier, and to spend time doing more active extracurricular activities. You can also take your focus off of food by picking up other hobbies too.Keep yourself active mentally. Explore a creative outlet with music or art, or start attending a weekly game night.
Give yourself sources of pleasure other than food. Lots of people are smart about not abusing other vices, but rely on food too heavily for comfort and enjoyment.
Stated simply, commit to spending more time on something you enjoy that doesn’t include food.

