 If your parents have hidden something big, then it will be hidden in a very different place than something small, like your favorite DVD. Think about where something fits and is concealed best.


Very small items like DVDs can be hidden in very tight places. Look between books, inside bags, under lightweight items.
If you're looking for something like a bicycle, avoid rooms where it obviously won't fit without being noticeable, like the bathroom.;
, The parents' bedroom is normally off-limits, so it’s the most obvious place to hide something. Think about whichever place is the most private, the location you’d get in the most trouble for investigating.


Check their drawers. Sock and underwear drawers are definitely off limits, and a bit odd to sift through. This is a very natural hiding spot.
Look in their closet. The space in the closet allows for a lot of hiding spots. Make sure you check the shelves, between folded clothes, and in any messy looking location.
Crawl under the bed. For some reason, people think under the bed is a good hiding spot. For adults it’s a more difficult location to see because it requires getting on the floor.
Take a peek behind the TV. The spot behind the TV is often dusty because the TV is heavy and hard to move. This is a natural hiding spot because people don’t see the spot often.
Spot-check their bathroom. There aren’t a lot of great hiding spots in your parent’s bathroom, so look in a few obvious locations.
 The more items in a room, the easier it is to camouflage something. Colors, shapes, and patterns blend into a background when there are multiple items in the way. Additionally, the more items that need to be moved, the less likely someone is to go through the effort of searching.


The pantry is a perfect hiding spot. Lots of heavy cans, cookbooks, and assorted odds-and-ends obstruct the view. Moving a bunch of food all around makes it harder to find.
Check the linen closet. If you don't change your own sheets or towels, the linen closet could be your jackpot. This is a great hiding spot for thin items like DVDs, books, and games.
If your parents have a home office, there is a good chance a bunch of stuff is in there. Papers litter the desk, multiple drawers too. Sift between every item and leave no page unturned.
 Yes, search your room. Hiding something where you’d least expect it – like your drawer full of dress socks – is actually a pretty creative idea. More than likely, they'll hide it where you don't look. If they are always harping on you about cleaning your room, it’s very possible they just hid your item within your mess.


Check your closet. If you rarely look at the top of the closet, that could be a good location.
Most people rarely look behind dressers or cabinets. If you're searching for something thin, try taking a peek behind either location.
 The garage is full of nearly unlimited hiding potential. Check behind or inside trash cans, recycle bins, and paint cans. Other cases, like those for power drills, usually have a few small spots to hide things as well.


The garage opener shroud is an easily removable casing.Look in large containers that appear to be old junk. A foot-locker or plastic tub is a seldom touched place that's perfect for hiding.

