 In most establishments in the US, tips are not only accepted, but they are encouraged because the servers rely on them to make enough money to survive. In some other countries, tips might be considered insulting or not allowed!


There are some venues where tips may not be allowed. For example, some all-inclusive resorts in the Caribbean may discourage tipping because a service fee is already woven into the overall vacation cost.
If you are attending a group gathering paid for in advance by someone else, such as a wedding reception, it’s possible that the gratuity was already paid in advance by the person who paid for the event.There’s no harm in leaving an extra tip in a situation like that, though, if you can afford to do so. The server will likely appreciate it.
 The culture around tipping in Europe is not the same as tipping in the US. Tipping is expected in the US, but in Europe it’s often not expected at all.Start by looking at the restaurant’s menu to see if it lists service as being included. If it’s not, you could leave between 5 and 10 percent. It would be considered a lot and unusual to tip more in some countries.
The difference is that servers in Europe are often better paid than they are in the US, meaning they rely on tips far less to survive, and are likely to consider the tip as a small and unexpected bonus.
It’s a good idea to hand the tip to the server rather than leaving it on the table. You might see a 12.5 percent optional tip on some menus in London.
 Tipping customs vary widely depending on the country you’re visiting. It’s a good idea to research the country’s practices before you embark on your trip.


In the Middle East, tipping will be appreciated even in small amounts. Some governments, like Dubai, mandate a 10 percent service charge to bills at restaurants. In Egypt, the tip is often included in the bill but you can add 5-10 percent above that.
In Israel and Jordan, the tip is usually included in the bill.
Canada is similar to the United States, so tip between 15 and 20 percent there.
In some South American countries, like Chile, a 10 percent tip is included in the bill.
In Mexico, cash is preferred, and the tip should generally be 10-15 percent.
In Australia, leave between 10 to 15 percent.
 Some Asian countries may frown on tipping. Check into the local customs, and make sure that tipping is not seen as an insult.


China has a no tipping culture, although you could leave a tip in fine hotels and restaurants that cater to foreigners.
In Japan, the owner might be insulted by the tip, taking it as a statement by you that they don't pay their servers well enough.
In some Asian countries, though, it's OK to tip. In Thailand, leave about $1 for the waiter.

