 If you decide to go ahead with the performance, there are things you can do to minimize the effects of the cold. Getting enough sleep is important for anyone recovering from a cold.


For singers, inadequate sleep sometimes causes notes to come out a little flat.Sleeping with an extra pillow can help the excess mucous drain better, rather than accumulating in your throat.
 Drinking plenty of water is important for anyone trying to get over a cold. For a singer, it's especially important, as staying hydrated is important for your vocal quality. If you're feeling really dried out, as much as a gallon per day is appropriateDrink water at room temperature. Drinking very cold water can make it harder for the muscles in your throat to function as they should,so definitely don't add ice!, Prepare warm (not scalding hot) herbal tea with lemon and honey. The honey will coat your throat, preventing damage to your voice.Licorice and slippery elm tea, along with honey, are particularly soothing to an inflamed throat., Humidifying the air can also help your vocal cords, as you will be breathing in moisture. Run a humidifier while you sleep during the nights prior to the performance.If you don't have a humidifier, close yourself in the bathroom with the shower running. The warm steam from your shower will have the same effect.
 Take plenty in the days leading up to your performance.Vitamin C is found in fruits like oranges and pineapples, and can also be taken as a vitamin supplement.
 Many singers also believe that eating garlic can help combat a cold.Indeed, garlic is a great immune system booster, rich in sulfuric compounds that can kill bacteria and other infections, and is also a great source of potassium.Garlic is found in many foods and can also can be taken a supplement, but some singers believe that eating cloves of raw garlic is most helpful.Doctors agree! Raw garlic is most beneficial for the immune system., Some cold medications may dry out your throat, making the situation worse rather than better.Choose the medicine that's right for you.


Decongestants help eliminate excess mucous, but also dry out your nose and throat. They can leave your vocal cords feeling rough or tired very quickly once you start singing. If you use decongestants, make sure to drink a lot of water!Numbing sprays and lozenges can provide immediate relief for a sore throat, but they also make it harder to tell if you might be straining your vocal cords, making damage more likely.Many medications contain alcohol. While this can make you feel better, it can also dry you out and even lead to more mucous production. It is best to stay away from such medications (and alcohol in general) before singing., In the days before your performance, use your voice as little as possible.This will help your voice recover.
 Some singers who will be performing with a cold choose to rest their voices as long as possible, especially if they have a cough. Others choose to do some light warmups, such as the following:Early on in the day, warm up your voice without singing. Try some light humming. Or, just practice talking in different pitches, using resonant words like "yeah" or "myah."If your voice cracks or starts to feel strained, stop and resume your vocal rest.

