 It could be because he has feelings for you, which you truly don't reciprocate, or it could be because you don't want to impair your friendship. If you have feelings for him, then tell him! He will not feel the same towards you if you reject him, so don't expect things to be exactly the same between the two of you. He may avoid you, or even harbour feelings of hatred, because you two were so close.


Studies have shown that men often mistake signs of friendship as signs of desire, so don't expect your guy to be all happy when you reject him. He honestly thought you two could have something special.





;
, If your friendship up until that point had been extremely fun and witty and open, then expect that to continue. Tell him how you feel, and then arrange the date. This should be easy since you know each other well! Keep things the way they used to be, and try to keep the laughter in your relationship until the big date.
 "I don't know; where do you wanna go?" situation. You know each other really well at this point, so you should know where the best situation would be. Classic date-situations are movies, ice-skating, dinners, bowling, entertainment parks, walking around town, and even tutoring. Tutoring may sound kind of lame, but if one of you is smarter than the other in certain areas, then try to play to that aspect. Teach each other something, shared learning will help secures your bond. Bowling is fun because it sparks a friendly competition that will help keep conversation rolling. Ice skating is perfect in this scenario, because then there is an excuse for you to hold hands, and the cold can encourage cuddling .
 If you and your date are already best friends, then you are probably in the same group of friends, and it's best to keep things personal and private for awhile. If things don't work out, then you don't want to have to go through the agony of telling everybody why not.
 Jeans are always fine in a casual date between you and your best friend, as long as you have a little bit more of a dressy top, like a shirt with sequins, or a nice necklace with a sweet tank-top and cardigan.


Try to let your personality shine through, so that your boy knows that you're still who he thinks you are, and that the only thing that has changed is how you're going to act towards each other. A skirt is fine, but don't go all the way with a dress. That says "Ok, I am trying way to hard, and I am extremely nervous". Unless you're at prom, or a dinner, or a party. Hopefully, it should be just the two of you for a first date. Anything else isn't private enough. Keep it simple, although less casual than usual.
 When he arrives, and this will probably be the first time you see each other after the date-arrangement, don't be awkward. Show that you're still you, but that your feelings for him, are really there, and so that will eliminate his nervousness.
 Don't be in a hurry to change his status with them until you are more comfortable with the relationship.
 That does not mean, however, old boyfriends, intimate gossip, school, or anything else that you usually talk about. You can bring back old jokes, and relive old memories, and talk about yourselves. You need to get to know each other all over again, but in a different light. Don't talk about your grades, because you probably know a lot about each other already! Talk about new things, and what you think of each other.
 That doesn't mean groping, or else he will definitely think that you're not the person he thought he knew, and the end of your relationship in definite. Touch his arm when you want his attention, or when you're trying to make a point. Keep it above the waist, guys.
 This one is important; if you get this wrong, your relationship may not work out. It has to be sweet and innocent, not a wet fish. No tongues. Go for about a 10 second kiss, at some point during your date.


Keep the lips firm, yet open. Don't let your mouth hang open, but don't be tight-lipped. You don't want your guy to think that you don't like them. If you're going in for a second kiss, go for another 10-20 second one. No tongues on the first date.






You don't want him to think that you're different than who he thinks you are, which is why he likes you! At the end of the date, hopefully you can both say that you've had a lot of fun, like you used to, yet your romance was the key ingredient. You're still best friends, except you're more now, so hugging is great too.
 He will probably be punching the air, except you don't need to know that, in his oh-so-manly opinion. Don't worry; it's a good thing!

, You have to be comfortable with each other in public. Make sure people know that you're a couple, and be happy about it. Don't shut out your other friends, but make sure they know that you two are sort of in the love bubble.

