 Before you go and meet people, decide how you want to define your own core beliefs. You might consider core beliefs to be spiritual beliefs, political beliefs, professional beliefs, ethical beliefs or beliefs about friendship. Come up with some values that you care about, then focus on building friendships.Your core values are what represent you as an individual and what values you want to represent.For example, your core beliefs may be in following the Jewish, Christian, Mormon, or Islamic faith. You may have core beliefs about politics and how local, state, and federal government should be run. Perhaps your core values include treating all beings as deserving of love and compassion.
Remember that while having shared core values with another person is important, it is not the only thing that is needed to have a strong friendship. While exploring your core values, do some reflecting on other qualities about yourself. Ask yourself simple questions and write them down. Such as, “What are the qualities that make up who I am?” “What qualities do I like?” “What qualities do I not like?” “How do I let others see my qualities and what I feel is important about myself?” “What are my interests and hobbies?”
Journal what your core beliefs are or what you want them to be. Think about the things you frequently discuss and the topics that bring out your passion.;
, Before you make friends, you must meet people. One of the best ways to meet people is by engaging in a social activity or interest. The majority of friendships are activity-based, so make sure you have activities you can plug into. If there’s something you’ve always wanted to do but have never done it, or you have a hobby that you’d like to pick back up, now is the time to jump in. Even if you’re moderately interested in something, you might find that you enjoy it and find new friends.Join activities where you may meet other like-minded people. If you’re interested in government, join your school’s student government.
For example, if you believe fitness is important to health, attend yoga, join a running club, attend martial arts training, or start hiking. Find an activity that interests you and discover social groups around it in your community.
 Whether you want to use the internet to meet people in person or you want to make online friends, there are many platforms to connect you to others who share similar beliefs. Find event calendars or look up groups that might meet near you. If you’re interested in meeting with like-minded individuals, check out MeetUp, which is a portal for linking people to events and groups near them.A quick internet search can help you connect to websites that allow you to share with others and make friends.
Think about your safety when you meet people online. Don’t give personal information to someone you do not know, such as your phone number or address. Be cautious if someone wants to meet you in person. If you do meet, go with other people and meet in a public location such as a library or coffee shop.
 Often, core beliefs are tied to a particular spiritual practice or religion. If you’d like to make friends that share your religious or spiritual beliefs, attend a meeting. Find a local synagogue, ward, church, mosque, or temple near you. Participate in the service or rituals and introduce yourself before or afterward. Joining a spiritual organization is a great way to build community and make friends.Many religious or spiritual organizations offer classes, text studies, and small group meetings. Join one to meet people in a smaller spiritual setting.
 Whatever cause fires you up, it’s likely that other people share your feelings. You might be passionate about stopping animal cruelty, expanding human rights and social justice, or demanding access to clean water for all, to name a few. Join an activist group that appeals to you and your beliefs in your community and join it. Attend meetings and get involved in the work. Being surrounded by other activists helps you unite under a common cause and becoming friends may be easily facilitated.For example, if you’re on a college campus and want to protect animals, join a vegetarian society or animal rights group. Attend the meetings and participate in events such as handing out leaflets or protesting. You’re likely to see the same people at these events, so get to know them.
Join a community group that is already active or start your own.
 If you’re passionate about government and making your voice heard, join a local political organization. Go to town halls, encourage people to vote, and join a political party chapter near you. If you align with a particular political party, find ways to get involved and show your support. Being an active member of a local political party can help you meet others with similar values and beliefs about politics.Go to meetings, volunteer at headquarters, and work on a political campaign. These activities are often collaborations, so it’s a great way to see other people regularly and build friendships.
 Volunteering is a great way to give back to your community and make friends that share similar values and beliefs. Find a volunteer opportunity that aligns with your values. For example, if you feel animals should be taken care of, volunteer at an animal shelter or farm sanctuary. If you want to help children succeed, volunteer to be a tutor or mentor. Through volunteering, you can meet and become friends with others who share your values and beliefs.Chose a volunteering position that connects you with others. While doing secretarial work may be a good volunteer opportunity, it isn’t social. Choose a social role.
 If you find someone or a group of friends you’d like to befriend, get together more than once. Find a group that meets regularly to give you more opportunities to meet and get to know people. Friendships often build over time, so find time to meet regularly with the people you’d like to befriend.Find clubs or organizations that hold regular meetings. If you need time to warm up to making a friend, get familiar with people’s faces first, then approach them over time.
 Understand that even within the best of relationships, conflicts will happen and are a natural part of any relationship. Even best friends who share every core value and belief will still fight from time to time. Not all disagreements and arguments mean that the relationship will come to an end.

When you encounter such a situation with your friend, take care to be mindful and respectful of each other’s opinions on the matter. Take time to listen to each other’s concerns and make sure that your friend’s needs are being met. Make a conscious effort to compromise on working out a solution to whatever problems you are facing.
 To have a friend is to be a friend, so make sure you’re a good friend to the people in your life. Be kind and considerate. Listen and support the person. Let friendships develop naturally without having rules or expectations of what you want it to look like. Ultimately, be the kind of friend you would like to have.Be forgiving. Remember that friendships sometimes experience turbulence, but stick with a good friend. Remember that you’re united by your values and beliefs.
 While it’s nice to connect with others who share your beliefs, don’t make your friendship only centered on your shared values. Show that you’re interested in getting to know the person. Smile, say hello, and introduce yourself. If you’re having trouble finding something to talk about, bring up something about the environment or occasion such as, “I love this song” or, “Can you believe it’s so hot today?” Then, ask the person about what brings them to the organization or meeting or how their beliefs affect them.Ask questions about their family (“How many siblings do you have?”) and their hobbies (“What do you like to do for fun?”). Show that you’re interested in being friends with them and want to spend time with them.
Develop the skill of small talk. This is something that may not come easy for everyone, especially if you are someone who may have more introverted characteristics. A relationship isn’t just having similar and shared core values. It is about sharing life and the varying experiences that come with it. Practice having light, easy going conversations about simple topics such as music, school, work, travel, etc. Maintain a positive atmosphere and adopt the value of listening more than you speak.

