 Most tanning salons will sell you a package of visits. For example: 10 visits for $100. Then you schedule when you want to use your visits. Tanning time depends on the model of the bed used. Some are 15 min. some 20 min, etc.;
, Using a tanning accelerator is optional; most will tell you on the label if you need to apply in advance. Any skin lotion is helpful to keep your skin from drying out and brings out the beautiful tan color.
 If your tanning salon is busy they cannot extend your time into the next persons time. So make sure you are there 5 minutes before your scheduled appointment. If a bed is open you will have a few extra minutes to get ready.
 Usually the staff at the salon will take your first visit to acclimate you to the routine. Most nice salons will have a radio or some type of personal music selection for you to choose from. All beds have a timer which they will show you how to set. You will need to wear tanning goggles while in the bed. Most salons will have a bowl or bucket full of sterilized goggles for you to choose from. Some people prefer to buy their own and carry them to their visit. Some salons ask the patrons to clean the bed after using, some have the staff do the cleaning. Cleaning requires a spray on solution and wiping of all touched surfaces. There should always be a little sign on the bed saying it was cleaned before the next user. Ask the staff what the practice is of the salon you chose.
 Choosing to wear easy on & easy off clothing and shoes now pays off. If you are going to wear a swimsuit to tan in you can wear it under your clothing or change when you get in the room. Whether you wear a swimsuit or tan in your birthday suit is up to you! Be aware though, that the skin which has never seen the light of day before is very sensitive. So, to avoid unpleasant burning, tan in short increments to gently and gradually expose the private areas of your body. It costs more to do it this way but you won't have any tan lines to deal with, or bad burns on those tender places.
 Some are Playboy bunnies, some peace symbols, etc. Do not apply it to your abdomen. Apply it to a hard to tan place, like under your upper arm. Apply a new sticker on each visit to the same place, then you will get a real idea of how you are progressing

, You're IN and ALONE with the tanning bed! Set your tunes, put on your sticker, get comfy in the bed, place your goggles on your eyes,set and RELAX! The next 15-20 minutes can be the most relaxing time of your day, enjoy it!!

