 Makeup should always be applied to a clean canvas. Wash your face using your normal cleanser and pat dry. If you have dry skin, apply a moisturizer and wait a few minutes before applying foundation to give the moisturizer a chance to work.


If you are in a hurry or have applied too much moisturizer, blot your face with a tissue to remove excess moisturizer before applying foundation.;
, You can either use the back of your hand, a small dish, or even a folded up napkin. Don't pour out too much. You can always add more later.
 Start with two dabs on your forehead, two on each cheek, one on your nose, and one on your chin. A little goes a long way with liquid foundation, and you can always add more to areas that need additional coverage.
 Use either a patting








Make sure your circular motions are in an upward direction rather than a downward one. Pulling the skin downwards can cause your skin to sag over time.
Think about blending the foundation lightly, not rubbing it in, and definitely not "slathering" it on.
If you need more coverage, add more foundation to your face a dab at a time.
When using your fingertips to apply foundation, the heat from your fingers will melt it before application. This is great if you are looking for less coverage. If you are going for a full-coverage look, use a generous amount of powder to set it afterwards.
 Blend your foundation carefully into your jawline, hairline, and around your ears to avoid leaving distinct lines.









If you have a sponge, use it to blend the foundation at your jawline using short downward strokes.
If you notice a distinct color change at the jawline, you may need a different shade of foundation. It is normal for your face to be a little lighter than the rest of your body. If you find that your foundation is a little too light, you can blend it down to your neck. You can also try using a darker powder on top.
 Wait 2-3 minutes for foundation to dry. If it is still noticeably moist, blot your face gently with a tissue. Apply other makeup, and then set your foundation with a translucent finishing powder. Apply the powder gently with a puff, and your makeup will last all day!








