 Depending on the type of event you are hosting, you need to figure out how much beer you will need. Estimate that party guests will have 1-2 drinks per hour. There are several different sizes of kegs to consider:


Mini keg: A mini keg holds about 5 liters, which is a good amount for bringing to a tailgate party or camping trip.Cornelius keg: A Cornelius keg is a tall, round keg that is commonly used for soft drinks, but they have also been adapted by home brewers to use for beer as well.Log keg (sixth barrel): A log keg holds about 5 gallons, which equals about 55 12-ounce servings, or 41 pints.
Pony keg (quarter barrel): A pony keg holds about 7.5 gallons, which equals about 82 12-ounce servings, or 62 pints.Full keg (half barrel): A full keg holds about 15 gallons, which equals about 165 12-ounce servings, or 124 pints. The full keg is the most common size of keg.;
, There are many places that sell kegs, such as liquor stores, breweries, wineries, and even some restaurants. Choose a place that is close to your party and that sells the type of beer you'd like to buy.
 Planning in advance will ensure that your order will be fulfilled to your specifications. Planning at least 10 days in advance is a good idea.


Some places do have kegs available for last-minute orders, but these may be limited in selection and size.
 If you are planning to serve beer from a keg at a wedding, fundraiser or other special event, you need to get the correct type of permit. These permits are typically issued by your state’s liquor control board.


For private parties such as weddings or holiday parties, apply for a banquet permit. Typically, you will fill out a form, giving information about the event, and pay a fee (around $50).
Nonprofit organizations need a special occasion permit in order to serve beer from a keg at a special event.These are also issued by your state’s liquor control board. They also need a licensed bartender to serve the beer. Be sure to have proof of the bartender’s license with you at the function.
 You will be required to show proof of age when you pick up the keg. This must be government-issued identification, such as your driver’s license, non-driver ID card, military ID, or passport.


You must be at least 21 years old to purchase alcohol in the United States.
 Anyone who accompanies you to pick up the keg, even if they are just in the car, will be required to show proof that they are 21 or older., If you are the person renting the keg and signing the form, you are the one who is responsible for what happens with the beer inside the keg. You are therefore responsible for making sure no minors drink the beer, and those who do drink the beer are also responsible in their behavior.You are also responsible for ensuring that the keg and other items are returned in the same condition as when you rented them.
Some places might require that you provide the address where the keg is going to, the approximate date and time of the beer’s consumption, and your vehicle’s license plate., The store will likely ask for the name of the person who will be returning the keg. This is partly to ensure that the keg is responsibly used and returned in a timely manner by someone 21 years of age or older., You will be charged a refundable deposit fee for the keg itself in addition to the charge for the actual beer. The beer cost will vary depending on the type of beer, how much you are ordering, and where you’re located.


Bring a credit card with you. Even if you pay the fees in cash, you’ll need a credit card for the deposit, which will be charged additional fees if you do not return the keg.
Keg deposits can range from approximately $30 to $75 or more. You may also be charged a nonrefundable keg cleaning fee.
Beers like Budweiser, Miller and Coors are usually cheaper than microbrews, with Budweiser costing $100 for a full keg and other beers like Dogfish Head running about $225 for a full keg.
 Before you leave the store, ask for instructions on how to use the keg. You might be familiar, but it's a good idea to make sure you're clear on how to attach the tap and get the best quality beer from the keg.
 Kegs that are full of beer are heavy. A full keg weighs roughly 162 pounds. Use a dolly if possible, and have a friend help you lift the keg in and out of your vehicle.


Kegs are usually only delivered to licensed establishments, not private residences.
 A tap is needed to attach to the keg in order to dispense the beer. If you don’t already have a tap, you’ll need to rent one. Most places require a refundable tap rental fee (around $50) and a nonrefundable tap cleaning fee (around $10-$15).
 Many establishments have chilling buckets available for rental. These are garbage can sized buckets that the keg will go into, along with ice for keeping the keg cold., A kegerator is a refrigerator that is specially designed to hold a keg and to allow for easy beer dispensing. Many places will rent kegerators by the day, week, month or even on a rent-to-own plan.If you are hosting a special event or are planning to regularly have kegs, a kegerator may be a classier, more versatile option for you.
 A jockey box is a mini cooler that has tubing through which beer will flow to a tap. Hook up your keg to the jockey box, along with a carbon dioxide unit, and this will produce instantly cold beer on tap for your guests.Jockey boxes can be rented with 1, 2 or 4 taps in one unit.
 The beer should be served at about 38 degrees Fahrenheit, but that requires that you keep the beer cold.Use a chilling bucket filled with ice or a kegerator (a refrigerator specially designed for kegs).


Alternately, you can place the keg inside a large garbage bag and fill the bag with ice.
Do not allow the beer to go above 55 degrees F or below 28 degrees F. Beer that is too warm will produce bacterial growth. Beer that has frozen will have reduced quality of flavor and aroma.
 After the keg has arrived at your house, you need to give it time to settle down so the beer is of optimal quality. Situate the keg in the desired location for your event and leave it there for at least an hour before tapping the keg., , Depending on the type of tap you use on the keg, you may need to finish the beer sooner than later.


A manual pump (the kind most often used at a party, for example) will reduce the quality of the beer’s taste rather quickly. In this case, drink the beer within 8 hours. You may be able to stretch this out to one day.Using a kegerator and CO2 to dispense your beer will prolong the quality and freshness of the beer. In this case, pasteurized beer can last up to 3 months. Unpasteurized beer might last about 2 months., Remove all the beer in the keg before you return it. Some places ask that the kegs be returned empty. You are paying for the beer, so you might as well drink it or store it in growlers (large bottles for beer).


You will not get any refund on the keg once it leaves the store where you bought it. Even if the keg is entirely full, you have purchased it and will receive no refund if you request one.
 Before you transport the keg in your vehicle, make sure to remove the tap from the keg. Otherwise, the keg could be considered an open container, which is illegal to have in a moving vehicle in the U.S., When you rented the keg, you should have given the establishment the name of the person returning the keg. This will likely be the same person who rented the keg. This person is the one who will receive the refundable deposit back.


The store might refuse to accept the keg and equipment if the wrong person tries to return them., You don’t have to bring the keg back the morning after a party, but you do need to bring it back in a timely manner. Most places will give a deadline by which the keg needs to be returned. Sometimes this is 5 days, while other places give you up to 2 weeks to return a keg.
 If you rented a tap or a bucket for chilling the keg, be sure to return these with the keg. Then you will receive any refundable fees associated with the keg and accessories.
 The store where you picked up the keg will place an identifying sticker on the keg. They will need this information to make sure the returned keg is the one that was rented., There are strict laws governing the sale of alcohol in the U.S., and some states regulate the sale and storage of beer in kegs. There are some restrictions on keg size and type, so be informed about what your state allows.Check with your state’s liquor control board to find out specifics regarding liquor regulations in your area.
 Kegs can be filled through valves that are either located on the side (open system), which can be easily accessed and filled, or through a closed system valve that requires automated equipment for filling.Closed system kegs are typically more expensive, but they are usually preferred by distributors and breweries that might carry your beer.
 Keg sizes are varied, and the most common sizes are sixth barrel, quarter barrel and half barrel. Consider who you are selling your beer to, and how frequently, when deciding on keg size and number. Will the brewery or distributor ask for smaller sized kegs to start? Or, on the other hand, should you start with larger kegs so that your customers don’t have to change their kegs so often? Knowing your market will go a long way to knowing what size and number of kegs to buy., You can find new and used kegs, and used kegs are certainly a cheaper option. New kegs look better and can be imprinted with your company’s logo, while used kegs may have the former owner’s logo on them. New kegs are usually more easily sanitized, while older kegs can potentially have build-up (called beerstone).If you are buying a used keg, make sure to consider the following:


Make sure the keg does not leak.
Make sure the keg is sanitized and able to be cleaned.
Make sure the keg is not dented (verify that the keg will hold the correct amount of beer and any dents do not subtract from the correct amount)., You don’t have to buy a keg for your business. There are leasing companies that charge a monthly fee per keg. Many of these companies have multi-year contracts (such as 5-year contracts). A typical rate is $1.70 per keg per month , Kegs can be filled through valves that are either located on the side (open system), which can be easily accessed and filled, or through a closed system valve that requires automated equipment for filling.Closed system kegs are typically more expensive and will likely require additional equipment that can run from hundreds of dollars to thousands of dollars.
 Keg sizes are varied, and the most common sizes are sixth barrel, quarter barrel and half barrel. Consider how much beer you will be brewing and how quickly it will be consumed when deciding on keg size and number.The most common keg for the home brewer is the Cornelius keg (also called a “Corny keg”). These are the same tall, thin shape that is used to hold soda.
 You can find new and used kegs, and used kegs are certainly a cheaper option. New kegs look better, while used kegs may have the former owner’s logo on them. New kegs are usually more easily sanitized, while older kegs can potentially have build-up (called beerstone).If you are buying a used keg, make sure to consider the following:


Make sure the keg does not leak.
Make sure the keg is sanitized and able to be cleaned.
Make sure the keg is not dented (verify that the keg will hold the correct amount of beer and any dents do not subtract from the correct amount)., Storing your beer and dispensing it from kegs may require additional equipment.This equipment includes:


CO2 tank: A high pressure CO2 tank will provide carbonation and enable you to dispense the beer from the keg. Purchase one from a welding supply store or online.
Pressure regulator: This instrument will regulate how much CO2 is going into your keg, and consequently, how carbonated your beer will be.
Connection lines: You will need connectors to hook up the CO2 tank to the keg. Get two quick disconnects, a gas line and a picnic faucet.

