 Have the temperature adjusted to your zone of comfort, but be sure to keep it warm, not hot. Add mild dish soap or body wash into the water. Swirl the water until you see a layer of bubbles appear on the top.


Use a tub that is large enough to accommodate your feet with a little extra room.
You can also use a bar of soap as an alternative to liquid soap.;
, In order to properly clean your feet you must soak them in the soapy water. Sit down in a chair and gently place your feet into the tub until they reach the bottom and/or are completely underneath the water.


If you have built-up dirt on your feet, let them soak for at least 5 minutes.
Wipe up any water that splashes out of the tub to prevent injury from slips.
 Washing your feet daily prevents foot odor and infection. Using a towel, loofah, or sponge to scrub the dirt away will leave your feet sparkly clean. If you have built-up dirt, you will need to scrub a little harder and use more soap.


Soak your towel, loofah, or sponge in the water and wring it out so it’s moist, but not soaked.
Gently scrub each foot, focusing your attention on the arch of your foot, in between toes, and under toenails.
Rinse the towel between cleaning each foot.
If using a bar a soap, lather it up and apply soap all around both feet.
If you notice the water is very dirty, discard it and get fresh water to rinse off the soap.
 Excess moisture on your feet and between your toes can promote growth of bacteria and fungi. To prevent infection, it is important to keep your feet as dry as possible. Drying after washing will also prevent the build-up of new dirt on your feet.


Remove your feet from the tub and dry them with a clean towel.
Be sure to dry between your toes because that is a common place for fungal and bacterial growth. , When your feet are all clean, dispose of the dirty, soapy water. Soap is non-toxic and can be poured down the drain or disposed of outside. Pour the contents of the tub down the drain or outside in the yard.
To prevent injury, make sure the floor is dry when you are finished.
 While washing your feet, you might have noticed your toenails were getting too long. Properly trimmed nails prevent over-grown toenails and the build-up of dirt underneath the nail.


Be sure to use toenail clippers, not scissors.
Trim the nail straight across so it is just over the toe. Cutting nails too short can lead to the development of ingrown toenails. File down any pointed edges with an emery board.

