 Recognize that what you are feeling is depression. This is an important step in getting better. Oftentimes, depression makes you feel as though this is how you are supposed to feel, and identifying your depression helps you to treat it.


Write down how you feel, and do it regularly. This will help to mentally separate you from your depression, and allow you to analyze and track your emotions, as well as provide valuable information to any doctor you see for treatment.;
, Depression is often caused by a chemical imbalance in the brain, which can be effectively treated with medication. Even if you suspect you're feeling this way for some other reason, talk to your doctor about your symptoms. Your doctor should be able to direct you to valuable resources to help return yourself to a healthy state of mind.


Bring in your description of how you're feeling. Describe the severity and the consistency of the feelings. Be totally honest with your doctor., Depression is dangerous. It can make you feel isolated, worthless, and empty. No matter how severe you feel that your depression is, tell someone you trust.


If you're feeling suicidal, call a hotline at any time and talk to someone:

1-800-SUICIDE (1-800-784-2433) or 1-800-273-TALK (1-800-273-8255)
You can text 1-800-799-4TTY (1-800-799-4889)
LGBT Youth Suicide Hotline: 1-866-4-U-TREVOR



, Depression can make it feel like you have no sense of purpose. It can make it difficult to get out of bed each day, much less do anything productive when you're out. The world can be overwhelming. To help yourself stay motivated and focused, it's important to establish clear and simple goals.Write out a list of things, even simple things, that you can do today to make yourself productive. Don't be afraid to list out extremely small things, like "Brush your teeth" or "Pick up the kids" or "Eat something" or "Don't smoke." Focus on the little stuff you need to do.
Write out your accomplishments each day at the end of the day, if that works better for you. Listing out everything that you did will help you focus on your successes.
 Your moods are impacted by lots of different factors, but if your body isn't getting what it needs, then your brain isn't either. Exercise is shown to have a direct effect on your mood and overall happiness, releasing endorphins that help to counteract the effect of stress on the body and make you feel happy.You don't have to be sporty, or a jock. Find something that you enjoy doing. Start jogging, or hiking. Play squash. Do something that you might enjoy.
Make sure to get 8 hours of sleep every day, and at the same time every day. Rest is essential in keeping your energy levels even throughout the day, which affects mood.
 What you eat affects your mood directly. Eating more complex carbohydrates and decreasing the amount of refined sugars and processed foods can help you feel better.Focus on getting as many leafy greens, whole grains, fresh vegetables, and fruits into your diet, and cutting out anything pre-prepared.


Increase intake of omega 3 fatty acids (flaxseed, fish, walnuts, tofu): Omega 3 helps brain function and regulates mood
Drink eight cups of water every day to stay hydrated. Lots of problems like headaches and tiredness can be attributed to minor dehydration, which can affect your mood as well.
 Studies show some connection between the levels of Vitamin D and overall happiness.This is important for everyone, but especially in those with depression. Seasonal depression often occurs in the wintertime, when the days are shorter and we don't get a lot of sun. But a good dose of natural light will do wonders for your mood.


If you live in a place with not a lot of sunlight, invest in a good light box. If these are too expensive for you, install bulbs in your lamps that have natural light as opposed to fluorescent light.

