 An insecure boss typically distrusts their employees, employers, and even their workplace in general. Your boss might blame others for things that go wrong at the workplace, or may assume that people are out to get them or their job. This isn’t a reflection of anything that you’ve done wrong and indicates your boss’s self-doubt., Many insecure bosses are indecisive and fail to give their employees a clear sense of direction. Then, they’ll hide in their office or have regular out-of-office engagements, making them more or less unavailable. Disorder is frustrating for you, and knowingly or not, can help your boss feel needed and important. Rather than play hide and seek, approach the situation directly and ask for clarification and direction in writing.This works well with transparency. Send your boss regular email messages asking for direction and clarification. Because this will become routine, your boss should eventually feel comfortable giving you some guidance.
You can develop a routine of following up, for example, and send an email after each conversation that says, “Dear Ms. _____, Per our conversation today at 3:30 pm, I will go ahead and get the Johnson file in order and sent to the Records department. Would you like me to send a copy to Mr. Bates in Processing as well?”

, Insecure bosses will often micromanage their employees in an effort to maintain control and a sense of power and importance. This can be nerve wracking for employees and exhausting for the insecure boss. Fortunately, you don’t have to sit back and take it. Be proactive in earning your boss’s trust, showing them that you can work independently and that you won’t betray them.Transparency is excellent here too because your boss will have little to micromanage if they’re left in the loop of your work day.
You can send your boss a message at the beginning of each shift that says something like, “Dear Mr. Foster, As we discussed yesterday, I will be alphabetizing the 2015-6 files, unless something has come up that you’d like me to work on beforehand.”

, If you have an insecure boss, then you may feel frustrated on a daily basis. However, it is important to avoid acting on your frustration in passive-aggressive ways. Instead, try to find some productive ways that you can handle your frustrations.Take a brisk walk on your lunch break.
Close your door or take a bathroom break for five minutes and do some deep breathing.
Chat with a supportive coworker during lunch.

