 Be reliable and keep a good job so other people will be able to rely on you. Make yourself available and be a good role model for the other male members of your family. Teach them what you know and learn as much as you can about them.

Sometimes, what gets called "macho" is really just a guy compensating for a lack of confidence in himself and his ability to care for those around him. Guys who can't keep their own household together have to lash out at other guys, brag to everyone around them about how great they are, to keep up the status-quo. If you really do provide for your family, keep a good job, and make your partner happy, there's no need to compensate with faux-machismo.
 A macho guy is a confident guy with friends, strangers, and coworkers. People should notice when you walk in a room. Sit up straight, walk with good posture, and look people in the eye directly. Speak clearly and loudly and with conviction that the things you say are trustworthy, correct, and worth listening to.


A macho guy lets his presence be known physically and vocally, but without trying actively to intimidate others. There's a difference between being macho and being a jerk. Don't insult people to tear them down and hold yourself up. If you like to get into trash-talk sessions with your friends, draw the line somewhere.
 A macho guy stands up for what he believes in and speaks from an intelligent and informed point of view. Don't be afraid to speak your mind honestly and clearly. If you disagree with someone, let your disagreement be known respectfully, even if it would be easier to let it slide.
 Have the confidence to let failures and losses roll off your back. Learn to lose calmly and move on. A macho guy can lose graciously, win with humility, and learn from his mistakes, rather than letting them turn him into a defensive jerk.

It's also important to learn when you're wrong and admit it. If you're having an argument and start changing your mind, or if your decision turns out to be the wrong one, say so. Own up to it. Be a man.
 Macho guys will often cultivate a mysterious presence that acts like a magnet for people, especially women. If people think you're a man with secrets, a man who has something to say, they'll gravitate toward you and become interested. It's part sex appeal, part charisma, and part machismo.


Be quiet. Be a good listener, and don't speak unless it's absolutely necessary. It's hard to be macho when your mouth never stops moving.

Be serious. Mysterious macho guys aren't usually goofballs. Think of the grave seriousness of veterans and old sea captains.

Be sensual. Understand the loving arts of massage and pleasure. Be a sexual Olympian.

