 To help get rid of the smell of smoke on your breathe, brush your teeth often. Keep a travel toothbrush and toothpaste on you when you're out so you can brush your teeth before you spend time around others that might have a problem with the smell of smoke.


You can buy travel toothbrushes at any drugstore or general store.
You can also chew gum or carry mouthwash. Anything that will spread clean, fresh scent through your mouth.;
, The smell of smoke will remain on your hands long after you smoke. The nicotine and tar from the smoke will cling to the surface of your hands, making them smell. Wash your hands with a strong, pleasant smelling soap to rid your hands of the smell.


You can also use a scented lotion after washing your hands to make your hands smell better. This may help absorb smoky smells the next time you have a cigarette. Just remember to reapply after you've smoked a few times to keep the smell down.
If you can't wash your hands, try a scented hand sanitizer to remove the smell of smoke from your hands., You may not think your clothes smell like smoke, but that is because you are used to the smell. Others will be able to smell it as soon as they see you. Wash your clothes after every use to ensure you get the smoke smell out. You should also avoid smoking around your clothes because they will get the smell in them before you wear them.


If the smells are stubborn, try adding a cup of vinegar to your wash to help remove the smell.Thick materials like wool are particularly absorbent to smell, so make sure these are washed well.
The sleeves of your shirts are more susceptible to smoky odors than other parts of your clothes. Roll up your sleeves while you smoke to help keep the smell of the smoke off your clothes while you are out.
If it is cold, wear a jacket when you smoke. You can take the jacket off when you are done and hang it up. This way, you leave the scent of smoke on the jacket. Make sure to wash your jackets if you do this.
 Cigarette smoke clings to your hair after you smoke. To help avoid this, pull your hair out of your face with a clip or hair tie. This will make your hair less exposed to the smoke. Make sure you wash your hair every night to remove any smell that got in it during the day.


Avoid using too many hair products. Gels and mousses will cause your hair to absorb scents.
Try citrus scented shampoos, which can help keep the smell away., If you smoke inside a room or building, the smoke can build up all over your body. When you smoke inside, try to smoke near an exhaust fan, under a ceiling fan, or near an open window. This will blow the smoke away from you instead of letting it stick around your body.


You can point a box fan out of the window of the room you are smoking to help suck the smoke out of the room.When you smoke outside, stand with your back to the breeze so that the smoke blows away from you.
 If you don't have time to wash your clothes before you see the people don't like the smell, try using cologne or perfume to cover it up. A spritz or two of cologne or perfume may not completely mask the smell of smoke, but it will help cover up the scent for a little while.


You can easily put on too much if you are eager to cover up the smell. Refrain from using more than one or two sprays at a time.