 In addition to verifying that the realtor's license is valid, you will need to enter the license number on the complaint form.


Visit the DRE "Consumer Complaint" website featured in the Sources section of this article and click on the link for "License Status Check."
Enter the realtor's name into the field provided and click on "Find" to locate the license information for your realtor. The search results will display the license number and license status for the realtor.
If you do not have Internet access, call the DRE licensing hotline at 1-877-373-4542 to determine the realtor's real estate license number.;
, The complaint against your realtor should indicate that they violated California Real Estate Law. Examples of real estate violations can include fraudulent contracts, misrepresentation of services, and more.


If you need clarification regarding whether the DRE can handle your complaint, visit the DRE "Consumer Complaint" website listed in the Sources section of this article, then click on "Real Estate Law or Subdivided Lands Law" to review real estate business codes and ethics.
If you do not have access to the Internet, call the DRE complaint headquarters office at 1-916-227-0864 to speak to a representative about the nature of your complaint.
 The DRE encourages you to include documents that are relevant to your complaint with your complaint form.


Include documents such as advertisements, copies of checks made to the realtor, property listings, contracts, and any other paperwork that may help with your complaint.
 The form can be accessed on the Internet or obtained from a California DRE office location.


Visit the DRE "PDF" link provided in the Sources section of this article to access and print the complaint form from the Internet.
You may also call DRE headquarters at 1-916-227-0864 to learn of nearby office locations or other methods in place for obtaining a complaint form.



Enter personal information about yourself; such as your name, address, telephone number, occupation, email address, and the name and telephone number of your nearest relative.
Provide the business information for your realtor. The form will require you to enter the realtor's name, company name if applicable, business address, license number, and telephone number.
Enter the dates and locations at which the unethical behavior occurred.
Indicate whether your realtor has been notified about the complaint you are filing against them, as well as their response or any correspondence with you regarding the complaint.
Provide your attorney's information, if applicable, as well as whether this complaint has already been addressed in a court of law.
Provide the names and contact information for each witness involved in the complaint.
Indicate the types of documents you plan to include with your complaint form by placing check marks in the appropriate boxes.
Write full, factual details about your complaint in the space provided. Indicate the names of people who were present during the transaction, conversations that took place, and details pertaining to times and locations.
Sign and date the Licensee Complaint form.
 You can mail your complaint or submit it in person to the nearest DRE office. DRE offices are located in Sacramento, Oakland, Fresno, Los Angeles, and San Diego.


If you live in the Sacramento area, submit your complaint to: Department of Real Estate Enforcement, 2201 Broadway, P.O. Box 187000, Sacramento, California, 95818-7000.
If you live near Oakland, submit the complaint form to: Department of Real Estate Enforcement, 1515 Clay Street, Suite 702, Oakland, California, 94612-1462.
Residents near Fresno can submit the complaint to: Department of Real Estate Enforcement, 2550 Mariposa Mall, Suite 3070, Fresno, California, 93721-2273.
If you live near Los Angeles, submit your complaint to: Department of Real Estate Enforcement, 320 West 4th Street, Suite 350, Los Angeles, California, 90013-1105.
San Diego residents should send their complaint forms to: Department of Real Estate Enforcement, 1350 Front Street, Suite 3064, San Diego, California, 92101-3687.
After the DRE has received your complaint and they have determined that the realtor has violated California Real Estate Law, you may be asked to testify at a hearing regarding the realtor's business practices and behavior.

