 It'll revive your silkiness and shine and help your hair move in a fine line. And trust me, having well conditioned hair will help maximize this look.;
,,, Start pre-drying your hair by running your fingers through it from roots to end. We need to remove excess water. Stop when your hair is still damp, but no longer wet.
 Shake it, then squeeze a mound of it in your hand, and work it through your hair. This will help to straighten your hair.
, Starting at the front of your head, with a round brush or a paddle brush. Begin at the scalp and rotate the brush outwards toward the end of your hair. You can either finish straight, or with a bit of a curl. Your dryer should follow the natural flow of your hair. Dry the underneath section first, before moving to the top. Use clips to hold your hair out of the way if you need to. Continue all around your head doing small sections until your hair is completely dry.
, Go ahead and divide the hair down the middle, and work the same way you did in step 7, in the lower sections to the top. You've got to make sure that all the piece underneath are completely dry before you go on to the upper layer. If they are even a little damp, the layers on top will absorb the moisture and your hair will get wet. And if you use a round brush, be sure to go over everything again with a flat brush. That's going to help smooth and straighten your hair.
 Section your hair and hold it in place with clips. Within each section, begin at the bottom and work your way to the top. You want to take half-inch sections to flat iron at a time. Make sure you start the flat iron as close to yourself as possible. And keep that iron moving, to avoid creases. To help protect your hands from the heat, use a comb to touch your iron hair, before you start the next section.
,,, You are now dangerously straight. If you missed something, or need to read one the of steps again, go ahead and re-read this article. Remember, you are sleek, chic, and sexy. You can do anything you want.
