 Baby fat can be cute, but when it lingers for years or increases significantly, major health problems can arise.


Overweight children are more likely to become overweight adults.Iron and vitamin D deficiencies are common among overweight children, as are joint problems and bowed legs. Breathing problems, such as asthma, early puberty, and sleep apnea are also issues that plague overweight or obese children.;
, If you are concerned that your child may be overweight, schedule an appointment with their pediatrician.


Ask questions such as, “Is my daughter’s weight within a healthy range for her age?” or “He seems to have put on a few extra pounds over the summer, is this normal for children his age?”
Your medical provider can assess your child’s overall health and test for possible metabolic or hormonal conditions that may be contributing to weight gain., Body mass index (BMI) is a formula that measures body mass relative to height. Use your child's BMI as a screening tool to see whether they are actually in the unhealthy range.


The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention created growth charts that are used to calculate age- and sex-specific BMIs for children (BMI-for-age charts). The CDC Web site has an interactive tool you can use to calculate your child’s BMI. Access the site here: https://nccd.cdc.gov/dnpabmi/calculator.aspx.
Children with a BMI in the 85th through 95th percentile are considered overweight, while those above the 95th percentile are considered to be obese. , Research has proven time and again that crash diets and those that are too restrictive do not work for long-term weight management.


Those who are most successful at keeping weight off lose it gradually and steadily. Some younger children may merely need to keep their weight steady, as they are still growing. For older children and teenagers, they may be able to safely lose ½ pound to 2 pounds per week., Your son or daughter may not be surprised that you bring up their weight, but do it in a positive, non-confrontational way.


Primarily focus on them being healthy, rather than hitting a particular target weight. Say, “I’d like you to be as healthy and active as possible, let’s think of some ways to do that.”
Be sure not to compare them to other children or otherwise hurt their self-esteem.
Tell them you can work together as a family to achieve health goals. You could say, “I was thinking we could try as a family to eat healthier and get more exercise.”
By involving the whole family, your child will be less likely to feel bad about their excess weight.

