 You didn’t build up a rainy day fund simply because you might want to buy new clothes or new appliances. Check if the expense is absolutely necessary.Do you need something in order to do your job? If so, then it probably is a necessary expense. Car repairs or a new laptop are probably necessities because you can’t work without them.
An expense isn’t necessary simply because you really want it.
A great discount is not an absolute necessity, either. For example, you might see a great deal on plane tickets, which you want to buy for your vacation. Unfortunately, you could live without the tickets.;
, One reason for having a rainy day fund is that it provides you with peace of mind.An urgent expense is probably a stressful one—you suffer a medical injury, or you are fired from your job. By tapping your rainy day fund, you have peace of mind as you get the help you need.


Not every large expense is urgent. For example, you might want to purchase new appliances because you see a great deal at your local store. If your appliances still work, then there’s no urgent need to replace them.
Instead of dipping into your rainy day fund, think of spending your savings to purchase new appliances. Alternately, you could buy with a credit card.
 An expense can be both necessary and urgent without being unexpected. For example, annually recurring expenses are not surprises.You know every year when Christmas or Hannukah arrives and should save for those occasions.


Other predictable expenses include vet visits, household maintenance, and tax payments.The amount might not be predictable, but you should be budgeting for them.
If you find you have a lot of unexpected expenses, take some time to consider whether you could anticipate them with a little planning. For example, you should know that your children will need school supplies or that you might have to pay for equipment if they play sports.
 Experts might not all agree on what qualifies as an emergency, but there are some common emergency expenses. See if your emergency is one of them:You lost your job and need to tap the emergency fund to pay your bills.
You or a loved one has a medical/dental emergency.
Your car breaks down and you don’t have access to other transportation.
Something goes wrong in your house—e.g., your air conditioner dies in the summer or you find mold growing in the house.
You have to travel for a funeral or help pay for one.
 If your expense is necessary, urgent, and unexpected, then you can dip into your rainy day fund. Don’t feel guilty—that’s what the money is there for. However, after spending the money, commit to building your fund back up so that you can be prepared for the next emergency.If your expense doesn’t satisfy all three requirements, then consider using alternative sources of income to pay for it, such as your savings account.
 You should have a savings account in addition to a rainy day fund. Your savings is for expected expenses or goals you are saving for. For example, you might be saving for a down payment on a home or for a vacation. Think about dipping into your savings account to cover the expense.


Consider whether you can delay the purchase of whatever you were saving for. For example, you might be able to wait six more months to purchase your home. This will give you a chance to build your savings back up.
By using your savings first, you preserve your rainy day fund.
 Ideally, you can get an interest-free loan from people you know. You and the lender can agree how long you have to pay off the loan. To make the loan official, draft a repayment agreement, which you both should sign.


You can also get a personal loan from a bank or credit union. However, these loans will charge interest. You might be able to get a loan from someone you know without the interest payment.
 You can raise money by selling possessions you don't need. For example, you might have vintage records, jewelry, or first-edition books that you could sell. You can sell them online using eBay, Craigslist, or Amazon.


Alternately, you could sell possessions by hosting a yard or garage sale. A yard sale might be ideal if you need to sell a large number of possessions.
 Using a credit card isn’t ideal and you should consider other options. However, you can cover a sudden expense with a credit card if a few conditions apply:


You can pay off the balance in full at the end of the month. If you can’t, then you’ll accrue interest.In that case, it might be better to use your rainy day fund.
The expense is huge. Your rainy day fund might not be large enough to cover the expense. For example, your car might need $3,000 in repairs. In this situation, a credit card might be your only option for covering the full expense.
You can transfer the balance. Many cards offer 0% APR for 12 months for balance transfers. You’ll end up paying a balance transfer fee, which usually around 3% of the total amount or $10, whichever is greater.Make sure to pay off the balance before the zero APR period is over.
 Some plans allow you to take a loan from your retirement account. If your rainy day fund isn’t sufficient to pay for your emergency, then you might consider a loan. You can typically borrow up to 50% of your account balance for a maximum of $50,000.You can pay back the money using automatic deductions from your paycheck. If you stop payments for 90 days, however, then the loan is considered a distribution. You’ll need to pay a 10% penalty for an early withdrawal.
You probably shouldn’t take a loan unless you have stable employment and are confident that you can pay the loan back. If you lose your job before paying the loan back, you’ll end up paying the penalty and not have the money available for retirement.
 The IRS defines a hardship as an “immediate and heavy financial need.” This financial need can be yours, your spouse’s, or a dependent’s.If you qualify for a hardship withdrawal, then you can withdraw before age 59.5 without paying a penalty. A hardship distribution isn’t ideal, but you might need to take out the money to cover your emergency.


Facts and circumstances determine what qualifies as a hardship. However, the following generally do: medical expenses, costs of buying a home, payments necessary to stop eviction or foreclosure, money to repair a damaged home, educational expenses, and funeral or burial expenses.
Your plan should state what information you must provide to take the withdrawal. Contact your plan administrator for details.
After you take the distribution, you can’t pay it back like you could if you took a loan from your retirement account. In fact, you might be prohibited from contributing to your 401(k) for six months after taking the withdrawal., After you’ve taken care of your emergency, commit to building your fund back up.Revisit your budget if necessary and set aside an amount each month to pay back into your fund.


Don’t panic if you wiped out your entire fund with one emergency. It might take you a while to build the fund back up. What’s important is that you start as soon as possible.
Set aside whatever you can. It’s okay to start small.However, try to make regular payments into the fund, either every pay period or once a month.
Check into having a sum of money automatically deducted from your paycheck and deposited directly into the rainy day account. Talk to Human Resources about setting up this direct deposit.
If you don’t have direct deposit, then bill yourself. Treat your monthly deposit like a bill that needs to be paid on time., As a general rule, you shouldn’t mix your rainy day fund with your other funds, such as your checking account or savings account.If you haven’t already set up a separate fund, then do so now.


By keeping your funds separate, you reduce the likelihood of reaching into your emergency fund to pay for vacations or expected expenses., Interest rates are low right now, and you might be tempted to take your leftover rainy day funds and invest them. You should avoid doing that.Investment in the stock market is risky, and you might end up losing what’s left of your rainy day fund.


Instead, consider safer ways to save your money. For example, you might put the money in a high-interest savings account.Look for one that doesn’t have a minimum balance requirement.
Also consider money market accounts. They earn a decent amount of interest, and you can access the money when you need it. Typically, you can write a check to the money market account, just as you would a checking account.
Don’t be too risk averse and keep cash at home. Someone might steal it or you could lose it in a fire or other natural disaster., Even if you cut expenses, you might not be able to build your fund back up. Everyone eventually reaches their financial “floor,” which is the absolute minimum you must have to pay your bills.Instead of trying to cut any more, think about working additional hours or doing freelance work on the side.


Part-time jobs might not pay much more than minimum wage. But they might be the easiest to get.An additional 15 hours a week at $8-10 an hour is an extra $120-150 a week.
Try freelancing if you have marketable skills, such as writing, graphic design, or tutoring. You can set your hourly rate and find clients by advertising locally and looking online at websites like Freelancer.com.
Remember that you will pay taxes on the extra income. In fact, it might bump you up into a higher income bracket. Estimate how much to set aside to pay your taxes.
 Your rainy day fund should be equal to six months of your net income. Include any expenses your employer pays, such as daycare or health insurance premiums.You will need to cover those expenses if you lose a job.


Maintain momentum even after replenishing your rainy day fund. Continue your side jobs and save even more money. A side gig might turn into a lucrative full-time job.

