 Get a device called an AeroPress, which is a small, portable chamber with a plunger. Place a small round filter into the cap and screw it onto the chamber. Pour your 1-4 ounces (2-8 tablespoons) of grounds into the chamber and place it over a cup. Pour hot water into the chamber up to the markings for 1, 2, 3, or 4 shots. Stir and then press down gently with the plunger to extract espresso into the cup.Note that some people don’t consider the brewed coffee from an AeroPress to be a true espresso, as it does not produce a crema layer and is not quite as strong. However, an AeroPress achieves nearly the same effect and flavor, and is much more affordable and portable than an espresso machine., Obtain a stovetop espresso maker, also called a moka pot. Pour cold water into the bottom chamber of the pot up to the fill line and place 1-3 ounces (2-6 tablespoons) of grounds into the filter basket that fits into that chamber. Then screw on the top chamber where the brewed espresso will end up and place the pot over high heat on the stove to brew.Note that this method may not brew with quite the same taste, layers, and quality of espresso from an espresso machine, as the steam pressure and filtration methods are not the same. However, a moka pot is much more affordable and portable than an espresso machine.
 Try making an espresso with a coffee press, also called a French press, which uses a glass carafe and a plunger. Add 1-3 ounces (2-6 tablespoons) of grounds to the carafe and then slowly pour in enough hot water to cover the grounds. Allow the coffee to brew in the water for a few minutes before pressing the plunger down to separate the grounds and brewed espresso.

Note that this method doesn’t produce a true espresso my most people’s standards, as it doesn’t use nearly the same steam pressure. However, you can more closely simulate a strong espresso by leaving the grounds and water to interact for longer. A French press is a much more affordable and portable option than an espresso machine.