 Many elders today grew up in a time when cultural and religious traditions were a more central part of daily life. No matter their heritage, chances are that someone who's your elder has some connection to traditions that may be lost in a generation or two if they’re not passed down.Ask about traditional or culturally specific foods. Your elder may be able to teach you the most authentic way to prepare homemade tortillas, matzo balls, or tzatziki.
Your elder may have a different first language than you. Ask if they could teach you some important phrases. This is especially welcome when the elder speaks a language or dialect that’s declined in its usage, such as Native American languages.
If the elder is someone in your family, this is a great way to learn about your own history and heritage. If they're not of your heritage, it can be a great way to learn about another culture.
 Your elder may have grown up attending religious services regularly, or community events such as parades and dances. Let them know you’d like to attend something like that with them.Look for relevant events in your town. For example, your British grandmother may enjoy attending an evening of English country dancing.
Even if you don’t personally practice a religion, going with an elder to a religious event they connect to can be very meaningful for them.
 In some cultures, reaching specific ages, such as 60 or 70, is celebrated with big parties. Make sure to mark milestones in the elder’s life. This honors the fact that good things are still happening in their life and they’re still active.You can celebrate an elder’s retirement or the anniversary of an accomplishment in their life.
An elder may not have the energy or will to gather many people for a party. Take on that responsibility yourself to show them how many people love and care about them.
 You may not agree with everything your elder has to say. Still, there may be kernels of wisdom that you can adapt to your own life. Let them know how what they’ve taught you is useful to you.If there’s a specific proverb from your culture that’s resonant to you, share that with your elder. Let them know what it means to you.
Find a way to express your heritage that is authentic to you. For example, it may not make sense for you to go about your life in your culture’s traditional clothing, but you can wear some jewelry or other accessories that represent your culture.

