 Your cat may be clingy because it doesn’t have enough in its environment to keep it busy and entertained. Give your cat toys that it can play with on its own.Rotate the toys at least once a week so your cat does not become bored with them. Below are some examples of independent cat toys:Puzzle toys
Treat-dispensing toys (place your cat’s favorite treat in the toys)
Crumpled pieces of paper
Empty paper bags
Ping pong balls

, Let your cat use its instinctive hunting behavior to search for things in your home. For example, hide some of its dry food kibbles or treats throughout your home.This treasure hunt will get your cat focused on something fun and decrease its clinginess toward you.


Don’t hide a lot of treats. If your cat eats a lot of treats during the treasure hunt, it could pick up some extra weight over time.
Change the hiding places each time you create a treasure hunt.
 A cat perch is another way to help your cat be more independent and less clingy. Place the perch in a window that has an interesting view of the outside. Your cat will be entertained by being able to watch birds throughout the day., Cat DVDs are a great way to keep your cat busy and entertained. They show images that would interest a cat, such as flying birds or swimming fish.Put the DVD on when you leave home or when you need some alone time while you’re at home.


Look for cat DVDs at your local pet store. You can also order them online.
 If your clingy cat is the only pet in the house, it may benefit from having another cat to play and interact with. It is important, though, for the other cat to be compatible with your cat.If they’re not compatible, your cat may cling even more closely to you and not be very nice to the other cat.


Talk with your vet before getting another cat. Here are some questions you can ask your vet: What age cat should I get? How do I introduce the cats to each other? What if they don’t get along?
If you have an older cat, you might think a kitten would be a good companion for your cat. However, the kitten may end up being a nuisance to your cat and getting more and more attention from you.If you want to adopt the new cat from a local animal shelter, the shelter staff may first want to see how the new cat interacts with your cat.

