 Your doctor will need to see you for follow-ups to make sure that you stay healthy. Try not to be annoyed by having to go to these appointments. Instead, be thankful that you are cancer-free!During most of the visits, you will just chat with your doctor about how you are feeling. If you feel tired, have gained or lost weight, or experience pain, let your doctor know.Occasionally, the doctor or nurse will take blood from you or give you an x-ray to rule out presence of cancer in the body.Of course, you may need yearly mammograms depending on what the lump was, so that you can ensure that no new lumps have formed., All is not lost even if you don’t receive a favorable diagnosis. In this modern age, there are many types of treatments and many knowledgeable doctors out there. Don’t be too proud or shy to ask for needed help.Feel free to get a second opinion. If your doctor doesn’t seem super knowledgeable or you just want confirmation from an additional source, see someone else for peace of mind.Get help with your pathology report. This document explains what the specialist found when examining your breast tissue sample taken during the biopsy. It will help your doctor decide how to treat you. Have someone in the doctor’s office help you break down unfamiliar terms.Ask your doctor pertinent questions. If the lump is cancerous, find out what stage you’re at and how it might influence your health and longevity. Inquire about other tests that you might be subject to, and learn about any timelines in regards to making decisions and receiving care., If you experience mental or emotional anguish during or after the screenings or follow up appointments, know that many other women are going through the same thing. There are many benefits to talking with other people, so give it a try to see if helps you feel better.Speaking with those who can understand your ordeal will make you feel less stressed because you are able to vent about what you’ve been through.Many support groups offer relaxation techniques, which can also help you relieve stress. Rhythmic breathing and guided imagery are two of the more popular strategies that you might try during meetings.Once you feel stronger, you might be able to co-lead discussions and provide one-on-one guidance to someone who is in the earlier stages. Doing so will make you feel purposeful and will ease emotional burdens.