 You can lend NOOK books from an authorized, registered NOOK device.You can also manage the lending of your NOOK books through a web browser by using your MyNOOK account (mynook.com)., Tap this menu and select “LendMe” to see the books in your library that are eligible for lending.


When you download a book or periodical, you will see a “LendMe” badge if it is eligible for the program. You will also see these badges when browsing for books to purchase from the NOOK store.
Eligible books must be part of your NOOK Lifetime Library (those you have purchased).
Lent NOOK books can be read on any NOOK reader or application (including NOOK devices as well as supported smart phones and laptops that have the Barnes and Noble eReader software installed).Certain types of eBooks cannot be lent via a NOOK device, including audiobooks, magazines, newspapers, eBook samples, and Google books.
 Lendable NOOK books can only be lent once.You can also only lend one book at a time. In addition, you cannot read the book while it is being lent—you must wait until it is returned or until the 14 day lending period has ended (whichever comes first).For these reasons, be cautious about lending books.


Make sure that your NOOK friend will be able to read the lent book within 14 days. If not, wait and only lend the book when your friend is ready to read it.
Make sure that you will not need the book while it is being lent.
Lending offers will last 7 days. The 14 day lending period begins on the day your friend accepts the offer. If your friend has not accepted the offer within 7 days, it will expire.
You cannot cancel a lending offer once you have sent it.
 Your friend must also have an active account (including an email address) registered with Barnes and Noble. His/her account must also be linked to a valid credit card number.


There is no charge for lending eligible NOOK books. Your friend’s credit card number is required only as part of having a valid and active Barnes and Noble account.
You can send a lend offer to anyone anywhere, as long as you and the borrower have wireless internet capabilities.
 If you tap the “Share” button on your NOOK’s screen, a dialog box will open. You will see an option for “LendMe.”Tap the “LendMe” button, and you will be prompted to send a lending offer.


If you are trying to lend a book that is currently in your “Reading Now” panel, you can double click on the book’s cover to find the “LendMe” option.
If you want to lend a NOOK book that you have open at the moment, tap the center of the book. This will make the “Reading Tools” dialog box pop up. From there, you can select “LendMe.”

, You can send a lending offer to a user in a number of ways. On your NOOK device, you will see several social media buttons, each associated with a different method for sending a LendMe offer.You can send an offer by email to someone listed in your NOOK contacts.
You can send an offer to a friend’s social media account, such as Facebook or Google.
If you want to send an offer to someone not yet in your contacts list, you must first add that person to your list using the “Manage my Contacts” feature on your NOOK device.
 You can send an offer to any email address that your friend uses. However, your friend must have a Barnes and Noble account with an email address and valid credit card number in order to accept the offer.Once you have selected the book you want to lend, and the contact you want to send the offer to, tap the “Next” button.You can write a message to your friend, if you want, and send the offer.
 You can also send a LendMe offer to a contact by clicking the appropriate social media button from the Share menu. This will generate a lending offer and send it to the contact you choose, allowing that person to borrow the book.For instance, you can leave a lending offer and message (if desired) on a Facebook wall by selecting the Facebook button.
 All LendMe services are now accessible through your MyNOOK account.Log into your NOOK account at mynook.com to see your lending-eligible books. You can select one of these, then choose the “LendMe” option to send a lending offer to one of your NOOK friends. Your friend can then access the NOOK book via his/her own MyNOOK account.
 You can use the “Manage my NOOK Friends” feature to browse your friend’s lendable books.You can only borrow books that have a LendMe badge. Your friend must also currently have the book (for instance, it must not already be out on loan to another friend).
 You can ask your friend directly if you want to borrow a NOOK book from his/her NOOK library.If the book has a LendMe badge and has not been loaned previously, your friend can generate a lending offer and send it to your email address, social media account, or MyNOOK account.
 When you see one that you would like to borrow, click to request it. If your friend accepts the request, a LendMe offer will be generated and accessible to you via your MyNOOK account.
 At the end of the 14 day lending period, the NOOK book will be automatically removed from the borrower's account returned to the lenderA borrower can also return a book early, if desired, via a MyNook account.
 It’s easy to purchase a lent book that you are reading if the lending period is about to expire, or if you would just like to have a copy for yourself. While reading the book, simply tap the “Buy” button at the bottom of any page.This will take you to your Barnes and Noble account and to details for how to purchase the book.
 Use the “Manage my Contacts” feature on your NOOK device or account to enter friends you are interested in sharing books with.Follow the prompts to add new contacts by entering in their names, email addresses, and any other requested information.
 This will send a message to the friend to accept the friend request. The message will also share information about setting up a Barnes and Noble account, if your friend does not already have one.
 Check the option to “Show all my lendable books to my NOOK friends.” That way, your friends can browse the books you have that are eligible for the LendMe program, and request them if desired.

