 Wash the lettuce thoroughly. Break the leaves off, and rub the lettuce under cold water, then dry. To save time, use a bag of pre-washed and shredded lettuce. If you prefer, you may use mixed greens or a more "exotic" bag of salad.









Romaine, Boston, and red-tip lettuce are splendid options for a salad, as are radicchio, spinach, curly endive, and kale.
 Wash and chop a few veggies to toss into the salad. Add interesting flavors, such as tomatoes, celery, and herbs (Fresh is best).









According to one source, avocados, almonds, broccoli, and apples are among the "Top 10" healthiest foods, so consider adding these to your salad.
Don't add "too many different ingredients" to your salad.
Healthy options for your salad include:

bell peppers
goat cheese
carrots
cucumbers
pomegranate seeds
mozzarella cheese
figs



, If you want a salad with extra protein, add chopped pieces of turkey lunch meat or other meats.









White meat works best in salads, but dark meat is fine.
If you have leftover chicken or turkey, dice the meat into small cubes, and toss it into the salad. It's a superb way to add protein to your meal.
 Tofu, seitan chunks and walnuts are good options for any meat-free salad.









Nuts add delicious crunch. Pine nuts, pistachios, cashews, and even peanuts are packed with healthy oils and protein. Almonds may be the healthiest, most protein-rich nut you can add in a salad.
Orzo or quinoa are splendid options instead of meat. Orzo is a small, seed-shaped pasta that cooks quickly. Quinoa is a grain-like crop, often used as a substitute for rice. Quinoa is healthier, but both are delicious in salad.
 Add your favorite dressing.
 It's an easy, healthy and tasty snack, full of crunchy and chewy ingredients.
 The ratio of oil to acid is often 3:1. This means for every three tablespoons of oil, you would use one tablespoon of acid.









A basic dressing is simple and painless. Mix:
6 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon pepper
1 tablespoon any variety fruit jam or jelly (optional)
For dressings or vinaigrettes, the gold standard of oils is extra virgin olive oil. You can also use canola oil, peanut oil, avocado oil, or sesame oil for Asian-style dressings.
The gold standard of acids is lemon juice or balsamic vinegar. Also, any citrus juice (orange juice and grapefruit juice) works well with vinegar (apple cider or white wine vinegar).
Whisk olive oil and lemon juice together (about 30 seconds). Add salt and pepper. Whisk the jam or jelly into the emulsified dressing (optional). Serve!;
