 They can co-exist, independent of one another. By decreasing dissatisfaction, one does not necessarily increase satisfaction with a job. You might think of it as the presence or lack of rewards (satisfaction) versus the presence or lack of unpleasantness (dissatisfaction). You might grow to hate children, but still continue teaching grade school for the benefits.A job with a great benefits package can't change the fact that an employee still might not be satisfied with the actual profession itself, however much they may be satisfied by their position within that profession.
A person may be willing to suffer through very dissatisfying working conditions given a great satisfaction in the work they do.;
, While individual and group morale can vary, and not every morale problem stems directly from work, there are some qualities that play a large role in cultivating high morale in the workplace.


Credibility refers to the larger society's perception of the company and position itself.
Respect corresponds to level of respect among coworkers in the workplace.
Pride is a quality that a worker must have in the work and role they perform.
Fairness must exist between the employer and the employee.
Companionship must exist among coworkers in order to foster a workplace community., There is more than just one piece of the employee morale puzzle. If you attempt to solve a morale problem by thinking about it from just one angle, you won't have a clear picture of the problem. Think about the different elements that can contribute to employee morale.


Attitudes of executives and managers towards subordinates.
Working conditions, including pay hours of work and safety rules
Effective leadership and an intelligent distribution of authority and responsibility in the organization
The design of the organization’s structure which facilitates the flow of work
The size of the organization.
 These may not appear all at once, and they may not indicate low morale related to work. However, if you notice these patterns among many employees, you may have a morale problem. Pay close attention to:


High rates of absenteeism
Tardiness
High turnover
Strikes and sabotage
Lack of pride in work
Wastage and spoilage