 Villains are the core of your movie. They provide the scares, the plot, and the unique element of any horror movie, and if the villain doesn't work, your movie won't either. The villain doesn't necessarily have to be a person, of course, but it does need to be scary. Oftentimes, the devil is in the details. The mutant people from The Hills Have Eyes, for example, aren't exactly original, but the radioactive, 1950's southwest landscape made them memorable. Jason from Friday the 13th, is a stock serial killer, except for that hockey mask.


Throughout histories, villains have been used to symbolize real-world fears. Vampires stood in for the horrors of HIV/AIDS in the 90's. The Host used a fish monster to comment on South Korean economics, etc.Many movies have had success with hordes of villains (zombies, monsters, birds), unseen villains (haunted houses, ghosts), and even a wide-variety of villains (Cabin in the Woods, V/H/S).
Villains are not the only way to make a horror movie unique, but you need a good villain or the movie will fail, every time.;
, Horror movies are generally unique because of their villains, settings, and, occasionally, main characters. They are not known for wildly original plots. This should come as a relief, however, as it makes your job much easier. You can, of course, deviate from the following template, but you'll find that 99% of all horror movies follow this structure almost perfectly, even when they seem "different":Beginning: Open on a scary event. This is usually the villain's first victim-- the murder or event that sets the movie in motion and shows the villain's "style". In Scream, for example, it is Drew Barrymore's babysitter character and boyfriend getting murdered.The Set-Up: Who are your main characters, and why are they in this "horrible" place? This is when the teens head to the cabin, or the family moves into the creepy old house. This is the first 10-15% of your movie.

The Warning: The first clues that something is wrong begin popping up. Someone might disappear, the furniture might begin to move, or a character awakens some ancient evil. The majority of characters, however, are going to ignore these signs or miss them. This is roughly the 1/3 mark of your script.

The Point of No Return: Suddenly, something happens that makes all the characters grimly aware that they are in a terrible situation. This is usually your first death scene or major scare, when the villain becomes apparent to everyone. It occurs roughly halfway through the movie. The characters decide to either escape or fight back.

The Major Set-Back: More and more characters are dying or becoming incapacitated, and the villain has the upper hand. Evil is winning, and there may only be our protagonist left to fight it off. Oftentimes the characters believe they have won, only for the villain to come back stronger than before. This comes at the 75% mark of your story.

The Climax: Your main character(s) has a final push to save themselves, either by escaping or defeating the villain. This needs to culminate in your scariest set-piece, the most thrilling and terrifying battle/moment seen thus far.The Resolution: More often than not, at least one character escapes, and the villain is defeated. At least, it appears so.... Until the sequel.
 Most horror movies take place in very few locations, as this allows the audience to get "comfortable" in a location before you scare them. It also leads to a feeling of claustrophobia and makes filming much, much easier. Find your location and bring a camera around to take some video during the day and night, making sure you can film successfully.


Good ideas are in the woods (especially at night), cabins, wooden buildings, abandoned houses.
Make sure that you have permission to film at the location before you start. Filming takes a lot of time and energy, and you need an undisturbed location to work at for 7-14 days if you're shooting a feature film.
 They don't necessarily need acting experience, but they do need to be willing to work long hours to get your movie made. Make sure they are willing and able to take orders from the director. Horror movies aren't exactly known for their incredible acting, so try and get actors who seem fun to work with and have a solid scream in their lungs.
 Making a horror movie takes a lot of gear, including cameras, microphones, lights, and special effects. Luckily, horror movies actually thrive on low-budget equipment. Look, for example, at Paranormal Activity or Blair Witch Project, which used cheap cameras and microphones to glorious effect to make the scariest movie possible.



Cameras: For most movies, you need at least 2 cameras, and preferably 3. That said, modern camera advancements have made it possible to film a movie with an iPhone 6, or a bunch of web cameras. The most important thing for a professional film is to have cameras that shoot in the same format (1080i, for example), otherwise the video quality will change with every cut.

Microphones: If you're in a bind, spend your money on audio equipment, as audiences are proven to notice bad sound before bad video. While you can use the attached camera microphones, a Tascam or shotgun mic is a great investment to instantly improve your movie.Lighting: 5-10 cheap clamp lights and extension cords have lit many an indie film, but get a professional 3 or 5 piece kit if you can. That said, a variety of bulbs, home-improvement store lights, and high heat spray paint (to color light bulbs) is a great substitute.Essential Accessories: You'll need memory cards, a backup hard drive, tripods, light reflectors, extension cords, black tape (to cover or tape down wires), and computer video editing software. And, of course, you need some fake blood., The human imagination will almost always conjure up a scarier image than you can show on the screen. Why? Because each person will fill in the images that scare them the most. This is why, in the beginnings of most horror movies, you only get fleeting glimpses of the evil that is lurking in the corners. You might see the aftermath of a murder, or the moment right before the death, leaving you to fill in the blanks yourself. Horror is about fear of the unknown -- so let the audience sit in the dark for as long as possible.


Think of when you were scared of the dark. A rustling sound, a glint of light, a face in the window -- these things are scary because you don't know what they are. And the unknown is always scary.Let this be your guiding principle while filming.
 A shot list is simple -- it is every angle that you need to capture each day you're shooting. This helps you work effectively and make sure all the relevant details are on film for the final movie. To make one, simply draw out the scene in basic comic book form. Show every shot that you need to capture, even if it is with stick figures.


Get every single detail you need -- if the audience needs to see the knife on the table, make sure to get a shot of the knife on the table, alone.
Movies are not shot like plays, where every scene is captured in real time. Having a shot list shows how you need to move the cameras, get specific information, and line up shots. For example, you may need to show the villain in the window for one second. Instead of trying to get the actors inside to get the scene right, then have the villain pop up, you can simply film the villain popping up then edit it in later.
 You should be the first one on set and the last one to leave every single day. Things are going to go wrong-- actors get sick, weather won't cooperate, and you have 100's of decisions (lighting, character placement, costumes) that need to be made every hour. The only way to have a successful shoot is to do as much work as you can before you even start:


Review the day's shot list -- know in advance what you need to get, and what you can skip if you run out of time.
Rehearse with the actors. They should know what to do before the cameras are rolling
Review lighting and camera positions. No actor wants to sit around while you fiddle with lights. Have them ready before they arrive., This is the number one mistake of horror filmmakers. You believe that, to get dark, spooky lighting effects you need a dark set. This will always lead to grainy, ugly footage. Instead, focus on making good, clear shadows and nice, fully clear light spots. You will tone down the darkness in post-production, so don't worry if it looks bright and cheerful now.


Cameras need light to take smooth video. This is why you always darken the footage while editing instead of trying to shoot in the dark.
Horror movies are known for dramatic lighting. This means dark, almost black sections contrasted by bright, well-lit areas, like in the famous House on Haunted Hill opening shots.
Colored lights, specifically greens, reds, and blues, can create a wonderfully creepy atmosphere for your scene., Blocking is where the actors are and where they go. You can then set the cameras, lights, and sound equipment up around them. Having accurate movement means setting blocking in the beginning, allowing the filming to go smoothly once everyone knows their places. It is also your most important decision as a director on set. Blocking can be as simple as "sit here and here and talk" or as complex as, "start at the fridge, move to the stove, open the door, and then jump in surprise."


Keep this as simple as possible for most shots-- walking in straight lines, basic entrances and exits, and mostly still positions. It is not a play and the cameras will only capture a small fraction of the entire scene.
Let the camera do the movement whenever possible, not the actors. The less your actors need to move, the easier your job lighting, shooting, and editing will be.Blocking is crucial for long takes. For example, if you want to follow a killer through the house, you need to know what rooms they hit, what they see on the way, and where they stop. Then you need to make sure the lighting is even all the way through.
 Knowing that "what you don't see is scarier than what you do," take a minimalist approach to most of your special effects. It's proven that a sudden moment of suspense without graphic bloody violence is scarier because the viewer's imagination finds the scariest possible outcome.More importantly, trying to make Hollywood-style effects and failing will look corny and take away all the horror. That said, some special effects to focus on are:



The villain. When you do finally reveal your bad guy, it needs to be good. This doesn't mean it needs to be complicated, as The Babadook, and Friday the 13th have proven countless times. Just make them creepy, and let the shadows to the rest.
The essential props. You can buy fake guns and knives online, which allow you to "stab" actors effectively. Antique stores and pawn shops are also great places to get creepy old props, decorations, and costumes for cheap.

Fake blood is a nearly-universal must in horror. There are a lot of recipes out there, but corn syrup and food coloring is as basic and effective as it gets.
 The blood on the walls, the nervous actors, the creepy spider webs in the corner -- you need to get these shots while the set is still consistent. These shots are the connective tissue of your movie, also called B-Roll, and they are used to create atmosphere and build tension. In between scenes, get shots of the actors exploring the set, the darkened rooms, and the special effects -- the will come in handy when editing.


You should also return to the location without actors and shoot as much footage as possible of the house and sets. These shots are great ways to introduce a scene, such as when a character walks into a room for the first time and we "see" them exploring it through their eyes., Editing is where a bunch of random footage becomes a bunch of scary moments, and the best way to learn is from the masters. One suggestion is to take notes not only of what happens, but the minute it happens on. When do scares occur? How far apart are they? How do editors build up to a scary moment to make it even scarier?


You'll notice that most scary movies, especially famous ones like The Shining, Aliens, and The Exorcist, take their time between scares. They build up tension until it is almost unbearable, then hit you with the scariest scene they can dream up.
 Scaring someone is all about anticipation. The feeling of fear disappears once the bad guy jumps out or we see the horrible act unless the moment has been built up effectively. Linger on characters as they walk through the creepy hallway. Use long-takes (single camera angles held without cutting) to show someone creeping up on an unsuspecting character. Resist the urge to cut right to the scary moments -- having build-up will make it them all the scarier.
 Editing is when dramatic irony becomes your best friend. Dramatic irony is when the audience knows something that the character doesn't. We might see the outline of the killer, but the characters can't. The longer we sit with this knowledge, wishing the character would run, the more fearful we become.The final scene of The Silence of the Lambs, where the night vision goggles tell us our heroine is being stalked, is nearly unbearable-- in the best way possible.
 The end of a good build-up of suspense is an energetic release of energy. This is when the killer strikes, taking our breath away. Long takes build suspense, but quick, frantic cuts can make the audience gasp and scream, unable to believe the horror that they've seen. This release of energy relieves tension but also puts the audience on their toes, allowing you to start building the suspense again shortly after.


This give and take is what makes up the rhythm of a good horror movie, and is the essence of good editing., Sound design is absolutely crucial to movie-making, especially in horror movies. The best sound design, however, is often unnoticed -- it simply fits into the fold of the movie. This is doubly true of horror movies, where sound is the perfect way to put people on edge. The leaves rustling in the background, the creaking floor, the tinkling of single piano keys in an "empty" room, these things fill us with terror because we don't know what is making the sound. Do not skimp on sound design and effects -- they are essential for scares.


This includes music as well, which is usually minimalistic and eerie. If you cannot record the music yourself, be sure to use "royalty free music," which can be found online and is free to use in a movie without worrying about lawsuits.
When possible, try and make the sound effects yourself. Take a portable microphone and record the sounds yourself, layering them into your movie, for uniquely creepy effects.
 A jump scare is when you cut to a shot, usually with a sound effect, so quickly that the audience is startled. Oftentimes something jumps out at the characters They are considered cheap by many audiences because it is not the kind of scare that lasts for very long. It feels manipulative because anyone can surprise you by suddenly blasting a sound effect and cutting rapidly. That said, 2-3 jump scares keeps the audience on its feet, especially if they come after a strong, atmospheric build-up.


Many modern directors are using "fake" jump scares by having the jump come from something innocuous, like a cat or friend knocking on the door. Even more directors are using anticipation instead of a scare. They build the expectation that something will jump out at us, but the nothing does. You're lead into a feeling of complacency, making the next scare twice as powerful (though not a horror movie, see "Ex Machina for an example).

Watch Insidious for a master-class in suspenseful, well-designed jump scares.
 Remember however, that effects like explosions and fire can look tacky and out of place in a horror film, so stick to color correction and grading, compositing or ambient effects such as fog or dust particles. Yo can use free programs, like DaVinci Resolve, or Adobe After Effects.


Color grading is when you make the whole film have a similar color pallet. For horror, this usually means darkening shots and adding blue or green color effects to give the film a moody, scary feel.