 The first thing you need to is to stop initiating conversation. Hopefully, this person is more of an acquaintance than a close friend, so it won't be too strange if you don't contact them. Don’t text them about something that happened. Don’t call to talk or make plans. Encourage your former-friend to move on by failing to contact them for any reason., You will also want to avoid running into them in person. You probably know where they hang out. Just avoid going there. Sometimes this may mean missing out on something fun, but it is worth it to establish some distance. However, if you do run into them, here are some tips to make things less awkward but still distance yourself.


If you go to the same school, keep yourself busy with your schoolwork. If the person approaches you in class or after class, say that you're in a rush and a little stressed about your work.
If you're at a party, offer to help out at the party, or excuse yourself to go say hello to someone else, if you see the person.
If you do end up talking to them, have a light conversation that is not filled with deep or emotional topics.
You can also invite a third person into any conversation.
 If they manage to contact you and try to make plans, you are going to need to say no. Here are some ways that you can politely decline an invitation:


"Thanks for thinking of me, but I can't make it that day."
"No, but thank you for inviting me."
"Thanks, but I'm not a huge fan of that activity."

, If your “friend” starts asking questions and pushing you to hang out, you should drum up some courage and tell the truth. If they approach you and want to talk, it probably means that the feeling to “drift apart” wasn’t really mutual. You will need to tell it to them straight and make a clear break in the relationship.Examples of things you might say include:
"I think our friendship is growing apart, and maybe we should let it."
"I just don't feel that we are compatible as friends anymore."
"I don't think it's a good idea for us to spend time together."

