 To create a plot outline for a text that you were assigned in a class, not an original text, divide your outline into three acts. Most novels and books can be broken down using the three act structure.Use a word processing document or a piece of paper to create three distinct sections, titled Act 1, Act 2, Act 3.
Plot outlines are usually one to two pages long, depending on the length of the book. Aim to be concise and focus on the key points of the plot.
 Start Act 1 by describing the opening scene of the book. The opening scene will often establish the characters and the setting. The protagonist of the book is usually in the opening scene as well. Keep the summary short, about 100-150 words. Note the key details of the opening scene, including the names of the characters, any physical details or personality traits mentioned, and the setting.The beginning of your plot outline for Act 1 should also include the inciting incident, which sets your character on a quest or mission. The inciting incident may also lead to the main conflict in the novel.
For example, in Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird, the inciting incident of the book occurs when Atticus agrees to defend a black man named Tom Robinson, who is accused of raping a white woman.
 The final section of Act 1 will focus on the main problem or conflict in the novel. The main problem or conflict will be the biggest obstacle the protagonist has to deal with or face. It will raise the stakes of the story and cause the protagonist to make a decision or act in a certain way. The inciting incident usually feeds into the main problem or conflict.For example, in Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird, the main conflict occurs as a result of the inciting incident, as Atticus’ decision to defend Tom Robinson leads to the abuse of Jem and Scout by the other children and members of the community.
 Act 2 will usually build up to the major disaster or climax of the novel. The disaster or climax often occurs about ¾ of the way into a book or 75% of the way into a story. You may note several smaller incidents that occur as rising action, leading up to the climax.For example, in Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird, the rising action occurs as the trial for Tom Robinson begins and then plays out over a series of chapters. Though Tom Robinson is acquitted of the charges, the white woman’s father, Bob Ewell, still seeks revenge against Atticus. The climax of the novel occurs when Ewell attacks Jem and Scout. Luckily, Jem and Scout are saved by Boo Radley.
 The final Act of the novel, Act 3, will contain the resolution of the novel. The resolution or wrap up will indicate the end of the protagonist’s journey. The protagonist usually reaches a new understanding or a realization that she did not have at the beginning of the novel.For example, in Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird, the protagonist, Scout, realizes that she misunderstood Boo Radley and comes to sympathize with Boo as a person. She also embraces her father, Atticus’, advice to demonstrate sympathy and understanding for others, rather than hatred or prejudice.

