 A quick way to make yourself stand out is to put your brand somewhere people do not expect. This will help people recall your company better. These novel locations can help your brand to stand out more against other realtors in the area.


On vehicles. There are many ways to advertise with cars including bumper stickers, decals, car wraps, and more.
Place an advertisement at a movie theater. Show theaters show slide shows of advertisements before the movie. Big screens are a great way to show off the beautiful features of your properties.
Write a message in the sky. Many places have companies which offer skywriting. Look up one in your area. Make sure to time your skywriting well, and put it where the most people will see it.
Hand out free stickers. The idea behind this is that some people will stick those stickers in random places, spreading your logo or company name around for you.
 Look at what competitors and others in your industry are doing to market their businesses. It may work for you, too.


Develop a strong brand. Research shows that people were more likely to recall a real estate company with an attractive logo that represented the brand.Evolve your message. Major companies adapt their marketing strategies to give them an edge. This can benefit you as well. Developing a strong brand "tag phrase" that encapsulates your business values can help. Who hasn't heard "Where's the beef?" or "Just do it"?
Give yourself a good marketing budget. Nothing can undermine your marketing efforts than not allocating it the proper funding. Marketing is a sizable portion of large, corporate budgets.
Look at the online presence of realty competitors in your area, then adopt their successful tactics.
 Guerrilla (sounds like “gorilla”) marketing refers to the recent practice of using surprise and/or unconventional interactions to promote products. It is useful for small-businesses with a limited budget, as it relies on viral marketing and word-of-mouth, making broadcast of the product message essentially free.This kind of marketing can be seen as “edgy” or “attention-seeking”, often appealing more to a younger audience. There are many different varieties of guerrilla marketing.


Viral Marketing is based on the assumption that users like to share interesting content. By making web content that is very surprising or head-turning, and then getting users on various sites to share it, the idea is that the web traffic can reach a critical mass, resulting in enormous market exposure.
Ambush Marketing is where you crash an event sponsored by a competitor, like showing up at another agent's open house to cherry pick their clients. This can be considered very aggressive.
Tissue Packing is form of guerrilla marketing where tissues or other usable merchandise are branding with a company's advertising message. The marketing is then considered long-term, as it continues to deliver its message until the product is fully used. Products branded with your logo, such as a candle, a box of tissues, or chapstick can fulfill this purpose.