 All children pass through difficult stages, especially during puberty. Be patient, and try your best to guide your children through these stages, even if you sometimes find it difficult to like them. , While it may seem that you and your child occupy different planets, it is nonetheless important that you make an effort to communicate issues in your relationship. Try to be calm and diplomatic, and let your child know that you love him or her, and want your relationship to improve.
 Many parents struggle to find balance between being too strict with their kids, and being too lenient. This can create tension in your relationship with your child, resulting in fighting and resentment. If you find yourself in constant conflict with your child regarding the rules of the house, then it may be time to reevaluate those rules.Over-emphasizing rules and discipline can be a burden on your relationship with your child. Strict rules are harder to enforce consistently, and put lots of pressure on your child.
Being too lenient with children can make it difficult for them to respect you, and can lead to parents feeling powerless and used.
Make changes to your disciplinary approach gradually, and be sure to talk to your child about why the rules are changing. Let your child know that you want your relationship to improve, and are trying to make changes to allow that to happen.
Be sure to share your household rules with anyone else who cares for your child, so that the rules can be applied consistently, regardless of who is present.
 Don't simply go along with what your child wants or what other parents do with their children. If you consistently only do things with your child that you don't enjoy, you may grow to dread and resent being with them. If your child is old enough, talk to them about their interests, and try to explore areas of common ground to find activities you both enjoy.


Feel free to let your child know if you don't enjoy an activity they want to pursue, such as watching an already familiar movie, or playing a video game. Offer your child some alternatives, or invite your child to do what the or she wants without you.
Be patient and persistent. It may take time for you to discover areas of common interest with your children, but if you are successful your relationship will benefit greatly.
 In a typical parent/child relationship, there is often plenty to disagree or feel resentful about. Household arguments can lead to lingering resentments that can cloud your relationship with your child, and push you apart. Make a conscious effort to be forgiving of your child once a situation has been resolved, rather than harboring resentment or being passive-aggressive.Being forgiving does not necessarily mean being lenient. Make it clear to your child that you will forgive him once the admits responsibility for his actions. Remind him that you love him unconditionally, and are working hard to improve your relationship.
 A child who is often scolded or punished, and seldom praised, may start to believe that her parents don't love her. If you find yourself disciplining your child more often than praising her, take some time to sit down with her and express your love. Whenever you notice that your child has done well, or is proud of something she has accomplished, be sure to explicitly praise her, and tell her you are proud., Raising a child can be extraordinarily difficult, so there's no shame in reaching out for assistance. Your own parents, or other people in your community who have children, can be an excellent resource for advice.
 If problems in your relationship with the children in your life have become overwhelming, and seem impossible for you to handle yourself, don't lose hope: there are many counselors and psychiatrists who specialize in family therapy. They are trained to help you, and your family, identify and solve problems in your relationships with one another.


If you need help finding a family specialist, ask your doctor for a referral, or contact your medical insurance provider.
 Violent thoughts about the children in your life are not normal. Even if you would never wish harm on a child when clear-headed, hateful feelings can become overwhelming, leading to potentially devastating, irreversible consequences for you and your family. If you feel that your children are in danger as a result of your own hateful or violent thoughts, place them in the care of a trusted friend or family member, remove yourself from the situation, and seek emergency medical help immediately. Unwanted thoughts of harming your children may be a symptom of a serious mental illness such as Obsessive Compulsive Disorder. If you are experiencing such symptoms, you need and deserve the care of a professional mental health expert in dealing with your issues.

