 As the name implies, a perm is permanent - you'll grow out new hair that won't be permed, but the rest of it will be curled for up to six months, and a little less curly still after that. If you only want curly hair a few days a week, try hot rollers or a curling iron instead; if you want curly, wavy, or hair with body every day, a perm is the way to go.;
, It is critical to know what type of hair you have and what condition your hair is in. This is an important first step in determining the kind of perm to get and mitigating adverse effects like hair loss and breakage.


Resistant hair, resistant gray hair, Asian hair, hair with low elasticity, fine hair, and coarse or strong hair are usually best treated with an alkaline perm.
Healthy hair with good elasticity, tinted hair, damaged hair, highlighted hair, or fragile hair are permed with a milder acid perm.
If you have hair that has been extensively color treated or damaged, or if you have typical African-American hair, it's probably best to visit a salon. Find a stylist who specializes in working with hair like yours to minimize damage.
 It'll be more difficult (though not impossible) to cut your hair after you have a perm, so trim up any split ends beforehand.


Decide what to do with your bangs (optional). If you have bangs, try to have a plan for them before you perm. Be aware that permed bangs can look particularly fluffy; if this isn't the look you want, you might want to wait a month or two for them to grow out before you get a perm. If you do decide to go with a perm while you have bangs, ask yourself: Are you going to keep them straight? Are you going to perm them?

, If you get it all the way to the roots, remember that new hair that isn't permed will be visible.
 It's possible to perm your hair at home, and it's a bit less expensive that way. However, if you go to a stylist, you can trust that he or she has probably done several perms, and will remedy any mistakes for free. Consider these points:


If you're attempting a subtle perm, visit a stylist. You might accidentally over-process your hair on your own.
If your hair is significantly damaged or has been extensively color treated, it's probably best to book an appointment at a salon. Damaged hair will react differently to a perm than healthy hair will, and a trained stylist will know how to bridge the difference.
If your hair is already a bit wavy or kinky, try to find a stylist who specializes in working with such hair. He or she will be able to ensure that you come out with a smooth permed look, instead of having curls with intermittent kinks.
If you have fairly healthy hair with plenty of elasticity, you've done an at-home perm before, or you're generally an expert at doing your own hair, you can probably get away with perming your hair at home.
 Do you want small, tight curls? Or maybe you want larger, bouncy curls? Whatever it is, get a good idea of what you expect before you set out to perm your hair.


Understand that your hair will be tighter when it first comes out of the curlers than it will be for the duration of your perm. The curls will "fall" a bit as time goes on. It might be a good idea, then, to perm your hair just a little more tightly than you want it.
 A perm can take anywhere from 2 to 4 hours to accomplish. After that, you'll have to let the perm "set" for 24 hours, which means no washing or styling your hair, and no pulling it back. Additionally, you won't be able to wash your hair until 48 hours after the perm. Make sure your schedule can accommodate these limits.

