 This step is especially important if this is your first time using a new lawn mower: check the oil and gas tanks and make sure that both have been filled properly, in accordance with the guidelines set out in the owner’s manual.Lawn mowers run best off of fresh, clean unleaded gasoline. This can be the same as the type that you put in your vehicle. The gas should be at least 87 octane, and should not contain higher than 10% ethanol.Gasoline with higher ethanol levels is corrosive, attracts water, and can damage the interior of the lawn mower’s gas tank.;
, If you have never used this particular lawn mower before, or if the mower has been active for an extended period of time (for example, over the winter), you’ll need to press the primer button a few times. This will channel gasoline into the mower’s engine.If you’re not sure which is the primer button, check for a diagram or schematic in the owner’s manual. This will show the layout of the lawn mower, including the primer button.
 If you stand behind the mower (in the position from which you’ll push it to mow your lawn), you should see a bar or lever by the top of the handle. Grasp this lever and pull it towards you, holding it against the top bar of the mower. You should be able to hold the lever and bar together in one hand.This lever needs to be in “starting” position before you pull the starting cord. Also, in order for the lawn mower’s motor to keep running, you’ll need to keep holding this lever while you use the mower.
 The starting cord should be on the base of the lawn mower, and will have a plastic cord to grasp. Hold onto this firmly, and give the starting cord a single smooth, long pull upward. Do not jerk or yank on the cord. Pull quickly until the cord has fully extended. If the mower has not started, repeat the process several times.Some models of lawn mower will have more than one handle attached to the starting cord. If this is the case with your model, hold both handles in one hand and use them both to pull forcefully on the starting cord.

