 He says that he'll check around the Manor and for you to check around town for Claudia. Tap the shoe and go outside.;
,,, Tap on the boat to get Puzzle 013.
, Find them in the box under the counter, the back wall cabinet, and the 3rd shelf.
 You will get a painting scrap if you solve the puzzle correctly.
, Go through a scenario with Franco. Supposedly Professor Layton left the drawbridge down and someone entered the village while Franco was taking a break. He gives Layton a gizmo that was left behind. Go into Town Hall by tapping on the blue door.
 Get them by tapping on the picture frame on the right hand side on top of the bed (near the ceiling), the long cabinet on the left of Rodney's legs, and the small space underneath the table by the left window.
 You will get a gizmo when you solve the puzzle correctly.
,,, Tap for hint coins. Find them in the pouch hanging off the window, underneath the dock of where Layton and Luke is standing, and the top left window of the white building.
 You will get a gizmo for solving this puzzle.
 Layton suggests that both of them find lodging since they're unable to leave the village.
 He will then give you Puzzle 017 and a painting scrap when you solve it. Tap on the Inn door.
 Check in between the sofa cushions, the top portion of the desk lamp, and the pot of flowers above the sofa.
 She'll tell you that there are no rooms available, but only two attic rooms. She'll give you a stool to make up for it; give it to Layton. Tap on her again for Puzzle 018. Solve it to get a hand woven rug and give it to Layton as well.
, Get the hint coins here. Tap on the barrel, the highest window there, and the box on the left.
 Get a gizmo by solving both puzzles.
 Solve Puzzle 022 and she'll offer you fish bones to help catch Claudia.
 Go inside the restaurant.
 Look for the door notice, the chair on the bottom left, and the picture frame on the right hand side of the wall.
 He lost his measuring utensils and will give you Puzzle 023 and a gizmo by solving it correctly.
 This will also award you with another gizmo.
 Get hint coins here. Tap on the dirt area in front of the gate, look at the top of the left gate post, and the top edge of the wall on the right hand side.
 You can get a painting scrap if you solve it correctly.
 Because you have the fish bones from Agnes, you're now able to catch her.

