 Moriarty doesn't just notice little details, she notices every detail. Symmetry, patterns and the little things that make a person tick. In any given situation, force yourself to focus all your attention on the details. However, this doesn't mean focus on boring details. When you first start to train your brain to do this you may be tempted to go for easy details such as counting the number of buttons on someone's shirt, but that detail is unlikely to matter. Instead, get in the habit of asking yourself questions about the situation and trying to answer them, such as:


"Is this person acting differently than usual? How are they different? What could be causing them to act like this?"
Do I smell something different? What kind of perfume/cologne do they use? Are there any other smells?
Are they lying? How do I know? What are they lying about? Why would they lie?
The "trick" to noticing details is to question absolutely everything. All those questions and their answers are as natural to Moriarty as breathing. She asks herself dozens of questions and comes up with their answers for absolutely everything, people, paintings, literature and business deals.;
,


Have a logical understanding of your skills. Know exactly what you can and can't do and to what degrees.
Make logical decisions, for each decision weigh up pros and cons. Do not let your feelings play a role in your decision-making process.
If you do find yourself too emotionally involved in anything, a deal or a person, make logical countermeasures to keep you level headed.
 For a brilliant mind like Jamie Moriarty's, mind-numbing activities like endless scrolling through Tumblr or daytime TV marathons would be akin to torture. Make sure the ways you spend your time benefit you in some way, even when not working.


Put your time spent online to good use. Don't mindlessly scroll through memes or fandom posts. Don't spend hours on Facebook. Don't troll people on 4chan. Use the internet to read up on things that interest you or find information. Better yet, try to get a little deeper into the net than just what Google has to offer. Try to teach yourself rudimentary hacking or check out the deep web.
Don't just read for the sake of saying you read. Either read something artful or read something with proper information. Put down the young adult fiction and read a classic or find a fascinating piece of nonfiction.
Overall, Moriarty can not be comfortable if her mind isn't busy. If you truly wish to be like her you can never let your mind rest.

