 You will need 1 cup (125 grams) of cornstarch. If you do not have access to a stove, you can use a microwave instead. Find a microwave-safe bowl and fill it with 1 cup (125 grams) of cornstarch.
;
, You will need 1 cup (225 milliliters) of white glue, 1 tablespoon of lemon juice, and 1 tablespoon of baby oil. Mix everything together with a spoon or whisk.










The lemon juice acts as a preservative, which is important if you don't plan on using your clay all at once.If you do not have lemon juice, you can use 1 tablespoon of white vinegar instead., Keep stirring until the mixture starts to thicken and come away from the sides of the pot.










If you are using a microwave, mix everything together first until you have achieved a paste-like consistency, then put the bowl into the microwave and heat it 1 minute and 30 seconds. Pause the microwave every 30 seconds and stir the contents before continuing to heat., If you are using a microwave, take the bowl out of the microwave and give the mixture one final stir. Let the dough cool enough so that you can touch it without scalding yourself.
 To prevent the dough from sticking, dust the surface you will be working on with cornstarch. Knead the dough with your hands until it is smooth.
 You can either paint the clay once it has dried, or you can mix some color into it. Add a few drops of food coloring or acrylic paint and knead the clay until you get an even color.
 Before you can use the clay, roll it up into a ball and tuck it into a plastic, resealable bag. Zip the bag close tightly and let it sit in a cool place overnight.
 The clay will be ready to use the following day. You can sculpt with it and let it air dry. If you didn't color the clay, wait until it dries before painting it with acrylic paint. This clay does not need to be baked.



Consider massaging some cold cream onto your hands before working with the clay. This will help prevent sticking.If your clay starts to dry out, you can knead a little bit of cold cream into it to soften it up again.