 The purple flower potato bush will thrive in US zones 8 to 11. Make sure to choose a spot in your garden where the bush will have plenty of space - around 40 inches (101.6 cm) on each side. This plant typically grows to about 5 feet (1.5 m) in height, so take that into account when planning your garden.


The zones refer to the location you live in, as outlined by the USDA Hardiness Zone Map. This map divides North America into 11 zones, according to average annual minimum winter temperatures. Each zone has an average winter temperature that is 10 °F (−12 °C) warmer (or colder) than the zone adjacent to it.






To find out which hardiness zone you live in, go to the National Gardening Association website and enter your zip code.;
, It's important that your purple flower potato bush gets plenty of sunlight, so make sure to choose a sunny spot in your garden for planting.


This plant is native to warm climates, so in cold areas it’s important to plant it in a sheltered area to help it survive the winter. Against a red brick wall - out of the wind - is ideal.
 The purple flower potato bush favors well-draining soil, so avoid planting it anywhere puddles form and linger after rainfall. If drainage is a problem in your garden, consider incorporating lots of organic matter or grit into the soil to improve the drainage ahead of planting.


The plant will prefer soil with a pH that is either neutral or slightly alkaline, but this isn't critical.






If your garden soil is sandy, it may be advisable to add some lime at planting time. This will result in better flowering.
 When you plant your purple flower potato bush, add an organic mulch to enrich the soil, conserve moisture and protect the roots. Incorporate three inches of well-rotted manure or leaf mold to the soil during planting.
 Keep the plant well-watered until it is established. This usually takes about a year.
 If your area experiences particularly cold winters, consider planting your purple flower potato bush in a container that can be moved indoors during the worst winter frosts.


As it is a large plant that will require a big container, it's advisable to use a container that's fitted with wheels to make moving it easier.






Relocate the plant to a less cold area during frosty weather: a greenhouse or conservatory is ideal.
 It’s important to keep your purple flower potato plant watered during the growing season, especially if the weather is dry. However, your should avoid over-watering it as this inhibits flower production.


You can cut right back on watering over the colder months.






Once established, the plant will be drought-tolerant but it’s still advisable to water during dry periods, especially if the soil becomes dry below the surface.
 The purple flower potato bush prefers even moisture in the soil so keep the layer of mulch topped up and remember to replace it annually. This will help to keep moisture in the ground.
 In the spring, feed your purple flower potato bush with a high-phosphorous fertilizer and continue to do so every few weeks during the growing season.


If you aren't sure what kind of fertilizer you have, check the ingredients. The amount of phosphorous should be higher than the amount of nitrogen in the mix. Nitrogen encourages leaf growth instead of flower growth.






If you prefer a more organic fertilizer, bone meal is a good high-phosphorous choice.
 The purple flower potato bush is vulnerable to pests and diseases. Keep a careful eye out for aphids and use bug spray if they appear. Other issues to be wary of include blights and mildew.
 As flowers tend to develop on fresh shoots, cutting the plant back after each flush of flowering helps to encourage more flowers to form. To prune your purple flower potato bush, cut stems back by about a third (cutting to just above a leaf node) in the mid-late summer flowering period.
 Ground-planted purple flower potato bushes will benefit from a mulch before the ground gets cold. This will help to protect the roots over the winter months.


If you’re lucky enough to live in an area that is frost-free, your purple flower potato bush may bloom year-round.
In other areas, you can expect it to die back in winter but re-grow and blossom again the following year.
 A really brutal frost can kill this plants off completely. If you expect a particularly cold snap, you could try fleece-protection using special plant cladding from the garden center.


Some gardeners recommend wrapping the plant with fairy lights suitable for outdoor use and then wrapping in an old shower curtain or similar.
 If you are growing your purple flower potato bush in a pot, you may like to overwinter it in a shed or conservatory, where it will be protected from winter frosts. However, this is only necessary if you live in areas that experience a lot of frost.
 You should prune your purple flower potato bush over the dormant winter period, in December or January. You'll want to cut the stems back by about a third at this time, though if you want to contain the size of the plant you can prune more aggressively.


To prune the stems, cut to a point just above a leaf node. Any diseased or damaged shoots should also be removed.
Also remove any suckers – the shoots that form from the rootstock – unless you want the plant to spread.
 To check if your purple flower potato bush has survived the winter, try scratching away the bark from a stem at the base of the plant. If it is still green and fresh inside (rather than woody), your plant is still alive and should regrow soon.

