 You can go from scratch but that is going to take some time to mix all the ingredients together and probably will be more expensive. You can add cinnamon, vanilla or almond extract for some flavor. Maybe chili powder if you want some heat in your breakfast. You can add a little bit of oil so that your waffles cook crisp, golden brown and release from the iron easier.;
, Once the ingredients are mixed, it's time to heat up your waffle iron. Put the iron on a flat surface that won't have it slide around too badly. Make sure that it is away from the sink or water. Put a paper towel or a plate under the waffle iron in case of leaking batter.
 On the inside of the waffle iron's clam shell design will be our cooking surface. The black portion is a Teflon, non-stick coating so that you can easily remove your waffles. Now this is important! Be careful not to scratch this coating off because your waffles will stick to the iron and flakes of Teflon could get in your food and make you ill (and not the cool kind of "ill").
 Even though the waffle iron is non-stick, it is a good idea to grease it with some spray oil. Just a light coating should do the trick. Now, close up the clam shell and plug that bad boy in! If your iron has a light or so on it, you'll see it turn on when you plug it in. The light will either turn off after a bit or turn on depending on the model. This is the indication that the iron is hot and ready to go. Warning, don't touch the cooking surface with your hands or the metal coil that is located in the back of the unit. These are very hot and you can burn your self.
 After the indicator light turns off or on, or say a few minutes have elapsed since you plugged the unit in, open up the clam shell of the waffle iron. Take your mix and slowly pour it in the middle so that you cover half of the lower or nearest cooking surface. Put your mix aside and close the clam shell. You'll have some steam coming out the side and you will probably see the iron's top raise some from expansion of gas inside the batter. The indicator light may turn off/on directly after closing the clam shell.
 Your waffle will be ready when either the indicator light on the unit turns back on or off. Keep an eye on the side of the unit. Too much batter in the iron will leak out the side, but that's what the plate/paper towel is for. If your waffle iron doesn't have a light on it, but you can see the waffle peaking out some from the side, look for it to turn less batter like and more like cake. This means your waffle's top and bottom is golden brown and ready for removal.
 If it isn't fully cooked close the lid and wait a minute. When the waffle appears golden and crisp, gently remove it, trying not to scratch the Teflon coating of the iron. Close the clam shell lid on the iron and plate that delectable waffle. Butter it and smoother it with syrup, enjoy the goodness of its goodness. If you have more batter, cook that up or cover and put in the fridge for tomorrow. You may wonder why we are eating the first waffle before waiting for the others to finish. That's because usually the first waffle will be cold before the second comes off the iron. Might as well enjoy them hot while you can.
 When you are all done cooking, unplug the waffle iron and open up the clam shell to let it cool down. Enjoy the waffles you made. Once the unit is cool and you are full, grab yourself a washcloth or paper towel and wipe down the Teflon cooking surface, make sure to get all sides, top/bottom to prevent gross, charred build up impressed into your next batch of waffles. Wipe the sides off of excess batter spillage and store the unit away.
