 Almost all of the calcium in your body gets stored in your bones and teeth, making them stronger. When you don’t get enough calcium in a single day, the calcium will go directly to your bloodstream, rather than to you bones. When you continue to not get enough calcium over several days or weeks, the calcium that is stored in your bones will become depleted, making your bones weaker. A high calcium diet can keep your bones strong and prevent stress fractures.


You can take calcium supplements each day. The recommended amount for adults ages 19 to 50 is generally 1000 mg of calcium a day. However, it is always good to talk to your doctor before taking new supplements.You can also eat your daily amount of calcium. Calcium-rich foods include: beans, broccoli, figs, fortified breakfast cereals, seaweed, spinach, tofu, nuts and seeds such as almonds, sesame, pistachio and hazelnuts, and dairy products like milk and cheese.
 Your body needs vitamin D to absorb calcium correctly. Without enough vitamin D, your body has trouble storing the calcium in your bones and instead keeps most of your calcium in your bloodstream. Because of this, your bones get weak and you are more likely to develop a stress fracture. You can get vitamin D in two ways: through exposing your skin to sunlight, and through your diet. Adults 19 to 70 should try to get about 600 IU of vitamin D a day.Sunlight: When you spend time outside in the sun, your body absorbs vitamin D directly from the sunlight. If you are concerned about getting burned or that your climate is too hot to be in the sun in the middle of the day, you can spend time in the sun between 6 am and 8 am.
Diet: Foods that contain vitamin D include cod liver oil, fish, fortified cereals, oysters, caviar, tofu, soy milk, salami, ham, sausages, dairy products, eggs, and mushrooms.
 Green tea is thought to improve bone density, making your bones stronger. Green tea contains catechins (also referred to as tea polyphenols) which are compounds that stimulate bone density growth. This tea also stops excessive osteoclasts, which can slowly begin to dissolve your bones.Try to drink green tea every day.
 Canned or packaged food tend to contain more phosphoric acid than fresh food. While phosphoric acid in small doses will not do much harm, getting too much of it may affect the calcium in your bones by decreasing the calcium levels. This in turn can make your bones weaker.Phosphoric acid is primarily found in sodas.

