 If you do not feel your employer has resolved this issue to your satisfaction, and you believe your harassment is discriminatory in nature, you can file a complaint (called a Charge of Discrimination) with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) if you live in the United States. You must file your report within certain time limits, depending on the state in which you live and the nature of your complaint.The EEOC may investigate your complaint and suggest you begin a mediation process to solve the problem with your employer.
The EEOC may open a formal investigation of your complaint. Depending on the nature of your complaint and federal, state, and local laws, they may find that you have the right to sue your employer for discrimination. They may also attempt to work toward a settlement with your employer on your behalf.
The EEOC may not find your employer to be in violation of any laws and may decline to intervene in your case.
 If you are represented by a union in your workplace, talk to your union representative about the union’s ability to stand up to your workplace harassment with you. The union’s obligation and protocol will be spelled out in your union and employer’s collective bargaining agreement.Your union can help you demand that your employer take action to protect you from harassment, as well as help you protect yourself from the harasser.The union can help you file a grievance with your employer if your harasser is in management.If the harasser is a fellow union member, the union can help investigate the harassment, warn the harasser to stop, and/or file a grievance on your behalf to management for their failure to deal with the problem., You may wish to contact an attorney who specializes in employment law who can help you figure out what steps you would like to take against your employer. The attorney could provide a consultation that will help you determine if you have a case, as well as the type of action you would like to take against your employer.


Ask family or friends for attorney recommendations, or look online for attorneys near you. Meet with a few to determine the best fit for your needs and budget.
 You may wish to look for another job if your work environment does not improve after repeated conversations with your supervisors and/or your employer’s human resources department. Staying in a stressful harassment situation can damage your mental and physical health.Ask your employer for a positive recommendation. You could say, “As I followed appropriate workplace protocol for reporting this harassment, and continued to complete my work successfully in spite of a difficult work environment, I would appreciate a positive letter of recommendation and reference for my next employer.”
Avoid mentioning the harassment when interviewing with prospective employers. While it is unfair, you may be seen as a difficult employee if you have brought charges of harassment to the attention of your previous employer. If you are asked in an interview why you are leaving your current position, you could say, “I’m looking for new challenges and see this position as an opportunity for my professional growth.”If you suspect your former employer is giving you a bad recommendation, you may be able to do damage control. You can call HR at your old company and explain that you feel your boss is retaliating after your claims of harassment. Many companies now have policies about references — simply confirming that you worked there and the dates of employment — as bad references can sometimes lead to lawsuits.
You can also send a "cease and desist" letter to the CEO or HR department stating the name of the person who gave the bad reference, suggesting they simply confirm your title and dates of employment. They may fear that you are going to pursue legal action and the behavior will most likely stop.