 Making direct and extended eye contact with someone shows that you are interested in them. If you are having a conversation with her and you look her in the eyes, it demonstrates that you are listening, engaged, and care about what she is talking about. Eye contact forms a connection between two people, promoting the idea that you "can’t take your eyes off each other.", Complimenting someone is a way to show that you have noticed something about them and it is something you like. Even if it is something small, it shows that you are paying attention to her and care enough to let her know.For instance, you could compliment her personality by saying: "You have a great sense of humor."
Alternatively, you could comment on her appearance by saying: "You have beautiful eyes."

, Body language can tell someone a lot about how you feel towards them. When you use open body language, you are physically showing that you are comfortable and open to interactions with the person. Examples of open body language include:Angling your body to face her.
Leaning in towards her.
Smiling, laughing and warm facial expressions.
Nodding when she is talking.
Mirroring her gestures and body language.
 Spending time and hanging out with her will show that you are okay with her flirting and are interested in her as well. While you are spending time with her make sure you have quality conversations and ask her questions. This shows that you want to get to get to know her better., Letting her know how you feel provides a way for both of you to more clearly communicate your feelings and intentions. Telling her you are interested will allow her to respond directly and you can both proceed accordingly, and with a better sense of what you want to happen next.


It can be very difficult to accurately determine if someone is flirting, so the best way to find out is through a direct conversation with the person.
Try saying "I really enjoy spending time with you and I think I am starting to develop feelings for you. Do you feel the same way?"

, Flirting often happens through text or online messages, not just in person. Some tips for responding positively to flirting through text include:Making sure your messages have value and aren't generic, so you don't come across as boring or dull.
Answering her questions with more than just a yes or no. Give more details about yourself and start a conversation.
Joking or playfully teasing her. Creating playful, light banter over text will help build a connection.
Avoiding over texting. Sending her way more messages than she sends you will make you look desperate and could be annoying for her.
Using texting to set up a date.

