 By effectively lifting your arms while leaving them fully extended, you can work the full range of your upper back’s muscles. You’ll need a bit of space for spreading out your arms, but won’t need any equipment other than your dumbbells.Bend at the waist with your feet shoulder-width apart and knees bent, back straight, abs pulled in, butt out. Hold dumbbells with your palms facing in and your elbows slightly bent. Your arms should be hanging toward the ground, but not dangling loosely.
Slowly elevate your arms out to the side. They should end parallel to the ground. Make sure to keep your elbows slightly bent, and use your upper back to carry the weights up.
Slowly lower your arms back to their original position. Your arm muscles should be focused on staying straight. Let your back do the work.
Repeat the exercise, slowly elevating and returning your arms for about 30 seconds. Keep your spine straight during this exercise, and make sure that your arms don’t swing. Moving slowly will help make sure your back is doing the work.
 You can work your upper back by pulling weight upward, a similar motion to rowing a boat. This will help develop your shoulders and upper back, building muscle to help your arms when lifting things. You’ll want access to a weight bench, or at least a low, sturdy chair with which you can support yourself.Put one knee and hand on a weight bench or sturdy chair for support, and hold a dumbbell in the other hand. Keep that arm extended toward the floor.
Pull the weight upward by bringing your elbow toward your body. Make sure to tighten your back muscles for each rep. At the height of your rowing, hold the position for a second to maximize the contraction.
Slowly lower your arm.
Make sure your movements are slow and deliberate to make sure you are properly working the muscles in your back. You shouldn’t be jerking your arms up and down, but slowly moving them between the positions.
Do this for 30 seconds with one arm, then switch sides to work both shoulders. One set involves working both arms.
If you don’t have a bench or a sturdy chair, bend your knees and hips to lean forward towards the floor. You want to be pulling upwards to use gravity for additional resistance. If you are leaning forward, you can also use two dumbbells at once since you won’t need the other hand for support.
If you don’t have dumbbells, look for something that weighs about 3 to 5 pounds, and you can hold easily in your hand. The weight is there to provide resistance, so as long as you can grip it easily in one hand, it will help. A can of food from your pantry is a good replacement., Deadlifts will also really engage the backs of your legs. Rounding your back during this exercise can cause serious injury — make sure you keep it straight. When done correctly, however, reaching downward can help stretch out the muscles in your middle and lower back.Stand up straight with your feet shoulder-width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, and make sure your knees are slightly bent.
Bend forward at the hips, keeping your back straight, until your back is almost parallel to the floor; the dumbbells should be at about shin-height. Make sure your arms stay straight in order to make sure it is your back doing the work lowering you down. Keep your abs pulled in to protect the lower back from rounding and becoming injured.
After a brief pause at that position, slowly raise your upper body back until you are fully upright.
 This exercise will use the dumbbells to provide resistance as you bend over. In addition, the twisting you make moving between feet with help strengthen your lower back and core. Keep your abs tight throughout, back straight.


Stand up straight with your feet spread further than shoulder-width apart. Have a weight in each hand. If you only have one dumbbell, grab it with both hands.
Inhale and reach your hands down to one foot, twisting your body toward that foot. Make sure your knees are slightly bent and that your arms stay straight. Keep the forward reach well within comfortable range of motion.
Slowly stand up straight, then lower your upper body towards your other foot. Continue alternating sides.
This exercise should not be performed by anyone with any lower back pain, or sciatica, since this move may aggravate that condition.

