 Because your heavy winter bedding is delicate, you should select the delicate cycle on the washing machine so as not to rend it. The delicate setting might be called “gentle.”, Using too much detergent on your fabric and strip your duvet or comforter’s fabric. The right volume of detergent depends on your detergent brand.Directions for use should be on the label of your detergent container. Check the label for directions about how much detergent to use on heavy winter bedding, or on comforters.
If the detergent container does not provide specific directions for use with heavy winter bedding, just use slightly less than the amount suggested for the smallest load.
For instance, if the detergent manufacturer recommends filling the detergent cup to the first line, fill the detergent cup 75% of the way to the first fill line.
 Run the bedding through the wash cycle once with detergent. Then run the duvet or comforter through the washing machine again without detergent. This will give it extra time to wash out excess detergent that may have soaked into the fabric.Ensure you wash the comforter on delicate during both the first and second washing cycles.
 Front-loading washing machines allow bedding to tumble around gently and have a lower potential for tearing than do top-loading washing machines, which can cause fabric to wrap around the central agitator. Even if you do happen to have a front-loading washing machine at your home, chances are that it is not the extra-large size the can comfortably accommodate heavy winter bedding. Instead of risking damage to your heavy winter bedding, take it to the laundromat., When you’ve finished washing your down comforter, take it home and air dry it by hanging it on the laundry line. If you don’t have a laundry line, set up a drying rack (or two) inside and lay your comforter across it.Most of the comforter should be facing up, but it’s okay if some of it is draped over the edge of the rack.
Just make sure that at no point is the comforter bunched over on itself.
Don’t hang your comforter on the laundry line outside if the weather is cool or cold.
If you’re drying the heavy winter bedding inside, place a space heater about three feet (one meter) from the drying rack on low heat to accelerate the process. This is especially important when drying the heavy bedding during winter.

