 If you want your child to pursue a hobby, you should find something that they enjoy. For example, your blind or visually impaired child may enjoy activities that rely on auditory rather than visual skills. If they enjoy singing or dancing around the house, you may want to consider a music-based hobby such as playing a musical instrument or taking vocal lesson.Alternatively, your child may want a more tactile hobby such as sculpting.;
, You can also ask your child directly about their interests to see if they would like to develop a more formal hobby. For example, you may notice that your child enjoys playing with stickers. You could ask them if they would like a book to put stickers in and begin a collection.Alternatively, you could ask them if they would be interested in taking art lessons or joining a sports team.
 Allow your child to explore a number of different hobbies until they find a few that they are passionate about. For instance, you can sign your child up for a number of different organized activities such as art lessons, gymnastics lessons, and skating lessons. Alternatively, you could encourage them to try out new hobbies at home., Hobbies are an excellent way to help your child develop new skills. You may consider choosing a hobby based on the skills that it will help teach your child.For instance, if your child is extremely shy, you may want to find a group activity. Find a local group of hobbyists so your child can meet others who share similar passions.This will give them the opportunity to learn social skills. Hobby stores may be able to direct you to local groups.
 One way that you can encourage your child to take part in a hobby is by signing them up for classes or other extra curricular activities. If your child wants to try painting, you should look into finding a local art class.


You can also look into programming designed specifically for visually impaired and blind children.
 You can also support your child’s hobby by purchasing the equipment and materials that they will need to succeed. For example, if your child has decided to collect stamps, you could buy them a book to put the stamps in as well as a few stamps to put in their collection.Alternatively, your child may need assistive technology to help them complete a specific hobby. If your visually impaired child is interested in needlepoint, you can buy a hands-free magnifier to help assist with the craft., Set aside time daily for your child to practice their hobby. For instance, if your child has decided to pursue a musical instrument, they will need to practice playing the instrument on a regular basis. Give your child one to two hours each day to engage in any sort of hobby.If your blind or visually impaired child is interested in painting, you can provide them with time to practice the Impasto painting technique which uses texture to create detail., Your child may not be the best soccer player, musician, or artist, but it is important that you always provide your child with positive and supportive feedback. This will help encourage your child to stick with their hobby. The most important thing is that they are having fun and taking part in an activity that they enjoy., Blind and visually impaired children will have difficulty following instructions that are based on visual representations. As a result it is important that all instructions be explained orally. Your child may also need additional help positioning their body until the learn the appropriate movement.


For example, if your child’s coach is showing the kids how to kick a soccer ball the coach could say something like “Place the ball on the ground in front of you. Then pull back your right or left foot and swing it forward. You want the ball to make contact with the side of your foot, not your toe.”

, Blind or visually impaired children can engage in certain sports and other physical activities with a few basic modifications. One way to do this is by using larger balls. This will allow a visually impaired child to see the ball better and will make it easier for them to engage in the activity.For example, have your child play volleyball using a large beach ball that is much easier to see.
 The use of larger targets can also help blind or visually impaired children engage in sports. For example, create a larger soccer goal or tie bright flags to it, so that it is easier for the child to see., Additional audio cues can also help blind or visually impaired children take part in certain hobbies. For example, if your blind or visually impaired child wants to try bowling, you can place a sound source behind the pins, this way they will aim at an auditory instead of a visual target.This can be done with a variety of different sports and activities and will help visually impaired or blind children aim.
 If your child wants to pursue an artistic hobby, you can modify the activity to make it easier for them to see. For example, children with low vision will be able to see colours that contrast better. As a result you should set up bright paints on a white pallet. This way the child will be able to see the different colours. Similarly, you should always work on a white canvas and use dark or bright colours.