 There are hundreds of companies in New York that offer walking tours. Use the internet to look up tour companies that offer the type of tour that you want. Visit the tour operator’s website to see what type of tours they offer, how much each tour costs, and how far in advance you have to book. Start early. Some tours may need to booked up to a month in advance. You may want to call the company and ask questions, such as:


”What is the total distance we will be walking?”
“How large is the average tour group? Do you offer small-group or private tours?”“Can you make accommodations for people with special needs?”
“What is your cancellation policy?”
“How do you differ from other tour companies?”"Are your tour guides natives or long-term residents?", When you have found a few options, find reviews for the tour company. Look on review websites to see what people are saying about the company. If reviews say that a certain tour guide is particularly good, you might want to see if you can get on their tour.Some good sites to look up reviews include:


TripAdvisor
Yelp
City Search

, Look on the tour operator’s website to see how you can sign up for a tour. Some might have you call their number; others will ask you to fill in an online form. Submit the information, and double-check that you have selected the correct tour, day, and time.


You should try to receive a confirmation by email from the company. If you do not receive one within 24 hours, contact them and ask them to send it again.
 Most tour companies will email you a confirmation. This confirmation might have a barcode on it or it may just have your name and receipt. Print this off to bring with you on your trip. You may have to show it before you can join the tour.


Some companies may accept a confirmation on your phone, but you should double-check with the operator before you go.
 Make sure to show up to the tour fifteen minutes before it starts. Most tours leave exactly on time, and the extra minutes will help the operator check you in. If you are late to the tour, you may miss it, and you may not be entitled to a refund.The night before, you should look up how to reach the meeting place for the tour. Make sure you know how to get there so that you can arrive on time.

