 Did you do something to rouse the anger of this person (or persons)? If so, can you change your behavior? Or, are you being harassed for a silly reason, such as the fact that you wear braces? If so, recognize that the bully is attacking you just because the bully feels s/he can. They also want attention and enjoy the fact that they have the power to hurt others. Read below for more tips on how to deal with these qualities in the typical bully.;
, Talk to your best friends or your parents first, and tell them about the problem. They may have some advice for the first steps to take. Don't be afraid to get your teachers involved if you aren't able to put a stop to the bullying on your own and/or with others that you talked with.
 It's very important to have people standing by your side at school. When many people stand up for you and defend you, bullies are afraid to play bad tricks on you. You don't need an army. It really only takes one or two strong allies to make a positive difference. They should be friends, and if they are a true friend, they will stand up for you in no time, no matter who the bully is. The same goes with you.
 Try to have funny, witty replies if bullies make fun of you. Don't be afraid to speak your mind. If you give them a good reply, they may be too intimidated to speak again to you. Example: They draw a picture of you, and the picture is ugly. Say: "Haha! That's a funny picture!"
Avoidance. If you're not witty or funny, just avoid them. Don't talk to them, don't show them that you care about the things they say. Soon they will become bored with your lack of response and stop annoying you.
 For instance, if they make a comment on the fact that your hair looks messy, you can say, "Thanks for reminding me to brush it"!

, The aim is to make you angry, so don't give bullies the pleasure of seeing you getting cross. The more reaction they get, the better these people like picking on you. If you show less interest, they will follow suit soon.
 Are you big, compared to the bullies? Or are you small, skinny, etc. Bullies are often only interested in bullying someone who can be bullied - see? If you appear weak physically, that may make you a target, but even a bigger person can be picked on if a bully senses that the bigger person is afraid or timid. If you are small: Avoidance may be your best bet, but you can also try "seeming bigger" (try the next suggestion). Even if you are big talk to a faculty or an older friend and let them know that you are being bothered. Responding by any form of aggression will make you an ally in the longer scheme of things. Never show aggression even if it was only intended as a show. Usually in situations it is hard to maintain emotional control and things get worse. The only way to put an end to the chain reaction is to step away calmly from the situation but surely reporting it to more mature people who can help you.
 This will increase your self confidence in handling such situations with even greater emotional poise. But never use your strength to bully in reverse. If attacked you have the right to defend yourself.

