 Set your oven to 400°F (204°C). Generally, you can expect your oven to finish preheating in about 15 minutes, though the time this takes will vary from oven to oven. While the oven is preheating, prepare other parts of this recipe to optimize your use of time., In a small mixing bowl, whisk together these ingredients. If you don’t have a whisk, agitate the ingredients with a fork until all ingredients are evenly distributed., Add the chickpeas to the seasoning in the mixing bowl. Toss the peas in the ingredients with a wooden spoon to coat them in the seasoning. Then drizzle olive oil over the peas. Mix the peas with the wooden spoon again to coat them in the oil., Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Spread the chickpeas in an even layer on top of the parchment paper. Insert the baking sheet into the oven for 30 to 35 minutes. Stir the chickpeas halfway through baking with a wooden spoon to promote even crisping.

Your oven may run a little hot and need less time to bake the chickpeas. When the peas look crisp, they’re ready to come out of the oven.
Use safety implements when handling hot items from the oven. For example, use an oven mitt or potholders when removing the baking sheet.
Your chickpeas may get stuck to the parchment paper. Stir them gently with a wooden spoon to knock them loose after taking them from the oven.
Set your baking sheet and chickpeas off to the side to be used later., Heat a large skillet over medium heat. Coat the bottom of the skillet in olive oil. Insert the sweet potato noodles and sprinkle them with salt, pepper, and garlic powder. Cover the skillet and let it cook for 5 to 7 minutes. Toss the ingredients occasionally while cooking.

In some cases, your noodles may take more or less time to cook. When the noodles are cooked through, they’re done.
When the noodles are finished, transfer them to a large serving bowl and set them off to the side., Add all the dressing ingredients to a blender. Pulse the blender until the mixture is creamy. Taste the dressing and add ingredients to round out the flavor profile to suit your preferences.

If you want your dressing to be tangier, add some more lemon juice to it. For a spicier flavor, add pepper. A sharper flavor can be achieved by adding more Dijon mustard., After the sweet potatoes are finished, wipe out your skillet with a paper towel. Coat the skillet’s bottom with cooking spray. Add and cook your kale in the skillet for 3 minutes, stirring it regularly. Season the kale with a little pepper and transfer it to the bowl with the sweet potato noodles.

Your kale might cook more or less quickly. When the kale has begun to wilt and is warmed up, it’s ready to be removed from the heat.While wiping out your skillet with paper towel, be careful not to burn yourself. The skillet will likely still be hot.
 Add your Caesar dressing over the noodles and kale in the serving bowl. Toss the noodles and kale to coat them completely in the dressing. Divide the noodles and kale into four portions, put these on servings plates, top everything with roasted chickpeas and enjoy.