 Angry feelings can be very overwhelming. It can also be difficult to know what to do with them. Talking with a trusted adult will be helpful in figuring out your feelings. This adult might be a parent, another family member, a teacher or counselor, or another adult friend. You can also ask your doctor about your feelings. This person can share his own experiences in dealing with angry feelings. He can also give you some perspective on your own feelings., Therapy is a great way to find new ways of dealing and expressing anger.Plenty of people see therapists when they want to learn some skills that will improve their lives. Other people see a therapist because they have been through a difficult time and need to talk about it.


Your therapist will most likely use relaxation techniques to help you calm down in the middle of an anger episode. Your therapist will also help you deal with the thoughts that can trigger anger and find new ways to view your situations.
You can see a therapist on your own or with your family. Think about what you would feel most comfortable with. Talk with your parents or a trusted adult about your interest in trying therapy.Therapists will also help you with emotional coping skills and assertiveness communication training.
Some psychotherapists specialize in helping clients work through their personal history, such as overcoming an abusive or neglectful childhood, or overcoming a tragic event. These therapists can be helpful in dealing with anger from past events.
 Anger management programs have been shown to have a high rate of success. The most successful programs help you understand your anger, give you short-term strategies to deal with your anger, and help you build skills.There are anger management programs specifically geared towards children, teens and families. Search online to find one in your area.
 Anger is often a part of different disorders, such as bipolar disorder, depression, and anxiety. Drug therapy for anger will depend on the condition the anger is occurring with. Taking the medications for the disorder could help the anger as well.For example, if the anger is occurring with depression, antidepressants can treat depression symptoms as well as anger. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like Lexapro or Zoloft might be used to treat generalized anxiety disorder. These drugs can also help relieve irritability you may experience as part of your anxiety.
Each drug has side effects. For example, lithium, which is used to treat bipolar disorder, has a very high rate of renal (kidney) complications. Being aware of the possible side effects will help you monitor for complications. It’s very important to discuss these possibilities openly with your doctor.

There is a small possibility that teens may experience suicidal thoughts when taking selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), especially in the first 4 weeks of treatment.SSRIs are commonly used for treating depression and anxiety.



