 One way to help a difficult child learn better behavior is to consistently provide feedback. By letting the child know what is and is not appropriate, you are helping to teach him ways to improve. Make sure that you are consistent in your reactions to certain behaviors or actions.


Provide social feedback. Let your child know how you feel by offering verbal praise or corrections. For example, you might say, "Thank you for remaining calm today, Tim. I know it was disappointing that it rained and you couldn't go to the park."
Provide concrete feedback. It can be useful to visually measure your difficult child's behavior. One way is to try a points system. For example, you could make a chart and post points every time your child does something positive (like cleaning her room without being asked). You can detract points for negative behavior. Visualizing the impact of her behavior can help your child learn the benefits of more positive actions.
 If you and your child are continuously experiencing conflict, you might need a little space. Taking a brief time-out can give both you and your child the time needed to calm down and reflect. Some space can go a long way towards solving problems.Ask a close friend or relative to watch your child while you take some time for yourself. It can be emotionally draining to handle a difficult child, so try to take some time each week to do something for yourself. Go to a movie or have dinner with a friend.
 You should consider whether your child is being difficult for a very specific reason. For example, maybe he is not getting enough sleep and is reacting by being difficult. A solution could be that you adjust your child's schedule and make sure that he gets the right amount of rest.There are many other factors that could impact your child's behavior. For example, maybe he is dealing with a health issue that you don't know about. Watch for any signs of physical discomfort, including lack of appetite or change in energy level.
 Remember that you are not alone. Hopefully, you have family and friends who can help you deal with this frustrating situation. Don't be afraid to ask someone you trust for advice.


Your friends and family can help in a couple of different ways. They might be able to communicate well with your child, and you can enlist their help in solving the problem. They might also just be willing to take care of your child for an evening, giving you a much needed break.
 Sometimes your child might need some help that you simply cannot provide. If your child's behavior seems beyond simple acting out, and has been going on for a while, it might be time to contact a mental health specialist. Many therapists specialize in treating youths, and can help you find a way to help your child.Ask your family doctor to recommend a therapist he trusts.
Don't be afraid to ask for help. There is no shame in helping your child live the best life he can.

