 This alternate recipe forgoes the lengthy boiling, cooling, and drying processes of traditional chicharrón preparation in favor of a quicker method that can produce delicious results in as little as an hour or two. To begin, use a sharp knife and/or kitchen shears to cut your pork belly into thin strips about the length of a piece of bacon. If you start with the recommended 1 & 1/2 pounds, you should end up with about 4 strips.


Note that this chicharrón recipe will differ in appearance and taste from the traditional one above, as it includes the fat and meat of the pork belly, rather than just the skin.
 Make lots of crosswise cuts about 1 - 1 & 1/2 inch deep into each strip of pork belly from the "meat side" of the strip towards the "skin side" of the strip. Making these cuts ensures the meat is able to cook all the way through during the frying process without burning.


Make sure that your cuts are fairly deep but do not reach the skin of the pork belly strips or they may break up during the cooking process.
 Set a pan over a burner on medium heat. While you're waiting for the pan to heat up, rub each pork belly strip with a thin layer of baking soda. This will help the meat develop a crisp, delicious crust as it cooks.
 When the pan is hot, carefully lay the baking soda-dusted pork belly strips in a circle around the center of the pan, leaving a small space in the middle. Pour the 1/2 cup of water into this space and cover the pork belly strips with a pot lid to retain the moisture. Allow to cook, flipping and moving the strips after about 15 minutes.


Be careful when you remove the pot lid to flip the meat, as the water/fat mixture can sputter, sending hot grease your way.
Since this recipe uses pork belly meat and fat in addition to the skin, we won't need to use any cooking oil, as the pork fat will naturally render as it cooks.
 As the water evaporates and is replaced by liquid fat from the pork belly, remove the lid and reduce the heat slightly. Allow the meat to continue to cook, flipping and moving the meat as necessary to ensure it cooks evenly. Cook over low heat in this way for about an hour to allow the fat to fully render.
 When meat is golden-brown and its fat is almost completely rendered, remove the pork belly from the pan. The meat isn't quite done yet - for maximum crispiness, it still needs one final "searing". When all the meat is out of the pan, turn the burner up to high and allow the liquified fat in the pan to heat.
 When the fat in the pan is nice and hot, cook the chicharrónes one or two at a time until they gain a delicious, crisp outer crust - this should only take a minute or two. Look for bubbling, "blistered" skin as a sign of done-ness. Remove each chicharrón from the pan to a paper towel-lined plate as it finishes cooking.
 Congratulations! You've finished a batch of mouth-watering pork belly chicharrónes. Sprinkle with salt and any other seasoning you like and serve immediately.

