 Add cushioning wherever there's a lot of pressure and/or friction. There are cushions made in various shapes and from different materials that you can stick on the inside of your shoe for more comfortable walking, thus preventing bunions and blisters. If your shoes are slightly too big and you find them slipping off your heel, get some insoles which can make the shoes smaller by half a size, while also adding comfort value. Use these these innovative items generously - there's really no need for discomfort!

, When wearing high heels, the best advice you can take to prevent pain is just to sit down whenever possible! This will give your feet a break and will stop any pain or discomfort from building, keeping your feet fresh.









Remember to cross your legs, sitting up straight and stretching out your legs from the waist down. This is also a great opportunity to show off your fabulous shoes!Try not to take your heels off, if at all possible, your feet will swell up and you'll find the shoes harder and more painful to put on again.
 Shoes with straps that fasten securely around your foot and ankle are more comfortable to wear as they prevent your foot from slipping around too much inside the shoe, reducing friction and pain. Platform shoes give you all the benefits of extra height, without the discomfort of feeling like you're standing on your tip toes. Your foot is more parallel to the ground in a platform shoe - making them a great option for nights on the dance floor!

, High heels look fabulous, but they will have more of an effect and give you extra "oomph!" when you save them for special occasions. If you wear them too often, blisters, and bunions are more likely to form and you will also put pressure on your lower back. Your feet (and the rest of your body) need some time to recover.









If you need to wear heels everyday for work, at least try wearing different shoes, with varying heights. This prevent too much pressure or friction from concentrating on one particular spot and keep your feet feeling fresh.