 The vast distances between many major destinations in Russia means taking domestic flights is often a necessity when traversing different regions of Russia, unless you have considerable amounts of time to spare


There are over 1,200 airports throughout Russia, so chances are wherever you want to go, it’s at least partly reachable by plane!
Aeroflot and S7 (Siberian Airlines) are the biggest domestic airlines.
Other domestic flyers are Russia Airlines, Utair and Transaero.;
, The Trans-Siberian Railway in the most famous long distance rail journey in Russia but with over 85,000 kilometers (53,000 mi) of railway lines criss-crossing the country.


Train travel is an inexpensive and often breathtakingly beautiful way to reach countless awesome destinations within Russia.
The network is run by Russian Railways, and its English language website (http://eng.rzd.ru) includes timetables and a network map.
Buying tickets is best done at the station. English is rarely spoken, but if you simply let them know your intended destination (a map in Russian can be a big help), purchasing tickets rarely poses any difficulties.
 Most tourists prefer the relative speed and reliability of Russia’s long distance trains, but buses can be a fun and interesting way to travel between smaller towns. In some regions, such as much of central and northern Siberia, bus travel may be the only public transport option you have.


Most cities have a main intercity bus sta¬tion with timetables posted up outside.
Tickets are sold either in advance at the station, or once you get on the bus.
 Many transport companies in Russia’s major cities can organise a private vehicle and driver to take you to most destinations within Russia, giving you the freedom to pick and choose exactly when and where you go.


This can be an extremely expensive endeavour, with long distances to cover, fuel costs and meal and accommodation expenses for your driver to weigh up.
A more affordable option is to book a trip with a tour company, offering private transportation within a tour group.

