 When trying to criticize someone in a manner that is sensitive to his or her feelings, it's easy to end up sugar-coating things so much that you lose track of the important criticism you want to convey. Remember that tact is also about honesty, and don't soften the message so much that it gets lost altogether.Be assertive. Make it clear what it is that's bothering you and why.
If your friend's jokes are offensive, don't just say, "You know, some people are just so sensitive that they don't get your jokes." Tell your friend that you and others find his or her jokes hurtful.
 Similarly, focus your criticism on factual statements. This doesn't mean you can't express your feelings, but do so in factual terms. Don't speculate, judge, or talk down to the other person.This will help you present your criticism in an assertive, objective manner.
You can say, for example: "When you said X, it made me feel very hurt. I talked to Sarah afterward, and she said your words made her really angry." These are statements about emotions, but they are factual statements. This is much more effective than saying: "Your jokes are mean and rude." That's a judgement, not a fact.
 Criticism without a plan for change is of little use. Make sure it is clear what behaviors you would like to see.This way, you offer a positive alternative rather than just a critique.


For example, you might tell your friend, "Instead of making fun of people's accents, I wish you'd do more of your celebrity impressions. Those are hilarious!"

, Asking questions can help the person you are criticizing to reach conclusions about why his or behaviors are troublesome and what he or she might do differently. Asking questions like, "Can you understand why someone might be bothered by that?" or "Can you think of any way to handle this situation better?" can help the person you are criticizing see the root cause of the issue and makes him or her a participant in planning ways to avoid the problem in the future.
This gives the other person a chance to give and follow their own advice. Often, people will be more likely to follow through on changing their behaviors if they think up alternatives on their own., Factual statements are harder to argue with, and hopefully if you've made your criticism in a sensitive manner, the other person will listen and understand. However, if he or she tries to argue with you don't be drawn into an argument.


Arguments can cause the person to become more rigid in his or her views and more resistant to change.For example, your friend might say: "You don't know what you're talking about. My jokes are funny and people like them." You might respond by saying: "I've just told you how I feel, and what our other friends have told me. I hope you'll take that into consideration." Then, end the conversation.

