 Open an Internet browser, type https://app.box.com/ in the address bar, and hit Enter.;
, Enter your Box account username and password in the fields provided, and click the “Log in” button to continue.
 From the main page, locate the header menu at the top. Find the third icon from the left, the one with the folder icon. Click on this to open the File and Folders page.


The root folder is “All Files.”

, Navigate through your Box folders by clicking on them until you find the file you’d like to open.
 Once you’ve found the file, open it by clicking on it. The file’s contents will be loaded for your preview. You can use the scroll bar on the right to scroll up or down the file’s pages, if applicable.
 While viewing the file you opened, locate the chat icon at the upper-right menu of the window.


Hovering on it will pop up the texts “Show or hide comments”; click on it. The review panel will flow from the right.
 On the review panel, you can see all the comments left by the collaborators of the file. The names of the people who left reviews, together with the date and time stamps and their actual comments, can be seen.
 If you have something to add, click on the “Enter a Comment” button. A message box will appear where you can type in your comments.


When you’re done, click on the “Add Comment” button right below the message box. Your comment will appear right away.
 If you want to reply to an existing comment, just hover over the comment you want to reply to and a Reply text will appear. Click on this and a message box will appear.


Type in your response and click the “Add Reply” button right below the message box. Your response will appear right away.
 While viewing the file you opened, locate the chat icon at the upper-right menu of the window.


Hovering on it will pop up the texts “Show or hide comments,” click on it. The review panel will flow from the right.
 On the review panel, you can see all the comments left by the collaborators of the file. The names of the people who left reviews, together with the date and time stamps and their actual comments, can be seen.
 If you have a task to be delegated or assigned to another collaborator, click on the “Assign a Task” button. This will bring up two fields for inputting the assignees and the task description.
 Use the first text box to input the names or email addresses of the collaborators to whom you would assign the task.


You can only input names or email addresses of people who are already set as collaborators for this file.
 Use the second box to input the task and further details or description about it. Once done, click on the “Assign Task” button right below the message box. Your task will appear right away., If you want to reply or comment on an existing task, just hover over the comment and a Reply text will appear. Click on this and a message box will appear.

Type in your response and click the “Add Reply” button right below the message box. Your response will appear right away.

