 Font size can make a substantial difference to the amount of space your information takes up. Obviously, the smaller the font, the more information can fit in a given area. However, it is important not to go too small because it can become difficult to read your content.


You also do not want to go too big, because it takes up unnecessary space and can look amateurish.
Stick with traditional fonts such as Times New Roman or Arial.;
, Bullet points should be kept short and provide only the most important information. If you find yourself writing two or three lines for a bullet point, you will most likely be able to break it down into more than one bullet. Breaking your bullet points down will make your information easier to read. Below you can see an example of the difference:


Created a 2 day training course called “Negotiation Tactics” and trained a team of 10 account executives to improve their negotiating skills when working with clients.
The above bullet can be turned into:

Created a 2 day training course called “Negotiation Tactics”.
Facilitated the “Negotiation Tactics” course to improve the skills of 10 account executives.
 Adjust your margins in order to make the best of your printed page. Don't allow a lot of white space around the edges of your document unnecessarily push your content onto more than one page.


If you are using a program such as Microsoft Word, your margins may be automatically set to 1” all around.
You can change your margins by clicking on “Margins” under the “Page Layout” tab. Here you can customize and experiment with different size margins.
Be careful not to have them too small and risk losing information when your document is printed.
To make sure a printer can handle the margins you have set, print your document before committing to the margin size.
It is not recommended to set margins below .25”, and your program may tell you to change them if you try to set margins below this number.
 You will be pleasantly surprised how much space you can save by adjusting your spacing throughout your resume. This means reducing the spaces between lines, bullets and headings. The idea is to keep your sections easily noticeable while using the smallest spacing to help you stay on one page. Resumes will appear differently when changing the spacing, so it is up to you to decide what the best size spacing is for your resume.


You can adjust this spacing by selecting a section of your resume and adjusting the “Before” and “After” spacing under the “Page Layout” or “Paragraph” tabs if you are using Microsoft Word.
You can set the spacing to as little as 0pt between lines in the same paragraph or between bullet points.
For spacing between sections or headings, it is recommended to stay between 4 and 8pt.

