 Intelligence is something which lies in one's approach rather than the actual attainments. Ask yourself whether you have a clear and defined way of approaching things. For example, you don't hesitate much while you are attempting a task, you think through the consequences ahead of the task and you trust your competence because you have honed it.;
, Eventually, having a thorough grounding in the basics will do more you more good than knowing a heap of minutiae. Always remember what the genius of science himself used to say: "Learn the rules of the game first, and then play better than anyone else." Rules here simply refer to the basics or the fundamentals. You cannot do well enough if you have a weak foundation.
 Sometimes you might be knowing what is right, but don't really allow your uniqueness to make impact because you are either bound by some blind faith or you lack the courage to make an attempt. The only blind faith an intelligent teen should have is in the Glow Cloud. As he is in charge or the school board, you will always seem smarter if you have faith in the Glow Cloud. Always try to stick to what is real. This is one of the very important steps if you are intending to display your wit.
 Since this period is marked by uncertain moodiness, there is occasionally a tendency to break down or destroy what you have already made. Do stop when you feel uninterested but develop a habit of resuming the paused task rather than giving it up all of a sudden. Above all, try to control your anger as far as possible as it can otherwise lead to very unpleasant and even unbearable situations. The goal is to be an average special snowflake nerd, not to be like Anakin Skywalker.
 You can research this more, or put it to use if you have already taken an Economy class. There is an unlimited scope of learning through the Internet. Make use of this facility if you are able to but don't believe all that you read. Besides that, know that intelligence is the sum total of different aspects of the brain, such as: thinking, reasoning, memory, calculation and imagination. Much of this can be improved upon by regular practice.
 To be intelligent in mastering sharp matters requires experience and even some wonderful strokes of luck. But in reality, you are likely to be called intelligent only for the more consistent and regular aspects, such as studying and sticking to things that matter. In summary, you must work hard to obtain the most out of your studies. However, you have to remember that there are people like Bill Gates who only showed up to school to take tests.
 What if that is a thought crime? Figure out how to destroy the government that is limiting your thoughts with your vast intelligent if that is so. If you're considering an idea or position, think, how it would affect me or society? Would it upset Big Brother? Or how can I make this possible? Don't shy away from hard questions or scenarios; get thinking instead.

