 If you sit still for too long, edema tends to worsen, since the fluids sit stagnant in your body's tissues. Getting some light exercises increases circulation and pumps the fluids back toward your heart, helping the swelling go down.Go for short walks several times a day to get your blood moving. A 15-30 minute walk several times a day or fast walking, if physically able, can help the swelling go down.
In between walks, do leg and arm lifts (no weights needed) while you're sitting or lying down.;
, Use a stool or pillows to prop up the part of your body that is affected by edema. The body part should be raised to a level slightly above your heart.Elevate the body part for 30 minutes 3 or 4 times a day.


For severe edema, you may need to keep your body or part elevated while you sleep (a brick or similar wood piece under the foot of the bed might do the trick).
 Rub it in a gentle way in the natural direction of the fluid circulation, towards the heart. If you have severe edema, a professional masseur should be engaged to perform the massage type called "manual lymphatic drainage".
 Eating a lot of salt causes your body to retain water, making edema worse. Limit your intake of salty foods such as prepackaged snacks, fried food and fast food. Talk to your doctor about the specific amount of sodium you should be taking in every day.Doing most of your cooking at home instead of eating out is a good way to monitor the amount of salt you take in.
Most recipes will still taste great if you reduce the salt by half, or even more. Experiment with your baking and cooking to find recipes that taste good with less salt.
 A diet rich in fruits, vegetables and other healthy foods can help reduce inflammation. Fish, seafood, fruit, vegetables, nuts, sunflowers, beans, peas, potatoes, almonds, and whole grains are beneficial. Use oils and food that contain omega-3-fatty acids and mono-unsaturated fatty acids.


Eating foods high in B-vitamins and iron can help alleviate edema. Eat leafy greens, whole grains, and sea vegetables.Eat foods that act as natural diuretics, like pumpkin, asparagus, and beets., Scientific studies have revealed that herbs or herbal extracts containing flavonoids may cause a reduction in swelling. Try the following herbal products:


Bilberry extract. Use this with caution if you are on blood thinning medications.Dandelion leaf.
Grape-seed extract.
The following "diuretic" herbs can be made into tea by the addition of a teaspoon of your chosen herbs to a cup of boiling water:Horsetail,
Parsley,
Yarrow,
Nettle,
Watercress,
Birch tree leaves.
 The skin on a body part affected by severe edema should receive special care, since it's particularly sensitive. Proper cleaning, daily use of moisturizing creams, and proper rinsing of skin injuries are necessary to prevent a more serious skin problem.

