 Your swing begins in your legs. Exercise your legs so that you can generate more power at the beginning of your swing.


Do leg presses. Sit down at the leg press machine and put your feet flat on the platform. Make sure they're about shoulder-width apart. Unhook the safety bar and lower the platform till your knees are at a ninety degree angle. Push the weight all the way up and straighten your legs. Make sure not to lock your knees. Exhale as you push the weight up and inhale as you lower it. Do three sets of twenty reps.Do squats. Stand with your feet a bit wider than shoulder-width apart. Straighten your back and make sure your hips, knees, ankles and shoulders are parallel. Lower your buttocks while trying your best to keep your knees over your ankles. Push your chest out and roll your shoulders back to keep your body straight. When you get as low as you can, stand back up. Try to focus your weight on your heels so that you don't lean forward. You can do squats with your body weight, dumbbells or even at a weight bench. Do three sets of twelve reps., Your obliques are your side abdominals. They help your body achieve a more powerful twisting motion. The stronger your obliques are, the quicker you’ll be able to pull your bat around.








Do standing weighted twists. Hold a weight six to ten inches in front of your face and twist your midsection from side to side while keeping the rest of your body still. Your legs should be shoulder width apart. Do three sets of twenty reps.
Do windshield wipers. Lay on your back with your legs raised together so that the bottoms of your feet are facing the ceiling. Lower your legs from side to side while keeping your shoulders on the ground. Stretch your hands out to the side to keep your balance. Do three sets of twelve reps.
 You need strong muscles in your hands and wrists to be able to control the bat and get the most out of your swing. Try squeezing a tennis ball as hard as you can for about ten seconds. Relax your grip and then repeat the exercise with your other hand. Do this five times for each hand.


Do wrists curls. Bend your arm. Hold a dumbbell in your stretched out hand with your wrist facing up. Lift the dumbbell using only your wrist so that your knuckles are facing up. Do three sets of twenty reps with each hand.
Do reverse wrist curls. Bend your arm. Hold a dumbbell in your hand with your wrists facing down. Lift the weight using only your wrist up so that your knuckles are facing up. Do three sets of twenty reps with each hand.
 Your goal in your workout should be to achieve explosiveness in your swing. When you’re working out, you should lower the weight slowly, but lift it in one quick motion. You need to train your body not only to be strong, but to exert a massive amount of force.









For example, when you do leg presses, bend your knees slowly but straighten them as quickly as you can.

