 The most important thing, the thing you should always do even if you don't do anything else, is to respect her. Basically: treat her the way that you would expect to be treated. When you love someone, that's the most important thing for you to do. There cannot be true love without respect.


Value her opinions, give her the chance to speak her mind, never demean her or insult her, don't judge her, understand and appreciate her for who she is, be honest with her, etc.;
, A big part of respecting her is stepping back and empowering her to make decisions for herself. Make sure she knows, even if you have to tell her every day, that you love her no matter what choices she makes for herself. Her choices are what make her who she is. When a man makes his love conditional on the choices that a woman makes to please him, he's really just loving himself. And a good woman deserves more than that.


Don't make her feel like she has to choose between making you feel happy and taking a job that makes her feel fulfilled. Don't make her feel like she has to choose between you finding her attractive and the massive discomfort associated with pubic shaving or waxing. These are the kinds of decisions that she should know you're going to have her back on, no matter the outcome.
 Don't just be quiet when she's talking, actually listen to her. Active listening involves asking questions and really responding to what she's saying. This tells her that you're really paying attention, but it also helps you focus more and remember what she's saying.


Sometimes when you hear someone telling you about a problem (or anything really), you might feel the need to just jump right in and say something or offer solutions. This is probably not what that persons needs, though. When someone tells you about their feelings (regardless of their gender), what they need is to be heard, so just listen. When they're done, they might ask you for advice. If they don't ask, you can kindly offer. Just acknowledge how she feels, don't take control of the conversation.
 Take full responsibility for what comes out of your mouth, as well as how you choose to interpret what you hear. When you make a mistake, own up to it and work to make it better. Don't be selfish in your interactions or your relationship as a whole.


Avoid common non-apologies like "I'm sorry that your feelings got hurt". This is a common way to make women unhappy.
Even if you did something that you feel is normal, like looking at a pretty waitress, and your girl gets mad at you, you still have to realize that that action hurt her feelings. Whether you'd cheat on her or not, the burden of doubt is heavy and can kill a woman's ability to enjoy being with you.
 Appreciate everything she does for you and let her know that you appreciate everything that she does for you. Never assume that she's stuck with you, or think that just because she loves you you don't have to work to deserve her anymore. You can get away with letting yourself go physically, but you should never let yourself go emotionally. The second you start taking her for granted is the second she starts looking at other guys.
 This is the fastest way to make a woman lose interest in you. You don't want to be another "child" to take care of. You're her man, not her son. This means that you need to be an adult, be reliable, and be responsible. Take care of yourself financially, help out around the house, be there for her when she needs help, and make good on the promises you make.
 Women that you're with aren't impressed by you being smooth with other ladies, and planting the seeds of distrust in her mind will only make her worry that you're a jerk, even if you never cheat on her. Be loyal and don't give her any reason to doubt you.


Spend time with her more than any other woman, don't look at or comment on other women, and make her happiness your priority.
You should also stop putting on the show of attracting other women. Don't wear clothes that are designed to appeal to other women. Just wear what you know she likes. You have a woman already, so you shouldn't be worried about others wanting you, right?

, Notice what she says and does. Pay attention to when she says she "wishes" something or talks about wanting to do something. You should also pay attention to how she chooses to spend her time. This will help you understand what's important to her. Just like some things that are important to you are boring to her, you're going to have to at least understand some things that don't matter to you. Plus, you never know when you might miss something that's actually very important.
 This is what we're all looking for in a relationship: someone who will be there for us. Help her solve her problems if she wants help and you're able. Don't just solve them for her and take control of the situation. Instead give her the tools she needs to help herself.


This might mean taking on some extra chores around the house while she deal with bigger problems at work, for example.
Another example is taking one of her family members out to do something fun, if there's a stressful situation in their home. For example, taking her little sister to go shopping at the mall while she helps her parents deal with a family problem or taking her grandmother out to lunch if the grandmother is often lonely.
 Your woman wants to see you for who you really are. This makes her feel more connected to you. If she feels like you're just some stranger, she's never really going to be happy. So let her in. Let her see your vulnerabilities and the things you don't like about yourself. They will only make her love you more.
 When our woman does not want to have sex with us, we take it personally. Once you understand that a woman's "warm-up time" is much longer than a man's and that she needs to be forewarned so that she can anticipate it, things become much easier. It's not about you. Very often she just wants to be close to you, to snuggle and be cuddled. Of course, whenever that happens you think about sex. Hold your horses, not so fast! It DOES NOT mean that she wants sex. If you insist on it every time she comes close to you, she will start avoiding you. You scare her off. Take it easy; take your time. Once she gets into it, she WILL enjoy it as much, or maybe even more than you do, but patience is an operative word.
 A great way to show her how much you care is to make her a meal. Breakfast in bed, dinner after a long day at work, a surprise lunch at her office: do whatever makes sense for you two. Having to cook, especially after a tough day, can be really stressful. Taking that pressure off of her will bring a smile to her face.


WikiHow has tons of great cooking articles that you can use! These are easy recipes that even the worst of cooks can make without problems!

, Giving her a gift is, of course, a great way to make her happy. However, skip on the necklaces and rings. You might as well be giving those to just about any girl, right? Instead, give her something that says "I get you". This might mean tickets to her favorite concert or a giant plushy of her favorite animal.
 Compliments are a sure bet to making a woman happy, as they are with anyone, but you have to compliment correctly. Don't compliment her on things like her figure, because then she will stress about keeping it nice. You also shouldn't compliment her on things like her hair or eyes. Everyone has hair and eyes. Instead compliment her on things that she has control over: an excellent taste in clothes, a highly-trained skill or talent, a good sense of humor, etc.
 Your woman likes to spend time with you...that's why she's with you after all! If you're busy or you don't get to see her very often, it's important to spend quality time with her. Do things together that give you a chance to really talk, like having a dinner date or going on a walk to the park. She'll probably have ideas for things she'd like to do, so ask her too!

, Women need to be told that we love them. We erroneously think that our actions like working and providing for the family clearly communicates our love for her. We often think that the more we work, the stronger the message of our love is. Wrong again. Nothing can substitute looking in her eyes and telling her: "I love you."

, Becoming better in bed is a good goal for everyone. Even if you think you're a king, you probably have at least a little room for improvement. Study female anatomy and erogenous zones. Better yet, ask her for a refresher course on making her feel incredible. She'll love the chance to show you just how she likes it.
 Encourage her to pursue her dreams and goals in life. If she finds something that makes her happy, give her the space and tools she needs to do that thing. She would do the same for you happiness: this is how relationships work!

, Every woman had ideas about what she wanted to be when she was younger. Maybe she wanted to be a really good mom, or maybe she wanted to be a problem solver. No matter what her fundamental desires were, help her to feel like with you she meets those goals. This means giving her opportunities and compliments, and encouraging her to do the things that she wants to do.
 Everybody wants to be with someone who makes their life more interesting. We don't want a boring partner! Be the source of fun in her life by keeping your activities varied and unique. Sign the two of you up for dance lessons at the local community center. Take her on a hiking trip for the weekend. Anything that suits her personality and keeps you doing new things together!

