 Before making the paste, first cut the lemongrass into thin rounds, dice the galangal, and peel the shallot and garlic cloves.If you can’t find galangal, you can use ginger as a substitute.
You can also simply buy Thai green curry paste at an Asian grocery store if you don’t want to hand-prepare the paste.
 Using a mortar and pestle, blend the galangal, lemongrass, peppercorns and salt. You can also use a food processor if you don’t have a mortar and pestle., After the dry ingredients are blended, smash the garlic, shallot and chilies using a mortar and pestle or food processor. After they are combined, add the shrimp paste and mix until the paste has formed.You can decrease the amount of chilies if you are sensitive to heat.
If you can’t find small Thai green chilies, use Serrano or Cayenne peppers.
 After you finish making the paste, cut the pork and Thai eggplants into bite-size chunks. Try to cut the eggplant and pork into similar shapes so that the texture of the curry is even., Open up the can of coconut milk and use a spoon to skim off the cream at the top. Pour the cream into a separate bowl. Coconut milk naturally separates with the cream at the top and the coconut water at the bottom, so separating them should be fairly easy.Make sure not to shake your can of coconut milk before you open it.
If you can’t find Thai eggplants, substitute a regular eggplant.
 Place a wide wok on medium-high heat. Pour in ½ cup of the coconut cream you just separated. Wait for the cream to boil, about two minutes, then add the curry paste to the wok. Stir and flip the paste continuously to prevent it from burning.Cook it for about three minutes until it gives off a fragrant, spicy scent.
If you see the paste drying, add a few tablespoons of coconut cream.
 After you have fried the green curry paste for about three minutes, drop in the pork along with ½ cup of coconut cream. Lower the heat to medium and cook for fifteen minutes, flipping the pork every so often.Again, if the curry is thinning and looks like it is burning, add a few tablespoons of coconut cream.
 Add in the ¾ teaspoon of palm sugar and mix the curry to integrate it. Then pour in the rest of the coconut milk from the can into the wok. Bring the curry to a boil., After the curry has reached a boil, drop in the sliced eggplants and the pea eggplants. Bring the curry back to a boil and boil the eggplants for two minutes., Drop in the lime and basil leaves, then take the curry off the heat. Serve the curry while hot on top of a bed of rice.