 In order to file an extension for a business, you're going to need a copy of IRS Form 7004, which you can find at http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f7004.pdf. Make sure to check the year. You will also need to know your basic identifying information, including name, address, and your Employer Identification Number.
 In general, trusts, non-bankruptcy estates, and partnerships are eligible for five month extensions, while other types of businesses are eligible for six month extensions. However, the rules for businesses are often far more complex than those for individuals, so it is best to consult a tax attorney, accountant, or other tax professional to determine which extension to file. Alternatively, you can find a list of the instructions for all of the IRS' forms at http://www.irs.gov/instructions/, which all include instructions on who should file what type of return.
 Certain types of businesses qualify for three month extensions without having to file under Form 7004. If they do file form 7004, then they can only get a maximum of three additional months past the regular due date, for a total of six months. Qualifying business are:Foreign corporations that maintain a place of business in the US.
A US corporation that transacts business and keeps its account records outside of the US or Puerto Rico.
A US corporation whose main source of income comes from US territories and other possessions., Many businesses pay quarterly taxes based on estimate for their entire year's taxes. The estimate that you're filling in here is not an estimate for the remaining quarters, but for the entire year.


Include any payments that have already been made to the IRS in your calculations. This includes remittances and your quarterly tax payments. If you have either type of payment, include these in the total.
 This will reduce your penalties and interest charges. Make a payment here: http://www.irs.gov/Payments

, Mail your form and/or payment to the address printed on your instructions, or use your own electronic filing software. You can find a list of authorized electronic filing providers at http://www.irs.gov/Tax-Professionals/e-File-Providers-&-Partners/Corporate-Returns-Forms-1120-1120-F-1120S-7004.


Businesses with assets of $10,000,000 or more are required to e-file.Assume your extension filing has been accepted by the IRS unless you hear otherwise. It is called an "automatic" extension because the IRS rarely rejects the request.

