 In the US, it's mandatory for food manufacturers to list the amount of sugar and types of sugar in all foods that have a label.Read all food labels and ingredient lists so you're aware of exactly what's in your food.


Review the food label and look for "sugar". You'll find it listed underneath the label of "Total Carbohydrates." The amount listed is the amount of sugar in one serving of the food.
Search the ingredient list for other terms outside of "sugar." Look for: fructose, glucose, monosaccharides, lactose, maltose, dextrose and sucrose.Simple sugars may also be listed as raw sugar, brown sugar, beet sugar, cane sugar, confectioner’s (powdered) sugar, molasses, turbinado sugar, maple syrup, honey, sugar cane syrup, cane juice, invert sugar, malt syrup, agave syrup and high fructose corn syrup.;
, Added sugars are syrups or sugars that are added to foods during processing and are always considered a simple sugar.Added sugars are considered "empty calories" since they do not provide any helpful nutrition to your diet.


Candies, cakes, regular sodas, fruit juices, breakfast pastries, sweetened cereals and flavored coffees are all common items that are usually filled with added sugar.
Steer clear of the cookie, chip and candy aisle at the grocery store.
Take a peek at your pantry, refrigerator and freezer. Toss out most processed foods that contain simple and added sugars (like cookies, candy or regular sodas). Keeping one or two sweet treats to have in moderation is acceptable.
Note that although simple sugars are found in fruits and some dairy products, these simple sugars are far healthier than added sugars. Fruit and dairy products offer a variety of essential nutrients (like vitamins, minerals, fiber and protein) to your diet.
 Some fruits and vegetables contain small amounts of simple sugars. However, they also provide nutrients like vitamins, minerals and fiber that are essential for a healthy diet.Vegetables that contain some simple sugars include: carrots, sweet potatoes, peas and winter squash.Do not avoid these veggies, just balance them with a healthy serving of green vegetables.
Aim to consume whole fruit, not fruit juice. Juices are lacking fiber and are high in sugar and calories.
Also minimize your consumption of dried fruit. Many times companies add sugar to dried fruit (especially tart fruit like cranberries).
In addition, the amount of sugar is more concentrated in dried fruit since the water was removed during the dehydrating process.Stick to the appropriate portion size of dried fruit - about 1/4 cup. One serving of fruit juice is about 1 cup or less., Dairy foods like milk and yogurt also contain simple sugars in the form of lactose. However, these foods are also great sources of protein, calcium and Vitamin D and should be included in your diet each day.Aim for 2-3 servings of low-fat dairy products each day.These can include milk, yogurt or cheese.
Although dairy does contain natural simple sugars, be aware of dairy products that contain a significant source of added sugars. Items like chocolate milk or yogurt with added fruit typically contain more sugar than their plain counterparts.
Choose yogurt or cottage cheese without fruit or other flavorings. Add in fresh, whole fruit or a teaspoon of honey for more natural, healthy flavorings. You can always purchase low fat, plain Greek yogurt and sweeten it with your own raw honey, berries and nuts. The key is controlling the sugar you consume and choosing where that sugar comes from.

