 If you want to keep with modern trends, try using a search engine to find what's trending this spring. Type something like "Spring hair trends" into a search engine and see what comes up. You can browse styles online and see if you find anything you like. If you find a style you would like to try, make an appointment with your stylist.;
, A light trim is a good start to altering your hair for the spring. A trim can leave you feeling refreshed and new. It can also provide a clean, neat slate from which to build a new style. Stop by your salon and ask for a trim.While getting your trim, ask your stylist what spring style could suit you. You can think over your options for a few days before making a decision.
 Hair accessories that reflect spring are a great way to add to your style. If you're not quite ready for any major changes, play around with accessories to give your hair a light touch of spring.As spring is a time for new life, look into floral accessories. Opt for things like flower patterned headbands or flower hair clips.
Go for pastels. Try wearing pastel bandanas, hats, or visors to celebrate spring.
 Side bangs can be a cute look for spring, and can trim down some of the hair surrounding your face. This can help you stay cool during warm weather. If you're interested in getting bangs, talk to your stylist about doing a side bang look for the spring.If you already have bangs, consider growing them out until your stylist is able to snip them into side bangs.
 If you want to go shorter for the spring, ask your stylist for a face-framing bob. A bob, with light bangs, can be a great, lighter look for the spring months. A hairstylist should be able to find a bob that best frames your face., If you want a lighter style without cutting your hair too short, go for layers. These work great with longer bangs. It can give you a lighter look while allowing you to maintain longer hair., If you want to make a bold move, get your hair trimmed short for the spring. Something like a crew cut can help prepare you for warm, summer months. If you're willing to make a big change, consider going very short for the spring.If you want to leave a little hair in place, a pixie cut can be great. You will still have longer hair, but it will be trimmed around your face to keep it away from your neck.

