 To use this method, you'll need information from target company's shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet or equivalent entries in the general ledger.If it is a publicly-traded company, the company's financial reported are publicly available online.However, if this is a private company, this information may prove hard to obtain without the direct involvement of management.


Find this information by searching for the company's most recent financial report online. For a publicly-held company, this information will be available either on their website or on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website.
 Sometimes called equity financing, share capital is the capital that a corporation receives from the sale of stock. Revenue from the sale of both common and preferred stock is considered share capital.The figure you use to calculate share capital is the selling price of the stock, not its current market value. This is because share capital represents the money that the corporation actually received from the sale of stock.For example, imagine a company with $200,000 raised from common stock and $100,000 from preferred stock. The total share capital, in this case, would be $300,000.
In some cases, this information may be reported separately as common stock, preferred stock, and paid-in capital in excess of par (or additional paid-in capital). Simply add these components together to obtain the value for share capital., Retained earnings are the total profits the company has available after paying its dividend obligations. Retained earnings are then reinvested in the company. In most cases, retained earnings are a much larger portion of shareholders' equity than any other component.Retained earnings are generally simply stated as one value by the company. In our example, this value is $50,000.
 A treasury share is any stock that a company issues and then repurchases in a stock buyback. Alternately, it can be any amount of stock never released to the public for sale.Like retained earnings, the value of treasury stock generally requires no calculation. In our example, it is listed simply as $15,000.
 Add share capital to retained earnings and then subtract treasury shares to calculate shareholders’ equity.Continuing with our example, we would add share capital ($300,000) to retained earnings ($50,000) and subtract our $15,000 in treasury shares to get $335,000 as our shareholders' equity.

