 Setting goals can help you achieve more and improve your life.Try to think of a goal that will challenge you, but is still attainable. Think about things that make you happy, then create goals around those things.Think about short-term and long-term goals, and make them measurable.


Create goals for different areas of your life: career, romantic relationship, family, travel, fun, personal growth.
Goals can include traveling, going to college/grad school, making dietary changes such as going vegan, or learning an extreme sport, such as paragliding. Be creative! Think about the things that immediately put a smile on your face.
If you’ve always wanted to visit the Amazon jungle, set that goal! It doesn’t matter how “far off” the goal appears.;
, Make sure the goals you set can actually come true for you and are not so unrealistic that you can never reach them. Use the S.M.A.R.T. system to set goals that are attainable and motivating. If your goals are too out there (like "I want to be the first human to live on Pluto"), you can actually experience a decrease in motivation and desire for improvement. To get the most out of your goals, they should fit these criteria :



Specific: Goals should be clear and as specific as possible, and answer these questions: who is involved, what do I want to accomplish, where must this be done, when should it be performed? So, instead of "Get fit," your goal might be "Lose 15 lbs. before my vacation to Hawaii."

Measurable: You must be able to measure or quantify your goal with concrete criteria. This way you will be able to see your progress and you will know when you've met your goal. With the weight-loss goal of 15 lbs., you can track your progress pound by pound and, once you've lost those 15 lbs., you know you have achieved your goal.

Achievable/Attainable: Use your common sense to decide whether or not you can realistically meet this goal. It should require you to stretch yourself and make changes, but shouldn't be something wildly out of reach. Think about the skills and knowledge you have now and what you might need to learn in order to achieve your goal. Think about your past and whether the goal is simply a stretch or if it is unrealistic.

Relevant: Ask yourself why you want to achieve this goal, and if it will be fulfilling for you. Getting a law degree at Harvard might be achievable for you, but is this really what you want? If your passion lies with the culinary arts, maybe a better goal is to move to France for a year and learn to cook. Consider the other things going on in your life and whether they align with your goals.

Time bound: You must set an end point for your goal. It shouldn't be vague (like "by this summer") but a point that can be found on a calendar ("by June 15th"). Having a specific timeframe can give you a sense of urgency and motivate you to keep on track.
 Sometimes it’s not enough to just think about your goals. For each goal, write the steps you need to take in order to attain the goal. Think about ways to break down each goal into smaller, measurable parts.You want to set yourself up for success so you don’t find yourself discouraged that none of your goals are coming to fruition.


If your goal is to visit the Amazon jungle, your steps may include setting 5% of each paycheck aside to save up for the trip for 14 weeks, saving up vacation days, choosing the dates to go, and booking the flights and trip.
If your goal is to become a vegetarian, think about what steps you need to get there. You may create steps such as talking to other people who are vegetarians, looking at health/environment information, buying some cookbooks, cutting out red meat, and then cutting out all meat.
 Once you’ve thought through your goals and the steps you need to attain them, write them down! You want to make your goals memorable and meaningful so that you can realistically work toward them. You can write them on a piece of paper, or you can get creative and create a vision board. Make it interactive and get engaged with your goals. Make it colorful, and put some effort into it. You want to create something that excites you and motivates you.


Use magazine clippings or paint your goals. Use resources from the internet to help you create your board.

