 Who do want to invite? Just family, for example, your uncles, aunts, grandparents etc.? Or do you want to invite just friends? And if you want to invite family and friends too, be cautious. Your friends may not find Uncle Harry's impression of Donald Duck exactly entertaining. Keep in mind the size of your home and dining area, as well as tables. You wouldn't want to invite 30 people and only have two tables that seat 4 people each. Also keep in mind the menu when thinking of guests. When you have your guest list, proceed!;
, Be sure to also tell them to dress up a little (in formal clothes) Send one to everyone on your guest list!

, The first thing you have to do is figure out the beverages. A very fitting drink for this is sparkling juice. It looks very nice in good glassware and will start things off on a good note. Also offer water (sparkling and regular), iced tea, coffee, and/or hot chocolate. All of these do not have to be on the table, but a few would be nice. Your next step is figuring out 2-4 different appetizers. These could include: veggies and dip, fruit and dip, salad, soup, deviled eggs, vegetables or meat on a skewer, pinwheels, etc. Notice if any guests are vegetarians, and if they are, offer some veggie dishes as well. The next part: the entrée! You should have 2-3 entrees to offer. These could include: chef's salad, mini sandwiches, chicken (grilled, baked, etc.) meat kebabs, shrimp cocktails, meatballs, raviolis, mini-pizzas, pasta, and if you don't mind spending a bit much, you could offer steak! The next part is easy: the sides! Try mashed potatoes, cooked veggies, pasta, salad, soup, corn, cinnamon apples, rice, bread sticks, etc. Next: The after-dinner treats! This is optional, but nice when waiting for desserts. Offer treats like hot tea, coffee, hot apple cider, and light things like Italian bread and butter, cinnamon apples, or mini-bagels. Think breakfast foods. Last but not least: the dessert! Offer ice cream, cupcakes, crème brulee, penne cotta, pumpkin/banana/apple bread, apple crisps, cobblers, gelato, etc. After you have picked at least 3 choices for each category (drink, appetizer, entrée, side, op. snack, and dessert), write it all down on a menu for each person.
 If you don't already have a large table where everyone can sit, borrow or rent one. It's better to have everyone sitting in one place then at separate tables. If that is the case, have the tables very close to each other. See? This is where less people is better. You can also put multiple tables next to each other and put a fancy tablecloth over them. You want a tablecloth anyway. Try to find a nicer one, or try to buy one. Set out fine china (if you own it and are allowed to use it) or nice looking glassware. Don't forget silverware! Try to match all the plates (glasses, silverware etc.) with each other. For example, don't have a blue plate with a silver one, and a round glass with a square one. Try to match them as much as possible. Not enough utensils? Buy clear, plastic dinnerware at your local grocery store.
 What do you do? Cook! Whip out your menu and have a cooking fest with your family! If you have no clue about a recipe, look it up! You are bound to get thousands of results online or in cookbooks. Freeze what can be frozen and refrigerate what can be... well, you know what. For everything else, cook or bake it the morning of the party. Don't forget to thaw the frozen stuff! Guests don't want to eat frozen soup! If you wish, cook things while guests are arriving. This makes things better and fresher.
 Have your dad and little brother wear suits and ties, or even tuxes. Moms and sisters can wear dresses or skirts! You can have your family eat dinner with you, or if it's guests only (plus you), assign jobs! Your dad can be the waiter, your mom can prepare food, your sister can take coats, your brother can pour drinks or fetch extra napkins. Make sure they are having fun, though!

, Don't wear your $800.00 designer dress though, you don't want to spill your meal on that. Greet guests at the door and lead them to their seats. (Or have a family member do it) Have little name cards already at the seats. Have a family member hand out menus and take orders. Have fun though! It doesn't have to be all quiet and formal! Have a bowl of conversation starters to pass around, play a game of cards, What Am I?, I-Spy, or 20 Questions.
 Include recipes for a few of the foods eaten, jewelry, wrapped chocolates, mints, gift cards, notepads, pens, etc. Do not include cheap plastic stuff though because it just makes the party end on a low note.
 Don't leave it all to your parents!

