 If you are avoiding writing because you feel there is so much to be done, prioritizing can give you a sense of control and a motivation to get started. An example way to prioritize is as follows:


Put writing projects that you are being paid for at the top of the list. This makes common sense!
Put writing projects with a deadline at the top of the list, and naturally, prioritize them according to due dates.
Place writing projects that will result in motivating you to complete something quickly next. These might be writing poems, a short story, an article for wikiHow, a children's story, etc. This is for the projects that you want to do, not the ones that you feel you must do or that you'd eventually like to get around to doing.
Place the projects you'd like to get around to doing at the bottom of the prioritization. It is possible that such grand ideas of what you could write are hampering what you are in a position to write. By no means discard them, but give them less prioritization until they are less amorphous and become much clearer in your mind.;
, It is vital to have space to write. Even if your creativity runs to messiness as inspiration, it is important to have some space around you to be able to access source materials, to lay out your plans, to reach your computer or writing pad, and to feel comfortable. A pile of "inspirational materials" over-towering your computer space will put you off rather than inspire you, so put all these things in easily accessible places. An hour or two spent reorganizing desk mess will pay huge dividends. Ideas include:


Use magazine holders for separate projects.
Use in-trays for material yet to be read and out-trays for material needing to be placed in files, folders, or magazine holders.
Use mini bookshelves as a way of separating source materials for different writing projects; this can help as both a source of inspiration and also lessens frustration when looking for that "exact quote".
Use small cut-down boxes (that is, boxes with the flaps cut off) as places to hold the materials for different writing projects; these are free from grocery stores, for example, and can make excellent small holders for papers and books. Look for ones that dispense items such as candies, as they will often already have a front portion punched out to make it easier to see your materials.
Color code. Use of colors for different writing projects can be a visually inspiring and easily accessible way to arrange and find your writing projects. You can also consider grouping each writing project with the relevant source materials that you are using to feed into the writing.
 Set definite times to write particular projects or documents. Set time limits and aim to meet them each time before switching to the next project or other activities in your life. While this may feel limiting to begin with, it is actually a very useful way to tame wandering creativity and focus it into real outcomes. There are many great writers who revealed that they would write during set blocks of time and then have the rest of their day free for other activities. Find out which part of the day and which periods of time work best for you, and set those aside.


In a work environment, your writing project deliverables can often be determined by the input from others; be sure to include the need for other's ideas, checks, and redirection in your timeline.
 There are many ways to plan out writing, to provide motivational structures that help you stay focused when writing. It is important to find the one that fits your style though, so don't just go with the first one that you read about. Try a few out and see which works best for you.

