 Creating an eye-catching advertisement is key to success. You want potential clients to be drawn to your business for a variety of reasons. Be thorough and include all pertinent details.


What services you offer is critical. If you are willing to weed-eat, edge, spread mulch, or do something else related to lawn maintenance, you could possibly make a lot more money.
Include all contact information. Your name, company name, email, and phone number are bare minimums.
Pricing will be the focus for most potential customers. Include your pricing information based on the criteria you select. Whether it is one price for all yards, priced by square foot, or based on appraisal, be sure to be very specific.
Cover the most possible area. Ensuring every potential customer sees your advertisement is crucial. Put your flyers in a variety of locations.

Stuff mailboxes.You may encounter a person on the day they feel their weakest, and most unable to juggle all their responsibilities. They might just pay you to lessen the load.
Car windows are a perfect spot for flyers. Pick up the windshield wiper, pop down your flyer so the driver sees it, and put the wiper down. You can cover a diverse audience easily because you don’t know the car owners!
Bulletin boards are a great location. Try laundry mats, libraries, local businesses, grocery stores, the post office, anywhere that will let you put your ad up.
Put them on doorsteps. Better yet, knock on doors and deliver them by hand. Face to face meetings may benefit your efforts since they'll get to see you personally.

;
, This is a cheap but effective way to get your name out there. It does, however, come with a small fee. Most newspaper companies charge by the word, so choose words carefully. Minimize the number of words/letters for price, but don't exclude so much as to make the ad ineffective. At the very least, include the name of your business name, the logo, the type of services offered, contact information, and your website, if applicable.
 School and sport affiliations run deep. Having your sign along the baseline or the outfield fence reaches a new segment of the market, and shows support for the local community. Someone may just want to support a business with similar interests or alma mater.
 Targeting a localized audience may help you reach and cover an entire area more thoroughly. Let the familiarity of a known newsletter be your trusted voice.
 Since the eyes viewing these ads are moving, the lawn signs may need to be more visually appealing than other ads. An expanded, colored logo would be a great modification, but at the very least the company name and contact information needs to be included. As you expand, perhaps you'd be willing to offer a free cut in exchange for ad placement in other yards.
 You will want to focus on ad length, style, and content. Tailor it to the local market you'd like to target. Make it informative and memorable.


Include a catchy slogan or jingle that's simple and positive, Make your lawn look sharp by dawn, trust your business to "Lawns by John".

Sell your services as a distinctive solution to a problem. Is your Bermuda grass growing too fast? Does it touch your knees? Call "Lion Lawns" to tame your grass.Get a testimonial from a satisfied customer. I used "A+ Lawn Care" and my grass has never been better!


