 Some newer models can be used with wet or dry skin, but the typical electric razor is designed only for dry use. Review the packaging to be certain which kind of razor you have.


If you are unsure, try dry shaving first.
Electric appliances should never be used in the shower or bath. Wet shavers can be used on wet skin, but should not be used while you bathe.
 If your razor has a rotary mechanism then it will be most effective if you move it in a circular motion. If it is a foil shaver then repeated back and forth strokes will provide the smoothest shave. Knowing in advance what type of motion to use will ensure a close shave and reduce the risk of cuts or abrasions.
 You will get the smoothest shave if the hair is completely dry. Clean your underarm hair to remove oils or  deodorant residue.Consider using a pre-shave product designed specifically for electric razors. These may be marketed to men to ease facial hair removal.
 Lift your arm in such a way that the skin underneath is as tight and smooth as possible. This will reduce the risk of skin becoming caught in the razor.


Hold the electric shaver at a right angle to your skin.
Shave against the grain of the hair. This may entail strokes in several different directions to ensure the closest shave., If you are just beginning to use an electric shaver your skin may be sensitive and irritated easily. After several weeks of consistent use this problem should self-resolve. If irritation persists, discontinue use or consult a dermatologist.


If you have open cuts or severely irritated skin, wait until you have healed completely before trying to shave again.
 Like most electrical products, shavers perform best when they are properly cared for. Replace worn out parts and clean the razor regularly.


Use a soft cleaning brush to gently remove hair and other particles from the blades after each shave.
Avoid tapping the razor against the sink or counter to remove hair as this may nick the blades or dull them.
Over time the razor may become dull, adding to the risk of cuts. The owner’s manual will likely contain information about how to order and install replacement parts.
 Most electric shavers are designed for men to use on facial hair, which may be too powerful for soft underarm skin. If you try a shaver marketed to men and have problems, consider searching for a product marketed to women instead.