 You need a clean, smooth and almost perfect base for any makeup styles. Follow a routine and exfoliate at least twice a week.;
, Put in a hair band; cheap plastic ones will do.
 Most make up stains are stubborn to remove, so why risk a good blouse?

, Wipe off excess.
 Blue for orange tones, spots and freckles; Green for ruddy tones and Yellow for splotchy purple areas and under eye circles. Apply the separate colours in dots around the specific area and blend with fingertips or a concealer brush.
 If your lucky and have flawless skin, you can use one or two tones lighter than your natural skin tone.
 The nose, chin, upper cheeks, forehead and a bit on your neck. You usually have a few minutes to play with your foundation before it soaks in and turns streaky if your try to rub it.


Use your brush or fingers to blend your foundation out to your hairline, following one stroke (i.e. if you brushed your foundation downwards on one cheek then don't brush it upwards on the other).
 Tap off excess and apply this all over the face. Blend in carefully.
 Create a full, smooth arch.
 Now take a brown, grey or burgundy eye shadow (brown tends to highlight greenish or hazel eyes, grey makes blue eyes sparkle, and burgundy goes well with almost any eyes colour, but can give you a tired look).


Close one eye, and with the eye shadow brush, draw a line from the outer corner of your eye to where your eyebrow stops (a few millimeters for a sophisticated look, right up by the eyebrow for a dramatic entrance), blend this inwards to the opposite end of the eyebrow.
Use the same colour eye shadow to sweep a line following where your eyelid crease is, and stopping a few millimeters before the inner corner of your eye. Blend. Add a touch of white eye shadow to the inner corner of your eye to create a bright eyed effect, though be aware that while this will open up your eyes, it will also make them look smaller.
 Use a grey or black pencil to line from the outer corner to the halfway point of your eye. 2 coats of black mascara for green or brown eyes, olive or brown mascara for blonds or blue eyes.
 Fill in your lips using an angled or lip brush with a matching lipstick. Dab off any excess with a tissue. If you want a sheen, apply a dot of lip gloss to the center of each lip and smooth it outwards with your finger tips.
 Blend inwards.

