 Your air fryer requires a two to three minute preheating period. This allows the machine time to achieve the temperature necessary to begin cooking your bacon. For most models, simply set the air fryer to the desired temperature and wait at least two minutes before adding your bacon to the air fryer’s cooking basket.Operate your air fryer only on level, heat-resistant surfaces. Further, ensure that there is at least a hand’s length worth of open space behind the air fryer’s exhaust.;
, You’ll need to apply a thin coat of oil directly to the bacon you place in the air fryer’s cooking basket. The best way to do so is by using a spray bottle filled with your favored cooking oil. Spray the bottom of the cooking basket as well, to reduce sticking, and spray. For crispy bacon, spray on only a single thin layer of oil.Opt for a hand-pumped plastic spray bottle and fill it with liquid oil, such as olive oil.
While you can buy spray-able oil, the aerosol can break down some of the non-stick surfaces you use in your kitchen (including the one on your air fryer basket).
 Avoid overcrowding the air fryer’s cooking basket by limiting the amount you put in. Since basket sizes differ, there is no standard amount that is ideal. The important thing is that air is allowed to circulate around the bacon and come into contact with almost all of the bacon’s surface. As such, avoid piles of bacon that cause some pieces to be covered up.Proper air circulation shortens cooking time and ensures optimal cooking results, particularly in terms of crispiness.
 While the air fryer is cooking your bacon, pause it once to twice to remove the basket and shake it. This will adjust the bacon’s position in the basket, and help ensure that it is evenly cooked. To ensure that each piece if adequately adjusted during cooking, you can also use tongs to simply flip individual slices of bacon., Length of cook time and recommend cooking temperature will vary from model to model. As such, use the chart of other information source that came with your air fryer to determine the proper cook time and temperature.One of the benefits of an air fryer is that you can remove the cooking basket whenever you like to check on your food.

