 The first and most obvious way to limit any double charges or other fraud on your debit card would be not to use the debit card in the first place. Debit cards are only one step above using cash. While this practice may help you budget your personal finances better than using credit, you generally have fewer protections with debit cards than with credit cards. If you can get credit and have a credit card available, that may be a better option.For example, credit card purchases do not reach directly into your bank account to make payments. You have an agreement with the credit company. If problems arise with any charges, you can work them out before any money comes out of your account. With a debit card, by the time you notice the double charge, your money is gone.
 The Internet is a wonderful tool, and you have exposure to markets that you could never reach otherwise. However, with this great exposure, you need to be careful that you are dealing with reputable vendors. If the vendor is not a store or person that you know, you should review the website carefully before proceeding. Look for tell-tale signs for reliable vendors:When you get to the checkout screen, you should look at the website address. A secure site that protects your card number and password will begin with https. The “s” at the end of the “http” is an indication that the site is encrypted and secure.Check that the site has some customer service contacts. If you have a problem with your online shopping, are you able to pick up the telephone and reach a person to get help?
Look for a physical address for the vendor. If you have a problem with a vendor that overcharges or double charges your debit card, you will need to know how and where to contact them.
 Many stores print receipts that may carry your full debit card or credit card number on it. You need to watch for this and protect any such receipts carefully. If someone else happens to find your receipt or read your number, that number could be used to place additional charges on your account.


If you are shopping with a debit card and you notice that your card number has been printed on the receipt, use a heavy black pen as soon as possible and black out most of your card’s numbers.If you notice this happening from any particular store, you may want to visit the customer service counter or speak with a store manager. There is no good reason for receipts to expose your number in this way. You should suggest that they change their practices.

