 Just like the rest of the class, you will have to go through two kinds of job quests. First one is for the path to becoming a Tracer to open up the two possible job changes which is Arc Tracer and Psychic Tracer.


To start off, make sure that you're qualified for the quest. You need to use Add and should be Level 15 or higher. Otherwise, the change job quest won't be available.;
, The first part of the quest will be killing the Boss named William Phoru. Any difficulty is acceptable, with or without party members, but keep in mind that you need to kill William twice in order to complete this quest.


You don't have to worry about killing this boss under Hard Mode, just make sure to dodge his slashes using Jump.
William also uses Guard so make sure to use stun skills to make his defense open.
 The next part of the arc requires you to defeat Boss Nasod Banthus which can be found in the Underground Waterway. You're only required to kill him once but must be done in Hard Level or Higher; you can do this with a party as well.


Nasod is easy to defeat, especially if you're in a full house party. However, keep an eye out when his health reach the red as he will be using Awaken.
Under Awaken status, Nasod will receive an attack boost which can be painful if he uses his laser skill.
 After killing the bosses, head back to Elder Village and talk to Echo. Echo, found at the upper right of the village with her beloved alchemic tools and candies, is an Alchemist with white hair, standing a few steps away Myu and Lenphad.


Echo will take a greater role within Add's storyline in the later future - let’s leave that aside. Talk to her to start the next part of your Job Quest.
 Wally's Castle is the last level for the Elder Village Dungeon. Enter the dungeon in any difficulty to kill monsters.


This requires you to collect monster drop which will be picked up automatically by your character. There are chances that it'll take awhile before the quest item will be dropped; most players suggest to clear the level under the Very Hard Mode. Not only does it has more floor levels compared to the lower difficulty, monsters drop rare items, too.
After completing the quest, return to Echo to have your job changed to Tracer.
 Any player has the right to choose between Arc Tracer or Psychic Tracer. For this guide, players need to choose Arc Tracer when it comes to choosing the advance job quest.


Quests can be found on the bulletin board of any town but can also be seen in your Quest Log. After accepting the quest, players will be given a set of tasks.
Add must be a Tracer in order to proceed to the class advancement quest.
 Quest for the Arc Tracer are still done in Elder Village's Dungeons. Your first quest requires you to enter Banthus Cave and gather 4 Quest Items from Bats monsters.


These quest items are easy to obtain even on Easy Mode. Quest can be done with or without party.
 The next part requires you to kill Nasod Banthus in order to obtain a certain Quest Item in any difficulty level of Underground Waterway.


However, this Quest Item may take a lot of tries before it drops so joining a party during dungeon raid is highly advisable. Per dungeon run ends quickly if you have a full party raid.
 At this point, you have two quests left; one requires you to kill Wally No. 8 to obtain a Quest item under Hard Mode or higher. Next, you have to clear the Wally's Castle twice under Very Hard Mode.


Instead of doing the quest separately in different difficulty, it's best to finish both under the Very Hard Mode.
Full party is advisable. If you have friends that are higher level, it's better to ask for their help to clear up the dungeon quickly.
After completing all the quest, return to the bulletin board to complete your class advancement. Your Add is now Arc Tracer with its complete new skills!

