 Holiday parties, whether in the winter or summer, pose food-based hazards for your dog. All of that delicious human food could spell disaster for your dog if he eats it. Feeding him before the party will fill up his stomach and reduce the chances of him begging for, or stealing, food.If possible, feed him at his normal mealtimes., Holiday party food is usually rich and full of flavor. Unfortunately, these foods are hazardous to your dog, especially fatty foods and chocolate. Fatty foods can lead a serious condition called pancreatitis, which can cause pain, vomiting, and dehydration. Chocolate, particularly baking chocolate and dark chocolate, can cause diarrhea and seizures in dogs and can be fatal.Grapes and raisins are also toxic to dogs, causing kidney failure.Onions and garlic are toxic to dogs.Alcohol, even in small amounts, can make a dog weak, sick, and lead to death from respiratory failure.If your dog eats human food or drinks alcohol, monitor him for signs of illness. Take him to your vet for treatment.
 Despite having a full belly, your dog may go from guest to guest begging for food. If your guests do not know he should not eat human food, they may slip him some food from their plates. When your guests arrive, advise them not to give your dog food, even if he begs for it.Keep a close eye on your dog around guests. If you notice your dog trying to get food from them, put him in a room away from the party.If your guests want to feed your dog, have them give him treats you would normally give him., When everyone has finished eating, start packaging the leftovers and storing them out of your dog’s reach.Also, monitor the party area regularly for empty plates and throw them away. You wouldn’t want your dog scooping up the uneaten food from people’s plates.
 Even if you are diligent about cleaning up the food trash, your dog may be curious enough to sift through the trash and eat whatever food he can find. This can be especially dangerous if he finds bones (e.g., ham, turkey, chicken). Small, sharp pieces of these bones can cause serious intestinal damage, which could require surgical treatment.If possible, place all trash in your garage where your dog cannot get to it. If you do not have a garage, you may need to confine him to a separate room until you have taken the trash out.
Dog-proof trash cans are available. If purchasing a new trashcan is not feasible, you could place something heavy (e.g., bricks) in the bottom of the trashcan to keep your dog from knocking it over. You could also place the trashcan in a large cabinet or use a heavy lid.