 Sometimes redirecting the conversation can curb bragging behavior. If your friend starts bragging, change the subject to something you both find interesting. Maybe you could talk about a class you're both in or a book you both love.You could even compliment a mutual friend and encourage the bragging friend to praise others.


If your friend continually turns the conversation back to themselves, politely tell them you don't want to talk about that right now. You don't have to tell them why. You might say, "Very cool, Jacob! Hey, have you seen the trailer for that new superhero movie yet? It looks pretty awesome. What kinds of movies do you like?";
, If your friend is always one-upping you, you may feel the urge to brag back. This will only worsen the problem: your friend will want to best you and you will feel even more angry. When you feel the urge, hold your tongue. Stooping to their level will not help.Never lie about your accomplishments in an attempt to best them. Even if they don't find out, you will likely feel bad for lying., If you notice yourself bragging, correct yourself out loud and avoid bragging in the future. Apologize to your friend and say something like, "I didn't realize I had been bragging. I'll try not to do that in the future. I know it makes people feel bad."If you make an effort to stop, your friend might follow suit.


Even if your friend knows they have a problem, they might feel too embarrassed to change their behavior. Knowing that other people struggle with it, too, can push them towards improvement.
Do not brag on purpose just to self-correct yourself. This is passive-aggressive.Your friend may not necessarily pick up on the hint, but they may pick up on your anger. Instead, become self-aware of your own bragging habits.
 People often don't realize how their bragging hurts others. Your friend might not mean to hurt your feelings. Treat them kindly and with respect. Ganging up against them will not solve the problem.
 How you praise them can either reinforce or curb their bragging behavior. Complement their actions rather than them. Saying, "You're so amazing!" may give them incentive for bragging in the future. Instead, say, "You did a good job!" It puts emphasis on the action, not them, and encourages them to work hard.If your friend is fishing for praise, you do not have to compliment them. Treat them kindly, but put attention on something else besides their actions. You might say, for example, "I appreciate how much effort you put into the group project, Becca. We couldn't have done it without your persistence."

