 If your baby has bloody stools, gastrointestinal problems (like nausea, vomiting or diarrhea), or seems extremely fussy or irritable, get them examined by their pediatrician. The pediatrician may diagnose your baby with mild to moderate or severe allergic colitis, a reaction to an allergen that the baby is getting through their diet. The doctor will work with you to find a formula that the baby isn't allergic to.
 If your baby is currently taking formula and has mild to moderate allergic colitis, talk with the doctor about choosing a hypoallergenic formula. Look for an extensively-hydrolyzed formula to offer your baby. Extensively-hydrolyzed formulas break down the protein found in cow's milk so it's easier for your baby to digest. 90% of babies with cow's milk allergies are able to use extensively-hydrolyzed formula.
 While you may consider offering a soy formula, remember that soy can also be an allergen. 8 to 14% of babies with a cow's milk allergy are also allergic to soy. Studies have shown that soy-based formulas may actually increase your baby's risk for developing a soy allergy (especially if they're under six months old)., Your baby will probably need to be checked about three weeks after switching to an extensively-hydrolyzed formula. The doctor will monitor any changes in growth and ask if there have been any allergic reactions.

If your baby reacted to the extensively-hydrolyzed formula, the doctor will recommend changing to an amino acid-based formula which is even easier for your baby to digest. You'll have to follow up again in another two to three weeks.
 If your baby hasn't improved after switching to an extensively-hydrolyzed formula or their allergic colitis was diagnosed as severe, switch to an amino-acid based formula. These hypoallergenic formulas are designed for babies who are allergic to the extensively-hydrolyzed formulas.

Depending on the severity of your baby's allergic colitis, you'll need to talk with the doctor about when to follow up after changing formulas. For example, the doctor may want to see your baby after two weeks.

