 If you had an attorney file your bankruptcy petition, then you should schedule a meeting to discuss what you will need for the 341 Meeting of Creditors. Even if you didn’t have an attorney help you file, you could still schedule a consultation with an attorney to discuss what will happen at the meeting.


You can get a referral for a bankruptcy attorney by contacting your local or state bar association.Once you have the name of someone, call and ask how much the attorney charges for a consultation.;
, Before the 341 Meeting can begin, the trustee needs to check your personal identification and make sure that it matches the information on your bankruptcy petition. The name on the ID must match the name on the petition. You should bring one of the following forms of identification to present:driver’s license
U.S. passport
state-issued identification card
military ID
student ID
government ID
resident alien card

, You also need to show the trustee your Social Security number, which you can do by showing an original or replacement Social Security card. Find yours before the meeting.


If you have lost your card, then you should get a replacement. See Get a New Social Security Card for more information.
Some trustees might also accept an original document that contains your Social Security number. For example, a W-2 form or a tax return prepared by a third party might be sufficient., The trustee may request certain documents from you. You probably have to mail them to the trustee before the meeting. You should also bring a copy along with you. For example, you may need to provide the following:last two tax returns
pay stubs
bank statements (60 days’ worth)
copies of mortgage documents
property deeds
car titles

, You should also take a copy of all documents filed in your bankruptcy case.You should make a copy and prepare to take them to the 341 Meeting of Creditors with you.
 In order for the 341 Meeting to go smoothly, you should make sure all information in your petition is accurate. Before the meeting, go through your petition and the attached schedules. Double check the information.


You are allowed to amend your petition at any time before your bankruptcy is discharged., Check with the court clerk to get a blank copy of whichever form must be amended. Some courts have special local forms you must use to amend your bankruptcy filing. Stop into court and ask for the form.When you pick up the form, ask the clerk whether you need to completely redo the entire form or if you can only enter in the new, corrected information. The clerk should let you know.
 Fill out the form following the clerk’s instructions. Double check all of your information to make sure that it is accurate. Also check the box in the upper-right hand corner that reads “Check if this is an amended filing.”Make a copy for your records. You should also make a copy for the trustee and another copy for any creditor affected by the change.
 Each document you file must be filed under penalty of perjury. Accordingly, you should complete a new declaration when you file your amended form.The clerk should have the declaration form you can use.
 Take the completed forms to the court clerk and ask to file. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date. You may also have to pay a fee, depending on the form that you needed to amend.Depending on your court, there may be other paperwork that you have to fill out, such as a cover sheet. You should check with the court clerk to make sure you finish everything.
Call ahead of time to ask the court clerk the amount of the filing fee as well as acceptable methods of payment.
 Look through your papers to find his or her address. If you can’t find it, then ask the court clerk. You can generally mail the form to the trustee. You can also mail a copy to any creditor that will be affected by the amendment., Before the meeting, you may want to sit down with your attorney and discuss what will happen at the 341 Meeting of Creditors. You shouldn’t be nervous. The meeting is not held so that the trustee or creditors can grill you.


Instead, the purpose is for the trustee to check that you qualify for bankruptcy and to identify what property will be exempt under the bankruptcy laws.
For many people, the 341 Meeting of Creditors lasts only five minutes or so.
 There are general questions asked at many 341 Meetings. You can go over them and practice your answers if you want. Typically, you may be asked any of the following:Why you filed for bankruptcy. For example, you could say, “I had a brief period of unemployment and had to support myself on credit cards. Even after I got a job, I just couldn’t get on top of the payments and now I can’t afford to pay my bills.”
Whether all of the information listed is accurate. You should be able to answer honestly “Yes.”
If you have paid off debts over the past year. If so, the trustee might claw back those payments.
Whether you have transferred money or property to someone else over the past year. If so, the trustee will try to get it back.
If you have any money coming to you soon, such as an income tax refund, debts repaid to you, or a lawsuit pending against someone else for money.
Whether you owe child support or alimony.
Whether your monthly expenses are reasonable and necessary.
 Your creditors can attend the 341 Meeting. Many choose not to show up, and it would not be unusual if no creditors showed up at all. However, creditors might show up to ask you about recent purchases.


For example, creditors will scrutinize any recent cash advances. If you took out money just to blow it, then the creditor might ask the trustee not to discharge that debt.If you have a car loan, then the creditor might also show up to ask if you intend to reaffirm the loan or turn the car over.Creditors might also ask why information in your bankruptcy petition differs from information you gave in order to get credit. For example, you might have gotten a credit card by claiming to make $50,000 a year. However, your bankruptcy petition might state that your annual income is only $30,000. You will have to explain the difference.
 One more time you should go through all of your papers filed in the case and check to see that the information is accurate. If not, you can file an amendment.


If there isn’t enough time to file an amendment, then you should bring the errors to the trustee’s attention at the very start of the meeting., You should have received the date and time when you filed your bankruptcy petition. Generally, the meeting is held at least 21 days after you file but not more than 40 days later.The meeting will probably be held in a federal building although it will not be held in a courtroom. Instead, you will meet in a conference room.
 It is not a good idea to take your children with you to the 341 Meeting. If you can’t avoid it, then you should tell the trustee ahead of time so that he or she can call your case first.Generally, your meeting will be scheduled in the same hour as 10 other people.


If your child becomes disruptive, then the trustee may have to schedule another meeting for you.
 You should do everything possible to make the 341 Meeting and not have to reschedule. The trustee is very busy, and meetings are not rescheduled simply because they are inconvenient. As soon as you get your hearing date, block out the entire day (if possible) so that you can attend.


However, if you absolutely must reschedule, then you should contact the trustee as soon as possible.If you fail to attend the 341 Meeting of Creditors, then the trustee will dismiss your bankruptcy petition and you’ll have to start all over again.
 All people who file for bankruptcy must complete a post-filing counseling course, just as you completed a pre-filing counseling course. You will need your bankruptcy case number to take the course. You can find it in your notice for the 341 Meeting.You can only take the course from a provider approved by the U.S. Trustee. The course must cover certain topics and last at least two hours.
You can find a list of approved providers at the Trustee’s website.Technically, you don’t need to take this course before the 341 Meeting of Creditors. If you filed for a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, then you must take it no later than 45 days after your 341 Meeting of Creditors was scheduled., When someone you have lent money to files for bankruptcy, they must submit a list of their creditors. The court will then automatically send you notification. The notification should also tell you when the 341 Meeting of Creditors will be held.You are not required to attend. However, you can show up if you have questions that you want to ask the debtor.
 You will be limited in the questions you can ask the debtor. A 341 Meeting is not a time for cross-examination. Instead, you simply try to gather information about the debtor’s assets.If you represent a credit card company, then check to see if the debtor took out cash advances within 70 days before filing for bankruptcy, or if the debtor purchased luxury goods 90 days before filing. If so, then you can challenge the discharge of those advances later.If you can't tell what the debtor purchased, then ask at the 341 Meeting.
Check if your loan was secured with collateral. For example, car loans are often secured with the car itself. If so, then you can ask the debtor at the 341 Meeting if they intend to keep the car of they want to reaffirm the loan.
 The hearing will generally be held in a conference room in a federal building. About 10 or so 341 Meetings will be scheduled for one hour. Accordingly, you should arrive early so that you are present when the first case is called.


Each 341 Meeting is recorded. If you missed the meeting, then you can request a copy of the hearing by contacting the trustee, who should have a form you can fill out.You can still challenge a bankruptcy even if you don’t attend the hearing.

