 Adults spend a lot of time worrying about how others perceive their behavior, but this leave you feeling stressed and self-conscious. To feel more youthful, even just temporarily, don’t worry about appearing stupid, silly, or crazy.For example, don't worry about how loud you are laughing. Just enjoy the feeling.
If you start to worry about what other people might think, push these thoughts aside and focus instead on how good it feels to laugh, joke around, or play.
Many of the activities you can do to feel more like a kid will require you to let go of your inhibitions and worry less about what other people may think. This may be hard to do, but you can start out small. Watch a funny movie and laugh as much as you want.;
, Worrying about how other people view you prevents you from feeling like a kid, but so does judging other people. Kids are often more accepting and open-minded than adults, so try to follow their example.When you catch yourself thinking negatively about another person, make yourself think of something nice instead. This might feel forced at first, but it will help retrain your brain to stop being judgmental and start being positive.
Psychologists suggest that one of the best ways to reduce your judgmental attitude about other people is to start being nice to yourself since judgement comes from a place of insecurity. Make a list of your best personality and character traits. Read this out loud every morning, and you'll notice that you have a better perspective on the world and the people around you.
 Feeling like a kid again involves embracing spontaneity and a less structured schedule. It is difficult to feel youthful and free when you have to worry about upcoming appointments, meetings, or responsibilities.While not every day can be unscheduled or open, try to avoid making lots of commitments for your days off.
Plan activities with friends or family, but don’t set a specific time or precise schedule.
For a brief time, allow yourself to let go of adult responsibilities. Laundry, bill paying, and cleaning won't help you feel like a kid again.
 A lot of adults feel the need to spend all of their free time engaged in specific, productive activities, but this is not how most kids live. It might take some effort, but allowing yourself to feel okay about having nothing to do will help you relax and feel more youthful.Giving yourself time to be bored provides you with the time to imagine, explore, and think about whatever you’d like.
Most adults discourage themselves from daydreaming, but experts say daydreaming and a healthy imagination often lead to more productive and creative ideas.
 Few things are more stressful than being responsible for everyone else and their schedules. To feel more like a kid, occasionally let someone else take charge.Ride in the backseat of the car instead of driving.
Let someone else decide what to eat for dinner.
Instead of managing an activity or outing, just sit back and enjoy the day.
 As adults we often feel like we have to follow rules all the time, but kids are often more adventurous. While you shouldn’t violate laws or ignore your responsibilities, try breaking a few unwritten rules of adulthood.


Stay up late on a work night.
Eat dessert first.
Watch a movie in the middle of the day.

