 If you are cleaning an aluminum pot, fill the pot with water, then add 2 tablespoons (29.57 ml) for every quart of water. Bring the water and vinegar to a boil and let the boil roll for 15 minutes, then pour out the liquid. You may have to do this process a few times to eliminate all oxidation.If you are cleaning a small aluminum object, bring water and vinegar to a boil inside a pot, then take the pot off the heat and drop the aluminum object inside. Let it soak for 15 minutes, then take it out and rinse it off.
If you are cleaning a large aluminum surface, soak a cloth in vinegar, then wipe it across the oxidation. Scrub with a soft bristled brush, then wipe away the vinegar and lifted oxidation with a damp cloth.
Don’t use abrasive materials like steel wool or sandpaper to scrub the surface of the aluminum. While this can scrape away oxidation, it also will scratch the surface of the aluminum and make oxidation harder to remove in the future.
 Do the same cleaning process as you did with vinegar, this time with lemon juice. If you are cleaning a small surface, you can also simply rub sliced lemon over the oxidized surface and wipe away. Dip the lemon slice in some salt to add abrasiveness if you are talking a particularly tough patch of oxidation.You can find small containers of lemon juice at most grocery stores, which is an easier alternative than individually juicing lemons.
 Use the same methods as you used with lemon and vinegar, this time using cream of tartar to clean off the oxidation. If you are cleaning a large area of oxidation, wet a cloth, apply a small amount of cream of tartar to it and rub the cloth over the surface. Then rub the cream of tartar away with a soft bristled brush., If you are cleaning out an aluminum pot of oxidation, you can simply cook something acidic in it such as tomato, sliced apple, sliced lemon or rhubarb. Place the pot on the stove, add one of these acidic foods and enough water to cover the oxidized areas. Bring the pot to a boil, then take it off the heat and pour everything out.Since the oxidation will come off of the pot, you should not eat the foods you are cooking.

