 This should be done with a fine, round metal file. Just make sure that this nozzle hole is unobstructed. If holes are obstructed, a torch tip bore cleaning tool may be necessary.;
, It should thread into a socket where both the Oxygen and Acetylene hoses come together. Usually this joint is brass.
 Make sure these valves are shut completely; otherwise, your gas/air mixtures will be off.
 Acetylene main valve should only be opened 1/2 turn, and the regulator set at 5 to 7 psi (pounds per square inch). (If acetylene is turned up too high, it can become unstable.) For welding, the oxygen should be set between 7 and 10 psi. For cutting, the oxygen should be set between 15 and 25 PSI.
 A welding head is simple, and has two valves located near the base of the head. To use this head:


Turn on the Acetylene valve until you hear a slight hiss of gas from the nozzle.
Take your striker/lighter and light the torch.
This should produce a dark red-orange flame which puts out very putrid black smoke.
Now, slowly turn on the valve that controls your oxygen, until you see the flame change. Careful: too much oxygen and you can "bleed out" the flame -- which means the flame will go out. In this event, turn the oxygen off and try again.

The flame should be blue with a white inside tip. The inner, white tip should measure around 3⁄8 inch (1.0 cm) long.
 You will notice a trigger, and three tubes going up to the nozzle.


First, turn the oxygen that IS released by the trigger, all the way on.
Turn on the Acetylene valve until you hear a slight hiss of gas from the nozzle.
Take your striker/lighter and light the torch.
This should produce a dark red/orange flame, that puts out very putrid black smoke.
Now, slowly turn on the valve that controls your Oxygen (there are two valves for oxygen on a cutting head, one blocked controlled by the trigger, one unrestricted), until you see the flame change. Careful: too much Oxygen and you can "bleed out" the flame. Meaning the flame will go out. In this event, turn the Oxygen off and try again.

The flame, when the trigger is NOT compressed, should be a blue flame, measuring about two inches, with about a 1/2" bluish-yellow inner flame.
When the trigger is compressed, the flame will become much shorter, louder, and faster.
When cutting, always heat the metal up to a nice cherry red, and then press the trigger for oxygen. Caution: Sparks will be thrown, so be aware and safe.


