 The bar association is a professional organization of lawyers. There is a national bar association, the American Bar Association (ABA), as well as individual state bar associations. In large or medium sized cities, you will even find local city or regional bar associations. These organizations generally have websites online. If you look up your local bar association online, you are likely to find lists of lawyers, often arranged by specialty., Ask people you know if they have ever used an attorney, particularly for any criminal matter similar to yours. If someone you know has faced criminal charges before, find out the name of the attorney, and ask how satisfied your friend was with the representation., If you already have an attorney whom you may have worked with for civil matters, such as for business or taxes, you may be able to ask that attorney for a referral to someone who does criminal work. You may find that the attorney himself or herself is able to help you. If not, you can probably get referred to someone else who can., The Internet can be a useful and powerful tool, if you use it properly. If you run a search for “criminal attorney” in your location, you are likely to get many responses. You need to read through the results carefully. Do not just pick the first one. Read their descriptions about their experience, the cases they have handled, and the courts in which they have appeared. Look for someone whose experience best matches your need.The ABA offers a nationwide Lawyer Referral Directory.From that site, you can select your state, and you will be directed to the local contact information for the bar association that can help you find an attorney close to you.
As a local example, the State Bar Association of Texas has an online search feature. You can search for attorneys by name, or by their field of specialty.The New York State Bar Association also lists a Lawyer Referral Service on its home page.By calling the Lawyer Referral Service at 800-342-3661, you can be referred to an attorney in your geographic area, with the skills that you need.
 The public defender is an attorney who works for the government in a defense role. He or she represents clients who cannot afford to hire a private attorney. If you do not believe you can afford to hire a private attorney to represent you, this may be a valid option. Some public defenders may be very experienced and have simply chosen to take this role to help indigent people.You might qualify for a public defender even if you are employed. The court will consider the total circumstances regarding your finances in deciding whether you qualify.
 You should find out before you hire any attorney that he or she is in good standing with the state bar association. Attorneys can be punished by their state for a variety of things. Some are minor, like being delinquent in paying dues, and some are major and result in losing their license to practice law. In most states, you can search the state bar association records to find out if your attorney has faced any disciplinary action. Then it is up to you to decide if the report is serious enough to change your mind about hiring him or her.


The legal research site Findlaw.com has a handy reference that links to each state to help you check your prospective attorney’s discipline record.If you find, for example, that an attorney once had his or her license temporarily suspended for failing to pay dues to the state, that may not be enough to change your mind. However, if you find a report of sanctions for mishandling client funds, you should be concerned.
 Martindale-Hubbell is a legal publishing company that, among other things, prepares and publishes a rating system of attorneys. This system is based on opinions that are provided by other attorneys and by judges in the state. A rating of “AV” is the highest rating a law firm or individual lawyer can earn. This rating should give you a good indication of the legal ability, reputation, and ethics of a particular attorney., Run a search on the Internet for the attorney’s name or for any clients he or she has represented. This may show you records, written court opinions, or newspaper articles about the attorney. If the attorney handled any matters that drew considerable public interest, you might find stories or articles describing them. This could help you better understand the attorney’s experience.


Use words like "review," "complaint," or something similar, combined with the attorney’s name. A search like this can lead you to online complaint sites, blogs, and forums, where you may learn more about the attorney. Be careful, though -- the information that you read on sites like this are often unsubstantiated and based solely on one person’s opinion.
 When you are selecting an attorney, you need to treat your first consultation like a job interview. After all, this is someone you are going to hire. Ask questions that will help you decide if the attorney is someone you will want to work with and who can do what you need.Ask about experience. You should ask about years of practice, but don’t stop there. An older attorney is not necessarily a better one. Ask about the attorney’s success level and the satisfaction of his or her clients.
Ask specifically about experience in the court where you have been charged. An attorney with local experience will be familiar with local procedures, the temperament of prosecutors and judges, and will best know how to manage the court schedule. A great part of the success of your case may come from negotiating outside of court, and an attorney who is more experienced in your particular court will have a better chance of negotiating a positive deal for you.
Ask about similar cases and results. If you are charged with DUI, for example, you want an attorney who understands DUI cases, who has handled them in the past, and who has a good success rate of getting his clients released or limiting the charges against them.
 You also need to make sure that he/she is not overburdened when attending to your case. The lawyer must have the required time to pay attention to you and the case.


While you are talking with the attorney, gauge how well he or she explains things so that you can understand them.
Pay attention to how much the attorney listens to you and addresses your specific needs. Try to determine whether he or she is attentive you your particular case, or if it sounds like he or she is merely reciting a speech.
If the attorney seems to get interrupted for other matters while meeting with you, this could be a sign that your case is not going to get the attention it deserves.
 An experienced attorney should be able to put you in touch with prior clients whom he or she has represented, so you can talk with them. Find out from them what the experience was like and how satisfied they were with the attorney.


Some courts post their dockets online or use a public records terminal. If this is available in your area, you can try searching the attorney’s name in the court’s database to what kind of cases he or she has handled.
 It is important that you know how and when the attorney expects to be paid. It may be difficult to think about finances when you are facing criminal charges, but this is a necessary part of the business. Ask if the attorney will bill you by the hour, or a flat fee for the entire project you need.For something like a routine DUI charge, for example, many attorneys may be willing to bill a simple flat fee.
Even if the attorney charges a flat fee to take your case, that may change if the charges are increased or if the matter unexpectedly goes to trial. Talk with the attorney about these possibilities and find out what will happen then.
 After you make the final selection, the attorney should send you a retainer agreement. This may be in the form of a letter, or it may be a more thorough contract. When you receive it, read it over carefully and make sure that you understand it.At this point, you still have the opportunity of selecting another attorney, if you find something in the retainer agreement that concerns you.


Find out if the attorney’s fee includes taking your case to trial, or if that is extra. Some attorneys may quote you an initial price range for handling your case, but then going to trial might be considered an additional fee. You need to understand how much you are paying, and what it covers. If this is not clearly defined in the retainer agreement, you should ask.
Check the agreement for extra costs for experts. You may not need an expert witness in your case, but if you do, you should find out in the beginning what that will cost you. Find out if that is a cost that you will be expected to pay, or if the attorney will provide the expert witness as a cost of the case that is included in his fee.
 When you are charged with a crime, those charges mean that you have violated some state or federal law. The punishment may be anything from having to pay a fine up to imprisonment. The type of punishment and the possibility of jail time will depend on the type of crime that you are charged with. Criminal attorneys generally classify the charges into four different categories:Infraction: This is the lowest level violation. Infractions are usually payable by a fine. You usually will not be facing the possibility of jail time. For something like a driving infraction, you could also have the added penalty of points on your driver’s license or a suspension of your driver’s license.
Misdemeanor: This is a crime that has a maximum penalty of up to one year in a county jail. Whether or not you actually have to serve jail time will depend on the arguments or negotiations that your attorney can make on your behalf.
Felony: This is the highest level of criminal charges. Felony charges do not automatically mean that you definitely will go to prison, but the charge does have the possibility of one year or more in the state prison. Depending on the crime and depending on the law in your state, a felony violation could even be punished with the death penalty.
”Wobbler”: This is not a formal definition, but it is a term that attorneys may use to describe crimes that might be classified as either a misdemeanors or felonies (it “wobbles” between the two). In the end, the definition will depend on the sentence that the judge assigns.
 Hiring an experienced criminal defense attorney can be quite expensive. For even the simplest case, the charges are likely to be as much as $5,000 or more. If your case winds up going to trial, the price is going to be much higher.You can probably save some money by looking for an attorney who practices on his or her own, rather than one who works with a large firm. However, the larger firm is probably going to have more resources available to help you. The choice is ultimately up to you to decide what you can afford.Depending on the charges against you and the policies of the attorney you eventually select, you may be able to arrange for payments over time. However, most attorneys will require a sizable retainer before they begin working for you. There is no guarantee of success either.
Contingency fee arrangements are prohibited in most jurisdictions for criminal work. Criminal defense attorneys are not allowed to make fees dependent on a promise of results., If you have been incarcerated, you may need to have your friends or family help get you a lawyer. If you are not sure about the lawyer your family hired, you may use the person just at the arraignment, and conduct a search for a new lawyer when you are released.

