 To know how to help refugees, you’ll first need to know where they’re coming from, and what their needs are. Make sure to keep up with global news reports and social media so that you will stay abreast of humanitarian crises, natural disasters, and political regimes that create refugee situations.


Aside from your favorite news outlets, you can follow an agency such as the Human Rights Watch by email or social media.;
, There are numerous agencies and organizations that focus on providing assistance to refugees, and keeping up with these is a great way to stay involved. The websites and social media of organizations like these will have a wealth of information about recent and ongoing refugee crises, as well as additional ideas for how to get involved. Familiarize yourself with:


The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees: http://www.unhcr.org/

American Refugee Committee: http://www.arcrelief.org/

International Rescue Committee: http://www.rescue.org/

The Women’s Refugee Commission https://www.womensrefugeecommission.org/about

Refugees International https://www.refugeesinternational.org

The Church World Service: http://www.cwsglobal.org/

Religious centers and community organizations in your area that may work to help refugees

, This is probably the quickest and easiest way to make a contribution to refugee efforts. Pay attention after natural disasters, political uncertainties, and other situations that can create waves of refugees. Look for calls to make financial contributions to charitable organizations, which will then apply the money to get refugees the material and humanitarian assistance they need.Sometimes, you can also donate goods (such as non-perishable food and clothing) to make a direct impact.
Donations to charitable organizations are probably tax-deductible, but check with the organization to make sure.
 If you want to make a bigger impact, you can band together with like-minded people. There is strength in numbers, and the more people work together to help refugees, the more attention will be drawn to the effort.


Try to do things like host an event (such as a telethon) where people can make donations to refugee organizations, or arrange a march to bring attention to the refugee crisis.
Make sure to get the word out there so that people will know about your event. Post flyers with the name of the event, and important information like the date, time, and location. You should also broadcast this information widely via social media, email lists, and word of mouth.
You can also contact organizations like the UN Refugee Agency or the Refugee Start Force for help organizing a fundraising or awareness campaign in your area.These groups have the know-how and experience to help you launch a successful event. You might find this especially helpful for figuring out the logistics of hosting an event (finding a space, getting equipment, developing a program for the event, etc.).
 Crowdfunding sites are now an easy and often effective way to raise money to support valuable causes. All it takes is a few minutes to set up an account and fundraising website. Then, people can make donations online, and you can pass the funds along to organizations that help refugees.


Crowdrise has a fundraising set up devoted to the UN Refugee agency, so you can direct people there. However, you can also use a site like that for ideas, then create your own crowdfunding site using services like Indigogo and Go Fund me.You can choose to create a limited-time fundraising campaign (like “Summer 2017 Refugee Fundraising Drive”), or to have an ongoing donation website.
You can also decide to focus your crowdfunding site on a specific theme or group (like “Teens for Refugees”).
No matter what form your crowdfunding site takes, make sure to advertise it widely, especially via social media.
 The widespread use of social networking websites has made it easier than ever to spread under-reported news to friends, relatives, and acquaintances. If you come across a story related to refugees, or information about how to make donations and get involved, post and share widely. This will help to increase aid to refugees.You can also write posts about a refugee situation that matters to you, how a refugee crisis impacts you, or stories about refugees that you meet. First-person, human interest stories help readers know more about refugees as individuals, and their needs. This can encourage others to help refugees.
 If you are really committed to making an impact, you can go to the home country of refugees to help them leave the area. By joining a rapid response team, you can make sure that refugees are taken care of as their situation is sorted out, see that the aid effort is organized, that international media agencies are getting good information, etc.Response teams are made up of people who have international experience, or specific skills that can help with refugee aid efforts (like language knowledge or medical training).
If you are interested in working on a refugee response team, be prepared for potentially difficult circumstances, such as volatile political situations and lack of access to basic services (electricity, running water, etc.).
Check with refugee aid organizations to learn more about possibilities for volunteering or interning abroad.

