 The best Converse to work on are brand new. If you can't get new ones, you will need to clean the ones you already own. This will help the ink stick and show up better. Wipe down the rubber parts with a cotton ball soaked in rubbing alcohol. Wipe down the fabric parts with a damp towel. Let the shoe dry before moving on.


Most markers are translucent, and will show up best against a white shoe. If you are going to buy a new pair of Converse, try to get white ones.
If you are going to color the entire shoe, remove the shoe laces. You can even color those ones as well.;
, Permanent markers will work on all parts of the shoe. Because they are translucent, they will show up best against white Converse. Fabric markers will only work on the fabric part of the shoe. They may smear if you use them on the rubber part.


Make sure you get the right type of fabric marker. If your shoe is colored, get a fabric marker intended for dark or colored fabric. If your shoe is white, you can use any type of fabric marker.
 Once you start coloring your shoe, it will be difficult to erase any mistakes. Sketch out your design on a sheet of paper or scrap of fabric, then color it in using the markers. Try simple designs, such as lightning bolts, hearts, and stars. You can also try geometric designs as well.


If you are going to color the rubber parts, practice on a sheet of paper.
If you are going to color the fabric parts, try to practice on a scrap of canvas, linen, or cotton fabric. The texture will give you a feel for what it is like to color on Converse.
 If your shoes are white, try to sketch lightly so that the pencil doesn't show through. If your shoes are dark, use a white colored pencil instead., Depending on the type of marker you are using, you may need to wait for the ink to dry before moving onto the next color. Don't start with the darker colors. If you do, the ink will smudge and bleed into the lighter colors and make them muddy.


If you are using fabric markers meant for colored fabrics, shake it first, then tap the tip on a flat surface. This will help get the ink into the felt tip. The ink will gush out, so don't do the tapping part on your Converse.
 The outlines are not necessary, but they can help make your work stand out some more. Try to use thicker lines on the main/larger shapes, and thinner lines on the smaller shapes and details.
 Whatever you choose to use, make sure that it is matte, or your shoes will end up shiny. This will help protect your work and make it last longer.


You do not need to spray the rubber parts, if you colored them. Keep in mind that the designs will wear off of the rubber parts on their own the more you wear your shoes.
 Keep in mind that even with the sealer, your work will still be delicate. Wear your shoes with care and try to avoid getting them wet or muddy.
