 There are four primary groups that offer agility trials in the United States: American Kennel Club (AKC), North American Dog Agility Council (NADAC), United States Dog Agility Association (USDAA), Canine Performance Events (CPE). While these are the four primary groups, there are many other groups that sanction agility trials. Search online for additional agility trials that might be offered by other groups in your area.The AKC agility trial requires dogs and handlers to negotiate an obstacle course.The USDAA agility trial has two types of agility programs, the Championship Program and the Performance Program. Compared to the Championship Program, dogs in the Performance Program will face lower jump heights and are allowed longer time on the course. In both programs, dogs must achieve a jump height determined by their own size. Larger dogs must jump higher than smaller dogs.The NADAC agility trials are often co-hosted by judging clinics that help fund NADAC Championships. Rules and regulations vary. At the NADAC Championship level, there are three classes available for dogs to compete in. Access to a given competition class depends on the dog’s participation and performance in NADAC competitions throughout the year. The more points a dog earns at NADAC events over the course of the year, the higher the competitive level the dog can compete in during the Championships.The CPE agility trials are cohosted by various canine organizations. Consult event organizers for more detailed information.;
, Each agility trial has its own rules and regulations. These are typically posted online, though you might only receive specific guidelines for the agility trial you and your dog enter into when you officially register.AKC rules and regulations are available at http://images.akc.org/pdf/rulebooks/REAGIL.pdf.
NADAC rules and regulations are available online at http://www.nadac.com/Rules_for_NADAC_trials.htm.
USDAA rules and regulations are posted online at http://usdaatitlemania.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/USDAA-TitleMania-Regs-Final-Revisions.pdf.
CPE rules are available at http://www.k9cpe.com/forms/2016rb.pdf.
 There is no national standard for how agility trials need to be carried out. Instead, each group comes up with its own standard. You should familiarize yourself with the specific course set-up for each group.AKC uses a very tight course, so there is less distance between obstacles. AKC also gives out more faults.
NADAC uses looser courses and gives out fewer faults. However, the courses have shorter time limits.
USDAA allows you to walk your dog on a lead during certain parts of the course.
CPE has lower jump heights.
For a complete list of course specific, visit each group’s website.
 Each group has similar but slightly different registration requirements. Your dog must meet the specific requirements for the group in order to be accepted into an agility trial.Most organizations require a dog’s full name, sex, breed, birthdate, and height. They also require your name, address, email, and phone number.
AKC only allows purebred dogs to compete. NADAC, USDAA, and CPE allow both purebred and mixed breed dogs to compete.
One final thing to do when deciding if you and your dog can enter an agility trial is to evaluate the particular preconditions of a given trial. Certain NADAC trials, for instance, require that your dog has competed in other NADAC trials over the course of the year.Check each groups website for a complete list of registration requirements.
 After evaluating registration requirements, differences between various organizations, and the courses offered by each group, you’ll probably be ready to make a decision about which trial you and your dog want to compete in. But there are three main factors relating to your dog that you should also consider when determining whether you and your dog are ready to enter an agility trial.Age is one – your dog cannot be too old or too young. Agility trials generally require that a dog is at least one year old. Some trials – the USDAA trials, for instance – hold separate trials for “veteran” dogs over the age of seven.
Breed – which determines the size of the dog – is also important. Large dogs have a harder time negotiating certain narrowly-placed obstacles.
Finally, analyze your dog’s ability to learn and obey commands. Some breeds are naturally harder to train than others. German Shorthaired Pointers, Basenjis, Afghan Hounds, and Tibetan Spaniels, for instance, do not readily obey commands.
If your dog still cannot sit, lie down, and roll over without significant coaxing, it is probably not a good candidate to enlist in an agility trial.
 You can find entry forms – also called “premiums – on each group’s website. Alternatively, you can visit http://www.dogeventsonline.com for a repository of entry forms for local and national events., Title level refers to whether your dog is a beginner or an experienced agility trialer. Most groups require you to start at the lowest level and earn qualifications for high levels.AKC has six title levels: Novice A, Novice B, Open, Excellent A, Excellent B, and Master.
NADAC has three levels: Novice, Open, and Elite.
USDAA has three categories, each with their own levels. The categories are Championship, Performance, and Junior.
CPE has six levels: Level 1, Level 2, Level 3, Level 4, Level 5, Level C.Check each group’s website for a description of the title levels.
 Each groups breaks competitors into divisions. If your dog has a handicap or the handler is elderly, you will compete against other dogs and handlers in the same division.AKC has two divisions: Standard and Junior.
NADAC has three divisions: Standard, Veterans, and Junior Handlers. Within the Veterans division, you could choose to register as a Veteran (with jumping), Veterans (non-jumping), or Veteran or Disabled Handler. Veteran handlers are defined as age 60 and over.USDAA has two divisions: Standard and Junior Handler Program.
CPE has four divisions: Standard, Veterans, Jr Handler, and Handicapped/Differently Abled Handler.
Each group’s website contains a complete description of the divisions.
 The category refers to how high your dog will have to jump. Generally, your dog will be measured and assigned a specific jump height. However, each group has an event that allows you to enter your dog in an event will jumps lower than your dog’s jump height.AKC has two categories: Regular and Preferred. In the Regular category, dogs must jump their measured jump height. In the Preferred category, you may jump your dog one height lower than their measured jump height.NADAC has two categories: Proficient and Skilled. In the Proficient category, dogs must jump their measured jump height. In the Skilled category, you may jump your dog one jump height lower than their measured jump height.USDAA has two categories: Championship Program and Performance Program. In the Championship Program, dogs must jump at their measured jump height. In the Performance Program, you may jump your dog one height lower than their measured jump height. CPE has four categories: Regular, Veterans, Enthusiast, and Specialist. In the Regular category, dogs must jump at their measured jump height. In the Veterans category, you may jump your dog 4” lower than their measured jump height. In the Enthusiast category, you may jump your dog 4” lower than their measured jump height. In the Specials’ category, you may jump your dog 8” lower than their measured jump height.
 Classes are the different games, courses, and obstacles that are available for your dog to demonstrate their agility. Each class tests a different set of skills.AKC offers three classes: Standard, Jumpers With Weaves, and Fifteen And Send Time (FAST).NADAC offers six classes: Regular, Jumpers, Tunnelers, Weavers, Touch-N-Go, Chance, and Hoopers.USDAA offers four classes: Standard, Gamblers, Jumpers, and Snooker.CPE offers seven classes: Standard, Colors, Wildcard, Jackpot, Snooker, FullHouse, and Jumpers.Check each group’s website for a complete description of the various classes.
 Registration fees for agility trials vary. Some organizations charge $10 or $12 per run, with discounts if you enter your dog in more runs.Some registration fees depend on the event the dog is entered in. Consult the registration fee schedule for your dog’s specific event for more information., The premium will list many important details, including the location of the trial site, whether refunds are available, and whether you need to check-in the night before the event. Always read the premium carefully. Check the deadline on your entry form and get it in as soon as possible.Many events fill up fast, so you’re more likely to get a spot if you submit the entry form early.

