 Softwares such as Microsoft Word can help you create a template for your planner pages. Using the computer will save you time from manually creating each page. First you’ll need to set the page size to something smaller than what you cut your binder to. Then make three columns for each page to be used as the days of the week. Use these margin settings for the columns: 1” for the top margin, 1” for the bottom margin, 1.5” for the left side, and .75” for the right side., Use a small, but legible font to add the days of the week onto the columns. You should have two pages in your word processing software. The first page could have Monday through Wednesday and the second page could have Thursday, Friday, and Saturday/Sunday.


For most planners, it’s okay to combine Saturday and Sunday into one column.
 You’ll need to decide on a range of dates for your planner. Think about your schedule and what you will need your planner for. Create the next three months before creating any additional months. Some softwares will fill in the date for each month while others won’t.Add the month on the top or bottom of the page in a legible size.
Add an inspirational quote for each month to add variety.
If you’re unable to add the dates of the month, fill them in manually with a pen as you use the planner.
Be sure to create enough weeks for each month. Look at a calendar to help you design.
 Once you finalize your design, you’re ready to print the pages. If you have access to a double sided printer, use this function to save paper.Use a paper cutter to cut the pages down to fit into the binder. If you don’t have access to a paper cutter, use a ruler and an exacto knife to make the cuts.


Stack multiple pages on top of each other for a quicker cut. Be sure all the pages are aligned evenly.
Do not rush through cutting the pages or else you might damage or tear one of the pages.
 To fit the pages into your binder, you’ll need use a hole puncher. Adjust the hole puncher so that it matches the binder’s rings.Use a ruler to match the binder’s rings with the hole puncher. Once everything is aligned, punch holes for your templates.


You can hole punch multiple pages at a time depending on your hole puncher.

