 FIFA 12 makes some big changes to the previous versions, so even if you've played before you'll probably want to spend some time in the tutorial. This will let you get familiar with how the passing, dribbling, and shooting mechanics work.;
, One of the big mistakes most new player make is to continuously hold down the Sprint button while playing. This will tire your player out and, more importantly, keep you from having full control over the ball. Save your sprints for when you really need them, such as when you have an opening on the pitch to make a run at the goal., Soccer is a game of possession, and its always more beneficial to make a safe pass back than to try to push forward when outnumbered. If the defense collapses in on your ball handler, make a pass back to one of your trailing teammates to set up a new approach.
 You will automatically drop into precision mode when approached by a defender, but you can manually enter it at any time. This can give you more options for faking out your opponent.
 You can command one of your teammates to make an offensive run at anytime. A well-timed pass to a teammate that has broken free from the defenders can open up major scoring opportunities.
 Formations are powerful when used properly and the right formation can make the difference between winning and losing. On offense, many players recommend the 4-1-2-1-2 formation or the 4-4-1-1 formation.Make sure that your players are placed in their optimal position for the formation so that they're strengths shine through.
 One of the best ways to set up a goal is to cross the ball from a player coming down the side of the pitch to a player approaching the goal down the center or other side. This throws off defenders and can make for a quick shot from a different direction.
 Certain players on your team are simply better than others. Pay attention to the stats and try to give the ball to your star players as much as possible. You will be more likely to make shots, connect passes, and out-maneuver your opponent if the ball is in the right feet.
 Defending has changed significantly in FIFA 12, and you are penalized much more for being overly-aggressive with your tackles. Use the new defensive situation to your advantage by getting in close and contesting the ball instead of going for the tackle.At the same time, you don't want to be too patient. Not putting enough pressure your opponent will allow them to move down the field easier, putting you on your heels.
 If you can spare a player without leaving another opponent too open, call in a second defender to help put the pressure on. You can use this to shut down pass lanes or force the defender to lose possession of the ball.Be careful when doing this, as it often leaves an opponent open for a pass. Make sure you are aware of where the opposing players are in the field and shut down any passing lanes.
 One of the most useful defensive formations in the game is 5-3-2, as it provides good coverage for your defenders. Another solid choice is the 5-2-2-1 formation as it packs the midfield with defenders.
 In FIFA 12, the key to successfully defending is by anticipating where the opponent is going to pass, and then shutting that pass down. This will be difficult at first, but after some time you'll start to be able to tell which direction a player is going to to based on their direction and speed.
 While the default Assisted controls are good for getting a handle on how the game plays, you lose a lot of control and finesse. Switch to manual controls to enable complete control over your players. This allows for better and more dynamic ball-handling, as well as more effective defense.
 Although its tempting, try to avoid jumping online as soon as possible. There are a lot of good players out there, and if you don't practice a little bit you're going to get stomped. Play an offline season to get used to the controls, and use Practice Mode to practice formations, corner kicks, and penalty kicks.


Practice mode is also a great way to practice your offensive footwork.
 When you're first getting started online, you're going to need all the help you can get. Use one of the more powerful teams as you get used to playing against other opponents.


Barcelona, Man. U., AC Milan, and Real Madrid
Once you get a feel for the game, avoid using these teams as they are viewed by many other players as "cheap".
 During your first few online games, focus on defending the other player and denying goals. You can work on offense later, but a good defense wins games.
 Passing is incredibly important in online games, as you're likely to face much stiffer defense than against a computer opponent.
 Don't bring the ball up the same side of the pitch every time. Avoid going to the same player for every play. Fake doing one thing and then do another. One of the keys to winning an online game is to constantly keep your opponent guessing.


This goes for taking shots as well. Don't always use the same strength or shot type. Vary it up to keep your opponent's defenders on their toes. You can modify your shot type by using the shoulder buttons on your controller. Use different shots for different situations.
 A chance to score can be a rare opportunity in FIFA, so you'll want to ensure that you give yourself the best opportunity that you can get. There are a few factors to keep in mind before lining your shot up:Space - taking a contested shot will rarely work in your favor. Make sure that there is clear space in front of your player.
Range - Try to make sure you're inside the box before shooting. Taking a shot from the midfield line is a recipe for disaster.
Angle - If you're too far down on either side of the field, you will have a very small angle that you can make a shot in. You'll be better off crossing to one of your teammates.
 If you have a particularly tall striker, send more balls to him at head level. If your opponent has good dribbling skills, make sure to take advantage of that and try to juke your opponents.
 Try to avoid running players all over the pitch on offense and defense. Let the formation do the work, and switch to the best player for the situation and spot.
 Take some time to figure out the strengths and weaknesses of all the teams that your opponent can choose from. Knowing which players they're likely to favor can help you set up your defense and shut down their stars.
 If you're serious about your FIFA rank, warming up offline will help you get into the flow without jeopardizing your online game. Play a quick match to get your legs back, and then head online to find a real opponent.


Use the offline game to practice and tricks or plays you've been thinking about implementing in your online games.

