 Before attempting to clean a HEPA filter, you’ll need to find out whether or not it’s washable. Some filters need to be rinsed out periodically, while any contact with water will ruin others.If you don’t have your product manual, you can search online for your appliance’s manufacturer and model number to download a digital copy.
Washable filters are used in both air purifiers and vacuum cleaners.;
, Larger filters can be cumbersome and hold lots of dirt and debris that you might not want to release into your house. Take your appliance outside or to the garage to remove and clean the filter if you’re concerned about your home’s air quality. Just make sure you’re within reach of a garden hose or water faucet.If your filter is small and easy to handle, or if you’re not worried about spilling any dust, you can just remove the filter indoors and rinse it in a sink.
 Make sure your air purifier or vacuum cleaner is turned off and unplugged. Remove the canister or panel that encases the filter, then slide the filter out of the appliance.


Check your product guide if you’re not sure how to access the HEPA filter.
Never operate an air purifier or vacuum cleaner without a filter.
 The filter might be caked with dirt and debris, depending on the type of appliance and how often you clean the filter. If necessary, you can gently tap the filter over a garbage can. This will knock off excess debris and loosen any built up dirt., You should use gentle or moderate pressure, as high pressure could ruin the filter. Rinse the filter until the water runs clear and dirt free.Some manufacturers recommend a lukewarm water rinse, while others stipulate cold water only, so check your product guide for the best water temperature for your specific filter.


In general, you should rinse both sides of a washable flat filter. Cylindrical wet/dry vacuum filters should only be rinsed on their exterior and should not get wet inside the cylinder., All washable HEPA filters must dry completely before reinstallation. Shake off excess water, then leave your filter out to air dry for at least 24 hours.Never put your filter in a clothes dryer, use a blower dryer, or use any method other than natural air drying.

