 These are signs that the plant is trying to make up for insufficient sunlight.Don't move it straight to direct sunlight, since that damages most bromeliads. Move to an area of sunnier, mottled shade or nearer a window that receives indirect sunlight first. Move it again if the leaves don't correct themselves in a couple weeks.
 Move your bromeliad to a shader area of your yard, or place it further from windows that receive direct sunlight. Make a more drastic change in sunlight conditions if the sun is burning brown holes onto the leaves.


If your plant should be able to withstand more sunlight according to a label or expert, it may have been cared for improperly by the previous owners. Acclimate it to the correct conditions by periodically moving it to a slightly brighter area., If the leaf size and overall colors haven't changed, but you notice one of these problems, the sunlight is probably fine but the plant needs more water:Mist the bromeliad every day when it's not exposed to direct sunlight.
Keep the central cup of the plant full of water if one is present.
Plant other plants a short distance from your bromeliad. Each plant raises the humidity in its immediate area.
Run a humidifier in the same room as your plant, or create your own non-powered humidifier by placing pebbles in a tray and filling it with water to just below the surface of the rocks.
 If you have an "air plant" with no soil to draw water from, you should be misting it every few days. To repair the dried out leaves immediately, immerse the air plant in water for a few minutes, then hold upside and check to make sure all the water drains out from between the leaves.Trapped water pockets can cause rot.
 This is a sign of too much mineral buildup. Take these steps to remove the problem and deal with the immediate issue:


Use rainwater or distilled water instead of tap water to care for your bromeliad.
Pour water over the plant or into the central cup until the pot drains or the soil is good and moist. This flushes out the excess minerals, but should be done sparingly since it can cause the roots to rot. Turn small indoor plants upside down over the sink afterward to help them drain.
Stop using fertilizer, or at least dilute it to half the strength you're currently using.
 The most common pests are scale and mealybugs, which create the described appearance. Wipe a cotton swab dipped in rubbing alcohol over the affected area every day or two until it subsides.For widespread or persistent outbreaks, mix baby shampoo or mild dishwashing detergent with water and spray onto the plants to suffocate the insects. Rinse the plant shortly afterward to maintain the leaves' access to air.
If you are forced to resort to insecticides, avoid thick or oil-based ones which can suffocate the plant. Bromeliads rely on their leaves to draw in some nutrients and water, so only use insecticides as a last resort.

