 According to the National Safety Council, most falls happen at home, and one of the easiest ways for you to help protect a senior from falling in the home is to remove obstructions on the floor. Keep the floor clear of things like toys, clothes, and even other cleaning products such as brooms or vacuums.Keep items aside from furniture clear of the floor by placing them in designated areas such as closets or hampers.
Keep cords off the floor as much as possible. Try cordless phones and other wireless devices where you’re able. For areas that need cords, keep them tacked down against the wall or baseboards.
Always keep stairs and doorways clear.
Try to have yoru senior avoid living in a home with stairs.
Get rid of all throw rugs whenever possible since they are common causes of tripping and falls. If a rug is necessary, use a flat or low-pile rug, and secure the edges with nails or adhesive.
Remove clutter and any furniture that blocks pathways.
Keep items used daily in a place where they are easily accessible. Consider purchasing extended grabber reaching aids in case something is dropped to place around the house. Bending down to pick something up is a common cause of dizziness and falls for seniors.;
, Providing proper lighting in important areas can help prevent trips and falls in the house. Make sure there are at least two bulbs illuminating important areas such as doorways and hallways, and that there are switches placed at accessible heights on either side of a room entry or hall.If you are helping to care for an independent senior, consider helping them purchase and install lights that can be set on timers so that lights automatically come on during important portions of the day, such as at nightfall.
 Furniture that is too high or too low, especially chairs, sofas, and beds, can create a serious tripping and falling hazard for seniors. Make sure that the senior individual can sit up straight and have their feet comfortably sit flat on the floor, and that their knees don’t rise above their hips.If furniture legs are too long, they may need to be shortened or the furniture replaced. If the legs are too short, you can generally buy risers or supports to lift the furniture up to the right height.
 Have grab bars installed in the tub and shower and next to the toilet to help the senior individual lift and support themselves in an often slippery environment. These can be easily purchased from a home improvement store or installed by a professional.Work with the senior person to help ensure that the grab bars will be at right height for their needs. Have them sit or stand in the necessary areas to gauge where you should install the bars.
Install a raised toilet seat, as this can make it easier to sit down and get up, unless the person in question is very short.
 There are a number of alert systems available for seniors so that they can report a fall. Some are wall-mounted, such as buttons or switches, while others are wearable. Talk to the senior individual and let them decide what system is right for them.A personal alert necklace or watch is often preferable as switches and buttons need to be installed in every room throughout the house, and may still be inaccessible after a senior falls.

