 If the relationship is one you want or need to improve, start by asking the person why he or she doesn't like you. There could be a huge misunderstanding behind everything, and you could receive valuable information about how the person perceives you (which isn't necessarily how you actually are).


Try asking in a way that isn't confrontational. Instead of saying "what's your problem?" you can say "did I do something to make you dislike me?"

, It's natural to want to fight fire with fire, but if someone is expressing frustration with something you are doing, it can be helpful to take a pause and do your best to respond to the situation calmly, rather than making things worse by charging into battle.Avoid snapping at them or returning the criticism. You can probably think of things that you dislike about them as well, but being mean to them won't resolve the situation. Criticizing the person will only cause the conflict to get more intense.
Practice deep breathing while they are talking to keep yourself from getting upset and firing back.
It's okay to take a temporary time out and come back to the person once you have cooled off, as well.
 If you talk to them, let them finish their thoughts before you jump in. You may not like what they are saying, but if you want to repair the relationship, you will need to know what you are dealing with, and you will gain their respect if you respect them enough to listen before you respond. You may even gain some valuable constructive criticism in the process.You can say "I understand that there's something about me you don't like. I'm genuinely interested to hear what that is and see if we can move past this issue together."

, Sometimes people get on each other's nerves because they are spending too much time around each other, for example coworkers or friends of friends. If you work with the person, do your best to limit contact for a while. If you spend a lot of the time around the same people, try to see other friends or catch these friends while the other person isn't around. Time apart can help people reset, and they may like you more when they see you again., A good way to correct misunderstandings is to let the other person know how you feel. Try to do this in a respectful and emotionally neutral way. Clearing the air may be just what the situation needs to get the person on your side, rather than stewing in their dislike of you.Using "I statements" is a good way to communicate without making the person feel like they are being attacked. You can say "I feel hurt that you don't like me and I'd like to know what I can do to make things better between us."

