 This article assumes that you already own the game, and know the basic game play.;
, This is found by pressing Tab. In this mode, you can discover lots of new angles, zoom in more, and discover more areas of the game. The camera controls are Q, W, E, A, S, Z, and X. This is extremely helpful, since you cannot see objects become highlighted when moused over, and the angles are much more creative then the basic camera. You can exit Cameraman by simply pressing Tab again.
 Make a list of main characters, extras, settings, the number of seasons you intend to create, episode titles, soundtrack, descriptions, etc.
 Make one family for your main characters, then your extras. Make them look different. Don't have a cast of all goths, punks, preps, jocks, nerds, etc. (unless the storyline has to do with a bunch of similar people).
 Then move your families in. Move the extras in first, give them a phone, and then move your Mains into the next lot. Then build the set. Play the family for a bit, then wait for your neighbors to come over to greet you. At least one of your extras will stop by.


Turn on testingcheats (see the Tips section below) and make one of the main characters greet them. Hold down Shift and click on the extra (we call this Shift+clicking) click on Make Selectable. Raise both relationships to at least 25 by performing friendly actions or by going to the Relationships panel of either Sim and dragging the relationship bar to the right.
When it comes time to record your scene, Shift+click the extra again and choose Make Unselectable, and then make one of your main characters say goodbye to everyone. Get a Sim to pick up the phone and call the same extra and choose Invite Household, choosing every extra you need. They will come over, and now you can make them all selectable.



Videos look best on Medium, High, and High uncompressed quality, and when the size is Large. Be warned: this can slow down your game when filming.
 If you have a computer with Windows Me, XP or Vista, it comes with a basic editor called Windows Movie Maker. If you have Windows 7, 8.1 or 10, you can download the Windows Essentials which will give you an updated version of Windows Movie Maker for those versions of Windows. On Mac, you will have a program called iMovie. For picture editing, you can get The GIMP, which is a free image editor similar to Adobe Photoshop.
 Use songs that you think people would like, and songs that will capture attention of viewers.
 Try to vary voice actors or voices, so viewers can distinguish between characters.
 The feeling you get when you lose all your hard work is awful, and nobody likes to have to start from scratch. Make sure that you turn off all cheats and that no Sim is on the phone when you save, or else you might corrupt your file. (Yes, you can corrupt your game by saving with Sims on the phone!)

, Make sure your description is appealing so that it attracts lots of other viewers. Remember that many people online will say bad things in the comments. Just ignore them. On YouTube, you can delete their comments and report the troll to YouTube.

