 Fill a large pot approximately half full with water. Sprinkle in some salt to taste, and heat the water over medium-high heat until it comes to a full boil, which should take about 5 to 10 minutes.








Salting the water is an optional step. You can skip if you’re trying to limit the sodium in the dish.
 Once the water has a come to a boil, add 2 pounds (1 kg) of waxy potatoes that have been cubed to the pot. Let the potatoes cook in the boiling water for 4 to 5 minutes, or until they are slightly softened.








Some waxy potatoes to consider for the dish include Yukon gold, new, or red.
Be careful not to cook the potatoes too long. You don’t want them to become so tender that they fall apart when you saute them.
 When the potatoes are finished boiling, pour them into a colander. Shake the colander well to ensure that all of the excess moisture is removed. Next, let the potatoes sit in the colander for about 5 minutes to allow them to dry further and cool off.
 While the potatoes are cooling, add 4 to 6 tablespoons (60 to 90 ml) of olive oil to a large nonstick skillet. Allow the oil to heat on medium until it begins to shimmer, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.








If you prefer, you can substitute butter for the olive oil.
 Once the oil is hot enough, add the cubed potatoes to the skillet in a single layer. Let the potatoes cook over medium heat for about 1 minute, stirring them around so they cook evenly on all sides.








If your skillet isn’t very large, you may want to saute the potatoes in two or more batches. You don’t want them packed into the pan.
 After the potatoes have sauteed for a minute, add 4 peeled and minced garlic cloves to the skillet. Stir the mixture well so the garlic is fully incorporated, and continue cooking the potatoes until they are golden brown on all sides, which should take approximately 4 to 6 minutes.








You can adjust the amount of garlic to suit your tastes. If you are a fan of garlic, mix in a little more. If you prefer a mild garlic flavor, add a little less.
 When the potatoes are golden brown, add some kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to the skillet to taste. Be sure to stir the potatoes well to ensure that they’re evenly seasoned.
 After you’ve seasoned the potatoes, reduce the heat to medium low. Let the potatoes cook for another 5 minutes, or until they are tender.








You can tell the potatoes are done when you can easily pierce them with a fork.
 When the potatoes are finished cooking, take the skillet off the stove. Carefully spoon the potatoes onto a serving platter, and dust the top with 3 tablespoons (11 g) of chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley. Serve the potatoes as a side with your favorite protein main course.








If you want to make the sauteed potatoes ahead of time, place them on a cookie sheet and keep them warm in an oven set to the lowest temperature.

