 This will come with a huge power wire, a short ground wire, a remote wire, and many times an inline fuse and various connectors to help keep the install organized and looking clean. Some stereo shops have huge spools of wire available by the foot. This is another cost effective alternative to buying a wiring kit, if you know the dimensions of your car.;
, You can find a hole somewhere in the bottom right of the firewall. Don't connect the power wire to the battery or the amp just yet.
 You'll need to stay within 2–3 feet (0.6–0.9 m) of the amplifier to maintain the best ground connection. A way you can do this is pull up the carpet and scrape the metal until it is bare metal with no paint left on it. If the amplifier is to be mounted in the trunk, many times bolts from the suspension can be found directly above one of the rear wheels. These suspension components usually bolt directly to the frame, making them an ideal grounding point.
 There is a blue wire with a white stripe hanging out of the back of the deck known as the remote wire. The remote wire is a simple 12v signal that the cd player outputs to tell the amplifier to turn on.
, If your cd player does not have a "Subwoofer Output", or if you are using a stock cd player, you will need a device called an inline converter. It's a small box that has 4 input wires and the 2 necessary RCA output that will run to the amplifier. It takes the high level speaker voltage and drops it to a low level signal the amplifier can process. The 4 input wires can be connected to the rear speakers (+ and - for left and right).
 RCA cables should be run down the center of the car as RCA cables can pick up sounds from wire looms and also air con vents power wires.
 Gauge isn't extremely important here, as long as the wire is copper, the resistance-per-foot is in the mili-ohm range, meaning there will be minuscule, if any, voltage drop across the wire.
 There are many different types of enclosures (sealed, vented, bandpass, infinite baffle, etc.). There are numerous articles explaining the pros and cons of each type of enclosure, far too many to list in this article. If you really want the best response possible, your subwoofer manual will list the ideal enclosure volume for each type of enclosure. If you don't want to go through all of the volume calculations, just buy a box slightly bigger, and stuff it with pillow stuffing from walmart until the subs respond the way you want them to.
 For example, if you have an amp that is 500w @ 4 ohms, and 1000w @ 2 ohms, you'll want to try to run your speakers at 2 ohms. Two 4 ohm subs can be wired in parallel to achieve this. If you're new to the impedance calculations, many amplifiers will have specific wiring diagrams in their manuals to assist.
 If your amp kit came with an "inline fuse holder", you'll want to find a nice location to mount it in your engine bay. Once it's secure, cut a length of the power wire to reach the fuse, and connect it to one side of the fuse holder. The other side (the side you just cut) is stripped and connected to the other side of the fuse holder.
 There's nice ring connectors and even new battery terminals you can buy (and sometimes come with the amp kit), that make the battery connection much more solid, and looks better too.
 Then under the hood clamp the wire down to the battery. A word of warning, sometimes you'll see a nice big spark the first time you touch the power wire to the battery. Don't worry about it! This is the amplifier charging the huge capacitors contained inside.
 This is where the output of the amplifier peaks and stays there for a split-second. This is bad for the subwoofer because it holds the cone (the big circle part!) in it's fully extended or fully compressed state for the duration of the clip. Not only are you not producing a single decibel of sound during this microsecond, but you're also working the voice coil very hard and damaging it. A good rule for beginners is to play a nice loud song of your genre at your cd players 3/4 volume setting. Now, with the gain at zero, turn it up until it's obvious that it isn't getting any louder. The gain knob isn't a "volume" knob by any means. A gain knob should usually never be at it's full position.

