 You won’t be able to identify the size of the leak or effectively repair it until you remove all of the road grime, dirt and rust from the pipe around the hole. Use a steel toothed brush to scrub away the grime, being careful not to get any in your eyes.Scrub the pipe all around the leak, including the top side if you can reach it.
Make sure to wear eye protection when scrubbing the piping to prevent anything from getting in your eyes.
 Sandpaper will remove any last bits of dirt and debris stuck to the pipe while scoring the steel surface to better stick when you apply the patch. Rub 80 or 100 grit sandpaper back and forth along the exhaust pipe around the leak you intend to seal.If you are using exhaust tape, make sure to scrub the top of the pipe as well.
Roughing up the surface of the metal will create a stronger bond for the patch.
 Acetone will ensure the metal is clean and free of anything that could interfere with the seal created by the exhaust tape or epoxy. Acetone is the primary ingredient in nail polish remover, so you may use nail polish remover for this step if you’d rather not purchase acetone strictly for this project.Be careful not to drip acetone in your eyes or mouth while cleaning the pipe with it.
You can purchase acetone in the cleaning chemicals section of many retail stores.
 If you are using exhaust repair tape, wrap it all the way around the part of the pipe with the leak. Continue to wrap the tape around the pipe for a few inches to either side of the leak to ensure there is a good seal. Different kinds of exhaust repair tape will require different application methods, so be sure to read the instructions before you get started.Some exhaust repair tape needs to be applied to warm pipes, so you may need to start the vehicle and let it run for a few minutes before applying.
You can purchase exhaust repair tape at most auto parts stores.
 If you are using an epoxy to seal the leak, mix the two chemicals together using a wooden dowel. It will begin to cure immediately, so apply it directly to the leak as soon as the components are thoroughly mixed. Dab the epoxy onto the leak, then use the wooden dowel to spread it around the area. Make sure to cake the epoxy over the leak and surrounding pipe so it creates a thick film on the whole area.You may also choose to wrap the leak in exhaust repair tape after applying the epoxy.
Different types of epoxy have different curing rates, so read the instructions on the package to know how long let the epoxy dry.

