 Are you a novice when it comes to anatomical studies, or do you have experience with the subject? Is there a particular component of anatomy, such as the skeletal structure or the central nervous system, that interests you? Make sure you are in an anatomy class that caters to your level of understanding and your needs.


If you are new to studying anatomy, it is advisable to take an introductory course in order to provide you with basic concepts, theories, and terms that will be needed for your future studies.
If you have the ability, you may want to ask a friend or peer who has previously taken an anatomy course if you can look over their notes and syllabus to see if the class meets your needs.;
, If you are studying anatomy as part of a diploma, degree, or certificate program, work with your academic advisor to make sure you are taking the correct course for your program. You may want to ask, “Does this course have a lab component that requires separate enrollment?” so that you can ensure you are in all of the right classes to get the credit you need.Check with your academic advisor regularly to make sure that your courses are correct.
 Anatomy deals with a large number of components of the human body. Use labeled diagrams and sketches in your notes so that you understand how the specific parts you study fit and interact in the rest of the body.Ask your teacher, “Do you have any images or diagrams I can copy for study aids?”
Use unlabeled versions of your diagrams or note sketches to test yourself and help reinforce your knowledge.
 Look to your classmates and see if you can create a study group or weekly meeting group to exchange notes and talk about the course. Use this time to have your peers help you with concepts that aren’t sticking with you.


This is also a great space to help tutor your peers, which in turn allows you to review and reinforce information in your own mind.
Make these meetings fun, informal spaces where you and your peers can talk freely about what you are learning. Allow for conversation, rather than the question and answer format you have in class.
 Tutor for the subject, or teach your friends, your family, your roommates, or someone else who wants to learn more. Trying to teach is one of the best way to know whether or not you fully comprehend the subject, and this way you and your student both benefit.Ask a friend or family member, “Can I try to teach you this particular anatomy concept?” Explain it to them as best as you can, and have them repeat it back to you. Use their informational gaps as guides for where you should study.
Offer to tutor a lower grade level in their anatomy class. This gives you the chance to review material while helping another student of anatomy.
 Anatomy has a lot of shared information with subjects such as embryology, comparative anatomy, and evolutionary biology. Enroll in classes in related subjects that might help you with your educational goals.


Comparative anatomy and evolutionary biology look at how the human anatomical structure developed and how it relates to the anatomy of other animals.Embryology focuses on the development of sex cells in the womb up to birth.