 If you're traveling in the United States, take advantage of the country's national parks. There are many national parks to be found across the U.S where you can see a lot of wildlife native to the United States.


Yellowstone National Park is home to animals like bears, bison, elk, and wolves.Buck Island National Park in Virginia is home to a lot of wildlife that is native to the area., Mackinac Island is a small Michigan island found in Lake Huron. Except for emergency vehicles and snowmobiles, no vehicles are allowed on the island. People travel via horse and carriage or horseback. This can be a fun vacation destination if you love horses., Chincoteague Island, found in Virginia, has herds of wild ponies. In July, ponies are herded across the river in an event known as the Chincoteague Island Pony Swim. Book a trip around this time to witness the swim.Due to the fact it's a tourist destination, there are many hotels surrounding or on the island. Make sure you book in advance if you want to see the Pony Swim, however.
 If you're planning a vacation last minute, see if you can find any nearby county fairs. Over the summer, many areas host fairs. In addition to rides and food, fairs generally have things like horse and livestock shows. For a cheap and quick vacation, try making a trip to a nearby county fair., When seeing domestic animals, you may want to bring your own dog along for the trip. If your dog is familiar with things like farm animals, and generally calm in new situations, think about including it in your trip.Think about how to travel with your dog. For a long drive, make sure to stop regularly to let your dog out of the car. Provide adequate food and water. When flying, do your research. See how much it costs to fly with a dog, and any paperwork you'll need.
Find hotels that allow pets. While some hotels have a strict no pets rule, other hotels are happy to accommodate pets. However, there may be an extra fee for potential damages.
Always check with your veterinarian before traveling with a pet.

