 Only consider supplements after you have consulted with your primary care physician. Some supplements may cause adverse reactions in your specific case, so consult a health professional before undertaking a trip into the realm of vitamins and minerals.


Note that there are some supplements that may benefit individuals with heart disease, though not specifically for AFib.
Be aware that the best way to get vitamins, nutrients, and minerals is through food. Supplements should only be considered as a secondary measure.
 If you are not consuming fish directly, you can try taking fish oil capsules or cod liver oil capsules that contain heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids. This essentially helps to reduce your risk of of blood clots and thereby worsening of atrial fibrillation.You should take 2,000-8,000 milligrams in liquid or tablet form in separate doses daily. Consult your physician as to the appropriate dosage for you specifically.
 These three minerals can reduce your risk for irregular hearth rhythms.Magnesium and potassium are both essential minerals in the muscle contraction process of the heart as well as normal functioning of the heart. Magnesium can be taken as a single dose of 400 milligrams per day to begin with and then its effects should be observed as magnesium can cause diarrhea. The dose should not exceed 900 mgs per day. Consider taking a B-vitamin complex with the magnesium as vitamin B6 is needed for optimal absorption of magnesium into your cells.Potassium supplements that contain 4.7 grams of potassium are a good choice to take every day.Calcium is important for strong bones and teeth and may lower blood pressure and the risk of strokes.You should take calcium in individual doses of no more than 500 mg during the day to a maximum of 1,000 to 1,200 milligrams. Drink at least 6 cups of water with each dose to avoid constipation., Coenzyme Q10 or CoQ10 as it is popularly known is known to be naturally occurring and highly concentrated in the heart muscle. It helps fulfill the energy need of the cardiac muscle which has a high energy requirement.However, if you're taking statin drugs to reduce cholesterol, this can decrease cellular levels of CoQ10. As a result, many physicians now recommend patients taking statins to take supplemental CoQ10, although research is still being done to confirm a link between supplemental CoQ10 and reduced adverse effects of statins. Talk to your physician about whether this is an option for you.The dosage of CoQ10 can range from 22 to 400 milligrams per day, but the most common dose is 200 milligrams per day., Spend 10-15 minutes in the sun three times a week (without any sunscreen) and you should be getting sufficient vitamin D. Vitamin D is important for heart health, bones, and teeth and also helps build a strong immune system.Vitamin D is a vitamin stored in your fat tissue, so it is possible to get too much. Get your levels tested; levels of 50 nmol/L or above (20 ng/mL or above) are sufficient. However, if your vitamin D levels are less than 30 nmol/L (12 ng/mL), then these are too low and you should consider a vitamin D supplement. Start with a vitamin D supplement with 1000 IU per day. Consult your doctor about the appropriate dosage.
 Taurine is one of the free amino acids found in the heart and, along with magnesium and potassium, is considered the "essential trio" for treating nutritional deficiencies connected with AFib. Taurine is the most abundant and important amino acid in the heart because it helps to regulate the enzymes in the heart that help the contractility of the cardiac muscles.Take 3,000 milligrams in separate dosages with food each day.Note that certain food additives can reduce naturally-occurring taurine in the body, including monosodium glutamate (MSG) and aspartame, the artificial sweetener in many diet sodas and snacks.