 You can add a front poof fairly easily. Start with brushed hair. Section out the front part of your hair just on the top. Twist the hair together near the roots at the back of the section. Push the hair towards the front, causing it to rise up in to a poof in the front. Secure it with bobby pins or a small hair clip, then proceed with putting your hair up in a ponytail.









Use your eyebrows to gauge how much hair you should pull back. The section shouldn't be wider than your eyebrows.
 You can also try adding a poof by teasing the top section more than normal. Section away the top of your hair. Pull the bottom half of your hair into a ponytail. Hold the top section up, and brush the bottom few inches back towards your head, creating volume. Brush it more than you would in a normal ponytail You can also use a volumizing spray to help the poof along. Try not too smooth it too much when you pull the top section back into a ponytail on top of the other ponytail.
 Visually separate the length of your ponytail into four sections. Use three different ponytail holders to separate your hair into those sections, starting with the top one.








Move a couple inches down from your main ponytail holder, and add in a another holder, winding it back and forth until it's tight.Pull the hair a little bit in that section to poof it out. Move on to the next holder, adding it in like the last one but moving a few inches down.Finally, put the last holder in. You can also wear a headband with this look., After you comb your hair and before you put it up, add a few waves to your hair with a curling hair. Simply wrap your hair around it in small sections, turning it in the opposite direction from your face. Hold it for a few seconds to set it, then let it go. Move on to the next small section.








You can also add in waves after you've put your hair up.
 If you want your ponytail to look softer, pull a few strands of hair out of the ponytail on each side of your face. Brush them so that they fall around your face. You can also use a curling iron here to add a bit of wave.