 Calories are the energy currency for your body, but if you consume too many calories, your tissues will store more fat and this could result in obesity or weight gain. So focus on eating foods that have a low calorie intake and take longer to digest, like leafy green vegetables and fruits, as well as lean proteins and foods that contain less artificial sugars., Research data suggests that eliminating sugar from your daily diet can decrease your calorie consumption by almost 20-40%.Replace sugary drinks like soda with water or green tea. Green tea stimulates your metabolism and has anti oxidants that are very good for you. It is also important to make sure you drink at least eight glasses of water a day.
Replace sugar in your coffee with Stevia, which is made from a South American plant and tastes sweet but contains no sugar or calories. You can also try natural sweeteners like cinnamon or honey.Avoid all artificial sweeteners, including Splenda. Read the packages of food items to ensure they do not contain corn syrup or high fructose corn syrup.
Keep in mind alcohol is actually very high in sugar, so avoid drinking alcohol to keep your sugar intake down.
 While carbohydrates are a primary source of energy for your body, a higher intake of simple carbohydrates like baked goods, candies, and cookies can significantly affect your metabolism in all the wrong ways. Carbs in the form of grains like breads and pastas can also lead to weight gain and a drop in your blood sugar, resulting in lethargy and a lack of energy. So look to minimize your consumption of these foods.Switch from bread and pasta to healthier grains like brown rice or quinoa.
Replace sugary desserts of baked goods with naturally sweet foods like fresh fruit.
Increase your protein intake in the form of lean meats like turkey or chicken, instead of fatty beef or pork. Ideally, you should be eating four servings of protein a day. A serving is 3-4 ounces or about the size of your fist. Good sources of protein include eggs and fish, especially poached, broiled, or grilled.If you maintain an active lifestyle or a daily exercise routine, it’s important you have enough energy in the form of grains and proteins to allow you to work out and build muscle, including your thigh muscles.
 Use whey protein to make protein shakes that will still give you energy but won’t be fattening.You can also use egg white protein powder.
You also want to avoid butter, mayonnaise or heavy cream. If you’re making a salad, use olive oil, coconut oil, or flaxseed oil to make a healthy salad dressing., Calculate your daily caloric requirements according to your weight and level of physical activity and then make notes on your daily calorie intake for one month. While it’s important to have a healthy calorie intake, you should also try to keep your blood sugar stable so you will feel full and satisfied after a meal and not feel hungry.Make note of any moments in the day where you feel tired or cranky between meals. If you notice your energy dips at certain times of day, be prepared and have a healthy snack ready so your blood sugar does not dip. You might find you aren’t as sleepy in the late afternoon if you avoid eating bread or heavy carbs at lunch.
Note any meals that strayed from your healthy diet and any food triggers you may have. Maybe stress makes you want to eat cookies or a social atmosphere causes you to reach for a glass of wine. Regardless of the triggers, it’s important to recognize them and try to curb them by substituting cookies for a piece of fruit or a glass of wine with a glass of water or cup of green tea.
In fact, it is recommended you drink a glass or water or tea before meals to stimulate your metabolism and suppress hunger, which will help you to avoid overeating.
The key to a healthy diet that will help keep weight off and give you enough energy to strengthen and tone your thighs with exercise is to still enjoy what you are eating. By replacing processed foods with “real” organic food, your body will thank you by feeling better and ultimately, looking better.

