 If you want to stop bullying as a teacher, vigilance is key. Keep an eye out for bullying in your classroom, as well as in places like hallways and bathrooms. This way, you can stop bullying as it's occurring.When your students are engaging in activities, pay attention. Listen to how students communicate with one another. Listen for things like name-calling or put downs. You should also keep an eye out for physical behaviors, like pinching, poking, or other signs of aggression.
Monitor places where students think teachers aren't watching. Places like bathrooms, stairwells, and hallways are frequently where bullying occurs in schools. While you cannot keep an eye out all the time, walk through these areas periodically when you have a free moment. You should ask other teachers to do the same, and have them report any signs of bullying they notice to you.
 Students may be apprehensive to be labeled "bullies." If you get parents involved, many parents will become defensive if you accuse their children of bullying. When you notice a student engaging in bullying, address that student's specific behavior. Try to avoid labeling that behavior as bullying, as this can lead to unnecessary resistance that will prevent you from finding an effective solution to the problem.Talk about the specific behavior you observed and why you feel it's a problem when talking to a student. For example, do not say something like, "Clyde, I noticed you were bullying Mason during gym the other day." Instead, talk about the problematic behavior directly. Say something like, "Clyde, I noticed you were calling attention to Mason's weight in gym class the other day."
Make sure the student doing the bullying understands their behavior is wrong and the consequences of this behavior. For example, say something like, "Weight is a very sensitive issue, and pointing out another person's weight can be very embarrassing and hurtful for that person." If there are specific punishments for bullying outlined in your school's handbook, let the student know. Say something like, "According to our school's handbook, you'll need to have a talk with the guidance counselor and write an apology to Mason."
You should also keep in mind students who bully come from a variety of backgrounds. A student may have emotional baggage or issues at home causing him or her to lash out at others. Try to proceed with patience. Present this as an opportunity for a student to better him or herself. For example, "I know you probably don't genuinely want to hurt another person. I think us having this talk will give you the opportunity to learn a bit about yourself and how to better interact with others."

, It's easy to point out when a student does something wrong. However, students need positive reinforcement as well. In addition to addressing bullying when it occurs, try to be on the lookout for positive behaviors. Point out when a student has shown compassion or kindness and use this as an example for your classroom.Children or teens may get frustrated if they're always reprimanded for bad behavior but never praised for behaving in an appropriate fashion. While you may not think children should be rewarded for doing what they're supposed to do, keep in mind students who bully are often testing boundaries. They may not understand what constitutes appropriate behavior. This needs to be taught as well.
If you see a student engaging in positive behavior, point it out. For example, say something like, "Clyde, I noticed you helped Harper with a math problem the other day. It's really nice of you to encourage a student who's struggling. I think that will really help Harper's self esteem, as she sometimes gets embarrassed when she's having trouble with a problem."
Pointing out good behaviors helps students learn appropriate conduct. If students are praised for behaving well, they'll be more likely to avoid bullying and engage in kind behavior towards other students.
 If a student won't stop bullying, you need to get the parents involved. This can be tricky, as parents are often reluctant to acknowledge their child has a problem. However, parental involvement is vital to stopping bullying in your classroom.Try to avoid terms like "bullying" when contacting parents. The label of "bully" has a lot of negative connotations. Even if you feel a student is a bully, using this term may not help you effectively address the situation. Focus on specific behaviors over an overarching label.
Take a multi-faceted approach when addressing the behavior with parents. Focus on a student's attitude towards school, his or her friends, behavior, and grades. All of these factors can affect how a student treats others. Ask parents a lot of questions about their child, and offer suggestions on how to make a positive change.
When talking to the parents, present yourself as an ally rather than an authority figure. Try to frame conversations in the positive. Emphasize that you want to help their child cope with his or her emotions in a more positive manner. Start the conversation with something like, "I care about all my students, including your son. I want to see him make some positive changes that will make him a better student and community member."

, Lastly, foster open communication in and outside of your classroom. Students and parents should see you as a trustworthy resource who they can come to with concerns and comments. This will help you keep track of any bullying happening in your classroom.Address behaviors as they occur. Talk to parents right away if you notice an issue with their child. If a student seems upset or bothered, ask him or her what's wrong. Use empathetic listening. Repeat what's being said to the student to show you understand.
Be open with parents. At the beginning of the school year, send out information to parents with your phone number and e-mail address. Tell parents they're welcome to come to you with any issues they're having. This way, if a student is being bullied, parents can contact you right away. Even if you're vigilant, you may sometimes miss bullying in your classroom.

