 This will launch the app.;
, Then tap the magnifying glass icon to begin searching for the app.
 Locate the correct app and tap the “Install” button beside the app to download it.


The SugarSync mobile app is free.
 Locate the SugarSync app on your device. It’s the app with a green hummingbird. Tap on it to launch it.
 Tap the “Log In” button found at the bottom of the screen. You will be brought to the Login screen.


Enter your SugarSync account and password, and then tap the “Log In” button to access your account.
 Upon launching the app, you will see all your connected computers and devices and folders that contain your SugarSync files. Your current mobile device will also be here.


This screen is the app’s main screen.
 The folder and file directory of the synced files from this location will be displayed.
 Navigate through the folders until you see the file you want to view. Tap on it to open it.


You should have an app in your mobile device that supports the viewing of the selected file type.
 On the app’s main screen, you will see all your connected computers and devices and folders that contain your SugarSync files. Your current mobile device will also be here.
 The folder and file directory of the synced files from this location will be displayed.
 Tap on folders to navigate through them.
 Tap on the icon next to the selected file to bring out the menu. Select the option to “Sync to Device.” The selected file will immediately be downloaded and saved to your mobile device.


You can now access this file even when you’re offline.
 On the app’s main screen, you will see all your connected computers and devices and folders that contain your SugarSync files. Your current mobile device will also be here.
 The folder and file directory of the synced files from this location will be displayed.
 Navigate through the folders until you find the files you want to share. Swipe on a file name from right to left to bring out the checkboxes. Tap on the checkboxes of the files to select them.
 This will generate and copy the public links for the selected files.


The public links will be copied to the clipboard.
 You can paste the public links anywhere you want. You can paste it as a post on Facebook or Twitter or send it over though email or message.


Anyone who has access to these links can now access and download your files.
 From SugarSync’s main screen, locate the gear icon. Tap on this, and you will be brought to the Settings screen.
 One of the settings here is for Camera Backup. Tap on it, and you will be brought to the Camera Backup settings screen. Enable Camera Backup by tapping the toggle button to green.
 Under the next section, you can identify where the uploaded photos and videos will be placed in your SugarSync folders. Tap the field beside “Upload to” and select the folder to be used.


All your future iOS photos will automatically be uploaded and backed up to the cloud in this designated folder.

