 Make sure that your surroundings are quiet. Studies have shown that background noise may decrease higher brain function, impairing learning and memory.To focus on your book, find quiet by whatever means necessary- try looking for a secluded spot, wearing earplugs, or reading late at night when most people are sleeping.;
, Studies have shown that smartphones are a great distraction, and that the absence of one when completing a task can make you more than 25% more productive.When you are reading, leave your phone in another room, or tucked away in your pocket or book bag to avoid looking at it. If you are not anticipating any urgent calls or messages, try turning it off altogether.


The same principle applies for television. Having it on in the background is likely to disrupt your focus., Everyone has their own ideal working space, where they can concentrate, relax and be productive.If you already know where you feel best, make a point of setting up there to read. If not, try some of these options for relaxed and focused reading:


Library
A basement, attic, or other quiet room at home
A quiet park
A bookstore
A quiet café or restaurant

, Make space for reading in your busy schedule to avoid worrying about other responsibilities, chores, and activities during that time. Choose a point during the day when you will not be needed by family, friends, or colleagues; if possible, let them know that you will be out of touch during that period. Taking time for yourself- for reading, or anything else you might want to do- is important for psychological and physical health.If your schedule allows, make this reading time a regular weekly, or even daily, event.
 It has been shown that 30-40 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity can greatly improve cognitive clarity.Before picking up a book to read, try going for a run, brisk walk, or bike ride to clear your mind and improve concentration. Consider bringing a book along with you for these types of workouts so that you can read whenever you need a rest.
 Healthy foods can raise energy levels, and thus improve your ability to concentrate throughout the day. Snacks should contain fibre-rich carbohydrates or Omega-3 fats, which can also support memory and concentration.Try stocking up on some of these snacks for your reading time:


Nuts
Fruit
Oatmeal
Pumpkin seeds
Peanut butter
Anything with whole grains

, Studies have shown that getting a sufficient amount of sleep is key for good concentration and memory.Sleepiness can slow down thought processes, increase irritability, and disrupt learning, thereby interfering with your ability to focus on a book. Try to get between 7-9 hours of sleep a night, as is recommended for most adults., Book reviews provide a brief summary, evaluation, and assessment of a book.Look up online reviews of the book you're reading to spark your enthusiasm about it; if the reviews are bad, read the book with the intention of finding positive aspects that surpass the reviewer's opinion. Try to formulate your own review of the book as you read, considering the following critical questions:


What contribution does this book make to the field or genre?Is the writing style clear and effective?Are concepts clearly developed?, If you're having trouble concentrating on a book, offer yourself rewards for finishing chapters, or the entire book. To make this reward system effective, ensure that rewards are realistic, immediate, and specific; your motivation will falter if you can't follow through with the reward, or if it is too vague or far in the future to inspire you.Smaller rewards (for finishing chapters or sections of a book) could include an indulgent snack, or watching an episode of a favorite television show.
Larger rewards (for getting through an entire book) could include an extravagant purchase, a gourmet supper, or a trip to the movies.
 Consider switching how you approach the book in order to revive your interest in reading. If old school books are not your thing, try reading on a digital device. Alternatively, try reading out loud; it has been shown that doing so may help readers retain information better by creating a distinctive memory of what was said.Something as simple as switching from a paperback book to a hardcover book might also increase your enthusiasm about reading.

