 Wireless service providers often have drop-off bins at their store locations or mail-in programs you can take advantage of for recycling your cell phone.


Contact your wireless service provider directly by telephone, or visit their website or a retail store to learn more about their respective recycling programs.;
, "Cell Phones for Soldiers" and "Operation Gratitude" are programs that collect used cell phones, then donate them to military soldiers overseas so they can speak to their families back home.


To participate in the "Cell Phones for Soldiers" program, call 1-800-426-1031 or visit their website, which is featured on every website provided to you in the Sources section of this article. You will be provided with a prepaid shipping label for your cell phone, or with directions to the nearest drop-off location.
To participate in the "Operation Gratitude" program, call 1-818-909-0039 to receive a prepaid shipping label for your cell phone, or visit their website, the link to which is featured on the "Volunteer Guide" website included within the Sources section of this article.
 Since all cell phones allow you to dial emergency services without a wireless calling plan, your cell phone can be used by a victim of domestic violence in case of an emergency.


Contact a domestic abuse shelter or women's shelter in your local area to verify whether or not they are accepting used cell phone donations.
Contact the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence or the Shelter Alliance at 1-303-839-1852 or 1-866-744-1003 respectively, or visit their websites to obtain a prepaid shipping label for your cell phone. Both of these organizations distribute used cell phones to various domestic abuse shelters.
 Many companies and organizations will recycle your cell phone for you, then donate the proceeds to your favorite charity.


Visit the "Daily Green" website provided to you in the Sources section of this article, then click on any of the links labeled as "Wireless Recycling," "Collective Good," or "Eco-cell."
Follow the prompts on any of these websites to begin the recycling process, or to find the nearest cell phone recycling center near you.
 Cell phone recycling centers will either return your cell phone directly to the manufacturer, or safely dispose of the toxic materials so that they do not negatively affect the environment.


Call the "Call2Recycle" customer service team at 1-877-723-1297 to learn of the nearest cell phone recycling center in your area, or visit their website, which can be accessed from the "Volunteer Guide" website listed in the Sources section of this article.
Visit a retail store in your local area that collects and recycles cell phones. Examples of participating retail stores are Radio Shack, Staples, Office Depot, Best Buy, Home Depot, and Lowes.

