 The reason for this is that you would not have much time for characterization and details, which are essential in writing good novels. Depending on the amount of time you are willing to give, you can produce anything from a short 5000-word story to a popular 50,000-word fan fiction.;
, If you are the type of person who works 9 to 5 every weekday, consider delaying your novel-writing ambitions for a later date. It's better to do this when you are on holiday, or have a long weekend. For even a 10,000-word short story, you need to put in a lot of work-possibly a good 12 hours if you're not a professional writer. Prepare to put aside at least 3-4 hours of your time every day. With that in mind, you are ready to begin.
 You have to PLAN. 95% of writers don't plan enough before they write, leading to anti-climatic endings and abandoned works that have good potential. That is exactly why there is 1 Dan Brown and 1 million anonymous writers who have 1 article on their blog that's never been read. You have to plan. Start by thinking what kind of novel you wish to write. Estimate how long you want it to be. Then come up with a good plot. You can do this by brainstorming on a vanguard sheet. Write down different ideas you want in your story and cut them out, then rearrange the thought bubbles to form a plotline. Remember, a good plot has to have the 4 Cs: Characterization, Climbing action, Climax and Conclusion. If you plan on writing a short story from scratch, make sure you think up each of your characters properly. Write down any character traits you want them to have, and imagine their physical appearance in your mind. That way, it is much easier to describe them. That is why you should start by writing fan fiction: a lot less scene-setting and characterization is required. Now that you have your ideas in place, you should read through the thought bubbles and look for any loopholes. If one idea jumps to the next too quickly, try connecting them with another idea. Remember that you may have many good ideas, but you can never include all of them. For a good plot, you have to sacrifice a potentially good idea or two in order for the story to flow smoothly. If you have extra time after this, you should probably write a 'chapter guide'. Make little boxes on a piece of paper for each chapter you wish to write, and write down in point form what you wish to convey to your reader in each box. If you think your plot is plausible, you are ready to start writing. You can always make little tweaks here and there along the way, so don't spend too long thinking up the perfect plot at the planning stage.
 It is always important to have a good prologue or introduction in your novel. A good introduction must always have a good 'hook' to capture your reader's attention. A good hook always describes the scene in vivid detail. Imagine your reader as a Martian who has never been to Earth before. Paint down each minute detail of the scene through the character's perspective. Emotions are also extremely important. Write down what the main character is feeling. Let your reader identify with your characters. That is the secret to a good hook. When you are done with your hook, move on to characterization. Tell your reader what each character is like. It is always good to give examples. For example, instead of saying 'Professor Jackson is an extremely talented, yet arrogant person,' say 'Professor Jackson glanced at his watch. 8.55am. 'Right on time,' he thought. He never failed to be late for work, just so that he could look for the thousandth time at his countless certificates of outstanding contribution for everything from the discovery of antimatter to atomic structure research. This was to make sure he would not leave out a single one when boasting at the pub later that day.' The show-not-tell technique never fails to work. Also, if you are writing a fan fiction, you do not need to dwell on characterization as the characters are already well-known. Another important aspect of the introduction is to tell your reader the main conflict. Every good novel has a central conflict that the main characters try to solve, and this has to be clear to the reader by the end of the first two or three chapters.
 From the introduction, steadily build up the action to the climax. If you want, you can also focus on and develop the relationship between the characters, although this is not necessary for a short story. Make sure the main character(s) face a few minor conflicts while making their way to the central problem. Remember, a good novel does not have only one climax, but several minor conflicts leading up to the climax. It is important to build up the action bit by bit so that the reader won't lose interest before the climax. Some conflict ideas you might like to consider would be some of the non-main characters being in a perilous situation where the main character has to save them or one of the good guys turning out to be a traitor.
 The climbing action should have led the characters right up to the climax. This is when the main character jumps into action, and confronts the antagonist. Make sure to include lots of details, dialogue and emotions to make this part exciting. Inner emotional conflicts of the main character never fail to work. Remember that this is the final battle, and you have to put a great deal of effort into it. Make sure that you have done proper planning before this. Most writers who haven't planned get stuck here and have to resort to a cheesy ending. That is the last thing you want. Make sure there is a good deal of action. If you haven't been writing much details, this is the time to plonk it all in. Go for it. It's now or never.
 After the climax is over and the main conflict resolved, the main characters can go back to normal. Don't make it overly dramatic, but try to give your story the ending you desire. There shouldn't be too much action, but emotions have to be there. Whether you want to portray those last words and emotions of the main character's lover as she dies from a bullet wound or depicting the protagonist returning to his tranquil home, the emotions have to be there.
 If you've gotten so far without getting stuck, give yourself a good pat on the back. However, don't quit now — you're nearly done! You have to patch up the loopholes for your audience to get a satisfying read. Scan through your story quickly for any grammatical, spelling or punctuation errors you have missed and correct them. Then read in detail, and improve on any areas which you think where more details can be added or redundant portions should be removed. If there are loopholes in the plot, try to patch them up as best as you can. Lastly, get a friend or family member to read through your story and give you any comments. There is always room for improvement, so be humble and make changes where necessary. Proof-read one last time and Ta-da! You're done!

