 Most friendships go through challenging times, especially when you begin to see each other less often. Keep a friendship going by articulating the fact that you want to keep in touch, even if your individual situations will require a different approach.


Make time to communicate. You can even add an alarm to your phone or calendar to remind you – though you’ll likely end up looking forward to reacquainting with one another each chance you get.
Apologize for being out of touch. State that you regret the distance that has grown between you, and that you intend to be better about staying in touch moving forward.
Everyone gets busy from time to time. Don’t be the person that uses being busy as a reason not to keep in touch – even when it’s a valid point, it sounds disingenuous.Be direct, and trust that your friend wants to get back in touch too. Try something like, “Hey! I know it’s been a while, and I apologize for my role in that – can we meet up soon?”

, If you’re within an easy bike, train, or drive of one another, make plans to meet for an evening together, or even the occasional day trip.You’ll both be looking forward to it, and planning ahead will make it more likely to actually happen!


If you’re having trouble getting together at the spur of the moment, plan ahead, even a month or so beforehand.
For further trips, plan further in advance.
You may be limited by distance and expense, so you may not be able to visit far-off friends as often, but with planning and saving, you can definitely still make meet-ups happen!

, Whether with one friend or an old crew, make a tradition to meet once a year. You can always meet at the same place, rotate between one another’s current hometowns, or go somewhere different every year.If you’re hoping to bring a bunch of friends together, have everyone pitch in and rent a space that is somewhat centrally located.
Alternatively, have the most-centrally-located person host to reduce traveling and housing costs.
Even if only for a weekend every year, seeing one another will greatly help you keep in touch.
It doesn’t have to be anything special – simply spending time together can be incredibly enjoyable and rewarding, not to mention fun.
 You don’t need a computer to keep in touch with your friends. Letters and hanging out are both far more personal – and one can even help facilitate the other. Whether simply for a dinner next week, or that annual friendship soiree in the sun, send hard-copy invitations.Include all the important details in the invitation, as well as the contact information for whomever is organizing the event.
Encourage recipients to post the invitation somewhere they’ll see it, both as a reminder of the time and date, but also to increase excitement. There’s nothing like looking forward to seeing one another to ensure yet another good time together.

