 If your partner is delaying an emotional or physical attachment to you, they might still be deciding how they feel about you. Give your partner the benefit of the doubt by being patient with their decision and letting them to get to know you better.This works both ways: your partner might not be sure how you feel about them. Anybody looking to move forward in a relationship wants some assurances that the feelings are mutual. Be honest about your intentions to your partner.
If you are sure about your feelings, then tell your partner that you have been thinking seriously about your relationship and that you are ready for sex. You might want to have some positive signs, however, before suggesting sex.
 Up to this point, if you have only experienced sex from watching it at the movies, then this is what you expect for the first time. Your expectations, in other words, do not mesh with reality. Fantasy is not real life. If you do not realize that sex is an important decision with serious consequences, you might need to wait a bit longer.No matter how experienced you or your partner is, sex can be messy and awkward. The first time will be exciting but do not expect something straight out of a movie. Your unrealistic expectations probably reveal that you really have not given much thought to how sex will impact you or your body. It is better to consider reality before engaging in a fantasy.
No matter what you imagine sex to be like, you still need to talk to your partner about your desires and expectations. You can still plan for a romantic and slow experience. Ask your partner to share their expectations too.
You might also want to express the positions you desire, role play, or how rough you are willing to go. It is important that you and your partner understand each other before pushing the boundaries.
 Single people have the right to see other people if they are not moving towards a committed relationship. In fact, moving towards a committed relationship means exclusivity and probably sex. Thus, your partner might refuse sex with you on the principle they are not ready to commit to a monogamous relationship.The same goes for you. Do you want to enter a committed relationship or are you seeking casual sex while seeing other people on the side? If you are ready for exclusivity then be clear where you stand with your partner and what you expect.
To ensure a safe emotional and physical sexual relationship with your partner, make sure you ask about their sexual history before hitting the sheets.
Avoid saying things like "But you did it before with someone else!" or “You’ll have to do it sometime – why not now, with me?” These responses are not indicative of somebody who cares about their partner; rather, it appears you only care about your own needs.
 There are many moral and religious beliefs around the world that teach people to practice abstinence until marriage. Whether they find you attractive or not, sex might be off limits until after the big wedding day. In this case, you should respect their beliefs and avoid pressuring them into something they strongly believe in.Watch and listen for the messages your partner is sending you when you are together. If they talk about the future, religious faith, or morals, then those things are probably more valuable to them than sex.
When kissing or petting do they respond passionately or pull away? If they pull away, take that as a sign that they are not ready to pursue a sexual relationship.
You should also be aware that there will people who are willing to do many things other than sexual intercourse. In this case, make sure secure boundaries and “safety words” are discussed to prevent going further than they are ready to go.

