 When you first bring your new cockatiel home, he may need anywhere from a few days to two weeks to get comfortable in his new environment.Limit your interactions with him during this time.Having a comfortable cage will help your cockatiel adjust to your home. Make sure the cage is large enough for him to spread his wings without touching the sides of the cage. Also, a square or rectangular cage is preferable, since a round cages tend to make birds feel nervous.Put his cage in a busy part of your home. Since cockatiels thrive on interaction, getting him used to human activity will help him acclimate to your home.Place wood perches of variable diameters in his cage to give his feet good exercise.His food and water dishes should go at the height of the perches to prevent them from getting contaminated by his droppings.When you first bring him home, consider sitting with him for about 20 minutes in the room where you have placed his cage— without putting him in his cage. By doing this, he will learn that the space outside of his cage is safe, making it easier for you to take him out of his cage later on.;
, Your new cockatiel will need daily interaction with you. Plan to spend one hour per day interacting with him.This interaction can involve different types of activities, such as talking to him, petting him, or teaching him new tricks (e.g., ‘step up’).Pay attention to what your cockatiel likes to do. This can give you ideas on how to interact with him. For example, if he likes to toss a toy with his beak, roll a toy towards him and let him toss it back to you.Interacting with him in a way that he enjoys will deepen your bond with him and let you have even more fun with him.
 Talking to your new cockatiel is a great way to interact with him. You can even teach him how to talk! When you talk to him, associate your words with something very specific. For example, say the name of a particular food (e.g., ‘apple’) as you are feeding it to him.You can also say ‘good morning’ when you get greet him in the morning and say ‘bye bye’ as you walk out the door.Your cockatiel is more likely to learn words or phrases that are spoken enthusiastically. Whichever words or phrases you want your cockatiel to learn, say with them energy and enthusiasm.With repetition, your cockatiel will start saying the words back to you, even if it sounds more like a whistle initially.
Keep in mind that male cockatiels are more likely to talk than female cockatiels., Interestingly, cockatiels have rhythm.When you have him perched on your finger, turn on some music and gently move your hand up and down to the beat of the song.Watch with amusement as your cockatiel starts to bob his head to the beat., Your new cockatiel will enjoy being able to interact with you when he is outside of his cage. If you have not had his wings clipped, he will enjoy having the space to fly around the room and your home.If his wings are clipped, he may be perfectly content to sit on a perch.Portable perches are available at your local pet store.Wood play pens are also available that you could set up outside of your cockatiel’s cage.If you have a skittish or nervous cockatiel, he may prefer to stay inside his cage. Do not force him to come out of his cage for the sake of interacting with you.
 In the wild, cockatiels will eat together. To foster this same type of social interaction, consider feeding your cockatiel when you are eating. This will make him feel like he is eating with you, even if he is not eating off your plate.Make sure to wash your hands after feeding him and before eating your own meal., Another way to have fun with your cockatiel is to feed him treats. There is a variety of treats that you can feed him, such as packaged seed treats and spray millet.Some healthy treats include strawberries, mangoes, and yellow peppers.Keep in mind that treats should be only a small part of your cockatiel’s diet. Feeding him too many treats could lead to health problems such as obesity.
Make you hold the treat by its sides to prevent your bird from biting your fingers.