 To teach something, you must at least do it well. Playing tournaments is the best way to keep getting better. If you don't have time for competition, at least work on all strokes for four hours a week.;
, Playing tennis is only half the job. You need to learn how to teach it. Your clients will be expecting their money's worth so you have to know how to manage the lesson time to get your points across and for the student to practice what you are teaching. The more you study the game of tennis and different teaching methods, the more likely you're going to find out how to get across the relevant information to a specific client.


Keep up with leagues and tournaments in your area and keep up with USTA rules and regulations.
Download and use tennis related apps to keep up with major tennis events, such as Wimbledon.
Borrow or buy good tennis guides and read these regularly. Tennis biographies can help give you star strategies and motivational stories to pass on to clients, tidbits that can help lessons to stick in the mind.
If you have trained under tennis coaches or clubs, be prepared to show your certificates of achievement. This will reassure clients that you know what you're doing. If you don't have any such training, consider getting some for this very purpose (see next).
Consider joining USPTA if you live in the United States. The United States Professional Tennis Association is a network that certifies tennis coaches. You will learn a lot about teaching others in the process of acquiring certification, as well as adding credibility to your resume. There are similar organizations in most jurisdictions.
 Just like fish in water, you should be very comfortable being around tennis players and facilities. Watch a person or group of people playing and imagine you're giving a private lesson to one of the persons or a group lesson. List drills or exercises you would give them and what they would accomplish. Also, consider what tips and metaphors you would use to help them visualize the tennis actions and perform better.

