 Someone you trust values your time and opinion, and won’t put their interests first all the time. Being late to meetings, dates, or events with you is a sign that they may not be fully trustworthy.


Apply this concept within reason – everyone is late from time to time. The bigger issue is with people who are never on time or constantly cancel or change plans with you.
 There is often a big difference between what some people say and what they do, but trustworthy people practice what they preach. To trust someone you have to know that they will do the things they say they will. Trustworthy people, for example:


Keep promises they have made.
Finish jobs, chores, or errands they commit to doing.
Follow through on plans made together., Liars are some of the most difficult people in the world to trust because you can never know what they are actually thinking about. If you catch someone making lies, even small ones, it is a major red-flag that they are not trustworthy. Make a mental note of any large exaggerations and white lies. If they happen every time you see someone, they are more likely than not untrustworthy.


Liars often fidget, have trouble looking you in the eye, and change the details of stories frequently.This includes “lies by omission,” when people hide information from you to avoid tension or anger., More often than not, a trustworthy friend is willing to confide in you as well. They know that having trust is a two-way street, and you must feel comfortable sharing things if you want people to share back. When someone trusts you it is a signal that they value your friendship and opinion, making them less likely to do things that would damage your relationship.
 If someone constantly tells you secrets or says things like, “Benny asked me not to say this, but...” then they will likely do the same with your secrets. The way people act around your is indicative of how they act when you are not around. If you think that other people shouldn’t trust this person, you probably shouldn’t trust them either.

