 You can start by learning how to sign the 26 letters of the English alphabet. Each letter has its own unique sign. You can sign using your dominant hand. Learning the alphabet will allow you to introduce yourself to a deaf person when you first meet them.Study the sign for each letter online at StartAmericanSignLanguage.com.
Some letters are trickier to learn than others. It helps if you run through the alphabet several times to the song of “A,B,C” to remember each sign. To sign the letter “J”, for example, you would make the handshape for the letter “I” with your pinky finger and then trace a “J” in the air using your pinky finger.
To make the letter “Z”, you would form the number 1 handshape, using your pointer finger. Then, you would trace the letter “Z” into the air.
Make sure you also note the different placements for your fingers for certain letters, as one letter may be different based on the placement of one finger. For example, the letter “M” is signed by placing your thumb under your first three fingers. The letter “N” is signed by placing your thumb under your first two fingers. The letter “T” is signed by placing your thumb under one finger.;
, You should also study the numbers from 1-10 in sign language so you can learn how to use them in casual conversation. You may decide to expand your knowledge to the numbers from 1-100, though it may be easier to start with memorizing the signs for 1-10 first. You can find the sign for the numbers at Lifeprint.com., Once you learn the alphabet in sign language, you can practice signing basic words by spelling them out. You may choose familiar words like your name or the name of your family members. Practice signing these words in a mirror so you can ensure you are forming each letter correctly with your hands.You may also try to spell out basic words like “dog”, “cat”, “man” and “woman.” Break down each word by letter, such as D-O-G for “dog” and sign out each letter. You should practice each word several times until you feel confident signing word using the sign language alphabet.
You may also try to sign out a short phrase that contains each letter in the English alphabet, such as the phrase “The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.” This way, you can get used to signing out each letter of the alphabet in a sentence.
 You can also learn how to sign for members of a family, such as “mom”, “dad”, “brother”, and “sister”. You can then use these signs to describe someone in your family.The sign for “mom” is placing the thumb of your dominant hand against your chin with your hand open in a “5” shape.
The sign for “dad” is placing the thumb of your dominant hand against your forehead with your hand open in a “5” shape.
The sign for “brother” is making an L-shape with your thumb and forefinger. Move the L-shape hand from your forehead and turn the L-shape into a “1-hand” with your forefinger pointing vertical. Let the “1-hand” make contact with your other hand, which should also be in a 1-handshape, with your forefinger pointing vertical.
The sign for “sister” is making an L-shape with your thumb and forefinger. Move the L-shape hand from your jaw and turn the L-shape into a “1-hand” with your forefinger pointing vertical. Let the “1-hand” make contact with your other hand, which should also be in a 1-handshape, with your forefinger pointing vertical.

The sign for “hello” is placing your hand to your forehead with your palm facing downward and then raising it away from your forehead. This sign is similar to making a “salute” gesture.The sign for “please” is placing your hand flat against the center of your chest and moving it clockwise in a circular motion three times.The sign for “thank you” is made by placing the fingers of your hand to your lips, keeping your hand flat. Then, move your hand forward and down in the direction of the person you are thanking with a smile on your face.