 If you want to file a personal injury lawsuit, you should find a good attorney. Personal injury attorneys typically work on contingency, which means you won't pay any fees unless you win your case. If you do win, or if your case settles, the attorney takes a percentage of the money you receive – usually between 30 and 40 percent.Immediately after she's hired, your lawyer will get to work investigating your claim and reviewing your medical records. If she believes she can settle your case, she may get in touch with the insurance adjuster and see if the matter can be resolved without filing a lawsuit.Your lawyer probably will not want to file a lawsuit until your medical treatment has ended and your doctors have declared you have recovered as much as you ever will – a condition legally referred to as maximum medical improvement (MMI). Until that point, it's difficult to know how much your case is worth., As the plaintiff, it's your job to file a complaint with the correct court alleging that the person or company you're suing caused your injuries and owes you money as a result.


Once your complaint is filed, the insurance company may be more willing to settle the case. Personal injury cases can take a couple of years to even get to trial, and the other side typically doesn't want the matter up in the air for that long any more than you do., If the other side doesn't settle, you'll engage in the process of asking each other questions and sharing documents relevant to the dispute through discovery, a process that can last six months to a year.For example, if your injuries were treated by medical professionals, the other side may request your medical records to verify your course of treatment and the cost of any medications or procedures.
As part of the discovery process, the attorney on the other side may want to depose you, meaning she will meet with you and ask you questions under oath. Both sides may depose each other or other witnesses in the case. For example, if you sought medical treatment for your injuries, the other side may want to depose your doctor., If the trial date arrives and you still have not reached settlement, you will have your day in court.A jury will be chosen unless your case is being heard only by a judge. After the jury is seated, attorneys for each side give their opening statements. Then your attorney has the chance to present your case.If you are called to the witness stand to testify, remember that you are under oath and must tell the truth. Be respectful and polite both to the judge and to the attorneys. If you don't understand a question that's asked, say so and request clarification.
Generally, avoid speaking unless asked a direct question. Don't interrupt or blurt out statements. When asked a question, answer only that question as succinctly as possible rather than rambling on about other details.
When your attorney finishes presenting your case, the other side will have the same opportunity, then both sides will give closing arguments. The judge will instruct the jury and they will deliberate and make their decision., Being awarded damages isn't the same as collecting them, and it's possible you were awarded more money than the other side is willing or able to pay. The other side may appeal the award or refuse to pay.


If the other side doesn't pay, your attorney can help with the collections process by filing motions in court to place liens on property or garnish wages.When the other side does pay, they'll send the check to your attorney. He'll take out costs and a percentage for his fees, then distribute the remainder to you.