 If pride rules you, you probably have difficulty admitting your shortcomings. Take an exercise in vulnerability and start disclosing your imperfections. You may find that others are more attracted to you. Plus, you are in a better position to offer feedback without coming off as haughty.


This doesn’t have to be some big revelation. You can start small. The next time you hear someone else being vulnerable—say someone says “Oh, how I have trouble resisting sweets!”—if you can relate to them, say so. Don’t hold yourself back from developing deeper connections in an effort to appear perfect.Vulnerability takes courage but will get easier the more you practice.
 Actively listen. You can learn something from everyone, even people who appear to be beneath you. If you adopt the belief that what you have to say is more valuable than what others have to say, you’ll push others away. This approach will also severely limit your growth options.Even if someone approaches you with a far-out idea, show them the respect of listening. Who knows, perhaps half-way through their spiel, you might start to see the genius of their plan.
 Whether in your professional or personal life, it pays to share the spotlight. Sometimes, prideful people are hesitant to let others shine. You may think that it will diminish your own achievements. It won’t. Give credit where it’s due. And, when you see something positive in someone else, tell them.For instance, if you notice that a friend appears to be really good at writing, say so. Say, “Wow, I always thought I was the writer of the bunch, but you got some skills, Terry. This is awesome!”
Lifting up others also helps you lift yourself as you develop more fully as a person.
 Humble people understand that everyone, at some point, needs a hand. Prideful people, however, may attempt to do it all themselves, pretending that they don’t need others. Asking for help isn’t a sign of weakness. In fact, if it reduces suffering and promotes collaboration, it’s a smart thing to do.Take baby steps by asking others to help you when you are in need. This could be as simple as asking someone ahead of you to hold the door or telling a friend you could use a listening ear. Notice how receptive people are to your requests—people like to help out!

, Being humble doesn’t translate to putting others before you at the cost of self. Rather it simply means not being so focused inwardly that you miss opportunities to serve. Turn your focus outward and identify how you can serve and connect with others, as equals.The next time you see someone struggling, offer them a hand. Ask your coworker, partner, or friend, “Is there anything I can do to make your day better?”
You can also serve by volunteering your time in the local community.

