 Go to the Foursquare home page, and click the “Log in” button at the top right corner of the page.


Enter your registered email address, or phone number, and password in the required fields then click on the “Log in” button.;
, Move your mouse pointer over your profile picture at the top right corner of the screen. There are different tabs in a drop-down menu under your profile picture. Click on the “Settings” tab to access your Profile Settings page.
 All options under your account’s privacy settings will be displayed.


Alternatively, you can directly access the Privacy Settings page here.
 You may want to disconnect your Facebook profile from your Foursquare account, or vice versa, to allow or disallow your Facebook friends from knowing about your whereabouts.


Check the first box to link your Foursquare account to your Facebook account, or uncheck it to unlink the accounts.
By linking both accounts, you can check out your friend’s liked places and tips, highlighted in your Foursquare explore results even when those friends are not connected to you on Foursquare. Similarly, your Facebook friends can to see your activities on Foursquare.
If you do not want to allow Facebook friends know about your location status or tips, keep your Facebook account unlinked.
Your changes will be saved automatically.
 The second option in the Privacy Settings page is to enable or disable background location sharing. You can change this option according to your location sharing preferences.


Check the box next to “Allow Foursquare to use my device’s background location” to enable the background location sharing service on the app. By enabling this, you are allowing your friends to know your tips, liked places, visited places, and other tasks on Foursquare. Also, your location status will be shared using your device’s background location setting even if the app is not running on your device.
Uncheck the background location sharing box if you want to keep your location status private.



Check the box of the third option if you want to allow allow targeted ads outside of the Foursquare app and Foursquare itself. Foursquare will display different official ads as well as ads from its advertising partners.
Uncheck the box to lessen the number of ads from other partners. You cannot completely prohibit ads from Foursquare’s advertising partners but you can lessen the number.
 This will allow you to choose which tips or recommendations on different venues you receive from your followers.


Check the box next to the “Let my followers send me tips and places” title to allow your Foursquare followers to send you their tips or other recommendations for different places. It will help you to know the activities of others on Foursquare.
Uncheck the box to prevent your followers from sending you any tips or recommendations about any venue.

