 Depending on the size and model of the machine, you can expect to spend between $5,000 and $100,000. New cart-based machines usually fall in the $20,000 to $75,000 range. Used, laptop, or refurbished machines will usually cost between $5,000 to $40,000.Your budget should reflect the type of model that you are considering, and whether you want to buy a new or used machine. Doppler functional machines, which show color images, are much more expensive than black and white ultrasounds.


Consider the machine’s return on investment. For instance, if you charge $500 per ultrasound and you are buying a $20,000 machine, you’ll need to complete and get paid for 40 ultrasounds for the machine to pay itself off.If you need to take out a loan to pay for the machine, add in the loan repayment and interest costs to your budget.
 While the cost of the machine will be the largest part of your budget, you will need to account for installation costs and any training costs. Basic installation may or may not be included in the price of the machine, so read the purchase agreement very carefully. Your staff may need specialized training in order to operate the machine and analyze its results. The costs for this type of training could cost you anywhere from $1,000 to $6,000.You may not need to pay for any additional training if you have an ultrasound technician who is already familiar with the model.
 While the basic equipment will likely be included in the price of the machine, you may need to purchase additional instruments depending upon your specialization. You may need to purchase additional probes to use with the machine. Standard probes are typically less than $1,000, but high-end probes for more specialized machines may cost as much as $5,000.In an obstetrics practice, you will need to purchase an ultrasound printer so you can give the ultrasound pictures to the expectant mothers who visit your practice. These can cost between $1,000 and $3,000; the cost depends largely on whether they are black and white or they produce thermal or color images.
 Your practice may decide that leasing a more advanced machine is a more feasible option than purchasing the machine outright. Medical vendors will allow you to take out a lease on the machine, which usually last about 60 months.This might be the best option for your practice if you find yourself upgrading your machines frequently, or if you are financially unable to pay for the machine in cash.

