 Colon cancer, or as it is often called colorectal cancer is a potentially fatal type of cancer due to its metastatic potential. It is a common disease and is a leading cause of death among the elderly people. Before I discuss this disorder it is useful to give an overview about the structure and function of the colon itself. All these in addition to the causes of colon cancer will be discussed here in the context of this article.;
, The colon or as it is often called the large intestine is the last part of the intestine and is connected with the small intestine by a valve which is called the ileocecal valve. The colon is connected at its first part with the ileum which is the last part of the small intestine. The ileocecal valve makes sure that food in the colon does not backflow to the small intestine and is propelled in one direction.
 This is in addition to four other parts of the colon itself that are called the ascending and transverse colon in addition to the descending and sigmoid colon which connects with the rectum and the anal canal.
 The colon does not have an apparent role in the digestion process which occurs mainly in the small intestine. Its main role is as a reservoir of food residues that collect in the body that are subsequently expelled from the body by the process of defecation. The colon has however certain roles in the body other than its being a reservoir of food residues.
 In addition, one important function of the colon is to secrete mucus by its lining epithelial cells. This mucus is important for the process of food propulsion in the large intestine. This function is similar to that which is observed in the esophagus. The esophagus also secretes mucus that helps in propelling the food into the stomach.
 This peristaltic movement is mediated by a special type of nervous system that is characteristic of the gastrointestinal tract. This system is called the enteric nervous system. This nervous system is considered part of the autonomic nervous system in addition to the sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions of the autonomic nervous system.
 The enteric nervous system has synapses with neurons from both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems. The most important part of the autonomic nervous system for the function of the colon is the parasympathetic nervous system in which neurons in the vagus nerve synapse with neurons in the enteric nervous system in the colon which in turn induce peristaltic motion of the colon muscles.
 Cancer of the colon is mostly caused due to a genetic factor as this disease runs in families and relatives. Also carcinogenic compounds can be a cause of this disease by inducing mutagenesis that can occur by different mechanism according to the type of the carcinogen. For example acridine is a carcinogen due to its flat structure that can penetrate between DNA bases that are adjacent to each other, thus changing the pairing manner of DNA bases on different DNA strands.
 Polyps are usually benign structures that occur anywhere in the gastrointestinal tract and are caused by the segmentation movement of the muscles of the colon. Usually polyps that are bigger than 1 centimeter (0.4 in) can be transformed into cancerous tissue and must be excised.
 Usually, in the colon there are not harmful bacteria that are part of the residents of the colon mucosa. On the other hand, some bacteria that feed on fatty food can secrete carcinogenic compounds that can harm the colon by inducing mutagenesis. This fat encourages these bacteria to grow increasing the likelihood of causing cancer in the colon.

