 These come in multiple sizes, but you can generally get a bag of 100 cotton balls for less than $5.00. You can find them in the health care section of your grocery store or local pharmacy.

Choose regular size cotton balls rather than jumbo size ones.
You can purchase sterile or non-sterile cotton balls since the cotton balls will just be wrapped in plastic anyways.
 It is important to make sure you are handling the cotton balls with clean hands as this will reduce the chance of infection in the ear canal.Use an antibacterial soap and wash with warm water. Dry with a clean hand towel.
 Roll the cotton ball piece into a round ball. The ball should fit comfortably inside of your ear canal.
 Use a plastic wrap that is flexible and not sticky, such as some plain plastic wrap. Cut the plastic wrap into a piece large enough so it can wrap around the cotton ball, but so it leaves a little tail. Wrapping the cotton in plastic wrap will prevent harmful fibers from getting into your sensitive ear canal and reduce the possibility of infection or injury from the cotton ball.Wrap the plastic wrap so it tightly covers the ball, but not so it crushes it into a flat shape.
If you use scissors to cut the plastic wrap, make sure they are clean. You can wash them in an antibacterial soap or dish soap with a clean sponge.
 Gently insert the wrapped cotton ball into your ear canal to assess its fit. Just pay attention to how comfortable it feels inside of your ear.


The ear plug should feel snug, but not like it is cramming into your ear canal or stretching it out. If it feels loose, then you will need to adjust the size as well.
You can add additional material from the cotton ball to the ear plug or you can take out part of the cotton if it is too large.
Be sure not to cram the ear plug too far into the ear; this could cause damage to the ear canal. The ear plug should rest just at the entrance to the ear canal, not beyond it.
 After you have tested the ear plug and have adjusted its size so it fits correctly, take a small rubber band and wind it around the tail of the plastic wrap. Make sure it is tightly closed around the wrap.


Take your pair of scissors and snip off the small tail of the plastic wrap. Be sure to leave a little bit hanging out of your ear so that it will be easy for you to remove the earplug.
 If you plan to use your ear plugs during the day, try wearing them in a busy cafe or restaurant. This will let you know how effective the earplugs are at reducing noise.

If you plan to sleep in the ear plugs, take a nap to test them out. If you sleep on your side, you might need to adjust the size of the plug for the ear that you keep pressed to the pillow.
 Because the material of the ear plugs is cotton, it will not hold up against a thorough cleaning. You should replace the cotton ball ear plugs every five to seven days to prevent bacteria from ear wax or oil building up in your ear canal. This could lead to a painful infection.

Store your ear plugs in a sanitary container, such as a clean plastic sandwich bag.

