 It is always important you talk to your healthcare provider first to let her know your symptoms and to confirm there is nothing to be concerned about. Your doctor can also diagnose the underlying cause for fever and treat it instead of just treating the symptom itself.Some common causes for fever during pregnancy include cold, flu, food poisoning, and urinary tract infection (see next section for more details).
Do not wait to contact your doctor if the fever is associated with other symptoms, such as rash, nausea, contractions, or abdominal pain.
Go to the hospital if you have a fever and your water breaks.Contact your doctor if your fever does not improve within 24-36 hours or immediately if you experience a fever above 100.4 F.
A prolonged fever can have negative effects on the baby and/or increase the risk of miscarriage. If you are unable to get the fever down, contact your healthcare provider or midwife for further instructions.Unless your doctor advises otherwise, you can try the next steps to reduce fever.;
, A bath or a shower is an effective way to reduce fever. This is because when water evaporates off your skin it will draw heat and helps lower your body temperature.Do not use cold water as this can lead to shivers which in turn can increase your body temperature.
Do not use rubbing alcohol in the bath water because the vapors can cause harm.
 One way to reduce fever is to place a cool, dampened washcloth over your forehead. This helps draw heat out of your body and reduces your body temperature. Another way to bring down fever is by using an overhead or standing fan to help remove heat from your body. Sit or lie under a fan. Use it on a low setting so you do not get chilled.
 It is important that you keep your body well hydrated and replenish the water that is lost during fever.Drinking water helps keep you hydrated but also helps cool your body from the inside out.
Eat warm broths or chicken soup that provide extra fluids.
Drink beverages high in vitamin C, such as orange juice, or add a splash of lemon to your water.
You can also try electrolyte drinks to replenish lost minerals and glucose.
 Often times, fever is a normal reaction that occurs when your body fights off an infection. Thus, it is important you get plenty of rest to allow your immune system to do its job.Stay in bed and avoid excessive stress and activity.
If you are experiencing dizziness, it is important you lie down and avoid moving around to reduce the risk of stumbling or falling.
 Do not overdress when pregnant, especially if you have fever. Wearing several layers of clothes can lead to overheating. If your body temperature remains elevated, it can lead to heat stroke or even premature labor.Dress in a single layer of light, breathable fabric, such as cotton, that will allow for proper air circulation.
Use a sheet or a thin blanket to cover yourself but only if needed.
 Prenatal vitamins can help boost your immune system and help maintain vitamin and mineral balance.Take your prenatal vitamins with plenty of water after a meal.
 Ask your healthcare provider or midwife if it is safe for you to take a fever-reducing medication, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol). Acetaminophen (or paracetamol) can be used to lower fever and can make you feel more comfortable, while your body fights off the underlying cause of fever.Acetaminophen is usually considered safe for pregnant women; however, it should not be taken in combination with caffeine (such as migraine pills).You should not take aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (such as ibuprofen) when you are pregnant. Taking these medications can affect your baby’s development. If you are unsure what you can or cannot take, ask your doctor.If acetaminophen does not bring down your fever, contact your healthcare provider or midwife immediately.
 Talk to your healthcare provider or midwife before taking any homeopathic or over-the-counter medications as some of these may affect your baby.This includes large amounts of vitamins, Echinacea, or any other homeopathic remedies.

