 If you are defending for a prolonged period of time, you will get tired.;
, Place your dominant foot behind you. Hold your dominant hand behind you, at head height. Point your lightsaber forwards. Hold out your non-dominant hand as a challenge. Obi-Wan uses this stance when he fights General Grievous on Utapau.
 Obviously, it's more energy-saving to step out of the way than to block by flinging your lightsaber around yourself. Dodging can be very effective, but make sure you get completely out of the way or you could still get hit. If your opponent is using a lightsaber, get even further out of the way, as they can change the angle of attack partway through.
 If you have some experience in Shii-Cho, you should already know this. If you don't:


A head block (zone 1) consists of holding your lightsaber horizontally in front of or above your head.
A leg block (zones 5 and 6) consists of holding your lightsaber near your hip, with the blade pointing downwards.
A body block (zones 2 and 3) consists of holding your lightsaber near your waist, or slightly higher, with the blade pointing upwards.
A back block (zone 4) consists of holding your lightsaber at the back of your head, with the blade pointing downwards.
 If you can spin your lightsaber very fast on either side of you, in a figure-eight motion, you can create a nearly impenetrable blade wall. You should find two ways of doing this, one where the blade is moving downwards as it passes in front of you and one where it is moving upwards as it passes in front of you. This maneuver is very good for deflecting blaster bolts.
 Try to gain the high ground, seek shelter, etc.
 Soresu advocates not attacking until your opponent has tired themselves to the point where their defense has begun to falter. Depending on your opponent's stamina, this could be a long time.
 A saberstaff, or double-bladed lightsaber, has twice the blade area of a regular saber, so it is easier to defend with. In addition, you only have to make slight movements with it to provide full defensive coverage. Saberstaffs specialised for Soresu tend to have shorter blades than usual, making them easier to handle at the expense of range.
 run away and come back with your mates).
 You can practise lightsaber attacks and parries with bamboo canes, or actual lightsaber if you have them. You can practise blast deflection by getting your mates to lob ping-pong balls at you, or shoot you with nerf guns. Don't use anything where you could get injured.

