 Find the note "C" on your keyboard, as shown in the image below. This is the first note of the C Major scale: C, D, E, F, G, A, B, and back to C.









Note the pattern of white keys: three white keys enclosing two black keys, and four white keys enclosing three black keys.
You can also see it this way: the black keys repeat a five-key pattern of two black keys separated by one white key, then two white keys, then three black keys separated by one white key, then two white keys.
This pattern is constant on all keyboards. Every note on the keyboard is represented in this single 12-note octave—they're just higher or lower in pitch.;
, Using the image below, identify and learn the black keys on the keyboard.









Note that each black key has two possible names. For example, there is C sharp (C♯) and D flat (D♭). What you call this note depends on what key you are in or what chord you are playing. Here are the names of the notes on the black keys:
1st black key in the group is C♯ or D♭
2nd black key in the group is D♯ or E♭
3rd black key in the group is F♯ or G♭
4th black key in the group is G♯ or A♭
5th black key in the group is A♯ or B♭
Notice that to find the note of a black key, you either go to the white key immediately before (to the left of) it and use a sharp sign, or you go to the white key immediately after (to the right of) it and use a flat sign.
 Use the image above as a reference.









Start by finding Middle C. This note belongs in the octave 4, and is highlighted in red, above.
Go down or up to reach the octave that your key is in, decreasing or increasing the octave number respectively as you go.
 Learning what the written notes look like can also help you understand the relationship of the notes.









Here is a chart showing what the white notes look like, musically, starting at C4 (the C in the 4th octave).
Here is a chart showing what the black notes look like, musically, starting at C♯4. On the top line, the notes are written as sharps. On the bottom line notes are written as flats. Though they look different, they sound exactly the same.

