 Jealousy can threaten your sense of self.Jealousy can sometimes occur because you have thoughts that someone will figuratively steal your loved one (friend, family member, romantic partner). Envy may happen if you believe that you are not good enough because you do not have certain characteristics or items. Both jealousy and envy come from feelings of insecurity.Increasing your sense of self-esteem can help protect you against both negative emotions.Make a list of everything you like about yourself. For example this might include: brown eyes, tall, funny, spontaneous, compassionate, and lively.
Use positive self-talk. Remind yourself how you are unique by saying something like, “I like who I am. I like that I am fun and spontaneous. I am good enough for myself. I don’t need to change to feel good about myself.”
Be proud of yourself and your accomplishments.Make a list of your positive achievements.
 Sometimes people change the way they think or act in order to fit in with someone else or a group of people.However, this can lead to difficulties in being authentic. Don’t alter your views or thoughts to match someone else.


One way to make sure you maintain your own values is to first understand what your views and values are. You can identify your values by thinking about what is important in life. For example, some of your personal values might be: honesty, integrity, love, family, friendship, health, and fitness.
If you feel like you are going against your values, ask yourself, "Am I in line with my values?" If the answer is no, make a change to make sure you do not compromise your morals or intentions. Stick to your guns and say no to others when you need to. For example, if you are envious that someone is popular because she uses alcohol or drugs, remind yourself that these actions go against your personal values. Say, "No thanks, I'm not into that," if you are pressured to do something you don't want to do.
 It is okay to like someone's clothing, but you shouldn't buy exactly the same stuff.


Think of what makes you envious. Is it the color? Is it the style?
In this example, you can buy similar clothing but make sure it reflects your own personality and style.
Whenever you feel the urge to copy someone in order to fit in, remind yourself that it is better to be yourself and to stand out. Be creative.

