 Go to Whiterun, the city just north of Riverwood, and join the companions. You can encounter Aela the Huntress just outside the city or. She will send you on a quest with Vilkas to obtain a fragment of a legendary battle ax. The dungeon where this fragment is found is chock-a-block with draugr, so be very prepared. Follow Vilkas and the quest updates until you have completed the dungeon. Afterwards, you will need to meet Vilkas in front of Jorrvaskr to more officially join the Companions and move forward towards becoming a werewolf.;
, Same procedure as before. It will sometimes give you the choice to pick between three of the leaders, choose Farkas for the quest of becoming a werewolf ( after the quest). During this/another quest you will witness him, turn into a werewolf himself.
 With the radiant quest complete, you will need to talk to Skjor. He will request to meet you at night. Do so, and soon, Aela will also turn into a werewolf, and you can drink her blood.
 Activate the fountain when prompted and you will become a werewolf. Complete further Companions quests or simply enjoy your new powers.
 You can only transform once a day (unless you have the Ring of Hircine) and the Beast Form lasts for 150 seconds. Time is extended for beast form if you feed off corpses, giving you an additional 30 seconds. Select it from the power menu and it is activated in a similar manner to Shouts.
 Benefits are only applicable when in beast form.


You will be cured of all diseases. This includes vampirism.
Your health and stamina will increase, as well as stamina regeneration.
Your carrying capacity will increase 2000 pts as a wolf.
You can use Howls, which are similar to shouts. Howls drives enemies away.
You will have claws which act as both weapon and protection.
 As nice as the upsides are, there are a number of downsides of which you should be aware.


Silver harms anyone, but as a werewolf--especially in wolf form--silver hurts you even more than before.
You will not receive any resting bonuses.
Racial abilities will not carry over.
You cannot use equipment, magic, or other powers.
If NPC'S witness your transformation, they will run, or attack you. In the least case they will treat you like an outsider, saying "I find your wolfish grin... unsettling." "You smell like a wet dog." "Is that... Hair growing out of your ears?" and even "Ah, you've been playing with your hounds again?" Eorlund Gray-Mane will defend you if you transform in whiterun.
 You may wish to cure yourself of lycanthropy. Unless you have activated the Dawnguard Expansion Pack* (*Aela can give you blood once more) or downloaded a mod, it will be impossible to become a werewolf again.

