 Start at your lash line and go all the way up to the crease. The powder will smooth out your lid and help the eyeliner go on smoother. Because cat eyes are so dramatic, consider using a color that matches your skin tone instead of a darker color, which can look overdone.









Avoid using a cream-based eyeshadow. The eyeliner won't stick to that very well, and could slide right off.
Avoid putting on under-eye concealer just yet. The tape will take it off. Also, the tape may remove any eyeshadow in that area., This will make the tape less tacky and gentler on the delicate skin around your eye.
 Place the tape just beneath your lower lashes, and angle the top towards your temple. For a more dramatic look, angle the tape towards the end of your eyebrow instead. This will result in a thicker line.Be sure to press the tape against your skin. This will ensure that the eyeliner (especially liquid) will not bleed through.If your eyelids are hooded, position the tape at less of an upward angle and closer to a straight line., Don't draw past the corner or onto the tape just yet.If you are having troubles applying the eyeliner smoothly, don't tug on the outer corner of your eye. Instead, try one of the following:









Brace your pinkie finger against your cheekbone and hold the eyeliner by the middle.
Tilt your head back lightly and lower your gaze. This will allow you to see your lash line.
 Don't worry if you get some eyeliner onto the tape. Just make sure that the line gets thinner towards the end.You can make the "flick" as long or as short as you want. The longer it is, the more dramatic your cat eye will be.
 When you pull the tape off, you will see a nice, crisp line.If the tape removed any eyeshadow, carefully patch it up with more eyeshadow. If you usually apply any under eye concealer, you can do so now.
 Apply a few coats on your upper lashes and a single coat on your bottom lashes. For a more glamorous, evening look, curl your lashes or pop on a pair of false lashes.








