 Hostile work environments usually have a negative impact on more than one person, so it is likely that some of your coworkers feel the same way.


Think about colleagues who have mentioned encountering similar behavior.
Are their colleagues who have been present during the same situations you experienced.
 Talking with coworkers who have similar concerns helps you feel less isolated.


It’s a good idea to have these conversations outside of the workplace so you are not behaving unprofessionally, and supervisors cannot claim you are wasting work time.
Although it might be tempting to share your frustrations with a colleague, remain professional and don’t resort to name-calling. This will undermine your case.
 Your coworkers might have helpful insights and good ideas to resolve the situation.


For example, is a coworker on good terms with a supervisor or human resources staff member who might be able to help or offer advice?
If multiple employees have a problem with a supervisor's behavior, agree on a way that everyone should respond. This will send a consistent message to the supervisor that their behavior is unacceptable.
Focus on identifying some of the main concerns shared by employees, but also discuss specific solutions to resolve these problems.
 If you decide to take more formal action to improve a hostile work environment, forming a united front will be more impressive to supervisors and company management. Multiple employees working together to resolve these issues will be more effective than one person making a complaint or stating a grievance. Here are a few suggestions for group actions you might consider taking:


Write a letter addressing the group’s concerns about the work environment, and ask coworkers interested in participating to sign.
Organize a group meeting with management or human resources to articulate concerns.
Compile records that support and document the group’s concerns.
If your company or workplace is associated with a union, consider making a group presentation to members.

