 Maintaining your diet can seem a lot easier if you have a favorite food to look forward to at the end of the week. For example, sticking to a low-carb diet might be easier to swallow if you know you can eat your favorite fish tacos with friends on Friday night. Try making a list of favorite foods and rotating through them during your weekly cheat meals., Try getting a workout in before you enjoy the cheat meal. Working out will help you burn more calories on the day you cheat. If you can’t work out before the meal, you should at least aim to work out later in the day., It’s important that you don’t overeat when you are having a cheat meal. Pay attention to portion sizes and try to stick to them. This will help you avoid consuming thousands of calories in a single sitting, which could be detrimental to your dieting success.Make sure you only cheat for one meal, not an entire day.
Try cheating with a single item in the meal. For example, if you are going to have a burger you can skip the fries.
It's helpful to have your cheat meal on a day when you're not too hungry — that way, you won't overeat.
 It’s important that your cheat meal doesn’t just consist of junk food. While it is okay to splurge on junk food once in awhile, you should avoid items like trans-fats, processed foods, and foods containing high-fructose corn syrup., It is important that your cheat meal still contains vitamins, minerals, and macronutrients to fuel your body. Try including vegetables, lean protein, and/or whole grains into your cheat meal.


For example, you can have a cheat meal of a cheeseburger with a side salad.
If you decide to cheat with French fries, try rounding your meal out with grilled chicken and roasted veggies.
 It's important that you only eat your cheat meal until you feel satisfied and/or full. Avoid continuing to eat just because the food is in front of you. This can result in the addition of unnecessary calories to your overall diet.
 No matter what you decide to eat for your cheat meal, you should make sure you drink plenty of water before, during, and after your meal. This will help you feel and remain satisfied with your cheat meal.

