 The strength of the peel is determined by the percentage of glycolic acid in the product. When you first start doing glycolic acid peels, you should use the lowest concentration available. Over time your skin will build tolerance to it, and you can gradually move up to higher concentrations.


Glycolic acid peels start around 20% and go all the way up to 70% concentrations.Start with the 20% solution, and go up in small 5 or 10% increments in following sessions, as long as your face is able to tolerate it.
Glycolic acid peels should only be done every two to four weeks. You might try to do it once every fifteen days for up to six months or until you achieve your desired results.
 Make sure that your face is clean. There should be no open wounds, cold sores, or cracked skin. Using daily retinoids (such as Differin or Retin-A) up to ten days before the peel may help ensure a more even application., Use a facial brush or cotton balls to gently apply the acid to your face. Start at your forehead and move in a counterclockwise direction to your left cheek, chin, and right cheek. Avoid putting it near your eyes, nostrils, and lips.Test the glycolic acid solution on a small part of your face before you put the peel over your entire face. Leave it there for five minutes. This will let you see how well you react to it.
 Consult the label of the peel to learn how long you should leave it on. This is typically three to five minutes. If you are just starting out, you may only be able to keep it on for 25 to 40 seconds. If this is the case, you can try to extend the length of time in subsequent sessions slowly until you can tolerate the peels for three to five minutes.

The acid will cause your face to sting. If it bothers you, you can use a fan to blow air on it. If the stinging is so bad that a fan does not help, wash it off immediately with water. Cool (but not cold) compresses may be help to reduce itching afterwards.
Sometimes you may notice white patches on your face. These are called frosting, and they show that the peel is working. Do not leave the acid on too long after you notice frosting. If you see frosting, wait for a few seconds before neutralizing the acid.
Your skin may be red for a few hours afterwards. If your skin starts to peel, do not pick at it. You can put on a soothing moisturizer on afterwards. Make sure you wear sunscreen, even if it is not bright outside.
 Most peels will include a special neutralizing agent. Apply this once you have waited the appropriate amount of time. If there is no neutralizing agent, use cool water to wash the acid off of your face., If you are nervous about doing your own glycolic acid peel at home, you can get it done at the dermatologist office. Not only are they experienced in performing glycolic acid peels but they can safely handle higher concentrations. They may also be able to provide assistance if you have irritation, redness, pain, or discoloration afterwards.