 The safest way to travel to Ivarstead is by traveling along the route south of Whiterun. Stay on this main road making your way east through the mountains. Following the road will eventually bring you to The Rift, where Ivarstead is located. Ivaerstead houses the entrance to the 7,000 steps leading up the mountain to High Hrothgar.;
, You will now need to walk up the “7,000 steps,” as they are popularly referred to in Skyrim. You will come across numerous enemies such as the Frost Troll, Ice Wolves, Snow Bears, or Ice Wraiths. Make sure to stay on the trail going up the steps otherwise you will get lost on this snowy mountain.


When facing the Frost Troll, use fire weapons, as the Troll has a weakness to this type. Using fire magic or a weapon which has a fire bonus will inflict much more damage on the troll.
Other enemies you come across should be dealt like any other. Bring along health potions and equip the best weapon you have.
If you locate these enemies before they see you while equipped with a bow, you can use a sneak attack to give your attack a 2x bonus. This will do double the damage for that one shot!

, At the end of the 7,000 steps, you will come across a large stone building. There will be two staircases to choose from when first reaching High Hrothgar. Make your way up the left set of stairs and enter the door. You’ll find Arngeir at the top of the steps.
 When you enter High Hrothgar, the Greybeards will greet you and ask you to demonstrate your ability to use a Shout.
 Arngeir will ask you to use your shout on him. This will not harm Arngeir, as it will just push him back. To use your shout, open your inventory and equip the Unrelenting Force shout. Then stand in front of Arngeir and use it while facing him. Once done, Arngeir will be pleased and ask you to follow him, as he would like to teach you a new shout called Whirlwind Sprint.
 Arngeir will ask you to follow him and the other Greybeards to the Courtyard at the back of High Hrothgar. The Greybeards will demonstrate the Whirlwind Sprint shout by opening a large gate and sprinting through it before it has time to close.


Once the shout has been shown to you, Arngeir will ask you to try the shout for yourself. Simply open your inventory and select Whirlwind Sprint. Once equipped, wait for one of the Greybeards to open the large gate. Immediately use your shout to sprint through the gate before it closes. Once completed, Arngeir will congratulate you and this will complete the quest.

