 It's been shown that regular relaxation can reduce your stress levels long-term, so it's important to make an effort to relax at least once a day.All it takes is a few minutes, done regularly, to help maintain your stress, keeping your body and your mind healthy.


It's also good to take extended periods of relaxation time, or time off of work to give yourself a chance to catch up and rest for longer periods of time.
 When you get a chance to yourself, don't let it be ruined by a phone call or an email that could change it all around to stress. Make your private time a priority, and keep yourself stress free by avoiding work-related, school-related, or other social contacts until a designated time.


If you've got a day off, tell yourself that you're only allowed to check your phone or your e-mail at particular times. If it's a rule, you don't need to feel bad for "missing something" at a time it's not your responsibility.
If you need to be on-call on a regular basis, or if you tend to get stressed if you're not checking your email or phone on a regular basis, it's still good to schedule time away from those contacts to avoid a social overload.
 A recent study revealed that Americans waste hundreds of thousands of hours of unused vacation time every year, and suffer the corresponding stress effects of constantly working.You don't need to be a martyr for the office. Take the time off you've been offered, head to the beach, and take some time you need to rejuvenate and be the best you can be.


Most workers say they don't want to be seen as a "slacker" by taking time off, but it's important to realize that working at half capacity isn't doing your company any good. A few days of paid vacation off will make the days you do work even more productive.
 Between work, school, relationships, and time with your friends, even a normal week can start to seem stressful. It's important to keep achievable and realistic expectations of yourself, and not work yourself so ragged that you need to be stressed out in excessive ways. Try to limit your major commitments as much as possible.


Try to organize regular date nights, so you can schedule friend time and work time around those dates.
Try to get as much of your school work done during the week as possible, so you can keep your weekends free for other things.
If you're scheduled for 40 hours, work 40 hours. If you're not getting paid for extra hours, leave and do other things with your time. Work will still be there when you get back.
 It's a common misconception that playing music or watching television while you do work will help you stay focused and relaxing, or make work more enjoyable. Likewise, many people think that multitasking will allow you to hop around different tasks and avoid stress.Research reports, however, that this isn't necessarily true, and doing more than one thing at a time may actually increase your stress levels.


Shifting your attention between tasks takes time, making you less productive and making the work that you are doing more of a time-suck, which can amplify the stress you're feeling. It's better to finish one task, feel a sense of accomplishment, and then move on to the next task.
 Don't take on extra work or extra responsibilities that you don't need, and you won't have to suffer the effects of stress in the first place. De-stress by eliminating necessary stress from your life, before it has a chance to affect you.