 Picks are made in numerous shapes and sizes in order give guitar players a wide range of sounds to experiment with. You need to have an idea of what your playing style is like or what sound you're trying to create before deciding on a pick. For example, do you like to solo quickly? Do you primarily play simple chords? Do you like hard, staccato attacks or warm, open sounds? These are questions you need to consider before creating your pick.;
, Guitar picks come in varying degrees of thickness that affect the attack, tone, and ease of playing. It's important to decide what thickness would work best for your cardboard pick in order to achieve the specific sound you're looking for.


Somewhere between .40 and .60 millimeters is a standard thickness for obtaining a treble-heavy tone that favors acoustic strumming patterns.
If you're playing lead or rhythm guitar then you should consider a pick of medium thickness, from .60 to .80 millimeters. Thin picks don't work for single note tones as their slim build doesn't create much bass or midrange sounds. A pick of medium thickness is the most popular option as they offer flexibility and a level of stiffness necessary for accompaniment or lead soloing.
For thick, heavy sounds you need a truly thick pick, usually over 1.5mm. This weight is ideal for both jazz and metal guitar players as it summons a warm, full-bodied sound from the guitar. For those seeking a bass-heavy sound even consider a pick as thick as 3 mm. , While it may seem like an insignificant detail, the shape of a guitar pick complements different techniques and playing styles. Think about the way you enjoy playing the guitar and then try and find a pick that matches your preferred technique. Smaller, teardrop-shaped picks with pointed tips are favorites of those who need more control, precision, and articulation of lines made up of single notes. These picks work well for players who enjoy shredding and playing single notes in fast succession.
Picks shaped like equilateral triangles are a favorite of those who constantly have picks falling out of their hands during fast strums. The triangle-shaped pick is designed to rest firmly between your fingers while allowing you the control for fast soloing.
There are some picks with multiple edges that allow you to quickly switch between thin, medium, and thick gauges. This special type of pick will be hard to replicate accurately on cardboard, but it could be worth a try for the adventurous. 