 Don't dress like someone you're not, but maybe be a trendier, prettier, more inviting version of yourself. If you start by looking confident, you'll act confident, and confidence is key to being popular.;
, People judge quickly, especially middle and high school age girls. So try to play it safe, but don't overly suppress your personality. Let it shine through in subtle ways, and don't try to upstage anyone.
 Popular people are friends with everyone, not just the people within their immediate group of friends. It doesn't matter what "social level" they're on. People will appreciate you for being so nice. Being popular doesn't mean you're better or above anyone else. It means that you're all around a great person and everyone likes you and would love to hang out.
Be aware: you'll never be left alone for anything if you're friends with everyone.
 So get good grades. Play at least one sport. Be really nice. Set trends. Be outgoing. Throw a rocking party. Play an instrument. Draw or sculpt or take pictures. You don't have to do everything, but be good at a few things, instead of just being amazing at one. *Make sure you don't come across as one of those girls who are perfect and know it. If you are really good at almost everything, be modest.
 Girls honestly respect girls who can get guys, and that will make people want to hang out with you. However, don't flirt with people you don't like just to be popular. Fakers are really universally hated among students. Surround yourself with guy friends from every group. Artists, guys in bands, jocks, shy guys from your class to help you study. Just don't ditch guys and don't go through boyfriends too quickly.
 Don't try to immediately snuggle up to the queen bee. Find a nice, pretty girl that's liked by everyone (kind of like the girl that you want to be) and get close to her. If people see you with her, they'll assume that you're like her, so choose your first friend wisely, because they affect your whole school experience. *Don't become her shadow, be unique!

, Don't be too obnoxious at first. Once you're kind of settled in with a few friends and at least have the attention of some popular people, bring in a 'signature item'. It could be gorgeous dangle earrings, great pumps, bright skinny jeans, vintage tees, belts, cute hats or scarves, anything that's YOU and you think would catch on at your new school. Just make sure you switch it up every couple of months so that people look to you as a fashion icon. Read up on latest trends in magazines like Seventeen, US Weekly, People, Cos-mo, etc.
 Do not use people. Only go out with the guy if you're genuinely into him and want to be in a relationship.
 If you get terrible grades, chances are people might make fun of you for being 'dumb'. If you're irresponsible, for instance drinking too much and taking stupid pictures and videos, really alienates you and makes people think you're not worth it. Be someone that everyone can trust to do the right thing. People will like you for it.
 If you happen to do something that could potentially ruin your rep, handle it coolly. People will laugh with you instead of at you.
 If you joke around with teachers a bit, kids will definitely catch sight of you. Just don't overdo it because nobody wants to be labeled teachers pet. Also, don't talk to much or you'll forever be labeled as annoying.
 If your reputation is really on the fence, the only thing you can do is throw an amazing party. If there's alcohol there, make sure you don't get busted, and that people don't get too wasted AND appoint designated drivers. The important thing, booze or not, is that if people have fun, they'll think 'oh, that girls the one who threw that wicked party. she's fun to hang with'. And you'll be universally hailed as a party queen, which is also a ticket to the top, as long as you don't throw too many, too often, and they're ALWAYS good.

