 Drinking plenty of water keeps your skin healthy and reduces your chances of developing stretch marks. Try to drink approximately two liters per day., A balanced, nutritious diet is good for your overall health, and can also reduce your chances of developing stretch marks. Supplements are not necessary to prevent stretch marks, but you should try to get enough of certain vitamins and minerals that can help protect against stretch marks.,


Foods high in vitamin E include: eggs, fortified cereals, fruit, green leafy vegetables (such as spinach), meat, nuts, nut oils, poultry, olive oil, and whole grains.Wheat germ is high in vitamin E, so you can include more of it in your diet. Anecdotal evidence suggests that wheat germ oil as an ointment can help your skin.Creams containing vitamin E aren't likely to prevent stretch marks as such.However, they may help with itching and skin dryness.The recommended daily allowance of vitamin E is 15 mg per day for both men and women.
Exfoliating creams containing vitamin E can scrub away old skin and promote the growth of new skin.,
You can also use topical creams containing vitamin C. As with vitamin E creams, these cannot prevent stretch marks, but there is a chance that they may discourage them.
Recommended daily allowances for vitamin C are 90 and 75 mg per day for both men and women, respectively., Riboflavin promotes healthy skin and skin function.It also widens blood vessels and increases blood circulation.Niacin helps deter many kinds of skin disorders.Foods high in riboflavin include: milk and other dairy products, fish, meats, green leafy vegetables, enriched cereals and breads, and whole grains.Foods high in niacin include: meat, fish, milk, eggs, green vegetables, and whole grains., Zinc helps prevent stretch marks by softening and tightening the skin.Foods high in zinc include: beef, pork, shellfish, peanuts, and legumes (such as beans and lentils).Excessive zinc intake can cause a range of health problems.While the amount of zinc consumed in common foods is perfectly safe, supplements and other products can be overused. Talk with your doctor about the proper dosage of zinc for you, given your age, health, and other factors.
Zinc also plays an important role in immune function, protein synthesis, wound healing, DNA synthesis, and cell division. Zinc toxicity has been seen in the consumption of greater than 225 mg of zinc., Some studies suggest that silica can improve the appearance and strength of skin.It is also associated with collagen production, connective tissue in the skin, and the repair of the skin.Dietary sources of silica include: whole grains, cereals, beer, and green beans.