 Put 22 golden or vanilla sandwich cookies into a food processor or blender. Pulse the cookies until they're crushed. Pour the 3 tablespoons (42 g) of melted butter into the processor and pulse the crust mixture for 10 to 15 seconds.The crust mixture should be sandy and clump together if you squeeze it together.
 Dump the crust mixture into a 9-inch (22-cm) pie plate. Use your fingers or a rubber spatula to firmly press the mixture into the bottom and sides of the pan. Put the crust in the refrigerator to chill while you make the filling.You don't need to grease the pie plate, since the crust contains enough butter to keep it from sticking.
 Open an 8-ounce (225 g) package of cream cheese that's at room temperature. Put it into a mixing bowl and add 1/4 cup (50 g) of sugar. Use a hand or stand mixer to beat the mixture until it's light and fluffy. This should take a few minutes.If the cream cheese is too cold, the mixture will become lumpy.
 Get out a prep bowl and pour 1 cup (240 ml) of milk into it. Add one 3-ounce (85 g) package of strawberry gelatin to the milk and stir it well.The gelatin should dissolve and the milk will turn pink.
 Put a whisk attachment onto your mixer and turn it on to low speed. Whisk the cream cheese mixture while you slowly pour the gelatin milk into the bowl. Turn off the mixer and scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula. Turn the mixer on again and whisk until the filling is smooth., Open a 16-ounce (453 g) package of whipped topping that's thawed. Scoop half of it into the bowl with the filling. Use a metal spoon or rubber spatula to fold the whipped topping into the filling.Use a lifting and twisting motion with your wrist as you combine the whipped topping with the filling. This will keep the volume in the whipped topping.
 Measure out 1 cup (170 g) of fresh strawberries and trim the hulls off of them. Chop the berries into even pieces and add them to the filling. Gently fold the berries in, so the filling keeps its volume and the berries are combined., Take the crust out of the refrigerator and scoop the filling into it. Spread the filling evenly and return the pie to the refrigerator. Chill the pie for at least 2 hours before you garnish and serve it.Chilling the pie will give the gelatin time to set up. This will make it easier to slice your pie.
 Take the chilled pie out of the refrigerator and dollop some of the remaining whipped topping on top. Slice 1 1/2 cups (255 g) of strawberries and arrange them on top of the pie. Slice the pie into pieces and serve it immediately.This pie will keep for a day or two in the refrigerator, but the crust will become softer over time.

