 Criticize their handwriting or assignments. Use the word "pedagogy." Inquire as to your teacher's private life. Refuse to do assignments. Switch seats constantly. If your teacher takes role, pull a Billy Madison and make farting sounds with your hands rather than saying "Here."


Correcting a teacher's grammar is a great method of irritation. Improper corrections are all the better, as in "I think you mean, 'Whom is going to recess,' don't you Miss Farquhar?" Also make up words and pretend like everyone in the class should know it. If the teacher tries to explain that it is not a real word, tell him/her how ridiculously stupid they are.
Whenever the teacher explains something, say that you don't get it. When they go over it again, say you still don't get it. Repeat, ad infinitum.
Keep saying the same number in math a lot. This will really make your classmates and your teacher want to die. Example: "What is four times two?" "Eight". "Six times seven?" "Eight". "Five times four?" "Eight".
 At lunch, go over to someone, sit uncomfortably close to them, and say, "OMG Bob, you're the best buddy ever!" If their name is actually Bob, call them Steve. Mimic everything someone says. Answer every question incorrectly, or at least raise your hand. Always say, "Eli Whitney and the cotton gin." Get your friend's name, and then run away.


Say," Hello" in a british accent to everyone in the class for no reason. Then ask boys who have female friends whether his female friends are his girlfriends, and ask girls who have male friends whether her male friends are her boyfriends.
Ask someone why they've been crying, when they are not. If they tell you they weren't crying, start explaining to them why it is okay to cry. Go into detail about a very personal time that you had been crying. For example "One time I cried so hard after I had to take a terrible dump." When they walk away, grab them and pull them close to you again. Make sure to spit excessively when you talk to make it even more awkward.
 Make strange sounds like an ambulance, the sound of a performance or even echo sounds or clicking your tongue. Record your sounds in your phone and activate them constantly.


Stare at the ceiling while someone is speaking to you when they ask you what you're doing say "It just like... sits up there" in a really weird tone. Or stare at the floor and say that it "sits down there."
Sing songs about your friends which they find very annoying. Sing it over and over again with an unusual tone. "Bob takes a poop with his little tiny toilet. / Bob takes a crap with his little tiny butt," is a classic.
 Crack your knuckles really loudly. Fart, burp, cough, sneeze, wipe your nose on your sleeve. Say "Sor-RY" in a really stupid voice when you do something that you don't need to say sorry for. Repeat one word over and over in a sing-song voice.


Bring gum to class and chew loudly in your neighbor's ear.
When you are next to the teacher and the teacher is talking, cough without covering your mouth.
 Change the desktop picture. Choose something your friend will find embarrassing or lame, like a picture of the Jonas Brothers or a cosmic kitty, then draw everyone's attention to it when they come back to the computer. Delete the icons or rearrange them into crude shapes.


Change settings constantly. Make the mouse or track pad ultra sensitive, or set the monitor to go to sleep after thirty seconds of inactivity.

