 You want to make your oval longer than it is wide. Jake is medium in his natural size, so you don’t have to draw a large oval.Jake is roughly ⅓ the size of Finn. If you are drawing the two next to each other, Jake comes up to roughly Finn’s waist.
 Jake’s eyes are two large circles, his nose is an oval, and curves make the ears.


Space the eyes out enough so that you can draw the nose in the space in between. The nose should be at the same height as the bottom of the eyes or just a little below.
The tops of the ears should start where your oval begins to curve down. The ears should extend out from the oval and the back in, curling up.
Nothing should extend past the top ⅓ of your oval.
 Jake’s snout is made up of two parts, the part that goes around the nose, and the small mouth below it. The eyebrows are two squiggly lines, like a tilde.


The snout is drawn a bit like an upside down “U”, and resembles a handlebar mustache. Start with a line going down from the bottom of the nose. Loop your pencil up and around, finishing the line on the other side of the nose. Part of the snout will overlap your eyes.
The mouth is a small half circle under the nose that touches the insides of the snout.
, For this drawing, Jake will have his arms bent and hands on his hips, The arms are simple zigzags that start roughly at the same height as the bottom of the snout. The hands are simple with three fingers.Think of the arms and the side of Jake’s body as forming an “R” shape. For Jake’s right arm, draw a reversed “R”.
 Jake’s legs are almost as long as his body. The legs are formed by two slightly curved lines that connect to one another by small feet.


Bow the legs out slightly to give Jake more of a springy look.
 Now you want to erase the parts of your oval around the ears, the arms, and legs.


Also make sure to erase the parts of the eyes that intersect with the snout.
When done, Jake’s arms and legs should look like seamless, connected parts of the body.
The ears should also have no lines that separate each ear from the side of the head.
 Jake has two different kinds of eyes. Sometimes he will have watery looking eyes which have two circles, or normal eyes with one circle.If you want to give Jake watery eyes, then draw one bigger circle and one smaller one. Leave the circles white and fill in the rest of the eye.
For Jake’s normal eyes, draw a crescent moon shape on the left side of each eye. Color in the crescent part, and leave the rest white.
 Jake’s color is a golden brown. Color the whole body in and don’t add any shading.

