 It needs to be as close to the wire or perimeter as possible, but be in a dormitory or area where the tunnelers can work 24/7, in relays, with lookouts and distractions. Another thing to remember is a cover. If this is a real POW camp, then the guards will search under furniture. What is needed, is an area that they won't search. This could be anywhere, and to find the blind spot, you have to use your initiative.
 To do this, simply count in strides how far the wire, or a safe place, is. Then, mark a piece of string into sections of your pace, so when stretched out, you can read the number of paces from A to B., This is vitally important, or tunnelers will suffocate. A pair of bellows attached to a hose pipe will do, as long as the pipe ends next to the tunneler, and the bellows are constantly working to supply air. The more ventilation you have, the better and safer the tunnel., (You can use a pick, but they are loud, clumsy, and hard to make/find.) A simple shovel can be made from a tin can, cut diagonally from top corner to bottom corner, when viewed sideways. Then, take a strong bit of wood for a handle, and nail it onto the circular end of the tin. A Hammer can be just a large rock or brick, but if you attach the weight to a handle, you will find it much easier to use, speeding your escape. To make a chisel, simply roll some steel (from a disused food can, probably) around the stick that is your handle. Then, hammer down the end into a sharp point for a chisel. However, sturdy metals are more durable., To build a tunnel successfully, you will need supports to ensure there are no cave-ins.Supports have famously been made of bed-boards, but you could use wooden crates, or anything else made of wood, and obtainable easily. Place an arch made of supports every 30 centimeter (11.8 in) along the tunnel. Then, place more beams running parallel to the tunnel to ensue that there are no gaps in the coverage, and you have a nice wooden ceiling., At night or during a rainstorm will mean the disguise is less easily discovered., hiding in or under a garbage truck, joining an enemy or foreign working party.