 A warm, inviting smile can put anyone at ease and makes you look like you're having a great time. People will notice your smile and think are friendly, pleasant, and open to having a conversation.Studies have shown that smiling also helps reduce anxiety, blood pressure, and your heart rate, which will put you at ease in social situations, too!, When people are uncomfortable in a situation, they have a tendency to physically close off from those around them. Be mindful of your posture. If you are feeling nervous or are in a bad mood, remind yourself to strand straight, keep your arms at your sides, and lean toward people when they are speaking to you. Reminding yourself to maintain these postures will help improve your mood and will help draw people toward you.Show that you are interested in what others are saying by angling toward them when they are speaking. Adjust your feet, legs, and your body to face the speaker. This shows the speaker that you are actively listening and involved in their story.Don’t fold your arms when you are in social situations. You may be projecting negative cues such as "I'm too busy" or "Leave me alone" when your arms are in this closed posture. Other people will watch your body for cues, so it's important pay attention to what cues you're displaying.
 In social situations, people will look around the room and will likely begin a conversation with someone if they make eye contact with them. Don’t stare at the floor or at your feet. Look up and be aware of your surroundings to attract the attention of others.


When someone approaches, smile and maintain eye contact throughout the conversation. In a one-on-one conversation, maintain eye contact for periods of 7 to 10 seconds. While in a group conversation, maintain eye contact for periods of 3 to 5 seconds.This simple look will demonstrate that you are trustworthy and interested in the topic., It's okay to feel nervous, bored, or unhappy, but if you want appear approachable, take care not to project negative emotions. Shuffling back and forth, biting your nails, twirling your hair, and other forms of fidgeting can display signs of boredom, stress, or nervousness.Be aware of these habits, and take a few deep breaths when you feel the urge to fidget.


Avoid touching your hand to your face frequently. This can signal that you are feeling anxious.Tapping your feet can signal impatience or boredom. People may feel like you aren't interested in the conversation., When chatting with someone at a party or an event, pay attention to their gestures, posture, and stance and try to emulate them. If that person has an open stance, adopt one as well. If they use lively hand gestures while telling a story, try to do the same. Mirroring a person’s body language can help build trust and establish a connection when used sparingly.

When used appropriately, it can help create a positive rapport and signal to the other person that you like their company.

Think about your relationship with the person before you mirror their body language. Avoid mirroring someone who is your superior. If you mirror your boss’s body language during a meeting, for example, they may see this as impolite and forceful.