 There are many books and websites that provide lists of flowers and plants that are safe to eat. Be sure to get information from more than one source. Some flowers are poisonous to humans and can cause serious illness.;
, Usually only part of the flower, like the petals or stamen, is edible.
 Flowers treated with pesticides or herbicides should never be eaten. Flowers from garden centers, nurseries, and florists could be treated with chemicals. Flowers from public gardens or picked from the side of the road could also be contaminated. Use only flowers that you grow yourself, or that are grown by natural, organic farms.
 Flowers that have a sweet flavor include carnations, dandelions and cornflowers. Angelica, clover and anise have a licorice flavor. Other popular dessert garnishes are violets, mint and lavender.
 Delicate and attractive edible flowers can be used for this. Geraniums, roses, marigolds, pansies and violets are popular choices. To make, whisk eggs whites and brush them onto the flowers. Cover the flowers with sugar. Let them flowers stand overnight. They can be used immediately or stored in containers at room temperature for 2 to 3 months.
 Cherries, grapes, strawberries and other fruits can be used. Cut slits almost all the way through the fruit to make petal shapes. Pull them apart, and press onto baked goods or puddings.
 Melt chocolate or candy melts over a low flame. Pour into flower shaped candy molds. Allow to cool. Remove from the mold and place on top of the dessert.
 Melt 16 ounces of semi-sweet chocolate chips. Stir in 2/3 cup light corn syrup. Dust a work surface with cocoa powder. Knead the chocolate clay. Separate and roll into small cylinders. Cut small circles to use as petals, and cut leaves with a knife. Assemble the flowers, and then fan out and shape the petals.
 Fondant, sugar paste, and edible rice paper are all popular and easy to work with. They can be cut with cookie cutters or shaped with molds.
 These include tubes, tips and other supplies that can make a variety of shapes and decorations from royal or butter cream icing. Most come with instruction manuals to learn how to make flower garnishes for desserts. Roses are a popular icing creation, but other flowers can be created too.
