 Regardless of which particular aspect of the music business you’re interested in, you’re going to need to build a strong list of contacts. This is an essential first step, and it holds true even after you’ve held your first several jobs. Work hard to build relationships with people willing to share valuable information with you.


Know that a sense of family develops among a band and its crew, especially on the road. Building relationships helps you get accepted into the family., Even if you’ve earned a degree in communications, lighting design, or other relevant discipline, you’ve got to prove that you can put that education to use. Put together a strong record of experience that shows you’ve got what it takes for a lasting career in the industry.


At this stage, don’t quit your day job. Internships, apprenticeships, and working for free are part of gaining the experience you need for your first paid gig.Treat an unpaid internship or apprenticeship like you’re getting a million dollar salary. Gaining references and a reputation for being a hard worker will be vital in scoring your first job sooner rather than later.
Some areas require a broad knowledge and skills base, others require highly specialized experience. Use the research you’ve done to decide what sort of training you need.
 Once you’ve put together a bit of experience, craft a resume that convincingly communicates how great a candidate you are. Research your area of interest to decide which skills you need to highlight. Use your relevant experience to show how you’ve put those skills into action.
 Remember that, especially when starting off, fulltime jobs are few and far between in the music industry. As you’re putting together your first gigs as a roadie, promoter, stylist, or whatever your field is, think of yourself as a brand. You have to market your small business: get business cards, a website, and referrals.


Find emerging talent in your area and demonstrate how you’d be a valuable member of their team: can you improve or repair their sound system? Create a better lighting component? Organize schedules?