 There are a number of useful books, YouTube videos and blogs about Internet marketing, where you can learn the basics, if you don't already. Internet marketing mentors can pick up where these methods leave off, helping you to turn the knowledge into part of your marketing plan.


Another advantage of doing extensive research are that you will get to know the people on the forefront of the technology. Once you receive coaching, you will want to stay up to date on new methods by reading blogs, journals and ebooks.;
, Successful Internet marketing professionals are usually busy and make a good amount of money, so they are unlikely to give free professional advice to everyone. You should decide how much you are willing to pay for expert knowledge and resources.
 If you plan to form relationships and do training sessions to stay on top of Internet marketing, then this is the best option. Looking on the American Marketing Association's forums and expert posts is a good place to start looking for a mentor.
 If you do not want to take the time to sign up for a professional organization, then you can find marketing professionals by using PivotPlanet's job advisers. When you sign up to be mentored, you pay according to the expert's hourly rate and you can conference by video, phone or in person, if you're from the same area.


Although it will depend upon the advisers who are available at the time, you may be able to find an Internet marketing expert who has experience in your specific industry.
 Giving some advice away for free is 1 of the most successful ways to promote expertise in the marketing field. If you find someone whose blog you find extremely useful, look on their "Contact" page to see if they are also a coach.


For example, the Internet marketing expert Yaro Starak has a coaching program with a satisfaction guarantee. If you like his site entrepreneurs-journey.com, you can sign up for a variety of programs. You can join a 6 month program on blogging or video blogging for around $250 or you can opt for private coaching for $2,000 to $5,000.
 If you are just starting out, or you have some time in your schedule, learn by volunteering time to help an Internet marketing professional. If you have someone in mind, simply email them directly to volunteer your time and efforts in exchange for learning through experience.


If you don't have anyone in mind, you can search for internships through online job searches and classifieds, like CareerBuilder and Craigslist, respectively.
 Sites like nicoleonthenet.com feature several posts that include long lists of names. Search for those names on a search engine to narrow down your choices.
 If you and your company or other entrepreneur friends need some Internet coaching, you may be able to entice a successful marketing consultant to develop individual or group sessions for you. Although the consultant will not have a program ready to go, they may be able to develop 1 specifically for you.
 Your ultimate goal should be increasing sales and profits, so any successful mentor should be able to give you the names and numbers of people who are clients.


Also, try to find some reviews from other websites. Although you should not expect any mentor to have completely positive reviews, you may be able to get a wider range of opinions. At the very least, you should be able to find out who is fraudulent or uses out-of-date information.

