 Thread 12 to 24 beads onto a length of embroidery thread or thin craft wire.

Craft wire can be easier to work with, but the resulting bracelet won't be machine washable and will be stiffer and heavier.
Use enough thread and enough beads to wrap around your wrist. Do not cut the spool-end of the thread or wire after threading the beads.
 Clear 2 inches (5 cm) at the tail end of the thread. Create a loop from this tail, knotting it just above the top bead.

If desired, you could leave beads on the thread used for this loop to create a more decorative stopper. The size of the stopper should still remain the same, however.
 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook using a slip knot, then position the hook above the thread.

Place the crochet hook and starting loop above the beaded thread, directly between the looped stopper and the top bead.
The knotted part of the loop and the working end of your thread should fall behind the thread, however.
 Work one chain stitch with the yarn. As you create this chain, you should trap the base of the thread inside., Chain stitch twice, then slide the first bead beside the base of this chain. Single crochet around the wire on the opposite side of the bead to lock it into place.

The number of chains may vary depending on the size of the bead. Create enough chains to extend around the top and side of the entire bead.
Work the single crochet in between the first and second beads. Since there are no stitches to work into, you'll need to reach beneath the thread with the tip of the hook, grab the yarn there, and work the single crochet stitch around the side of the thread.
 Chain two, then single crochet once around the thread on the opposite side of the next bead. Repeat this pattern across the entire length of beads, or until the bracelet reaches your desired length.

End the pattern with a single crochet beside the final bead.
Note that you may need to make fewer or more chains to work around your beads, but the number of chains should remain consistent from bead to bead.
 Chain four and flip the work over. Repeat the same pattern back across the same length, wrapping the yarn across the bottom side of each bead as you go.

Chain two. Draw the chain around the bottom of the next bead, then single crochet over the thread and beside the single crochet of the previous row.

Repeat this pattern across the entire row, ending with a single crochet to the front of the first bead.
 Cut the yarn, leaving 3 inches (7.6 cm) of excess. Pull this excess tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.

If you have a considerable amount of thread in between the crocheted beadwork and the stopper loop, you may wish to wrap the yarn around the exposed thread several times before fastening it off.
Weave the excess tail into the stitches to secure it.
 Thread a standard sewing needle with all-purpose sewing thread, then stitch the decorative button onto the end of the bracelet opposite the stopper loop.

You should only need to make a few stitches to secure the button to the bracelet.
Use a button that is small enough to fit through the loop yet large enough to avoid slipping through by accident.
 The bracelet should be finished and ready to wear. Wrap it around your wrist and slide the button through the stopper loop to hold it in place.