 Most Americans, at least, are vastly disconnected from their hereditary (grass~fed beef and chickens, eggs, cold water fatty fish) sources of Omega 3. If your body isn't getting enough Omega 3, it is going to be sending you "hunger" signals constantly.;
, With the understanding that any is better than none (and, that there are more sources of Omega 3 than just fish oil, although it is largely preferred).


It never hurts to vary your sources, and probably the cheapest way to supplement with Omega 3~6~9, other than a powdered, whole~food vitamin, is to take cod liver oil, and use olive oil daily.
 This stuff is powerful, and label directions should be followed.


Caffeine impact will be affected, as per label directions, when included with Omega 3~6~9.
The recommended dosages on the label are typically pretty high unless taken with a fatty food, which will ameliorate heart "flutters"; this stuff is best taken with a good breakfast, especially at first.
As indicated on the label, if you take this too late in the day, you won't sleep that night. There is an adjustment period for many people; thinner people seem to notice more pronounced effects, and Omega 369 will help normalize the weight of skinny people, also.

A dim memory, now, is not sleeping great the first few nights in transitioning onto this stuff, period~and, feeling so juiced otherwise, it didn't matter! In a year, you'll be able to gulp a cap down right before bed, and sleep like a baby.
 If your cells can't "breathe" well, nutrients can't get in as well, and waste can't get out, resulting in greatly reduced health. Mitochondrial output decreases. The way your body metabolizes cholesterol is also directly affected, and many other bodily process deficiencies are now being linked to Omega 3 (and Vitamin D) deficiency.


It takes about seven years to replace every cell in your body, and your entire body is just a collection of cells. However, damage occurs in each renovation due to chemicals and sunburn damage.
 These arguments seem to pertain mostly to Omega 3, and revolve around vitamin A and D toxicity from ingesting too much; but this is pretty rare. Supplementing with Omega 3~6~9 combo should largely ameliorate these concerns, as the effects are quite marked, up to the recommended dosage.

