 If you know of other professionals with ADHD, set up some time to chat with them about their current role and office. Get some pointers about how to use your ADHD to your advantage and to select a career that will be best suited to you. They will be able to provide you with insight that you may not have yet considered and that could help shape your decisions.


If they dislike their job, find out what elements of it bother them most and whether those could be related to ADHD. If they love their job, find out why and consider choosing a career or office with similar elements.
Make some notes before you consult with someone else who has ADHD to help you identify what your specific struggles are and to help guide your conversation with the person.;
, There are several tests that you can take online to assess what careers might be best for you. You can also access these tests at a local college’s career center. If you are enrolled, they may be free. If you are an alumnus or community member, these tests may be available for a fee. These tests can help you think about jobs that you may never have even considered before. Consider this test to get you started: https://www.careerwise.mnscu.edu/careers/clusterSurvey.


Remember, however, that these tests are should not be used exclusively in deciding what you should do career wise. At the end of the day, you should use all of the resources available to you to make a decision and should not rely solely on these tests.
Remember also that these career inventory tests are non-exhaustive, meaning that they will not show all possible careers that will be a good fit for you. Use it as a starting point to begin thinking about careers.
 One key element to job searching is recognizing your strengths. If, for instance, you are not a good cook and are not interested in cooking, then perhaps a career in culinary arts would not be best suited for you. However, if you enjoy working with people and are interested in medicine, then you might consider a job in the medical field. Take a few moments to write out all of the things that you do well, including both skills that you have learned over time as well as the things that come naturally to you.If you are finding it difficult to do, think of things you have accomplished and what skills it took to make those things happen. You can also think about compliments that people have given you in the past, or even enlist a friend or family member to help you make your list.
 Your interests are just as important as your skills. If you are excellent at styling and cutting hair but you do not enjoy it or find fulfillment in it, then a career in cosmetology is probably not for you. When making any career choice, you should remember that a considerable amount of your time will be devoted to this job. You will want to choose a job that aligns with the things that you are passionate about.
 Once you have thought more concretely about the type of job that you would like to have, find individuals to job shadow so that you can understand their work better and pick their brain with questions. People often enjoy talking about themselves and their work, so take advantage of that. Ask if you can stop by for a few hours to observe them in their roles.If you can find someone with ADHD, all the better.
You could send an email or call and say something like “My name is Joshua and I am very interested in a career as a veterinarian. I was wondering if I could come by some time next week for a half day and job shadow you? If so, I would very much appreciate it.”

, Perhaps your search for jobs is proving to be a bit more difficult that you thought. Think about the following careers, which are highly engaging and have been identified as being particularly suited for those with ADHD:Teacher
Daycare worker
Journalist
Chef
Small business owner
Hairstylist
Nurse

, Thinking through your career values can help you to find the career that will be most likely to hold your interest. Rank your career values in order from most to least important. Some of the career values you may want to rank include:

Income
Flexibility
Passion for the job
Autonomy
Structure or freedom
Work schedule
Work environment
Job security
Benefits

