 Just as your body would get exhausted if you walked for eight hours without a break, your brain will get tired if you stare at a computer screen all day. Step away from your desk and do something that doesn’t have to do with work. If you’re able to, some experts recommend taking a five-minute power break for every hour and a half of desk work.Bring a book or a craft project, like cross-stitch, to refresh your mind.
Walk around the office or outside.
If it’s cold or rainy, grab a coffee and head to the break room for a quick respite.
 A proper diet will keep you physically fit and help you cope with the stress of work burnout. Protein, carbs and fat will keep you energized and awake. Food is also a psychological tool, and looking forward to your lunch might be enough to buoy you through a tough morning. Never underestimate the power of a delicious sandwich to brighten your day.


Packing lunch gives you control over your diet, and saves money. For best results, assemble your meal the night before work, and bring it to the office with you in the morning.Find a healthy deli or diner near your work. It may become a new social hub for you and your coworkers.
Snack on healthy proteins and fats. Try nuts, string cheese, or even beef jerky.Coffee can help, but don’t over-caffeinate. Too much caffeine can give you the jitters, and even exacerbate anxiety.If you’re burnt out, that’s just what you don’t need.
 Different people need different amounts of sleep, but many adults have one thing in common: they simply don’t get enough. If you want your mind and body to work as well as they can for you, make time in your schedule to recharge.Eight hours of sleep is the stereotypical golden standard for adults; you may need more or less, but set a sleep schedule and stick to it.
 Many people who are feeling anxious, depressed, or burnt out find that adding exercise to their schedule helps them blow off steam.There are all kinds of sports and workout plans out there--even if you don’t think of yourself as athletic, there’s probably some physical activity (like biking or hiking) that you like.


Yoga is one of the most well-known exercises for managing mental turmoil. You can start practicing at a gym or studio, but there are plenty of internet resources that will help you do yoga in your own home. Many of them are even based around managing stress., If all else fails, get out of the office for a little while. Use your vacation or personal days, and instead of spending them in bed, get out and see the world. Make sure to check in with your boss or HR department to confirm that you’re taking time off correctly.


Take a weekend trip to a new place.
Do a staycation with friends and treat your city the way a tourist might., Despite the way you may feel when you’re in the depths of burnt-out despair, there is life outside your job. Spending time with the people you care about outside of work will remind you of that. If you avoid taking work home with you (when possible), you may find that your home and social life recharge you enough to focus more on work when you’re actually at the office.


Hang out with your relatives as much as possible. Whether you’re blowing bubbles with your kids or your grandmother, your family’s love can do a lot to ground you.Meet a friend you haven’t seen in a while for coffee.
If you’re having trouble making friends outside the office--maybe you just moved to a new city and don’t know anyone--don’t feel bad. Try joining a meetup group that relates to one of your interests.