 First, you'll need to identify what types of customer service you want to offer. This will dictate what is taught to your customer service trainees. Analyze customer service records to see what subjects your current team deals with the most. Are customers calling mainly about technical issues or with product questions? Implement what you find in your training plan.
 The next step in determining whether it is beneficial to outsource your customer service training is to identify which person or persons in your company will be handling your customer service needs. Many companies that offer training in customer service relations charge by the number of employees you will need to train.
 Many customer service training companies are designed to train large groups of people at once. If you have many employees that need customer service training at the same time, you may be able to negotiate a better price with the customer service training business by setting up a large training seminar with that business. Alternately, consider on-site training, as it can be less expensive and disruptive.
 Once a contractual arrangement between your business and the third-party contractor is in place, make sure a person or entity within your business actively oversees the progress and results of outsourced customer service training., Once you have an employee or employees who have been trained to deal exclusively with customer service needs by the third-party contractor, use that employee or those employees to deal with your customer service needs.


Be sure that, once your trained customer service representatives are in place, there is oversight that will guarantee your customer service needs are being met by said representatives. Depending on your business operations, additional training or adjustments to existing training may be necessary.
 Once you are utilizing your trained employees, you may find that some of your customer service needs are still not being met. If this is the case, be prepared to offer additional training to your employees in-house or through the outsourced company.

