 This poultice can be used for minor scrapes, cuts, bumps or bruises, similar to the way you might use a band aid or a cold pack. However, if the injury won’t stop bleeding or if a cut is longer than an inch (or deeper than ⅛-¼ inch), call a physician.Mix equal volumes of slippery elm (as a liquid) and Goldenseal (as a powder or dried herb) and combine it into a poultice. The slippery elm works as a vulnerary and goldenseal has both antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties. Replace the poultice every 2 hours for the first 24 hours.
 You can use an astringent poultice to draw out any venom or toxins from the bites. Alternate an activated charcoal poultice with a baking soda poultice every four hours for the first 24 hours.For most insect and spider bites, you can make a compress with about 1-2 teaspoons of activated charcoal and baking soda.
After the first 24 hours, use a plantain poultice.
Insect and spider bites take about four to six days to heal and you can use a poultice for the first two to three days.
 Slice and dice one to two medium sized onions-- any type of onion will do. Heat the chopped onion on low heat in a small amount of water (1 to 2 tablespoons) until the onions are soft. Drain the excess water and place the onions into the poultice. Allow the onions to cool down so that they are at a comfortable temperature to have against your skin. Then, tie it off and place it on your chest. Replace the poultice every two hours.Though it is not usually done, in the case of respiratory infections, peppermint leaves can be added to the onions. The menthol in the mint leaves can help relieve congestion and diminish the onion scent.
You can use the onion poultice for two to three days. If there is no improvement or if the person develops a fever, or if they cannot eat, drink or sleep for a period lasting more than 12 hours, call your physician for advice.
 Peel and chop one to two cloves of garlic or 1/2 of a small onion. Place the garlic or onion in a poultice large enough to just cover the wart and not the surrounding skin. Leave it on for six to eight hours every day. After removing the poultice, rinse off the area with warm water. Alternatively, you can leave it on overnight and rinse it off in the morning., Inflammatory skin conditions such as acne, eczema and psoriasis as well as various rashes can respond well to poultices if the area of skin is relatively small. Herbs with anti-inflammatory properties that can be used in poultices include ginger, sage, thyme, turmeric, and slippery elm.If you use fresh ginger, peel and chop it into a few small pieces. Then, heat the pieces in a small amount of water before mashing and creating the poultice. Use the poultice every day for three to four hours, rinsing well with warm water after every use.
If you use slippery elm, you will not need to add water because slippery elm is usually sold as a thick liquid.
Use these poultices for as long as the skin is inflamed. You should see some improvement within one to two weeks. If not, try switching herbs. Always let your physician know that you are using poultices as well.
 Mix one tablespoon of mustard powder with 4 tablespoons of flour. Add one to two tablespoons of olive oil and make your paste. Make your poultice and wrap it or lay it on the injured area for no more than one hour at a time.If you are gluten-sensitive, make sure to use a gluten-free flour.
Keep in mind that mustard powder should always be diluted because otherwise it can cause rashes. Check the area to make sure there is no rash or reaction from the mixture. If there is a rash or reaction, remake the poultice using ½ tablespoon of mustard.

