 With a good fence, your dog cannot escape the yard and other dogs or animals cannot get into the yard, where they could harm your dog.Choose a fence material that meets your budget. Wood, steel, chain-link, and plastic all make good fencing materials.
Make the fence at least six feet tall. The larger your dog, the taller the fence should be.
After the fence is installed, walk the perimeter to check for spaces where your dog might be able to slip underneath. Install chicken wire in these areas.
Repair any holes in the fence as they appear.;
, Dogs are attracted to water, both to drink from and swim in. Even if your dog is a good swimmer, there’s danger in leaving them alone with a pool since they might not be able to get out of the pool if the edges are slippery.Fence in your swimming pool or other water area with six-foot tall fencing.
Don’t ignore smaller reflecting pools: a small dog can easily fall into a shallow pool and drown.
 A dog house is essential to protect your dog from the elements. The dog house should be large enough for your dog to turn around in and it should be fully covered on top to protect your dog from rain, snow, and sunlight.Choose a material that is suitable for your environment. If you live in a warm environment, use clay tiles on the floor of the dog house to keep your dog cool. In the winter, place a blanket on the floor to help keep your dog warm.
 Alternately, you could plant marigolds between rows of plants and flowers you really want in your garden. Marigolds, like vinegar and apple bitter, contain a scent that dogs shy away from.You can obtain apple bitter at your local pet store and white vinegar from your local grocer.
Sprinkle powdered mustard and/or red pepper flakes around your plants.Dogs do not like these scents and will avoid areas where these odors abound.
The potency of the anti-dog odors declines over time. Any measure you adopt to protect your garden will need to be renewed occasionally, especially after it rains.
Do not use coyote urine or similar products in your garden. While it does effectively ward off deer and rabbits, coyote urine will attract dogs, and your dog will roll about in the garden and mark it as its own territory.
 If your dog gets into other areas of the yard you don't want it to, you can solve the problem using the same solutions you used to keep your dog out of your garden. That is, spray white vinegar or apple bitter on other things you want to keep your dog from chewing. Or, for instance, if you have furniture in your yard that you want to keep your dog from chewing, sprinkle powdered mustard or red pepper flakes in a cordon around the furniture to keep your dog away.Citrus is another scent that does not appeal to dogs. Spray concentrated lemon juice on any objects you do not want your dog chewing or scratching.

