 Many of the things you eat will enter your breast milk, and some babies can be particularly sensitive to the proteins in breast milk from dairy items.If your baby is sensitive to dairy in your breast milk, they may have intestinal irritation and pain.;
, These foods have also been attributed to irritating most babies if they get into your breast milk., You will know that she’s hungry when she starts whimpering or making sucking sounds. Try to adhere to a consistent feeding schedule for your baby.


Don’t wait for your baby to be ravenous before feeding her, as this can make her agitated, and an agitated baby may be difficult to calm down and get to latch on to your nipple. An agitated baby also may swallow a great deal of air along with the milk, leading to abdominal discomfort and gassiness.
 Some babies prefer to be held and some feed better when their mother is reclining or lying in bed.If your baby is a “spitter” or suddenly stops feeding and cries, there may be some acid reflux. Try holding her in your arms in an upright position.
 Using one breast during feeding or the breast your baby prefers will lead to less fussiness and better feeding.During a feeding on only one breast, the breast milk becomes more calorie dense for your baby.


If your baby is feeding well, there’s no reason to stop a feeding session to switch breasts. But if your baby is still hungry after finishing on one breast, use the other breast.Your breasts may become a bit lopsided if your baby is only feeding on one breast. This is usually much more noticeable to mothers than to others. If this is bothersome to you, pump the lopsided breast after feeding is complete.
 Do this if your baby is prone to gassiness or if they tend to spit up. There are several effective positions you can use to burp your baby. If one doesn’t work, try another one until you find a position your baby likes.Hold her facing you and against your chest with her chin resting on your shoulder.
Sit her on your lap, facing you.
Lay her on your lap, belly down.
No matter which position your baby prefers, gently pat or rub their back to help them burp.
 Colicky babies don’t just cry during feedings. Swaddling your baby will calm them down, regardless of whether they are breast or formula fed., This will help to relax and calm her down. However, only position a baby on their backs when you them put to sleep.
 More “face time” like singing or speaking to her while you hold her will comfort her.
 The rocking motion will be similar to the gentle motion of being in your uterus before birth.
 Many babies will calm down by sucking on their pacifier.
 Some mothers find this soothing for their baby. Be sure to use warm water from the tap. Never use boiling water or heat the water in a microwave.


The water should feel comfortably warm on your skin, with a temperature of no more than 102 °F (39 °C).
 As long as your doctor confirms that your baby is growing normally and is healthy, your baby’s colic should disappear by the time they are 5 months old.


If none of these techniques may be working, there is still a light at the end of the tunnel!

, Babies usually become colic after two weeks old, and will cry at least three hours a day, three days a week or more, and for more than three weeks, displaying the “3 rules of 3”., These include infections like an ear or urinary tract infection, gastroesophageal (“acid”) reflux, intussusception (telescoping of one piece of the intestine into another) and other intestinal problems, physical injury, and an accidentally scratched eye.
 These symptoms are not from colic and could indicate a serious issue or infection.

