 When playing FFXIV, you have a few options in terms of character creation. If you played the first version of the game, released in 2010, you can import your characters from that game. This gives you the bonus of being able to retain the inventory and skills you had, while still allowing you to change everything about your character's race, appearance, name, etc. If you did not play the original version of the game, you can create a new character.;
, Gender does not have any effect on your abilities or stats, so choose whatever you like! You can choose from a variety of races, each with their own unique look. The races do impact your stats. However, the impact is so minimal and only impacts the initial stats, so you should still choose whatever you like best.


The available races include the Hyur (humans), Elezen (elves), Lalafell (token tiny race), Miqo’te (cat people), Roegadyn (big brutes).
You can also choose a clan, which will further impact your stats. However, similar to the overall race, the impact of the choice in the long term is not enough to take into consideration.
 After choosing your race and gender, you may want to adjust your appearance as well. You can choose a random or default appearance, or you can change everything from eye color (you can have two!) to your hair style.
 Your guardian will determine your elemental resistances, which are shown on-screen for each guardian. This can be especially useful for those who rely on magic.
 Your class will determine a lot about how your game will start out. Class affects what weapon you use, what role you play in battles, and the abilities you will have. It even plays a role in what clothing or armor you will have access to as the game progresses. The classes that you will immediately have access to are the warrior and mage classes. As you reach higher levels, more classes will become available, as will jobs (available at level 30, allow access to more abilities, limit access to cross-class abilities).


Disciples of War (physical attack) classes include Gladiators (who later become Paladins), Pugilists (who later become Monks), Marauders (who later become Warriors), Lancers (who later become Dragoons), and Archers (who later become Bards).
Disciples of Magic (magical attack) classes include Conjurers (who later become White Mages), Thaumaturges (later Black Mages), and Arcanists (who later become Summoners or Scholars).
Once you reach level 10, you will be given your class quest. After this point, you will have the ability to switch to a Disciples of the Hand or Disciples of the Land class, stay with your current class, or switch to one of the other starting classes. Disciples of the Hand and Land are the crafting classes and can give you and your friends access to useful, high-level items.
It is important to note that your class determines which city you start the game in. Though you will eventually have access to the rest of the world, your starting city will be where you become acquainted with the game.

