 If you're only tying your hands, you won't need more than two or three feet of rope. You may find that thin, smooth ropes—even string or twine—are the easiest to work with. If you don't already have rope, you should be able to find something suitable at a hardware store.


Cut the rope to the length that you need. Rope and twine are generally sold in increments much larger than what you'll need to tie yourself up, and you'll be able to do a cleaner job if you buy them cut to size.
If you don't want the rope to chafe your wrists, consider using a thin, smooth rope. The thicker and rougher the rope, the more you risk hurting your wrists. Some people are allergic to nylon, so make sure that the rope won't irritate your skin.;
, Wrap the rope around each of your wrists, and leave the ends of the rope free so that you can make a knot. Be sure to cinch or knot the rope between your wrists so that you can't wriggle free. Imagine that you are using the rope to make a pair of handcuffs: your hands should be tied into separate "cuffs," not one single, easy-to-slip-out-of wrap. When your wrists are wrapped up, tie a square knot, make a double-tied bow, or use another simple, sturdy knot.


Your left palm should be facing down. You should see the rope crossed just beneath your left palm. Place your right palm against the palm of your left hand so that your wrists line up.
 If your hands are tied behind your back, it may look more like someone else tied you up. Once you have tied your hands in front of you, bring your bound hands low enough that you can step over them. Lift your legs over the knot so that your hands are bound behind your back.


Some people find it easier to tie their hands together when their wrists are already behind their back. Try clasping your wrists behind your back, then attempting to tie the same knot that you would tie with forward-facing hands. Consider using a mirror so that you can see yourself tying the knot.
To bring your hands back to the front of your body. To do this, simply bend down, holding your bound hands as low as they will go, and step backward over the knot. You may find it easier to escape from the knot if your hands are in front of you.
 Tie your wrists together as normal, but also loop the rope around a pole, chair, or bedpost. It may be difficult to tie each wrist separately without someone else's help. You can, however, tie your legs to separate fixtures, then bundle your hands together.

