 It can be difficult sometimes to find inspiration for lifestyle choices or for clothing, so here's a list of Instagram users to borrow some ideas from.


@tathariel@saeth_snowbane@nilenia@meldawen@elverynel@thevikingqueen;
, Elves are known for their grace and elegance, often being seen as cold where they're actually just calm. Remember: fighting is never a solution, it is always a problem.


Sincere: Elves are honest when required to be and always mean what they say. They aren't known to spread gossip or rumors about anyone/thing. When hearing rumors about someone or foul gossip, try to ignore it; or at least try not to tell anyone about it.
Calm: Usually found playing gentle music or reading under a tree, an Elf isn't one to run wildly around screaming at the top of their lungs for amusement. A suggested activity is finding a comfortable spot somewhere quiet and do some sketching or read your favourite book.
Brave: Don't be afraid to have an opinion and stand behind it when questioned, don't allow others to intimidate you. Be careful, however, not to come off as aggressive or hostile without provocation. Stand up for others when they're in need and always try to be a guardian for wildlife where possible.
Strong-willed: If you make a decision or a commitment, stand by it. Don't waver if the path ahead seems difficult in certain situations. Take it as a challenge and face it head on.
Independent: Elves aren't the type to yearn for constant attention. They often prefer their own company, or the company of those they trust. Try to find ways to entertain yourself when you're alone as to not dislike your own company.
Polite: Always treat those around you with respect where respect is due. Those older than you, teachers and other authority figures should always be treated properly. However, try not to be a pushover. If you're not being treated with respect then you should let those being disrespectful know what they're doing wrong.
 Elves act in a certain way. This is important because it defines their very culture.


Quiet: Elves are known for their low noise-level. This includes quiet gatherings, walking almost silently where possible, keeping the voice at a comfortable but not overly loud tone and carrying out activities with peace.
Posture: If it's possible, try to sit straight with your shoulders back and breathe with your stomach and not your shoulders Traveling: When walking, Elves walk with a purpose. This means knowing where you're going, or at least why you're walking. Walk with your chin up and your shoulders back; this gives you an air of confidence and authority.
Meddling: Elves don't interfere with the affairs of others. This means not being involved with school-related drama, friend drama and situations of the like. When giving advice, don't take sides and give advice lightly. "Elves seldom give un-guarded advice, for advice is a dangerous gift, even from the wise to the wise, and all courses may run ill." - Gildor Inglorion, The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring by J.R.R. Tolkien , The tongue of the Elves can be a gentle and soft one when spoken in a form, or harsh and cutting in another. You have the option of speaking your regular language or Elvish.There are many types of elvish but the two main types you can learn are Sindarin and Quenya . There are many guides on the internet to learning those languages.If you choose to speak your native language, there are a few points to remember.


Speak slowly and with purpose; anything worth saying is said slowly and clearly
Do not swear! Swearing is both unintelligent and rude. If you're angry, there are much better ways of expressing it vocally over swearing. Although Elves do try not to become angry with others, if it's impossible to remain calm and you feel the need to express your emotion, try to learn Elvish insults to hurl at your antagonist. Not only will it confuse them, but you'll be insulting them in hilarious ways without even swearing.
Some Elves speak with a melody whereas others speak with confidence. Choose the way you want to speak based around how you feel as an Elf.
 Elves revere nature and wildlife above all and do their best to work with nature as often as they can. It is not required for you to become a vegetarian to be an Elf, as long as you are sure that the meat you're eating was killed and prepared in the most humane and animal-friendly way possible.


Be respectful and aware of nature; this can be done through going on regular walks through nature trails, learning about different animals and making your environment available to them or through having plants and animals in your house. Above all, always treat them with respect!
Recycle where you can. This helps the Earth and the environment and will benefit our future generations.
Try to live an eco-friendly life; you can find out how by researching different topics right here on wikiHow!
Find an interest in music and culture, whether it be through learning to play an instrument, visiting art galleries and museums or listening to music. There's no wrong way to do it!
Athletics. Elves are well known for their athletic abilities. Not everyone has a strong passion for sports and athletics. Those who do can embrace that and learn gymnastics, archery, running, sword-fighting, martial arts, etc.For those who aren't so keen, you can go on regular walks to nice places, do yoga to increase your flexibility and reflexes as well as smaller things like hula-hooping, skipping, etc.
Intelligence. Try to learn facts on many subjects. Elves are very knowledgable and wise, often learning different languages or fun facts. Take some time to read interesting non-fiction books or learn something new.
Be peaceful. Don't start fights, don't be rude, don't litter and don't make a fool of yourself through drinking and drugs.
 There are many colours you can wear for different reasons.


Wood Elves should focus their attention of golds, browns, oranges and dark greens. This helps to blend into your surroundings as well as reflect your origins.
For more elegant elves, the focus should be on cold colours such as silver, white, light grey and light blue.
Those feeling a little sneakier and darker should focus on dark browns, dark greens and dark blues. Try to stay altogether away from black colours as they're rather harsh.
 This can be a nice touch to any Elf's outfit, if done correctly.


Those focusing on elegance and grace should focus on silver trinkets. A prime example is the Evenstar necklace from The Lord of the Rings. Other pieces can include silver rings with crystals in/on them, silver headpieces (hair chains, circlets, headbands), silver bangles, arm cuffs and silver earrings.
The more adventurous Elves should wear more earthy pieces. A suggested material is wood with a black fabric 'chain'. The pieces the adventurers should focus on are wooden pendants featuring leaves, animals, symbols or anything else that just feels right. Wooden bracelets are a good addition as are dark green earrings and cuffs. Try to wear less jewelry with these styles as they wouldn't be very convenient in an adventure!
Gold colours go well with darker tones. Brunette's and darker-skinned Elves very much suit golden colours. Gold is a very noble colour but can also be put in with lesser adventurers and explorers.
 Elven hair need not be long and straight! Here are some different styles to try:


Braided/Plaited: You can never go wrong with braided hair. Whether it be one large braid or many smaller braids in a larger hairstyle, it always works.
Down: If you have shoulder-length hair or longer, having your hair down can look wonderful. Try to keep your hair healthy by staying away from heat . If you do use heat, protect your hair accordingly beforehand.If you choose to keep your hair down, you could pull your fringe and the side of your hair behind into a plait and have two parts of your hair coming forward over your shoulder with the rest down your back.
Short: Short hair can look just as good. Try to style it in a pixie/faerie like manner. Add some hair accessories such as flowers, leaves or intricate patterns.
 This is a little more personal and requires more of your own ideas rather than a guide. Here are a few outfit suggestions to start you off:


A forest-green or olive-green shirt over coffee-coloured jeans/leggings with a large coffee-coloured corset-style belt over the shirt. Add some ankle/calf high boots with small or flat heels for an adventurous look. For warmth in the colder months, add a dark green/brown hoodie or even a cloak.
A long, white chiffon dress with angel-sleeves and a tighter waist coupled with flat silver shoes or small heels and a white throw-over for the elegant look. For extra warmth in the winter, add warm leggings underneath the dress and replace the shawl with a knitted cardigan.
A green/brown tabard, dress or tunic with leggings and sensible boots. Add a belt with a large viking/celtic styled buckle and some bracers for a warrior look.

