 Look at what you're capable of and what you want to achieve when you buy cattle. Are you ready to take on the responsibilities of a seedstock/purebred breeder? Or would you rather start on the easy route that involves buying cows to sell calves at the end of every year?



Purebred or Seedstock cow-calf operations involve starting with and ending with superior parent stock in order to sell top-quality bulls and heifers that other producers want or need for their herds. Knowledge in genetics, EPDs (expected progeny differences), conformation, marketing, financing, record keeping, among other things, is crucial if you want to have a purebred operation. With these types of operations, you get to choose your favorite breed and improve on it and use it as a selling point to other breeders.

Commercial cow-calf operations involve starting with average to good parent stock that can be purebred, straight-bred or crossbred in order to produce calves that are sold to the beef market. You're not doing nearly as much marketing, campaigning and record keeping as purebred breeders are, but you've still got to sell your calves and keep track of your herd's progress. With commercial operations, you can start with any breed or crossbred you like, with the outcome to produce calves, with good weaning or yearling weights, to be sold to the beef market.;
, Where you live, your climate, seasons, terrain, and vegetation zone are primary factors that will affect your decisions on choosing what cows you want. Some things to consider include:


Look for cows that are low maintenance, maintain good condition on forage alone, have very little to no calving problems, good conformation (udder and feet most important), good temperament, and have good mothering ability.
Choose cows that will do well in your climate and on the kind of vegetation you will have them on; they have to not just survive, but to thrive. Also choose your breeds on what your personal preferences are, what local markets are looking for, coat colour, horns/polled, etc.
 A purebred breeder may be the best place to start for any beginner cattle-person.


Find a breeder that has been in the business for at least 20 years, and one that reflects how you're going to care for and raise your cattle.
 Ask if you can come over to look at his or her cows and other animals for sale, and take pictures of them. Study them later in the comfort of your home, to see how the animals match up as far as conformation and body condition is concerned.
 Ask questions about health history, what and how they've been fed over the years, how they've been raised, average weight of the cows, weaning weight of the calves, breeding, EPDs, and so forth. Make a list of questions to ask before you go over there so you don't forget anything you "should have" or "could have" asked. Check off each question as you get an answer, so that you're sure you've covered all you wanted to know.
 Study all the pictures you took as thoroughly as you can, and read and answer all the questions that you remember you asked the breeder. Maybe log on to one of the cattle forums on the web like Cattle Today, Ranchers,Backyardherds, or HomesteadingToday, or any other one you come across (the original author this article highly recommends going to first, to get other cattlefolk's opinions on the quality and kind of cows you are getting.
 Contact the seller to let them know if you're wanting to bring them home, or if you've decided to go look somewhere else. Naturally, be polite about it. If you decided those are what you're looking for, great! Welcome to the world of raising cattle! If not, then keep looking, as you will eventually come across the ones you want. Good luck with your purchase and future herd!

