 Cut some pita bread into eight triangles. Stick a thin pretzel rod into the middle of the round edge of each pita bread slice. The pretzel rod will be like the trunk of your holiday tree.Spread some guacamole over the surface of the pita bread to give it a tree-like green appearance.
Ask an adult to finely dice some red and green pepper into small bits, then sprinkle them across the surface of the holiday tree.
The diced peppers are designed to look like ornaments or tree lights.
 One of the best healthy snacks for Halloween is the banana (or “boo-nana”) ghost. Peel a banana and cut it carefully in half on a plate. Place a lollipop stick halfway into the flat end of each banana half. Press two chocolate chips into the upward-facing side of the banana about half an inch (one centimeter) from the top point of the banana. The chips represent eyes, and so should be quite close to each other, and make a straight side-to-side line relative to the pointy end of the banana (which represents the ghost’s head).Pick the banana ghost up by the lollipop stick and snack away.
Be careful to eat the ghost over a plate, since it might slide off the stick as you eat.
 Ask an adult to slice and core an apple with an apple slicer. (You need 16 even slices, but most apple slicers only slice apples into eight slices.) Discard the core and then ask the adult to slice each apple wedge lengthwise down its middle.If you don’t have an apple slicer, they can cut the apple into eight even slices, then cut the innermost edge of the apple out so that no seeds or core remains on the slices.
Next, get started on the apple dip. Mix 1 cup of plain yogurt, 1 tablespoon of honey, and 1 tablespoon of peanut butter in a bowl. Spoon some of the mixture into a small dipping cup. Place the dipping cup in the center of a plate.
Arrange your apple slices around the dipping cup in a semicircle beginning from the left side of the cup and arcing up and over to the right side of the dipping cup. The apple slices should be placed on their edges, not on their flat sides. Alternate the edges so that when viewed from above, every other apple slice shows red skin, and the others show the whitish apple flesh. These slices represent the turkey’s feathers.
The dipping cup makes the turkey’s head and body, so stick two chocolate chips in the upper section of the peanut butter dip to represent the turkey’s eyes. The chips should be placed in a symmetrical position along an imaginary horizontal (side-to-side) line.
Place a candy corn just below the chocolate chips with the point facing down. This represents the turkey’s beak.
Begin eating the apple slices and dipping them in the peanut butter dip.
 Apple race cars are healthy snacks that require apple slices, grapes, and toothpicks. Cut an apple into five or six wedges by slicing it vertically. Cut the angle off of the apple wedge by cutting straight down along a vertical axis from a point about one centimeter (half an inch) behind the angle. Place the apple on a plate or cutting board with the skin side up. The apple slice will be able to stand on its own without tipping over.Push two toothpicks through the base of the apple slice. An equal length of toothpick should stick out on both sides of the apple slice.
The toothpicks should be about three centimeters (two inches) apart and about as high off the surface of the plate as the width of your pinkie finger would be if you laid it on the plate next to the apple wedge.
Stick a grape on each length of toothpick that’s sticking out of the apple slice.
Enjoy your apple race car. Eat the grapes first, then remove the toothpicks and eat the apple slice.
Be careful not to prick your hand when touching the toothpick.

