 You should always do things that you said you would do. Keeping promises shows that you are trustworthy and dependable. If something has come up that prevents you from fulfilling your promise, call and explain the situation.


Remember to show up for events that you signed up for.
Be punctual. Arrive at places at the time you said you would.
Show up to help out if you said that you could.
 No matter what you feel about other people, learn to keep these thoughts to yourself. It is never polite to gossip or insult others, even if they are not around to hear it. If someone has insulted you, try not to do the same to them. Take the high road by ignoring the behavior.


Avoid correcting or criticizing others, especially people you do not know or are not close to. They may find this insulting.It is fine to vent about people now and then. Choose a trusted friend who will not gossip, or tell a family member about what is bothering you. Limit yourself to one or two people whom you trust with your secrets.
 If someone has wronged you, it is good to forgive them. By holding a grudge, you will only lengthen your pain. If they apologize, tell them that you forgive them. If they don’t apologize, learn to let go of the grief by forgiving them in your heart.


Wait until someone apologizes before you tell them that you forgive them. Try to understand their position. You can say something like "I understand where you are coming from. I want you to know that I forgive you, and I don't hold anything against you."

, This doesn't mean you can't express emotion or be upset. Don't immediately react to things — if someone has made you angry, don't explode and tear into him. Take a deep breath and try to choose your words carefully. Be mindful of your tone and the volume of your voice. Try not to take insults or slights personally — if someone is being rude, that's his problem, not yours, and don't allow yourself to be manipulated to stooping to his level.


If you feel that you are too angry or upset to continue the conversation, it's okay to say something like, "I can't have this conversation with you right now. I'm going to take a walk and we can resume this when we've both cooled down."

, Maturity and elegance do not mean that you let others walk all over you. You are not expected to do everything asked of you, and you can learn to say no in a polite but firm manner. You can start with an apology before explaining why you cannot do something.


If you cannot help someone, you can say, “I’m so sorry, but I’m unable to help you with that. Let me know if there is anything I can do in the future.”
If you can’t accept an invitation, you can say, “I’m sorry that I am missing the event. I would have loved to come, but I am busy that day.”
If you are uncomfortable with the request, politely decline and say, “I don’t think it’s a right fit for me” or “I’m not sure that I’m the best person for that task.”

, Everyone makes mistakes. Maybe you forgot to show up for a friend's birthday party, or maybe you insulted someone. Learn how to apologize. While it may be difficult to acknowledge that you were wrong, it is best to get over your pride. If possible, try to meet with them face to face to express how sorry you are. A phone call or written card are also nice ways to say sorry.Be sincere in your apology. A simple “I’m sorry” will work if you have nothing else to say.
You can say something like, "I understand why you're angry. I want you to know how sorry I am. Please let me know how I can make it up to you."
Do not make excuses, although you can offer an explanation if you think there was a misunderstanding.
 If something bad has happened to another person, tell them how sorry you are. Offer to help in any way that you can.


You can say, “I’m so sorry to hear that. My thoughts are with you and your family. Please let me know if there is anything I can do. I am here for you, even if you just need someone to talk to.”You may want to bring flowers to a funeral or donate money to a cause in the deceased's name.
If someone is in the hospital, take time to visit them.
Send a card to them afterwards to let them know that you are thinking of them.

