 Phenobarbital is an anti-convulsant medications that works by decreasing neural excitability and raising the motor cortex's threshold for stimulation. This means that the focal seizures are not triggered as easily. Phenobarbital is a very effective treatment, as it is rapidly absorbed across the stomach lining and quickly gets into the blood stream.;
, It takes repeated doses for the levels of phenobarbital in the blood to stabilize. However, the levels should stabilize after 1 to 2 weeks of the treatment. The starting dose is 2-3mg/kg every 12 hours (or twice per day).


For example, an average starting dose for a 30kg Labrador is one 60mg tablet by mouth, every 12 hours.
Each dose needs to be given as close to the twelve hour mark as possible because some dogs are sensitive to even a slight fall in the levels of phenobarbital in the blood. This means that they become far more likely to experience a seizure after the 12 hour mark.
 A dog who has been given phenobarbital for the first time will show symptoms including drowsiness, wobbliness, and increased thirst and appetite.


The sedation and unsteady gait will usually resolve themselves within 7 days, but the thirst and appetite are permanent whilst on treatment.
The phenobarbital can also cause prolonged hind-end weakness and so it can be difficult for him to keep his balance whilst going to the toilet.
 To help your dog in the early stages of treatment when he feels drowsy, it helps to leave his water bowl within easy reach. This allows him to stay hydrated if he feels too wobbly to get up and drink.


A sling made out of a bath towel and passed under his tummy will allow you to easily support the dog's weight, so you can help him to manoeuvre around the place without losing his footing.
Be prepared to let the dog rest, and do not expect him to be able to keep up on long walks in the early days of therapy.
In the first few days, phenobarbital will make him clumsy and he is more likely to stumble and fall. With this in mind, put a barrier across the stairs so that he can't risk a fall.
 Phenobarbital needs to be broken down by the liver, so it should not be given to dogs with liver disease. If the liver is not functioning normally, it is more vulnerable to toxic damage from phenobarbital.


The liver produces enzymes necessary to break the phenobarbital into harmless metabolites. If the liver cannot do this, the levels of phenobarbital can become toxic.

