 This should include your airfare, car rental (if renting a car), hotel reservations and wealth of other choices for both the adults and children in your family.;
, Bring clothes that are meant for warmer weather, even in the Winter months. Pack enough clothes for both the kids and the relatives that are traveling with the child.
 Recognize some of the ideas that draw kids ecstatic upon the knowledge of going to Orlando (Florida).
 Depending on the kid's tastes, they can either be into theme parks and fun or into not so much fun and more education. Between zoos and the wealth of libraries that present education to the child, to the wealth of more fun and educational places, to the few (non-Disney/Universal places), there's actually a wealth of stuff to do with the kids just in Orlando alone.
 Between a few days at the Magic Kingdom and Disney's Animal Kingdom to Epcot and Disney's Hollywood Studios, almost all kids' eyes will light up when you say that you can take them there. Plan at the bare minimum 1 day at each of the parks, and make sure that one of those parks is the Magic Kingdom park.
 With so much live-action animal attractions, this should be another spot you can take in on a kids trip to Orlando.
, Plan at least one day at Islands of Adventure where a whimsical land called Seuss Landing, and Toon Lagoon even has a few attractions that inspires the kids everywhere you are. Look for a few attractions in Universal Studios across the walkway to offer a few attractions that are kid-friendly (such as the Animal Actor's Stage and a few others around the park).
 With the wealth of other museums in Orlando, what better places to visit than museums. But be careful as some museums are not very kid-friendly. One of the great choices lays just at the corner of the Orlando, FL border at WonderWorks on International Drive. This whimsical-looking museum (as seen from the outside) will have your kids wondering if it will fall over once you get inside. Until later, they realize that it won't, all pointing to the fact that they've learned a little science.


WonderWorks is so close to the border, its literal neighbor has a Kissimmee, FL address, and it has an Orlando, FL address.






Look for other awesome exhibit places on International Drive in Orlando, to exist. For those chocolate lovers, browse through the World of Chocolate Museum.
Take a stroll through the Ripley's Believe it Or Not Museum.






Learn about the Titanic. Near Orlando, there's a museum that's completely devoted to the Titanic.







