 All children need to be guided into areas where they can succeed in order to feel proud and productive. Each kid is different, but you can find areas where the succeed easily-- what do they love to do? where have they impressed you? what things are they personally proud of?


If a child is good at math and numbers, but struggles with English and writing, can you bridge the gap with non-fiction? Find books that speak to their interests to make reading easier.
How can you lessen the burden of difficult areas? For example, say a kid loves to run and explore outside but struggles with densely packed areas? Can you go hiking instead of to the community playground?, Autistic children, in general, react well to set schedules. When determining homework time, relaxation, and meals or snack breaks, a routine will benefit both you and the child. If the child is old enough, provide a watch and physical copy of the schedule, which gives them concrete windows of time to work through.


Visual schedules, like those with pictures attached or apps like First-Then Visual Schedule, are often helpful.Announce changes of schedule 5 to 10 minutes before they happen, especially early on. Don't spring changes suddenly on the child.
Missing times or breaking the routine without warning can cause anxiety., Positive reinforcement is key for all children, and those on the spectrum are no different. While you don't need to throw a party for every success, you should take note and praise children for their accomplishments. This is especially important when a child does something that they struggle with, such as sitting through a long, arduous test or giving a presentation to the class.


"That didn't look easy, but you did an amazing job!"
"I know you don't prefer to do that, but I'm very proud of you for doing it anyway!"
A kid may struggle to speak in front of people and lose track of their ideas when talking. But you can celebrate the courage needed to stand up and talk in the first place.
 Having people that they can depend on will help bring out their best selves and protect them from outbursts or issues. This team starts at home, and parents and siblings should research or read books on autism and supporting autistic family members. But the team should grow beyond the home, considering people like:


School principals and guidance counselors
Speech pathologists
Physical/occupational therapists
Autism specialists
Dedicated aides or teaching assistants., A lot of the struggle with autism comes from believing that something is "wrong." But autistic children see the world differently, not deficiently. Learning to cope with these differences is key to helping encourage children to be the best they can be. By eliminating the "disease" from the equation you prevent kids from feeling broken or sick, making them feel more capable of success.


Even a simple "we're very proud of you for _____," or "you did a great job on that!" will go a long way.
Try not to excuse or apologize for a child's behavior. Even if people don't quite understand what's happening, don't put a child down to make others feel better. Instead of "that was bad!" aim for "how can we do that differently next time?"