 A quick search engine query for "free Spanish language" should bring up literally dozens of relevant results — in this section, we'll discuss some of the most popular, highest-quality options. For example, the Fluencia program from Spanishdict.com is a great resource for both beginners looking to learn Spanish basics and more experienced speakers looking for a refresher. Fluencia customizes its lessons based on the user's level of experience, making it a very versatile tool.In addition, the main Spanishdict.com website provides one of the best, easiest-to-use Spanish-English dictionaries available online, making this a great site to bookmark for quick fixes.;
, Another Spanish language resource that's gotten plenty of online press recently for its effectiveness and ease-of-use is Duolingo. Duolingo allows users to start from the absolute basics or take a placement test to determine how well they know the language, making it a good choice for people at every level of Spanish profficiency.One of the best things about Duolingo is that it uses a game-like experience points system. Completing exercises and answering questions earns you points. As you accumulate points, you'll eventually gain "levels" that correspond to your proficiency in the language you're learning.
 The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) may not be the first organization most people associate with Spanish education, but its Spanish lesson program is no slouch. With lessons for Spanish-learners at every level and options to learn Spanish through Facebook and play Spanish games like crosswords, there is a wealth of resources available via this route. A downside of the BBC's Spanish program, however, is that it is no longer being updated.One great feature of the BBC's lesson program is called Mi Vida Loca ("My Crazy Life.") This interactive story allows you to participate in an interactive story over 12 weeks, learning Spanish vocabulary and grammar as you go., Unlike the other options in this section, Veintemundos allows users to learn Spanish skills while simultaneously learning about the actual Spanish-speaking world. In addition to a wide variety of lessons, Veintemundo offers news, travel articles, human interest stories, and investigative pieces written for people with sub-fluent Spanish knowledge. These written pieces come with the option to listen to an audio recording of the text so that users can follow along., For many, learning to correctly conjugate Spanish verbs in every tense can prove to be a major difficulty — even the single most difficult thing about learning Spanish. Getting a grip on Spanish verbs is easiest when practicing with online quiz programs like Spaleon. Spaleon allows you to quiz yourself on Spanish verbs in every tense, including irregular verb constructions.The site also offers a Spanish conjugator — simply type in the infinitive form of any Spanish verb, and it will automatically conjugate it into every form of the verb (with irregular forms conveniently highlighted in red.)

, There are an enormous variety of other free lessons and Spanish-learning tools available online, so don't be afraid to branch out and try something not mentioned in this section. Below are just a few more online tools to help you learn Spanish — there are many more besides even these.


Memrise
Wordreference.com
Quizlet
Skype Language Learning Forums (see below)
Mango

