 Cut the embroidery floss or craft thread about 60–65 inches (152.4–165.1 cm) for each color depending on your wrist size. You'll need at least six strands of string (two strands of three colors), but you can use any even number of strands.


The more strings you use, the more complex your color arrangements will be and the wider the width of your bracelet.
Use whatever colors you want; just make sure that you have two strands of each single color that you choose.;
, Tie a knot at the end of the strands of string and secure it in any number of ways to make it easier to hold steady while you finish the bracelet.


You can clip it to your clipboard, safety pin it to your pants or a pillow, or tape it to your work surface. You can also use a binder clip with a binder or book. Alternatively, you can just tie it to a drawer handle.
 Using the thread, make a mirror-image pattern so that the two outside strands are the same color and so on going inwards.


Pretend there is an imaginary line in the middle and create the same color pattern with the string on both sides of the line.
 Starting with the outer-right string, tie a right knot twice on the adjacent string (the second from the right).









To tie a right knot, make a ninety degree angle with the tying string over the top of the string you are tying it to. Then loop the tying string underneath the other string and pull tight.
Note: Remember to make two knots on each string.
Once you have knotted the outer right string to the one next to it, do the same to the next string closer to the middle. Continue this process until you've reached the middle.
Note: The string you began tying with (the outermost right string) should now be in the middle.
 From the left side, tie left knots with the outer-left strand until you reach the middle.









To tie a left knot, do the same as the right knot but reversed. Make a ninety degree angle with the tying string over the top of the string you are tying it to and loop the tying string under the other string and pull it tight.
 Tie a left or right knot (doesn't matter) with the two middle strands to connect the two sides (be sure to tie the knot twice).









Note: If you have done everything correctly up to this point, the strands you are tying together in the middle will be the same color and you will begin to see the V-pattern emerge.
 Repeat steps 4, 5, and 6 until you reach the desired length, always starting with the outermost strands on each side. These strands should always be the same color.
 Tie a knot at the end of the pattern and use the excess string to tie the bracelet onto your wrist or the wrist of a friend.


Alternatively, you can create a button-loop closure for the bracelet. Attach a button to one side by pulling any two strands through the holes in the button. Then, tie the strands together and cut off the excess of all strands (even the ones not used for the button). On the other end of the bracelet, there should already be a loop that exists between the knot at the end and the place where the knots begin. Pull the button through the loop once you have finished all the steps.

