 It's more than likely you will never meet your celebrity crush, and even if you do, it's also likely he (or she) won't take an interest in as you are just another fan to them. But, why would you set yourself on someone who doesn't value fans as real human beings? Don't you want to be with someone who wants to get to know you intimately?;
, Are you applying characteristics to your crush without knowing whether or not they actually have them? Though a person's career may be interesting, that doesn't necessarily make the person interesting. It's likely that, besides their work, your crush is just like anyone else walking down the street. They may be polite and funny, but they may also be boring, a snob or slob, greedy, or have many other faults that they just don't show in public.
 Take down all posters, don't see a movie they are in or listen to a song they sing, and don't daydream or talk about them with others. Immerse yourself in something else that is pleasurable but healthy. Until you either get over your crush or appreciate their work but not be obsessed with them, take them out of your life.
 You may think that you could never get sick of your crush, but you're more than likely wrong. Once you see the same movie, listen to the same song, or watch the same interview so many times, you'll just be tired of it. Soon, you'll realize how silly it was to have obsessed over a trivial person. This doesn't mean you can't appreciate their work or talent, but you certainly don't have to make them the center of your attention at all times.
 See how much more you admire someone who you already know or are getting to know closely then a celebrity who is constantly traveling, working, and doesn't have much time to chit-chat. If someone who is in your immediate life wants to spend time with you, take the opportunity to distance yourself from your celebrity crush.
 Of course you can comment on how handsome or beautiful a celebrity is, but once you start disliking or even hating their girl(boy)friend or spouse or want to have a relationship with them while they're taken, don't take it too far. It's obviously inappropriate - how do you know that it would benefit you or your celebrity crush more if you were in a relationship with them? If your celebrity is taken, know that they probably found someone right for them, and be happy that your celebrity crush is happy in their relationship.
 Hope that they may find some peace and happiness, but don't jump in thinking that it's now your turn to snatch them.

