 This will be the length of your gloves. If you want shorter gloves, cast on fewer stitches. If you want longer gloves, cast on more stitches. Be sure to leave a long tail.Number 4 yarn is also known as worsted weight yarn.
You can use a different type of yarn, but you will need to get matching knitting needles.
 In most cases, this will be about 48 rows. Make sure that you knit every row. This will give you a stretchy, purl pattern on both sides of your work. Do not alternate between knit and purl, or your glove won't stretch right.Alternatively, you can work in seed stitch. This will give you material that stretches both ways.
 Once the gloves are wide enough to wrap around your palm, cast off your stitches. Cut the yarn leaving behind a long tail. Feed the tail through the last loop/stitch, then gently tug on it to tighten the knot. Do not cut it off., Bring the cast on and cast off edges together. This is your side seam. Place your arm on top of the glove, and align your knuckles with one of the top, narrow edges. Note where the top and bottom of your thumb is., Thread the long tail onto a yarn needle. Sew the side seam down using a whip stitch until you reach the top of your thumb joint. For most people, this will be about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters)., Once the top part of your glove is long enough to your liking, tie the tail off, then weave the tail back up the seam towards the top edge. Snip off the excess yarn., Thread the long cast on tail though your yarn needle. Sew up the bottom edge of the side seam using a whip stitch. Stop when you reach the base of your thumb. You will be left with a gap in your side seam, which is the thumb hole., As before, tie the end of the tail off, then weave it back down the seam. You don't have to weave it all the way back down--a couple of inches/centimeters will be plenty. Snip the excess yarn off., This pattern is completely reversible, so you can use the exact same method for both gloves. You do not need to turn these gloves inside out either, as they will be the same on both sides.