 The easiest and most worry-free way of downloading movies is to buy them from a reputable source. There are a variety of services that will allow you to purchase movies to view on your computer or other device. Popular services include:


iTunes
Google Play
Amazon Prime
Netflix;
, Different sites will have different prices and titles available. Some services, such as Netflix, charge a monthly fee and allow you to stream whatever you’d like. Others, such as iTunes and Google Play, allow you to purchase individual title, which you can then watch on your computer or phone/tablet.


Consoles offer movie stores as well. Both Microsoft and Sony have digital stores that can be accessed through the console or through the website that allow you to purchase titles to view on the console.
 Before you get started downloading movies and throwing a popcorn-and-B-night extravaganza, you'll need to sign up for an account. Usually this involves nothing more than an email address and username.


Some companies, such as Netflix or Amazon Prime, use a subscription method.
Companies like Apple or CinemaNow (BestBuy) offer pay-as-you-go rental or purchase, and can be significantly more expensive than subscription services—especially if you love movies—but they also tend to offer more current content, and content from premium cable channels such as HBO and Showtime.
 No matter which option you choose, with thousands of movies available on each of these sites, the first thing you'll want to find is a way to narrow your options. Many sites have a genre column, so that you can quickly focus only on topics that interest you.


If you're wanting to locate particular movies or actors, there is typically a search field that you can use to find exactly what you're looking for.
 When you've found a movie to your liking, click the appropriate button. Your movie will download, and depending on the speed of your connection, you could be watching in just a few minutes!


For sites that offer options, such as Apple, you'll see both a Buy and a Rent button. Renting typically makes the movie available for 24 hours, while buying adds it to your permanent collection.
Many sites will have you stream your purchase through the dedicated movie player that they provide. This will mean that you won’t be downloading any files.
 Many services give you the option to choose between SD (Standard Definition) or HD (High Definition). If you are watching on an HD TV, you will see much better picture quality in an HD version, though it may cost more and take longer to download.
 Once you've downloaded a movie, you may be able to transfer it to your phone or tablet. If you are using an Android or iPhone/iPad, buying the movie on your respective service will automatically make it available on your device. If you downloaded an actual copy of the movie, you may need to convert it before you can transfer it to a mobile device.



This guide will show you how to transfer a downloaded video to your Android phone or tablet.

This guide will show you how to transfer a downloaded video to your iPhone or iPad.

