 International agreements and national regulations limit airline liability for the contents of lost or stolen luggage significantly. Even insurance policies typically have limits and won't cover expensive items.You also need to avoid packing items in checked baggage that is unique or untraceable. Examples include signed contracts and cash.
If at all possible, arrange to carry electronic devices such as laptops or tablets in your carry-on luggage. The same goes for expensive cameras and camera equipment.
Most airlines accept no liability for loss of these types of items, and list them explicitly as exclusions. If you're going on a trip that requires you to bring along expensive equipment, you might want to check into having it shipped to your destination.
You also want to avoid including jewelry, fragile items, and anything with sentimental value. Essentially, if you cannot afford to replace it or if it is one of a kind, don't pack it in your checked baggage.
If you have expensive or irreplaceable souvenirs that you've picked up during your travel, consider having them shipped home rather than carrying them in your luggage. You may have to pay a little more for international shipping, but the items will be insured and handled by professionals.
 Before you head to the airport, make a list of the items in your checked bags. You also can take a picture of your open suitcase on your smart phone so you'll have it with you.Make sure you keep your inventory list on your person. For example, you might keep it on your phone. An inventory list would be pointless if you packed it in the checked bag.
Review the liability limits and keep them in mind when you're packing. If you have items that you know will push the value of the total contents of your bag over the top, consider packing them in a carry on if possible.
If you have a particularly expensive or important item, such as a laptop or a camera, that you regularly take with you when you travel, you might want to take out a separate insurance policy just for that item.
 Closing your bag properly and securing the closures with a lock makes your bag less attractive to potential luggage thieves. Theft typically is a crime of convenience, and if your bag doesn't look easy to open most thieves won't bother.On the other hand, having a lock on your bag may signal to would-be thieves that your bag contains something valuable or worth stealing.
When purchasing a lock (or luggage that comes with built-in locks) make sure it's approved by the air travel security agencies in the areas where you'll be traveling.
If you use an unapproved lock, security agents may break it or the fasteners that close your bag while conducting a routine search. This would make your bag more vulnerable to theft than it was in the first place.
 When purchasing new luggage, try to find something loud and colorful. Would-be thieves typically target plain black or navy blue bags that don't have any distinctive features. This makes it harder for you to identify your bag if you happen to catch them in the act.Another reason thieves often prefer nondescript bags is that, if stopped by security, it gives them the ability to pretend the whole thing was a mistake.
They'll tell a security agent that they didn't intend to steal the bag, they just thought it was theirs because all these bags look alike.
There's something to be said about choosing the gaudiest, loudest piece of luggage you can find. It's less likely to be stolen because nobody would want to be seen with it.
In addition, you may be able to get it at a lower price, since stores often discount "ugly" bags that no one wants.
 It takes awhile after you land for bags to start rolling through the carousel. If you don't dawdle in the airport, but proceed directly to baggage claim when you get off the plane, you may get their before your bag does.While most airlines provide claim tickets for checked baggage, these tickets are seldom checked and matched with the tag on a particular suitcase unless there's a blatant issue.
Additionally, the baggage claim area typically is located very close to the airport exits, so travelers can easily leave once they get off their plane.
This relatively insecure system makes it fairly easy for someone to simply walk up and take a bag off the carousel and head out the door before they are discovered.
When you get to the baggage area, stand as close as you can to the opening where bags are placed on the carousel. If you have a bright bag that stands out, you should notice it immediately and be able to take it home before it's even exposed to a would-be thief.

