 As long as you can stay in time, and keep the band in time, you should be playing with as much energy as possible. The drums are often the engine of punk bands, and if you don't show up with a full-throttle mentality it will be hard to get the band to follow you. You want to imagine yourself pushing the band just a bit faster than they are comfortable. This delicate but energetic "on the edge" play makes punk exciting.


Push the band's tempo as high as you can without completely losing cohesion. The drummer is the entire band's metronome, and they will naturally follow your lead when setting the tempo.
Practicing with a metronome may not feel very punk, but it is an essential way to improve speed without wildly throwing your band off time., This simple beat has run behind thousands of punk songs, and can be easily adapted and improvised on if you want. Start by playing the high-hat on every beat (16th notes). Then simply alternate your kick drum and snare every other beat, creating a driving "boom-snap" sound that people can't help but jump and mosh to.


Eventually, turn the kick drum or snare into two hits per beat. Throw a tom hit in place of a snare (or along with a snare hit). This pattern is merely a dropping off point for any beat you could imagine creating., Having two feet down on the floor greatly increases the number of notes you can play on the deep, driving bass drum. While double-pedaling takes a fair amount of practice, it literally doubles the number of notes you can hit, which helps you push the energy and tempo even faster when playing live., Heading into the chorus? Signal the change with a quick run on the toms or a hard, shattering cymbal crash. While drum solos are rare in most punk songs, drum fills are often the most flashy or showy part of any punk song, and the only real stipulation is that you come back in on time. As long as you can end the fill along with the band and keep the song moving (on tempo!), then you can feel free to have some fun on the fills.


Listen to your favorite drum fills with a closer ear. While most of them sound big and flashy, they're likely playing fewer notes than you think.
 While drums are the engine of the songs, they shouldn't always be running. Dropping out of a song, or sitting back with a lighter or easier rhythm, is a great way to calm the audience before a blisteringly fast or technical section. There are endless ways to do this, but some common ones include:


Only playing the kick drum. The deep, booming bass naturally creates a dark, intense feel.
Slow drum rolls, starting from near silence and rising to a deafening roar of drums (see "All the Small Things" by Blink 18).
Using the cymbals/kick drum to keep time, puncturing the quiet every 4 beats with a snap of the snare or toms (see The Offspring "Americana").
 When writing a drum part, be sure to keep some variety within each song. This can be simple, like dropping out the cymbals in the chorus to make room for backing vocals, or a complex new part for each section of the song. The important thing to do is mix it up, creating movement through the song. Think of each part like a short story. What matters most is not technical flash but entertaining your audience. Start with a slower, more normal groove, build towards a fun and energetic climax, and then bring things to a triumphant end. It sounds overly simplistic, but this simple structure provides you endless options and ideas to make the song your own.