 As long as you pay a little attention and are sure to remove items that might be very dangerous for them (like sharp beer bottle openers), keys are a great emergency toy for a baby. You can jingle the keys in front of them and watch as they shake them around. They're also a great candidate for baby's favorite game: dropping things and making you pick them back up.


Again, you'll really need to pay attention here. Make sure baby doesn't get those keys too close to anyone's eyes (including their own)!

, Ripping scrap paper is a great game for a baby and a great way to prove that you don't need a lot of fancy toys to keep a baby entertained. Pull some old newspapers out of the recycling and show baby how to rip them. Then, let her give it a try!

, Find a box, an old coffee can, or any container which you can cut a slot into with scissors or a box cutter (only cut into the plastic lid of a coffee can). Now find items that can be fit into the slot and are safe for baby. Plastic lids from Tupperware or canned items are good. You can also fold up think paper squares or even use food items, like biscuits. Baby will be thrilled with the "thunk" sound and the fun task of getting the object into the slot.
 You don't need anything but your voice to entertain a baby if you're willing to sing some songs. Babies may not understand the words but they'll love watching you move your fingers and your hands to act out any song with a lot of energy.



Learn how to sing The Wheels on the Bus.

Learn how to sing If You're Happy and You Know It.

Learn how to sing The Itsy Bitsy Spider.
 Peek-a-Boo is such a basic that many people don't realize just how much children love this game. Your baby will scream with laughter as you hide behind your hands or other objects in the room and then pop out with a big smile.


Towels or other pieces of fabric are particularly useful for playing Peek-a-Boo.
 In a real pinch, babies love cell phones. These are entrancing. If you have nothing else, you can at least keep a baby entertained for awhile by giving them your cell phone. Just be sure to pay attention and make sure they don't drop it.


Try Peek-a-Boo Barn, Bubbles (which just lets your baby pop bubbles), or any one of a number of flashcard apps for small children.
Try sitting the baby on a soft surface on the ground. This will make it easier to keep your phone safe.

