 If you know a little historical background, you'll have a better idea what you might expect, and what first-aid supplies you should keep on hand. This game's origins are lost in the mists of time, so the stories we are left with in the twenty-first century are varied and mysterious. However, it is enlightening to understand the thoughts behind the scares, so the story's basics are outlined under "Tips".;
, Since you are reading this step, it is assumed that you have reached the point of no return and convinced everyone that this game is worth playing for a few scares and thrills. Begin by assembling the items that you will need: a candle, a bathroom with a mirror, some friends (preferably including at least one who screams well), and a cell phone: you never know what could happen!


You want to make sure you have at least one other person playing. Some people prefer having only one person go into the bathroom to increase tension in all the players. If you're playing the game this way, do not lock the bathroom door. That way, if someone wants to leave quickly, they do not freak out when they cannot open the door.
 It is sometimes suggested that you spin around three times if you see nothing. Feeling dizzy does wonders for seeing things. Always be confident.
 Have one person touch the mirror with one hand and the others hold hands, including the free hand of the person touching the mirror.
 Having water running may help call the spirit, because according to some legends, that was the last thing Bloody Mary heard before being brutally murdered.
 Chanting "Bloody Mary" thirteen times is the most popular count. The exact wording and the amount of times to speak the words can vary considerably, depending which version of the story you choose to follow. See "Tips."And follow.
 Believe that what you do or do not see is a personal, subjective experience—if that belief gives you comfort. Remember that you may or may not have control over your own mind. Who knows? What you see may just be your imagination—or it might be Bloody Mary herself!

, Once you are sufficiently terrified and quaking in your shoes, quickly leave the bathroom and breathe some fresh air. Laugh to release the nervous tension, and apply first aid to any wounds Bloody Mary may have given you. The game has had its impact and it's time to go and relax, be calm and forget about what has happened today.

