 Alternatively, you can also “like” his page and leave him a comment directly on his timeline.


Check out Mark Cuban's Facebook page at: https://www.facebook.com/markcuban

If you decide to use Facebook as an alternative to email, you would be better off sending him a private message instead of posting a public comment. Private messages are better for lengthier remarks, including idea pitches, while public comments are more suited to general remarks or quick fan mail.
 If you have a Google Plus account, you can add Mark Cuban to your circles and direct posts at him through that.


Go directly to his Google Plus page by navigating to: https://plus.google.com/106318111152683661692/

You can add Cuban to your circles, but do not expect his to add you in return. As of early January 2014, he appeared in 1,376,657 other circles but only had 156 people in his own circles.
Contacting him through Google Plus is a good option if you only have fan comments or other types of quick fan mail, but it is less practical if you hope to pitch an idea to him or enlist his help as an investor.
 He also has a regularly updated Twitter account, so if you want to send him a quick note, you can do so by directing your tweet to @mcuban.


Visit his Twitter page at: https://twitter.com/mcuban

Use this as an option for short comments and questions.
In addition to tweeting Cuban, you can also follow him to receive updates on his activity. Note, of course, that he probably won't follow you in return. As of early January 2014, he had 1,981,654 followers but only followed 963 people.
 While Cuban's Pinterest page does not receive a whole lot of love, it does get updated occasionally, and you can send him comments related to his pins as long as you have a Pinterest account of your own.


Find his Pinterest page at: https://www.pinterest.com/markcuban/

Cuban's pins generally relate to his current companies.
In addition to commenting on one of his pins, you can also make a pin advertising your own company and send that pin to Cuban through the website. Include a quick description of it in your comments as you send it so that it will have a better chance of grabbing his attention.
 Mark Cuban frequently updates his professional blog, which is full of his thoughts and bits of advice. Read through the posts and determine if you have any comments to say in response to any of them. If so, you can leave a comment on any individual entry.


Go to his blog directly at: http://blogmaverick.com/


