 This may be the first time you’re hiking or doing part of the Appalachian Trail. Gathering tips from friends or others who have hiked the path or parts of it can help you plot an optimal route for your needs and wishes. For example, it may allow you to make a detour to a cool site or great restaurant or know the best places to venture off the trail for lodging or food.


Get yourself an official guide to the Appalachian Trail. It’s always a good idea to have a trail-specific guide with you in book form. They often contain maps and tips and can be very useful if you have questions or need something and don’t have access to a computer or cell phone data.Look at online guides from different sites including the Appalachian Trail Conservancy and Trip Advisor. These sites often offer great additional tips that may not be in a book. You can also take copies of these tips with you or even photograph them with a tablet or smartphone for lighter bulk in your gear.
Ask any friends or family members who have hiked the Trail for tips. They may also have friends who can offer advice on having the best experience.;
, Before you can map your course, you’ll need to decide on how long you want to hike the Appalachian Trail. Not everyone has the time or conditioning to do the whole trail and these factors should help you decide on the appropriate length.


Do the entire length of the trail if you have 5-7 months free. In addition, you should also be in excellent physical and mental condition as a hike of this length can test the reserves of even the strongest people.Try a shorter hike if you don’t have as much time or aren’t in optimal condition. One of the great things about the Appalachian Trail is that you can do easy section hikes that range anywhere from two days to two weeks.Go for a day hike if you just want to get out an enjoy nature, don’t have a lot of time, or aren’t in the best condition. Remember, even though the Appalachian Trail isn’t Mt. Everest, a day hike will still require that you walk at a higher elevation for more than a few hours.
 Once you’ve decided on the length of your hike, you’ll need a general idea of the route you want to follow. The Appalachian Trail is a great option because it is a marked path for the entire distance and won’t require a lot of navigation skills.However, you should always have an idea of where your going and what amenities you may need on your path.


Look at the map of the trail to get a good idea of the different sections. Consulting the Appalachian Trail Conservancy and other guides can give you a good idea of the length of each section. Depending on your conditioning and experience, you can figure 7-12 miles a day. Less experienced and well-conditioned hikers should plan to hike no more than 7-8 miles per day, which will allow for time to rest and take in nature.Consider factors such as overnight stays, buying supplies, and potential emergencies when mapping your route. If you are doing a longer hike that requires overnights, plan to stay at campsites, shelters, or in bigger towns that have hotels. You’ll also need make sure you map places with water sources as well as where you can buy food and other supplies.
 Weather and other emergencies can force you to alter your plans to hike on the Appalachian Trail. Having an alternative plan for your hike can prevent mishaps and injuries as well as allow you to enjoy the trail even if conditions are optimal.


Think about the time of year you are planning to hike. The East Coast is prone to extreme changes in weather and your hike may encounter floods, mud, snow, or even insect plagues.You might consider changing the section you hike or direction of your route depending on the time of year.
Make sure your contingency plan includes what to do in case of a physical emergency such as a leg or arm break or a serious case of the flu.
 You’ll need to arrive at and depart from the Appalachian Trail. Day-hikers may arrive by car and park in a designed trail lot. But thru-hikers or multi-day hikers will need transportation to and from the trail. Arranging transportation with friends or family or even local infrastructure can help you have a more enjoyable hike.


Consult the Appalachian Trail’s interactive map to locate parking options and their proximity to trailheads.Schedule an A.T. Shuttle one to two weeks in advance of your arrival. Each section has different shuttle providers, the information for which is available at http://www.appalachiantrail.org/docs/default-source/default-document-library/at-shuttlesb175de6668ce6efcb07bff000057c13a.pdf?sfvrsn=0. Consider scheduling a shuttle at the beginning of your walk so that you can walk back to your car without being set on a rigid schedule.
Consider accessing the Appalachian Trail by rail, bus, and air services, especially if you’re going on a longer hike. You may need to schedule a shuttle in conjunction with these types of transport, but it will spare you leaving your car in one spot for a longer period of time., A good-quality backpack that is not damaged is key to having a good hike. If you have a pack or need one, it’s important to make sure that it has a volume that can fit your gear and provide you comfort.Make sure your pack size is right for your expected travel time. You can easily carry a pack of less than 40 liters (2400 cubic inches) for a day hike, one of 40-70 liters for a 2-4 day trip (2400-4200 cubic inches), and at least 70 liters (4200 cubic inches) for journeys of 5 days or longer.
Recognize that style is less important than fit when it comes to comfort. You want about 80% of your pack weight carried by your hips. Your pack should have chest and hip straps to help offset the strain of pack weight on your shoulders. Ask a professional at an outdoor store if you have questions about the best pack and fits for your body.
 Different types of pack accessories can help you organize your gear and keep it dry. Consider getting the following accessories to help you have a more comfortable hike:


Pack cover to keep your pack and gear dry if it is raining
Pack liners to keep liquids in your pack from seeping
Packing cells to let you separate and organize your gear inside the pack
Waterproof bags or containers to keep electronics and/ or clothing dry, No matter how long you plan to hike the Appalachian Trail, you’ll need to pack some food and water. You’ll be burning about 5,000 calories a day. Having even a small supply on hand can ensure that you keep your blood sugar at a stable rate and your body hydrated. In addition, it can help you survive accidents or other emergencies.Invest in a water bladder. This is the easiest and most environmentally friendly way to carry and drink water. You can get a bladder, which comes in various sizes and will fit in your pack, at an outdoor store.Get water treatment tabs to make water safe for drinking. The Appalachian Trail has different water sources along the entire path, including springs and streams. However, these are often rife with pathogens that can cause serious illness. You can get different types and flavors of water treatment tabs at outdoor stores.Pack enough food for at least two days if you are doing a day hike; a supply of 4-7 days for multi-day hikes; and more for longer sections. Aim to pack lightweight and non-bulky foods that offer high amounts of energy such as dehydrated refried beans, rice, and noodles. Include snacks that you can munch on throughout the day such as energy bars, jerky, or candy bars. You can also get powdered beverages including coffee and sports drinks.
Make sure your route plan includes stop to refuel at restaurants or local grocery stores. This will also give you a chance to get fresh fruits and vegetables, even if just for a daily treat.
Get some garbage bags in which to throw away packaging, food or other items. The Appalachian Trail has a Leave No Trace policy, which includes not leaving any trash. You can get rid of trash at designated sites or when you buy supplies.
 If you plan to cook on multi-day or thru hikes, you’ll need gear with which to cook your meals. You may have cooking gear or may need to buy some, which you can get at a local outdoor store. You should have the following items to cook any food on the Appalachian Trail:


Multi-fuel camping stove
Fuel
Matches or a lighter
Cookware including a lightweight pot, pan, and lid
Plate, mug, bowl; remember that you can always use a mug as a bowl to cut down on weight
Utensils
Dish soap and sponge, though many people just use water, The best principle for packing clothing that will keep you warm and comfortable is layering. Having clothing that you can layer will keep you warm or cool and dry. Avoid cotton items, which don’t wick moisture. Instead, try synthetic or merino wool materials. The following clothing items can help keep you comfy as you journey along the Appalachian Trail:


Base layer to wick moisture from your body or insulate you even when it’s wet outside
Middle layer like a fleece or down jacket/ sweater; sometimes called the “soft shell”
Third layer that is weather and windproof; often called the “hard shell”
Hat
Gloves
Hiking pants or shorts; legs that zip off are an excellent option
Underwear
Hiking socks and sock liners to prevent blisters
Hiking boots, If you are doing a multi-day or thru-hike, you sleep in either a tent or a shelter along the trail. Collecting your sleeping gear in advance can ensure that you stay warm and comfy at night after a long day of hiking.Consider getting all of some of the following items for comfortable sleeping:


Tent or hammock
Tent footprint or tarp to prevent tearing or holes at the base of the tent
Climate-appropriate sleeping bag
Silk sleeping bag liner for added warmth and cleanliness
Sleeping mat for comfort and keeping you warm against the ground, No matter how long you’re hiking, you could have an accident, emergency, or other problem. Pack yourself a well-stocked first aid kit to handle small injuries or deal with other accidents until emergency personnel arrive. Some items your first aid kit should include are:


Latex or nitrile gloves
CPR microshield mask
Multi-use tool or knife
Tweezers
Scissors
Thermometer
Malleable splint
Irrigation syringe to flush and clean wounds
Safety pins
Cotton swabs
Bandages and sterile dressing pads
Anti-septic towelettes
Cleansing pads with lidocaine
Antibiotic ointment
Moleskin
Sunscreen
Aloe vera gel packets
Oral rehydration salts
Pain reliever
Antihistamines
Anti-diarrheals
Paper and pencil to note symptoms and medications or aid administeredList of your medications and any health conditions such as diabetes

, By now your pack may be filled to its brim. However, if you have some extra space, you may want some additional gear to keep you comfortable during your time on the Appalachian Trail. Some items you may also want to pack are a:


Flashlight or headlamp and batteries
Compass
Whistle or signal mirror
Trowel for digging “catholes” where you can do your business
Duct tape
Repair kits for tent, cooking gear, and backpack
Biodegradable camping soap and toothpaste