 Place drop cloths on windows, affixing them with stickpins to hold them in place. Cover any places that you do not want to get dirty. Retexturing walls is a messy process, so make sure all plastic drop cloths overlap.;
, Drywall joint compound is a common contractor's tool. It is used to create the smooth finish on top of drywall. It is also a good canvas for retexturing walls. You will retexture immediately after you apply the drywall joint compound, so if you are working alone, work on 1 wall at a time.


Understand that some of the joint compound will be wiped off during the texturing process. Put on more joint compound than you expect to have on the final product.
 How you retexture your wall may largely depend on what instruments you use.


Use a small whisk broom to create the look of grass cloth on a wall. Grass cloth is a cloth that is woven from plant fibers. It resembles linen and is commonly used as wallpaper. By taking the whisk broom and gently gliding it vertically down the wall to the bottom, and then starting again at the top, you can create this cloth-like texture on your wall.
Drag a thick hair comb or paint comb vertically down the wall to create a texture of thick and even vertical lines. You can also comb in an overlapping "S" curve with the paint comb, to create a curvy, textured line.
Use a thick-bristled brush to create circles. Leaving the brush in the same position, simply turn it around in one revolution. This should create the look of a circle. Wipe the joint compound off the brush before the next revolution.
To create vertical beading on your walls, take a window squeegee and cut grooves in it that are a few inches (cm) apart, depending upon how close you would like your beads to be. Start at the top and move the squeegee vertically down the wall. Use a straight motion and a steady hand to create long straight beads, or move back and forth to create a squiggled bead.
To create a woven look, take the squeegee and draw vertical lines, then drag it horizontally to create boxes that resemble woven fabric.
To create longer textured curves, use a process called skip troweling. Take a trowel and lightly brush the wet drywall joint compound at 3 to 6 inch (8 to 15 cm) intervals. Let the compound dry and then lightly sand the next day to remove bumps.
 Apart from brushes, combs, squeegees, trowels, you can also use the following items to create a beautifully textured look:


Sponge: Blot the porous side of a sponge onto newly-applied joint compound and let the pores of the sponge create a wonderful texture.
Old rag: Blot the flat surface of an old rag against the joint compound for a similar, if less uniform, effect.
Tissue paper: Lay the tissue paper over the joint compound and depress into the compound using a clean, dry roller.
 It should take several hours for the drywall joint compound to dry. Afterwards, hit the compound with one, perhaps two, coats of paint using a coarse roller.

