 UV ray exposure is responsible for nearly all skin cancers, and also has negative effects on the lens and inner structure of your child’s eyes. Consequently, any sunglasses your toddler wears should offer protection against both types of UV rays: UVA and UVB. Only purchase sunglasses that have a clear label on the frame or lens stating that they protect against UV rays. Look for glasses that block 99–100% of these harmful rays.This is the single most important factor in determining which sunglasses will give your toddler’s eyes the most protection. Damage from UV rays accumulates over time, so it’s important that you begin protecting your child’s eyes from UV rays as early as possible.;
, Children have delicate skin surrounding their eyes, which is also susceptible to harmful UV radiation. This skin is more delicate and sun-sensitive than the corresponding skin on adults and, if possible, should be protected by sunglasses as well. Consequently, look for larger-framed sunglasses when possible; sunglasses with narrow frames will leave more sensitive skin unprotected.A wraparound style will provide the most facial protection possible by covering not only the skin immediately around the child’s eyes, but also skin near their temples.
 Polycarbonate is the preferable material for toddlers’ sunglasses for a number of reasons: it’s tough and durable, and will not break or scratch easily. This material is also lighter than other types of glass used in optometry. Unlike cheap plastic (or cheap glass) lenses, polycarbonate lenses will have an even tint as your child looks through them, and will not appear darker in some parts than others.Polycarbonate lenses contain an added benefit: the material itself is UV protective and will protect your child’s eyes from damage. These are the type of lenses that are used in regular prescription glasses, and will not have an inconsistent tint or coating.
On the other hand, glass lenses are more breakable than plastic lenses, and could easily be broken by an active toddler. If your child sees an optometrist, ask the doctor which lens material they would recommend, considering the child’s age and activity level.

