 Finding ways to help people is one of the easiest ways to form friendships. Little things, from helping people carry heavy objects, to larger gestures, such as asking someone what's wrong when they're upset, can be the basis for lasting friendships.
 If you're having difficult finding a reason to strike up a conversation, let your own talents do the talking for you. They will remember your kindness and appreciate your willingness to help.


For example, if you're technologically-minded and someone is having trouble with their computer, offer to help troubleshoot the problem.
For experienced musicians, give those who are just starting out some lessons or helpful pointers.
Talented seamstresses can help if someone has an easy-to-fix hole in their clothing.
 You can make your personality shine simply by listening to the people you talk to. Take a genuine interest in their life and ask thoughtful questions to let them know you really care. Work is a major stress on people's lives. If they're clearly dealing with work anxiety, ask them about the problem and inquire into what their work is like.
Many people often try to hold back strong negative emotions in order to socialize more easily. If someone is clearly holding back tears, allow them to vent to you and listen to their story.
Ask about a hobby, organization, or club someone is involved with. A great way to get to know someone while showing off your bubbly personality is to engage with someone about their interests even if you're completely unfamiliar with what those interests are.
 Being bubbly means approaching everyone you meet with a kind attitude, even if they're standoffish or a Negative Nancy. While the golden rule may feel a bit like a cliché, it's a standard code of ethics because it's so effective.


If someone is being nasty or insulting to you, the best defense is to simply say something like "Have a nice day," and then leave the conversation. That way you kept your bubbly, positive attitude without giving them the time to walk all over you.

Being kind to strangers is especially important. When meeting someone for the first time, find something to complement them on such as their clothing, introduce yourself to establish a connection, and after you talk a few more times consider asking them to hang out in order to get the friendship going.
It's especially important to maintain your existing friendships. Keep track of your friend's birthdays and other special dates, as well as making sure you make time to check up on them and making sure everything is going well in their lives.
 Pay attention to the social norms of the people you're speaking with. Ask yourself questions such as:


Do they stray away from curse words?
What are some of their interests that you can relate to?
Do they make crude and sarcastic jokes or prefer more cordial conversation?

, An easy way to turn a group of disconnected acquaintances into a tight-knot social circle is to introduce people you think would appreciate each other's company. A close group of friends also makes it easier to stay in touch with everyone's lives.


Group together people with common interests. If you know two different people who love the same band or genre, try introducing them to each other in order to strengthen your social circle and expand friendships.
Starting a club can be a great way to organize people you don't already know around a common interest.
Study groups are another excellent way to create a group of friends while staying academically productive. 