 Wrapping paper is a popular way to decorate a gift. However, give a little thought to the process by selecting paper that is ecologically friendly.


Choose paper that has a percentage of recycled content stated on the label.
Select papers that can be recycled. Avoid shiny metallic wrapping paper; usually this cannot be recycled.
 All you need is a roll of paper (preferably recycled paper), some non-toxic paint or ink, some stamps, and imagination. This is a great job for children, and can be a lot of fun.
 For instance, the colorful comics section of your Sunday newspaper makes great informal wrapping paper. Photocopy or print out sheet music--ideally, on a misprint--for black and white wrapping.


Just take care that newsprint cannot smudge onto the gift––test it for smudging first by running your finger across the newsprint.
 Marbleizing your own paper, for instance, can give it a very artistic touch. Painting stripes of watercolor paint can look fabulous as wrapping paper.
 Your great-grandmother would have saved wrapping paper for another occasion. Smooth it out, stack it, and use a low iron to smooth out wrinkles when possible.


Wrapping paper can be used creatively in many ways. It can be used to cover your textbooks (since your old textbook cover likely is about to off by now and your new semester is about to begin), make new cards, origami paper, and more.
 You don't necessarily need to buy "wrapping paper" to do the job! You also might find yourself in a situation where you can't go to the store and simply buy it, and have to be more resourceful.

Try brown "Kraft paper", the material that brown paper shopping bags are made from. You can get this from the grocery store, shipping supply places, or megastores.






White newsprint paper often comes in large rolls, and its white color makes it easy to decorate and excellent for large parcels..
Scrapbook, origami, or craft paper are available at craft stores. They may be expensive compared to other types, but are higher-quality, and perfect for smaller gifts.






Construction paper can be a pretty alternative to typical wrapping paper.

