 Dives are perfect for scoring off low balls. This move is usually used to score off passes or corner kicks. It’s a dramatic and powerful way to get the goal in the net., As with offensive headers, you’ll need to use your core and neck muscles to hit the ball with enough power to move it into the goal. Avoid twisting and compromising these muscles by keeping your body lined up with the goal., In order to hit the ball accurately on a dive, your jump needs to get you in position to make contact with the ball. You don’t want to miss it in the air! Make sure you’re ready to strike by bending your knees and keeping your weight on the balls of your feet., It’s important that you try to guess (as best as you can!) where the ball is going to go. This will allow you to meet it with your forehead during your dive. Since things move so fast in soccer, if you take your eyes away from the ball for even a second, you probably won’t be able to score on a dive., Launch yourself into the air in a dive that moves you forward parallel to the ground. This move should put you on the same trajectory as the ball, so you and it are moving toward each other. The dive will add power to the hit you’re about to give the ball with your forehead.Be sure to use both feet to propel yourself into the air. It’s harder to get an accurate and powerful dive when jumping off only one foot., As you approach the ball, tilt your head back and move it forward quickly to gain momentum. Hit the ball with the middle part of your forehead, using the large and flat surface for accuracy and power.As with all headed goals, make sure your eyes are open and your mouth is closed during your entire dive.
 Once you’ve headed the ball, bring your arms up to catch your body weight. Catch yourself with your arms and chest instead of your wrists. This should help you land safely and with minimal bruising.Catching too much weight on your wrists could lead to broken bones.
Diving for headers can be especially scary since you know you’re getting ready to fall down on the ground. Spend plenty of time practicing with friends to perfect landing dives safely.

