 Are you having your final musical soon? It can be hard, especially if you are in drama or music. The thought may keep running through your head that you will mess up because you will be too focused on the thought of messing up. Or is it really? Or are you sad that you will be moving away and won't see your friends all the time? It could be both. Just don't worry. Say it right now to yourself. Take a few deep breaths, and calm down. The only way not to mess up, is to practice, and focus on what you are doing. Don't get any other thoughts in your head. If you start thinking about something totally different while doing your musical, your mind will slowly drift away into space. Stay focused and stay calm. You also want to make it memorable. Be happy and do your best! Be the best you can be!;
, You also want to make your spirit week memorable. To make it memorable, have a lot of spirit and joy! That is why it's called spirit week! Spend a lot of time with your friends. Your friends are very special and they want to spend as much time with you, as you want with them!

, Bring your camera to school if you are allowed and don't forget to bring your smile too! Make or buy a small notebook to bring to school and get everyone to sign it! Usually, people will write nice comments or sayings below their names. If you have a shirt that you don't really wear a lot, tie-dye it or decorate it, bring it to school and also get people to sign it. Some school have year books, so get your friends to sign that!

, If you and your friends start crying, don't worry. You will definitely not be alone. Let out your tears. It's not good to keep them in. Also, if you think that crying will make you look weird, IT WON'T! Your friends will see how you really feel! Take a deep breath and tell your friends how you are feeling and say that you will keep in touch!

, - There are a lot of different ways to stay in contact., Everyone loves receiving mail! Get your friends address and send them cute, nice, pretty, funny letters!

, If your friends have e-mail, get their e-mail address.
 MSN is a great way to stay in contact. If you really want to see each other, you can all get webcams and plug them up to your computers. A lot of parents don't want their children to be using webcams, so respect their wishes!

, An added bonus is that you can post pictures of your activities and events.
 - Obviously, you can keep in touch by phone! It's so nice to hear the voice of the person you care about!

, - You can met up with your friends! Plan some days to go somewhere together! You can all talk about what everyone has been doing lately, you can have fun, and best of all, spend time with your friends!

,, Call each other, write each other, email, instant message, Facebook, Twitter, whatever. Try to keep in touch and don't be afraid to meet new people and make new friends! Because you can never have too many!

,,,