 You should be able to find these at your local hardware store. It is best to buy several bags at the beginning of the season. Once the first snow storm hits, it is possible that stores will sell out of the product.You should store your deicer in a dry place, preferably inside an airtight container keeping it free from moisture and sunlight.These are largely made of rock salt, or sodium chloride, which has a lower freezing point than water. This allows it to seep through the ice, breaking it up and creating a layer of water beneath it.;
, Deicers can be harmful to your health, your sidewalk, your lawn and your pets. Don’t use too much of it, and sweep it up after the ice has thawed. If you feel the need to use more than 2-4 ounces per square yard, you may be using the wrong product for your purposes. Ice melts function at a variety of temperatures and melt at different speeds.Hygroscopic ice melt removes moisture and can be severely damaging to skin and sidewalks.Some of these products involve more chemicals than others. Urea is sometimes included in the mixture, but can cause damage to your sidewalk.
Calcium chloride will melt ice at even lower temperatures than salt mixtures without it. It can function at -20 degrees Fahrenheit, whereas salt is only good down to 15 degrees Fahrenheit. This is useful for melting ice quickly when you need it on stairs or walkways, but will need to be reapplied often.
Rock salt takes longer to melt the ice, but will not require being reapplied as often. Use this in areas used less often, like driveways.
 It is not necessary to use a lot of salt. Create a thin layer of salt on top of the ice. You want to use about 2-4 ounce or 1-2 handfuls per square yard.It is best to sprinkle this layer of salt as soon as it starts to snow. Once the ice gets thicker, it will be more difficult for the salt to be effective.
The salt should start working in 15-30 minutes. It will not melt the ice, but should have seeped through and made a layer of water between the ice and the sidewalk, as well as breaking up the layer of ice and making it easier to shovel.
 Now that the ice has been broken down, it should be easy to break apart and remove with a snow shovel. Tap the tip of the blade of the shovel against the ice to break it apart.


Holding one hand on the top of the handle and the other down another foot or so along the length of the shovel, wedge the blade under the broken ice.
Scoop the shovel under as much ice as you can and lift it off the sidewalk.
Turn and tip the load of ice over to the side of the sidewalk and continue shoveling until it is cleared.
 You can use salt before, during and after a snowstorm. Laying down a layer after you complete your shoveling will help keep more ice from forming. If the snow continues or returns, you will already have your deicer working at the lower level to make future ice removal easier.