 Dig a metal teaspoon or a knife into the peel and tear a bit of the peel off. Once you can get a good grip on the peel, put away the knife or spoon, and pinch the edge of the "gap" you made. Pull as much of the skin away as you can. Keep peeling the skin until it is all gone. If there are any stringy bits, pull those off too.


Pry the orange open before you eat it. Stick your fingers into the hole at the top of the orange, and pry it open like a book. Separate the wedges, and eat them individually.
Be sure to pick out any seeds, or to spit them out.
 Slice an orange across the equator, going only through the skin, and not the flesh. Use a serrated knife. Next, take a spoon or fork with a flat, curved handle. Stick handle into one side of seam, pointing it towards the top of the orange. Run handle all around orange, prying the peel away from the flesh. Repeat for other side of the seam. When you are done, pull the peel away from the orange, like a hat or sock.Try rolling the orange around on table before you peel it. This will loosen the orange from the skin and make it easier to peel.
 Place the orange down sideways on a cutting board, and cut the top and bottom off. Next, cut a slit into the side of the orange, all the way down to the core. The slit should go from one cut end to the other. Finally, use your fingers to pry open the orange, like a book, into a long strip. Use your fingers to pull the orange segments off of the peel, and eat them.Don't cut too much; about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) off of each end will be enough.
This method works best for Mandarin oranges, but many people find that this works with regular oranges as well, such as Valencia., Place and orange down on a cutting board, with the stem part facing upwards. Slice it in half, then place each half face-down on the cutting board. Cut each half into wedges. Start by cutting it in half, straight down. Then, make two cuts to either side, angling your knife towards the center of the orange.


Eat the orange directly from the peel. Place the flesh part of the orange into your mouth, with the peel between your lips like a big, orange smile. Bite down slightly, and suck the juices out.
 Place an orange down on a cutting board with the top/stem facing upwards. Slice the orange in half, then place each half face-down on the cutting board. Cut each half into ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) thick slices. Start at one end, and finish at the other.


To each the slices: hold the slice between your fingers, and tear the flesh part away with your teeth or fingers and eat.

