 Every morning before you go to school, remind yourself not to talk or make noise in class. Just say it aloud before you get out of bed, or while in the bathroom. By reaffirming your dedication every day, you will be solidifying it in your mind., Another way that you can exercise discipline and increase your ability to be quiet is to avoid eating during class. Eating during class involves the rustling of packages, sounds of chewing, and a general distraction for yourself and those around you. Instead, try to eat a balanced breakfast and to snack between classes only., It may be too big of stretch to simply switch to not making noise in any of your classes. Instead, start with smaller goals and work your way up. For example, if you tend to be very chatty in a particular class, work to stay quiet in just that one class. After a few days, maybe you can add 1-2 more classes to your “quiet list.” Keep moving in this direction until you can maintain this behavior throughout the day., You may consider implementing a reward system for yourself. Tell yourself you will only watch your favorite show or play your favorite game if you manage to go a specific length of time without talking or making noise out of turn. This is a great practice for developing a sense of self-discipline and pride in your work., Your entire life will be full of all kinds of different situations. In some of them, you will be free to talk and make noise as you please; in most, you will not. It is important to know what behavior is appropriate in which situation, as well as how to control your behavior. Take a look at the students who are talking and acting up in class. Chances are, they aren’t portraying a very positive image. Look instead for positive role models, and model your behavior after them.
 Of course, nobody wants to be quiet all the time. It wouldn’t be healthy to do so! Instead, get all your talking out during the appropriate times, such as lunch, passing periods, or other break times. Use these moments to blow off steam, so that when class begins again you can focus.