 You will need a container that is two inches deep and has enough surface area for the amount of greens you want to grow. To save money, keep your old takeout containers for this purpose. You could also use one an old plastic salad container. Make sure the container has holes at the bottom for drainage.If you prefer, you could pick up some propagation trays from your local garden center, which are designed for this purpose.;
, You will need potting soil and coconut coir. Potting soil will be the base of your soil, and the coconut coir is added to improve water retention and air flow. Coconut coir is excellent for seed propagation purposes. For each tray, you can use three quarters potting soil and one quarter coconut coir. You can get both products at your local home and garden center.You can also pick up some vermiculite to use at the planting stage. Vermiculite is a mineral that helps with seed propagation.
 If you are growing in a warm climate and have lots of light in your house, simply place your tray of microgreens beside a sunny window. However, if you are growing microgreens indoors and do not have much light in your house, you will need a grow light. If you use artificial light, you should place the light four inches above your tray of microgreens. You can use a cheap fluorescent shop light with fluorescent bulbs.If you have a bit more money, you can use full spectrum fluorescent grow lights. These lights will help your greens grow a little better but are more expensive.You can also use a four inch T5 CFL grow light., Since microgreens are harvested early, all of the nutrients and any of the pesticides that may be on the seed will be highly concentrated. If your seeds are not organic, they could contain a higher amount of toxins than regular greens. So, you should always purchase organic seeds for microgreens., If you are looking to spice up a salad or sandwich, you may be interested in growing some of the spicy microgreens. For example, try growing one of the following spicy microgreens:


Purple delight basil grows in four weeks, has purple leaves and a sweet, spicy flavor.
Red giant mustard has red veins and is spicy. It grows in four weeks.
Lemon basil has bright green leaves and a spicy lemon taste. It grows in four weeks.
Ruby streaks mustard grows in two weeks. It has a sweet and spicy flavor.
Green wave mustard grows in two weeks. It has a spicy flavor and ruffled leaves.
Daikon radish grows in two weeks and has a spicy taste.
 If you want something a bit more on the mild side for certain dishes, there are a number of celery, beet and other microgreens to choose from. For instance, you might be interested in growing one of the following microgreens:


Celery microgreens have a mild flavor and mature in four weeks.
Bull’s blood beet has a spinachy, earthy taste, growing in four weeks.
Dark purple mizuna grows in two weeks and has a mild mustard flavor.
Hong vit radish grows in two weeks and has a mild radish flavor.
 You should cover the container with two inches of soil, in a ratio of three quarters potting soil and one quarter coconut coir. Lightly pat down the soil to make a flat seeding surface but without compressing it too much., The seed packet may give you specific instructions for propagating the microgreens, such as how deep to plant the seed and the time to maturation. If there are specific tips or instructions for the type of microgreen, you should follow them., Place a handful of seeds in one hand. Place your hand palm upwards, at a slight angle towards the surface of the soil. Use your thumb, index and middle finger to gradually spread the seeds as they fall from your hand. Try to spread the seeds evenly.If you are growing smaller seeds, you should aim for a ratio of ten seeds per square inch.If you are growing larger seeds, you should aim for a ratio of five seeds per square inch., If you have any vermiculite, you can use it instead of the soil. Vermiculite is a mineral that is used for seed propagation. After applying the thin layer of soil or vermiculite, you should still be able to see some of the seeds. You don’t want to bury them completely., You should mist your greens once per day. If you are not sure whether they need water, stick your finger a half inch into the soil. If the soil is dry, they need to be watered. If it is damp, the seeds should be happy. If it is extremely wet or marshy, you may be drowning your microgreens., If you are using propagation tray, simply place another tray on top of the one you are using. If you are using a takeout or other container, you could cover it with a plastic bag. Make sure you put a few holes in the plastic bag so that the seeds don’t suffocate., It should take about a week for the seeds to germinate. A couple days after germination, take off the cover to expose the seeds to more light. Let them grow for two to four weeks before harvesting, depending on the type of microgreen.
 You know they are ready to harvest when they are one to three inches in height. At harvest time, cut the base of the microgreens, just above the soil. Since they are tiny and grow close together, you should be able to cut a whole bunch at once. One or two clippings should be enough for a salad or sandwich.It will take anywhere from two to four weeks for your microgreens to mature.
 You can wash your microgreens under tap water. Dry them in a salad spinner or with a clean towel., A handful of microgreens such as spring onion or radish microgreens tastes great on a burger. Once you have all of your usual ingredients on the burger or sandwich, simply throw on a handful of microgreens.For instance, salmon burgers taste great with microgreens.
You could also throw some microgreens on your tacos.
 The next time you are making a green salad, throw some microgreens on top for some extra flavor. Swiss chard, beet and radish microgreens are among the most flavorful in salads.For instance, you could make a rainbow beet and pistachio salad with microgreens., If you are making a spinach omelette, for instance, you could add the microgreens at the same time as the spinach.If you are making an egg white omelette with avocado and goat cheese, microgreens are a wonderful addition., If you have any remaining microgreens after your harvest, you can put them in a glass of water in the fridge. Place a quarter inch of water in a cup and then add your leftover greens. They will stay fresh a little longer if you store them in a cup of water. The next time you are craving greens, grab your leftovers instead of harvesting more microgreens.You should not fully submerge the microgreens in the water. Rather, you just want the roots and the bottom of the stems to be submerged in the water.

