 Keep in mind that using whole grains instead of white flour will affect your baked goods’ taste and consistency. This doesn’t mean that all baked goods will taste better or worse with whole grains--just different. That said, depending on the type of baked good you’re making and your own personal tastes, anticipate having to do some trial-and-error with some recipes before you nail it., Expect the difference in whole grains’ taste to be most striking when used in goods whose finished color really reflects the use of white flour. Because of this, start off with baked goods whose color tends to be on the dark side with or without white flour. Give your taste buds a chance to adjust before attempting a bake where the difference will be more noticeable.For instance, go with a chocolate cake instead of a vanilla cake if this is your first bake with whole grains

, When you first attempt to bake with whole grains, don’t ditch the white flour right away. Instead, use the white flour for half the total flour called for by the recipe, and use whole grains for the other half. Note the difference in flavor and texture of your first batch. From there, decide if you'd like to increase the percentage of whole grains used in your next bake, or if you'd like to try again with a different type of flour., Whole wheat and spelt flours can generally be used in equal measurements to the amount of white flour that a recipe calls for. However, expect other whole grain flours to require conversions. For example, if you’re branching out into nuts and using almond flour, you should use double the amount called for in white flour.Search online for conversion charts to determine what if any conversion is needed for the type of flour that you’ve chosen to work with, like this one:
http://www.kingarthurflour.com/learn/ingredient-weight-chart.html

, Be aware that whole grain flours absorb more moisture than white flour. If you’re using a recipe that calls for white flour, expect the finished product to be on the dry side if you substitute the white flour entirely with whole grains. To compensate, add two more teaspoons of each wet ingredient than specified for each cup of flour used., At the very least, let it sit for 20 to 25 minutes after you make it before you go and knead it.For even better results, let it sit overnight. Additionally, try adding a tablespoon of lemon juice or another acidic ingredient. This allows the grains more time to soften while also breaking down more starch, which will make kneading easier.