 Combine 2 cups (500 ml) of milk with the full amount of salt, sugar, and vanilla bean seeds in a medium saucepan. Place the saucepan on the stove over medium heat and bring the mixture to a gentle simmer, stirring frequently.To maximize the richness of this pudding, use whole milk. Other varieties of milk will also work, however, including low-fat dairy milk, non-fat dairy milk, almond milk, and soy milk.
If you are using an actual vanilla bean for this recipe, split it open and scrape the seeds directly into the mixture during this step. If you are using vanilla extract, though, do not add it now; add it alongside the butter during a later step.
 In a separate small bowl, whisk together the cornstarch with the remaining 1/2 cup (125 ml) of milk.


Continue whisking until the cornstarch dissolves and the slurry seems smooth. If there are any lumps in the cornstarch slurry, those lumps will end up getting into the pudding, too.
 Place the egg yolks in the cornstarch slurry and lightly beat them into the slurry using the whisk.


Use only the separated egg yolks and not the full eggs.
If you choose to use liquid egg yolks instead of freshly separated yolks, measure out 2 Tbsp (30 ml)and beat them into the cornstarch slurry as usual.
 Remove the saucepan from the heat once the milk begins to boil. Slowly pour the cornstarch slurry into the saucepan, whisking well and continuously to combine.


Since the cornstarch slurry has egg yolk in it, you need to work carefully so that the egg yolk does not over-coagulate and curdle. Adding the egg yolk slowly, thoroughly whisking as you add it, and keeping the entire mixture away from direct heat should help prevent curdling.
As you whisk in the cornstarch slurry, the pudding should already start thickening.
 Return the saucepan to the stove and reduce the heat to low. Bring it to a gentle simmer and cook the pudding for another minute or two after that point.Stir frequently as the pudding continues cooking to prevent skin or lumps from forming.
This step should cook the egg yolks and cornstarch, causing the pudding to thicken up further. When ready, the pudding should be thick enough to coat the back of a metal spoon without running off.
 Remove the saucepan from the heat again. Add the butter to the pudding, mixing well to incorporate it.If using vanilla extract instead of an actual vanilla bean, add the vanilla extract to the pudding during this step, as well.
 If the pudding seems lumpy, you can push it through a strainer to catch and remove any lumps. Collect the smooth pudding in a medium to large bowl placed beneath the strainer.


This step can get messy and it isn't always necessary. If you don't think there are any lumps in your pudding, or if you don't mind biting into a few, consider skipping it.
 Cover the pudding with plastic wrap and refrigerate it for about 2 hours, or until it feels cool. Spoon it into individual serving dishes and enjoy.


Note that you could also enjoy this pudding warm or at room temperature if desired. It should be thick enough even prior to refrigeration.
