 Think black, gray, silver, deep browns, plum, raspberry red, mustard, deep greens, and bold blues. Avoid pastels and lighter shades, since these are typically associated with warmer spring and summer weather.;
, The traditional red and black square print will suffice, but you can spice things up by checking out plaids in different colors, as well.
 Argyle can be found on a number of winter wardrobe staples, from sweaters to socks to wool skirts.
 Some paisley and animal prints look just as appropriate for the winter as they do any other time of year. Just avoid anything in light, soft colors and opt for richer hues.
 Many heavy materials look and feel luxurious. The cold weather makes these materials both practical and stylish, since they look appropriate to the season and help you stay warm. Think suede, wool, tweed, twill, velvet, and leather.
 While these materials are not especially heavy, they do not breathe well, either, which makes them difficult to wear during warmer weather. Take advantage of these fabrics during the winter, when you do not need to worry about staying cool.
 White lace works well in spring and summer, while black lace works best in winter and autumn. This is a simple way to add a bit of feminine, sexy charm to your outfits.
 Dark washes suit the color scheme of winter best.
 A white button-down dress shirt, dress trousers, and basic long sleeve t-shirts and blouses can go a long way. These pieces are also basic enough to last into other seasons.
 As cozy as they may feel, you should avoid over-sized, shapeless sweaters that make you look large and bulky. Fitted sweaters are often made of similarly warm materials and flatter your figure better.
 Turtlenecks, cowl necks, and other high necklines give you added warmth, making your wardrobe look winter smart. Look for sweaters with thinner material at the neck to avoid added bulk.
 Layering allows you to make your favorite sleeveless and short sleeve pieces winter-friendly. Wear thin long sleeve t-shirts beneath short sleeve shirts and dresses, or cover your bare arms with cardigans and denim jackets.
 These dresses typically have long sleeves, and are often made of heavier materials. Look for one with a turtleneck or cowl neck for an especially chic option.
 Wear these under dresses and skirts to protect your legs from harsh winter winds. Sheer tights look both dressy and professional, while solid leggings work best for casual settings.
 Try on long beaded necklaces and heavy bangle bracelets. Thick, chunky styles coordinate well with the heavy fabrics and colors of winter.

