 This is the most straightforward way to kill a cricket. If you see a cricket that has snuck into your home, and you don’t want to catch it, then simply use something like a shoe or a broom and smash the cricket.


Try to be as humane as possible when killing the cricket. Give it a few hard smacks so that you can be sure the cricket is dead.
 There are many commercial insecticides readily available. If you have a problem with insects in your home, purchasing a can that you can use to kill a cricket (or any bug that finds its way in) is a good idea.


Be careful when using a bug spray. After you’ve killed the cricket, dispose of the cricket by using a large wad of toilet paper. Flush the dead cricket down the toilet or throw it in a closed trash can. Clean the area where you’ve sprayed the bug spray with a disinfectant, and wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water.
 If you’ve just got one cricket in your house, all you have to do is suck the cricket up with the nozzle. If you are worried that you may have a cricket infestation, vacuum your home thoroughly, and use the nozzle attachment to vacuum underneath the baseboards all around your home. Hopefully, this will suck up any eggs or crickets that might be hiding.If you have a bagless vacuum cleaner, be sure to empty the contents of the container in a trash can outside your home. If you have a vacuum cleaner with a bag, replace the bag immediately after you finish. Throw away the used bag in a trash can outdoors and away from your home.
 If you have some pepper spray on hand, then you can quickly kill the cricket by using some of it on the cricket. Pepper spray is deadly to crickets.Be careful when using pepper spray. It will be painful for you if you get it near your face. Be sure to wash your hands thoroughly after using the spray.
 If you’ve only got one cricket in your home, you can catch it easily with a jar. When you find the cricket, place a glass jar quickly over the top of the cricket so that it is trapped inside. Take a thin (but strong) piece of cardboard (a postcard works well, for example) and slide it underneath the opening of the jar. Now you will have a piece of card that you can keep on the top of the jar while you take it outside.


Take the cricket far away from your house. If you just let the cricket out outside your front door, the cricket will probably try to find a way back in.

