 Choose a story that enables you to connect to your listeners on a human level. The more that they envision themselves in your shoes, the more engrossed they will get in your story. Think about the audience that you have and what they are interested in. If your experience was in a different country with distinct customs, you could relate to people on an emotional level. Talk about feelings of fear, triumph, joy, anxiety, and sadness. Put an emphasis on how you felt during the experience.For instance, if your audience are foodies, you can tell them a story about a unique dining experience in another country.
Find commonalities that you share with the people you're with, like being in a new unknown place, not understanding a language or your confusion with foreign customs.
Even when you are in a unique experience, try to translate the experience to something that your listeners or readers can relate to and understand.
 Your audience will mirror your energy and excitement level. Maintain a healthy level of enthusiasm and excitement in your voice, but don't force it or you may come off as inauthentic. Change the levels in your voice as the story goes on depending on the mood that you want to create.For instance, you can use a lower, spookier voice for scary portions of the story.
Speak louder during portions of the story where you were frustrated or angry.
 You can show off photos or images that you took during your travels with a cell phone. Make sure that you organize the photos so that you don't have to fumble with your phone looking for them when the time comes. Pull up images to help explain the scenery or situation that you were in., Getting bogged down in the details or adding too much superfluous information will not only confuse people, but it can also cause your audience to lose their attention on the story. Instead, try to create a story that's easy for everyone to understand and doesn't require a high level of comprehension.


For instance, if you were in a country with different customs, don't list all of the customs that differ from yours. Instead, select the most interesting and relevant customs to the story.

