 Fiber is important for regulating your bowels and dealing with IBS symptoms. If you are having trouble getting enough fiber from your diet alone, then taking a fiber supplement may help to improve your IBS symptoms. Choose bulk forming laxatives because they are the least likely to irritate your bowels.The recommended daily amount of fiber is between 25 to 35 grams. If you are not getting this amount of fiber from food sources, then you can supplement with fiber.Fiber supplements are available as powders, capsules, and biscuits.
Make sure that you read and follow the manufacturer's instructions for use.
Always take fiber supplements with a full glass (8 ounces) of water.
 Probiotics may also be helpful for treating your IBS symptoms. Probiotic supplements contain good bacteria that can help to regulate your digestion. Try taking a probiotic for about a month to see if it helps you.A typical dose is between one to two billion colony forming units (also known as CFUs) per day. Make sure that you follow the manufacturer's dosing instructions.
Some doctors will recommend a higher dosage for their patients. Check with your doctor for a specific dose recommendation.When choosing a probiotic, make sure that the package provides the name and contact information of the manufacturer, the scientific names of the bacteria strains included in the probiotic, a "best by" date that states how many of the bacteria will be alive when the product expires, information about how to store the product, and dosage instructions. Avoid any products that make claims that the product will cure or treat a disease or condition., Peppermint capsules seem to reduce the abdominal pain that is common with IBS sufferers.Try taking peppermint oil capsules for a couple of weeks to see if it helps to soothe pain associated with your IBS.


A suggested dosage is to take one to two coated 0.2 mL peppermint oil capsules. You can take up to three doses per day.Keep in mind that some people experience heartburn from taking peppermint capsules.