 Dig a curved or half-circle trench around your bamboo. The barrier should be 28" deep to be effective, which is deeper than most rhizomes can go. The benefits to an open sided barrier are that the bamboo doesn't get too root bound in its enclosed space, and makes sure that the bamboo has adequate drainage. You can also use it to set up a border along a fence line or property line, which can help keep your bamboo from escaping into your neighbor's yard or vice versa.If you're in a DIY sort of mood, you can make the barrier from concrete, metal, or plastic. Any of them are good. Be aware that rhizomes may be able to travel through wood. Its use is discouraged.
One really effective and highly-used material is a high-density polypropylene — 40 mil or heavier. This sort of specialized bamboo barrier usually costs between $3 and $4 per foot, depending on the material and thickness.
If setting up a barrier along a fence, place it directly alongside the fence, with about 2 inches (5.1 cm) of barrier above ground.
An open-sided barrier will require annual root pruning to contain the bamboo.
 Like the open-sided barrier, enclosed barriers will need to be at least two to three feet deep. Unlike the open-sided barrier, it will enclose the bamboo all around, so that no rhizomes should escape. The biggest benefit to this one is the obvious one — it keeps the bamboo completely contained, although you may still have to check for rhizomes.Again, make sure that at least 2 inches (5.1 cm) of barrier is visible above the ground, because this will allow you to detect any rhizomes trying to escape over the sides.
 If planned properly, a pond or stream coupled with a three-sided enclosure will act as a decorative but effective barrier against the bamboo. The stream itself serves as the fourth wall, since bamboo rhizomes cannot travel across water.
 If your enclosure is deep enough and well-constructed, your bamboo shouldn't have very many places to grow. Still, you'll have to keep vigilant watch on your bamboo to make sure it isn't creeping out of its designated area. If you do catch some unruly bamboo rhizomes, remove them entirely: Cut them up beneath the surface and consider using any of the steps mentioned above to fully kill the bamboo.

