 This is suitable for pounding in nails; the claw part is suitable for pulling nails out. This hammer is more commonly used for woodworking and has a “T” shape, with the head on one side and a “claw” on the other side. It is in the house. See image above.

Ball peen hammer (hardened). This is suitable for driving a chisel or a punch. This is more commonly used for metalworking and has no claw. It has a rounded metallic head.

Mallet. This is also often referred to as a rubber hammer. It is a fairly common type of hammer. It is suitable for delicate work as it has a softer head than most hammers.

Upholstery hammer. This is suitable for upholstery projects; one end is usually magnetic to help with tacks used in furniture.
Blocking Hammer" used for auto body work; not suitable for driving nails;
, Look for firm attachment of the head to the handle. Also check for splinters, loose wrapping, or other defects in the handle. If the hammer has any defects or is wobbly, do not use it. Not only will it require more energy to use but it is an accident waiting to happen.
 This will ensure that you don’t lose your hold on the hammer and have it flying out of your hand.
 Beginners are often more comfortable holding the hammer handle midway. It is more energy efficient to grip the handle firmly at the end, but hold it a bit higher up while you are learning if that feels most comfortable and secure for you. With practice, you will become more proficient at holding the hammer towards the end, affording yourself more leverage.
 Avoid banging a hammer sideways. Hit only with the head of the hammer and do not use the handle or the side of the hammer.
 As well as maintaining a good grip, it is important to rely on the strength of your whole arm and elbow and not just rely on your wrist and hand to pound the hammer with. Most importantly, keep a straight wrist and allow the weight of the hammer itself to do the pounding, not your arm.
 Do not try to do hammering work on carpet or other soft surfaces, since it requires more energy.
 Beginners, children and the less proficient should hammer at waist height for the greatest ease. If you cannot move your work, keep your position as neutral and as natural as you can.
 Keep your workspace clear of other objects and check that nobody is standing behind you or too near you when you use the hammer. You need plenty of space to swing the hammer without catching your arm or the hammer on another person or object.
 Good hammering technique comes from trial and error. You will develop your own technique over time that feels the most comfortable and works best for your projects.

