 Tuck a bell-sleeved blouse or collared shirt into jeans and wear pumps or wedges that match your clutch.Or wear a bell-sleeved sweater or cardigan with jeans.Wear a belt with high-rise or mid-rise jeans if your top is cropped.Try ripped or distressed denim with a bell-sleeved sweater and ankle booties. Carry a large handbag that matches the color of your shoes.For example, wear a navy bell-sleeved top tucked into dark blue skinny jeans. You can add black wedge sandals and a purse in a bold jewel tone such as cranberry.Pair belted, wide-legged capris with a bell-sleeved crop top. Try this look with thick-heeled slingbacks.;
, Select a blazer cropped high on the waist. Choose a blazer with sleeves that are shorter than the bell sleeves of your top. Pull the bell sleeves out of the arms of the blazer, so that the bell sleeves show like ruffles.For example, try a light-colored blouse with long bell sleeves. Pair it with a casual blue blazer.
Try an interesting shoe, such as loafers or mules with a pattern, like floral, and/or a fancy clasp.
 Button up the collared shirt. If the sleeve caps have buttons, you can undo them for extra volume. Add a wide belt at the waist. Wear heels with pointed toes.Wear this to the office or daytime meetings.
This look also works with a sleeveless jumpsuit.
 Try this business casual look with simple heeled sandals, for example with elegant straps around the ankles.Or wear nude pumps for going out in the evening.Try this look in shades of cream for a light, clean, youthful look.
 Add heeled or flat sandals. This is an easy daytime look. It goes best with a bell-sleeved top that is loose-fitting.For example, wear a white bell-sleeved crop top with ripped cut off shorts., Choose bootcut or bell bottom pants to mimic the volume of the sleeves. Flared pants are also complimentary to the retro feel of bell sleeves.Avoid patterns to make this look more chic than costumey.For example, wear a white top with extra-long, dark pants. Add pumps and a purse in a neutral shade.
Try adding a thin scarf, in a fabric matching or similar to your top.

