 If you are uncomfortable lying to your current employer, it is okay to give a vague reason why you need time off. Most of the time, giving a vague reason will not prompt questioning from your employer because it implies a personal matter. Here are some acceptable vague reasons:


I need time off for a personal matter.
I need time off to take care of a time-sensitive issue.
I need time off to deal with a sensitive situation.
 Realistic excuses are more believable because these situations can happen to anyone at any time and render less suspicion. Realistic excuses can include any of the following:


Dr.’s appointment
Dentist appointment
Child or other family member is sick
Childcare or elder care issue
Meeting with child’s school
Meeting with financial advisor
Meeting with insurance agent
House issues (bugs, plumbing, heat or air condition, electrical, or carpets)
Car trouble (battery, tire, or car won’t start)

, Excuses that can be seen as negative to your existing job and security or excuses that can be discovered as lies should be avoided:


Jail time. This may be a cause to fire you, may be written in your file, and/or stain a recommendation.
Car accident. No damage to your car will be a giveaway. Injury to you during an accident will be discovered as a lie. Questions may be asked later on if you give an excuse of being in someone else’s car during an accident.
Broken body part. You cannot wear a fake cast for weeks!
Bad injury. You don’t want to limp on the wrong leg next week!
Death in the family. What if they later on figure out this person is still alive?

, Do not drag on the story into a mini drama. Giving an excuse, answering a few brief questions and leaving it alone is good enough. Sometimes coming up with elaborate stories can reveal inconsistencies within your story and/or outrageous claims causing suspicion.
 Remember which excuse you provided and keep to the story later on. You never know when someone will ask you about it. They may not mean anything by it, but if you slip up, there will be doubts and confusion of where you really were.


If you stick to your simple excuse, you should be okay and free to attend an interview without suspicion.

