 A colorful diet is recommended because the carotenoids and flavonoids that give fruit and vegetables their color are powerful antioxidants that can help fight inflammation.


Try to consume roughly nine servings of fruits and vegetables each day.Vegetables you should include are: dried beans and peas, sweet potatoes, red cabbage, pumpkin, squash, carrots, and beets.
Fruits you should include are: blueberries, cherries, other colorful berries, watermelon, tomatoes, bananas, and oranges.;
, People who eat whole grains have lower levels of C-reactive proteins (CRP); these proteins indicate the amount of inflammation in your body.You should try to eat roughly three ounces of whole grains each day. Whole grain foods include:


Whole wheat bread
Oatmeal
Brown rice
Popcorn
Crackers
Wild rice
Tortillas
Whole grain pasta

, Certain spices contain properties that can help reduce the inflammation caused by arthritis.


These spices can include: Ginger extract (blocks COX-2, which is a chemical in your body that causes pain), garlic, turmeric, cinnamon and honey (Drink a mixture of hot water, ½ teaspoon of cinnamon powder and a tablespoon of honey every day before breakfast.))

, The recommended daily intake of protein is 50 grams, and a 3-ounce piece of meat has 21 grams of protein.Eating excessive amounts of meat may exacerbate symptoms of gouty arthritis by depositing urate crystals within your joints.Although meat is the main source of protein in a non-vegetarian diet, other good sources of protein are milk, cereals, eggs and yogurt.
You can, however, eat a 3-ounce serving of pasture-raised meat once or twice a week.
 Omega-3 fatty acids are a type of lipid essential to your well-being.Omega-3 fatty acids can reduce inflammation because the eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) in omega-3 fatty acids replaces arachidonic acid, which reduces your body’s production of arachidonic mediators, a source of inflammation.The American Heart Association recommends that you eat fish high in omega-3 fatty acids at least two times a week.Many canned and processed foods are artificially enriched with omega-3 fatty acids, so read the ingredients before using processed foods. You can find omega-3 fatty acids and oils in numerous food categories, including:

Seafood: sardines, salmon, halibut, herring, mackerel, oysters, trout, and tuna.
Fresh vegetables: brussels sprouts, kale, mint, parsley, spinach, and watercress.
Oils: canola oil, cod liver oil, flaxseed oil, mustard oil, soybean oil, and walnut oil.



