 Wrap several pipe cleaners around a metal wreath frame. Evenly place several colored pipe cleaners around a circular metal wreath frame, spacing the pipe cleaners roughly 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) apart.


Attach the pipe cleaners by simply twisting them onto the first or second wire from the center of the frame. Twist them enough so that they are securely held in place, but make sure to leave at least 2 inches (5 cm) of free pipe cleaner on each end.Use a color that roughly matches the color of your deco mesh ribbon so that the pipe cleaners blend in better.
The exact number of pipe cleaners you use will depend on the size frame you use.
Set aside any extra pipe cleaners you have, as they may come in handy later on.;
, Pinch one end of the ribbon together and fix it onto the wreath using one of the pipe cleaners. Place the pinched end in the center of one pipe cleaner and twist the pipe cleaner around the end to hold it in place.








You should use a large roll of fairly wide deco mesh ribbon. For a standard size wreath, 10-inch (25-cm) ribbon should suffice.
Arrange the deco mesh ribbon so that it overlaps the pipe cleaner, partially concealing it. The pinched end of the ribbon should rest along the frame. The remaining ribbon should come out from the other side, over the pipe cleaner knot, and over the end. This should conceal both the pipe cleaner and the end.
 Gather 5 to 6 inches (13 to 15 cm) of ribbon with your hands, pinching off the length with your fingers. Attach this pinched portion to the middle of the next pipe cleaner and twist the pipe cleaner around the ribbon to hold it down.








This should form a little "bubble" of deco mesh. If the bubble is uneven or appears flat, gently "fluff it up" by bending it with your fingers until the bubble appears even.
 Follow the same pattern to complete the wreath. Pinch off 5 to 6 inches (13 to 15 cm) of ribbon, attaching each length to the wreath by twisting the next sequential pipe cleaner around the pinched portion.








The pipe cleaners will be partially concealed by the bubbles that are formed from the ribbon. If you want to conceal them completely, use wire cutters to snip them off, leaving enough to prevent the twisted portions from unraveling.
Use the same length of ribbon for each segment. If not, the wreath will look uneven and sloppy.
Finish the wreath by cutting the ribbon and connecting the cut end to the starting pipe cleaner. Curl the end of the deco mesh ribbon into itself to maintain the proper shape and to prevent raw edges from being exposed.
 The wreath can be left as is, but if you want it to look fuller, attach a second layer of the same deco mesh ribbon to the frame.









Add more pipe cleaners, placing them in any empty spaces created by the first layer. Try to position the pipe cleaners evenly apart.
Fix the second layer to the frame with the same method used to fix the first layer on. Pinch even lengths of the ribbon and twist the new pipe cleaners around these pinched-off portions.
 Depending on the occasion, you can attach small ornaments, feathers, fabric flowers, small flags, or a variety of other crafting decorations to the wreath.









Use clear-drying craft glue to attach light decorations, like feathers. These decorations can be glued to the frame or to the ribbon.
Use a hot glue gun to attach heavier decorations, like ornaments, directly to the frame. Do not attach these decorations to the ribbon.
You could attach holiday ornaments to a green wreath. A large red bow can be glued to the bottom center.
You can make a Halloween wreath by attaching black ornaments, plastic spiders, and fake webbing to the wreath.

