 Many people fail to get enough sleep every night. This leads to fatigue and tiredness that make managing your stress and emotions a difficult task. To sleep better, you should go to sleep and wake up at the same time every day, expose yourself to sunlight as much as possible in the day, avoid screens and lights at night time, get plenty of exercise, and eat a healthy diet. Avoid caffeine and nicotine, which disrupt sleep patterns.The exact amount of sleep you will need varies from person to person, but the majority of people fall between seven and nine hours per night., The food you eat plays a huge role in your mood. Having the appropriate amount of nutrients and water is shown to elevate your mood. On the flip side, too much caffeine and sugar is shown to negatively impact your mood. Eat plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables every day, drink plenty of water, and avoid processed and overly sweetened foods. Make a point to get plenty of fiber, protein, and healthy fats., Exercise releases hormones known as endorphins. Endorphins are shown to elevate mood and have a positive impact on your emotional state. Exercise every day, even if you can only do a moderate amount. Running, walking, doing yoga, and resistance exercises are all a good way to boost energy and manage emotions. Most experts recommend a moderate degree of exercise as opposed to pushing yourself too hard. If you do not exercise, you should start exercising.If you are doing a moderate amount of exercise, you will be able to carry on a conversation without gasping for breath, but speaking will be slightly more difficult.
 Your body depends on chemicals known as hormones and neurotransmitters to regulate your emotions. Street drugs (legal or illegal) are chemical substances that interfere with these hormones and neurotransmitters. The interference makes it difficult for your body and brain to regulate your thoughts and emotions, and in some cases, you may even become dependent on the drug you are taking., Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth. Your abdomen should rise and fall with your breath, and your chest should stay relatively still. Breathe slowly and deeply, and try to keep your breaths in rhythm.