 Satellite radio in the US now offers stations from Quebec. Some cable TV companies offer TV5 or other French stations.
 You can also find a pen pal or an online community that will let you ask questions and talk to others who are learning French.
 Online meeting are available which may help you with this.
 Some high schools offer adult education classes in languages.
 Bayard Presse Jeunesse and Express Milan have websites which will show you quite a few offerings. Kids magazines are helpful because they have pictures, from which you can sometimes glean the meaning of words you don't yet know. They offer short and very short articles, which is helpful when you are very new to a language.
 Museums in all three regions have bilingual exhibits and creative technologies which will offer you some good practice. While you are there, you can buy some books or other materials, and you will find yourself surrounded by French speakers, particularly outside of Montreal. Keep in mind though that you the farther you go from the Montreal you travel, you will find more people using French which is not as easily recognizable as international French. For example, in Québec's Gaspesie region, many heritages have influenced the development of language over the centuries, as many of the original settlers came from the Guernsey and the Jersey Islands, and not from France. The French dialects spoken in New Brunswick and Louisiana fall under the umbrella "Acadian French", and have local colour and unique differences of their own.


Learn the written form of common French words for daily use.
You can try watching a DVD, but change the language to French. If you are just starting out, you may want to add English subtitles. As you get better, change to French subtitles, and eventually no subtitles. Remember that the point of this exercise is to practice listening, so try not to just read the subtitles.
Practice using these words in a day-to-day situation.
Buy or borrow a computer game which can be listened to in French as well as English. Caillou has such a game, but this is offered only as an example. Others are probably occasionally available. Read the boxes and see what you can find.
 It should sound like an abrupt 'No' in a French Accent.
Parlez-vous anglais? (Do you speak English?)
Comment ça va? (How are you?)
Au Revoir (Goodbye)
Chaud (Hot)
Froid (Cold)
Comment t'appelles-tu? / Comment vous appelez-vous?(What's your name?)
Bonne Chance! (good luck!)
C'est La Loi (it's the law)

,
Deux (two)
Trois (three)
Quatre (four)
Cinq (five)
Six (six)
Sept (seven)
Huit (eight)
Neuf (nine)
Dix (ten)

, Also, tu is singular, and vous is plural. If you are addressing more than one person, use vous.
, Je suis chaud is quite rude in French. Use "J'ai" instead - I have. J'ai froid -> I'm cold; and J'ai chaud -> I'm hot.
, Just get a recording and repeat the words on the tape, and memorize what they mean.

