 Before you plan to go to temple, you should take a shower or bath.Anyone is allowed entry inside a temple, but since temples are spiritual places, it’s traditional to bathe before attending a temple.


To prepare yourself mentally and spiritually, you may also wish to take several moments to pray and think about God or your personal spiritual beliefs.;
, While it’s not necessary to wear traditional Indian clothing to a temple, both men and women should wear modest, conservative clothing to the temple. This will indicate respect for the sacred place, and will allow other attendees to focus on the temple gods and their own acts of worship, rather than being distracted by loud or inappropriate clothing.Women should wear a long skirt or dress. It’s also appropriate for women to wear long pants. Wear something that is loose enough for you to comfortably sit cross-legged in.Men should wear business-casual clothing, such as slacks and a button-down shirt.Avoid wearing animal skin of any kind; this could be offensive to practicing Hindus.
 Deities can be offered various material things: flowers and fruit are common and affordable choices.You could also choose to offer cloth or sweets. Presenting your offerings to the temple deities is a form of respect. Hindus believe that offerings like these will please the Gods and may result in blessings and fulfilled prayers.


Commercial establishments generally set up makeshift shops in the surrounding area selling various things that you can offer the statues.
It is not required to bring offerings; if you would rather not bring offerings for your first visit, you don’t have to.
 Most temples will have a space designated for your shoes: usually a series of cubby-holes along one of the temple’s exterior walls.Removing shoes shows respect for the temple and the deity statues within. This is not optional: removing shoes, sandals, or any other footwear is a mandatory rule of every Hindu temple.


Socks are fine, you can keep wearing them. However, if the temple floor is made of marble or any other slippery stone, you want to remove socks so you don’t fall.
 Traditionally, upon entering a Hindu temple, you’ll see an array of deities and statues arranged around the temple walls. Begin with the deity on your left. From there, continue to walk through the temple in a clockwise direction, pausing before each deity you come across.Many temples have separate queues for men and women, and you will have to follow it accordingly.
If you’d like to know ahead of time if there are separate queues for each gender, you can call the temple and ask in advance.
 When you finally get to see the statue closely, you may join the palms of your hands near the heart into a “namaskara” (a traditional pose) and bow.This is the minimum act you should perform in front of each statue as a respectful gesture.


Practicing Hindus will often bow or fully prostrate themselves in front of statues as a sign of respect and reverence. If you feel comfortable, you can prostrate yourself as well, although it’s not required., If you have brought fruit or flowers to offer to the deity, you may do this as you circulate through the temple.Hand each offering to the priest sitting outside the idol’s chamber. Under no circumstances should you enter the inner chamber. The inner chamber or the chamber where the idol is seated is considered the most sacred and private area and no one can go in without previous sanction.


If there is no priest outside the chamber, there may be a nearby platform for worshipers to place their offerings on., While you are in the temple, you may notice a priest pouring water over the hands of worshipers. This is a spiritual, purifying gesture: if the priest offers you the water, let him pour it over your hands.The priests may also give “Prasad:” blessed food (always vegetarian) which is offered to the deities. Prasad is also considered holy, and you should eat it outside the temple.
Anything the priest gives you should be accepted with your right hand. Avoid taking or giving anything with the left hand., A single temple can house hundreds of statues—do not attempt to touch any one of them; this will be seen as an inappropriate and disrespectful act. In Hindu faith, only priests are permitted to touch the statues.Keep a respectful distance.


Also avoid photography. Taking pictures is restricted or forbidden in many temples.Before taking a photo, look for the temple’s rules. Rules may be written outside on noticeboards, or you may ask someone, including the priest.
 The temple is a sacred, holy space, and you should exhibit polite, constrained behavior when visiting. You can speak quietly, but avoid loud conversation, laughter, or crying. Do not chew gum loudly—or at all—and throw any trash you have in a trash can. To show your respect for the temple, turn your phone off when you enter, and don’t smoke in or around the temple.


A priest may offer to place a small mark on your forehead (usually made from ash or turmeric). You may accept or decline as you feel comfortable; the mark carries no great spiritual significance and does not necessarily indicate a belief in the Hindu religion., As you make your way through the temple, you may see a small donation box.If you feel like donating, fold the bills and put them with your right hand in the donation box. Remember that donations are never required and you do not have to donate.


Even if someone coaxes you to donate, you always have the right to refuse.
 Depending on your location, you may find many beggars outside temples. You don’t have to give them cash if you don’t want to. If you want to help them temporarily, buy them some food.


If you are alone, it would be a good idea to not encourage beggars. They can be persistent, and can keep following you or trouble you for more money.

