 If your body is telling you that it's time to have a movement, don't put it off. Even if it's only a mild suggestion, you should spend some time in the bathroom, even if you're in the middle of a busy day. If you ignore your body when it's telling you to have a movement, this can cause constipation later in the day. You may be ready to have a movement later, but your body won't be.
 Scheduling a time to have a bowel movement promotes regularity and can trigger your body to have a bowel movement. Make time for a bowel movement, whether it's in the morning, after your afternoon meal, or several times a day that are convenient for you. If you don't have a regular schedule, your body can be confused and unready to have a movement.
 When you're going through a bout of constipation, try some light exercise instead of sitting down. Just taking a 20 to 30 minute walk can help stimulate your digestive tract. Any form of exercise can help your body promote healthy bowel movements.


Though you may not have time to go on a bike ride during a bout of constipation, plugging exercise into your weekly routine can help ease your constipation over time.
 Yoga has been known to relieve stress and improve overall digestive health. There are also a few yoga poses that can stimulate the bowels, and holding these poses alone may be effective in relieving your constipation. Here are some poses to try:The shoulder stand. Lie on your back and raise your legs straight up in the air, so they're perpendicular to your torso. Then place your hands on your lower back, using your arms to support your legs as you straighten your spine.

The wind-relieving pose. Lie flat on your back. Bend one knee and extend it to your chest, holding it for ten seconds. Then switch and do this with the other knee. Alternate between knees at least five to ten times.
Kapalbhati Pranayam. Try Kapalbhati Pranayam yoga. Many people say it is very effective in relieving constipation. It should be done on an empty stomach or 5 hours after a full meal.
 When you sit on the toilet, don't put your feet on the ground. Instead, lift them up so you're squatting into the toilet a bit more, or place them on a footstool. This position is ideal for moving your bowels. If you want to try squatting, get a child's step stool or stack of phone books and prop up your feet while you're sitting on the toilet. If you don't feel comfortable squatting, pull your legs in as close as you can get to the toilet bowl and raise your heels so you are doing "tippie-toes" with your feet. Then lean as far forward as you can without losing your balance, this will get your body into a "squatting position" without actually squatting. This will let stools out easier., Massaging or pressing a few key pressure points in your body with a free hand or just two fingers can help stimulate your colon and relieve your constipation. Try applying pressure to the perineum to stimulate bowel movements.