


Fran is 3 rounds of 21, 15, and 9 repetitions of 95lb thrusters and pull-ups for time. A thruster is completed with the bar in the front squat position in the sanding position.
Start by squatting down (below parallel), move to a standing position and push the bar overhead.
Return the bar to the front squat position and repeat. A pullup starts at a dead-hang from the bar and finishes with the chin breaking the plane of the bar.
Do this as fast as possible and record your time. Fran tests lactic acid buffering and sprint capacity. This is the staple test.;
,


Get on a rower and row as fast an efficient as possible. Efficient rows engage all muscles in the core, legs, back, shoulders, and arms through full pulls.
An efficient pull starts with the rower bar depressed, legs bent at a 25 degree angle and back slightly bent forward. The pull should end with legs fully extended and straight, back bent backwards at an angle of at least 110 degrees, and rower bar near the chest. This tests cardio vascular endurance and VO2 max.



A deadlift starts with the bar on the ground, feet slightly wider than shoulder width, knees bent slightly, back straight, head bent at a 45 degree angle, and hands gripping the bar outside of the knees.
The deadlift ends with legs and back straight, bar around hip height, and hips fully extended out.
If you are not comfortable attempting a 1 rep max, a calculated 1 rep max may be used using a 3 or 5 rep max.
For more on this see a percentage chart on Critical benchPure strength test and was chosen over the squat because most beginning lifters will have over developed quads.



To do a double under, the rope must pass under the feet twice for one jump. This skill takes time.
Tips for this include listing to music with clear beats around 100-140 beats per minute. you should jump on the beats and use variable speed with the rope to make it pass under twice.
This test weeds out anyone new to WODing as it is a skill that takes some time to learn.



To do a pullup, the chin must break the plane of the pullup bar. For them to be unbroken you must not take your hands off the bar from start to finish. Pullups are tested in two questions because they are that important. Great test of strength and coordination in relation to bodyweight.



Complete 20 clean and jerks and count the number of bar drops. A power clean must be used for this exercise- a power clean starts with the bar on the ground and moves to the front squat position. The jerk starts with the bar in the front squat position and finishes overhead. (Note: do that as if you were trying to do Grace for time, but try to not drop the bar for as long as possible)

, The filthy fifty is a much a test of physical ability as a mental one. It is 50 Box jumps on 24 inch box, 50 Jumping pull-ups, 50 1 pound Kettlebell swings, 50 Walking Lunges, 50 Knees to elbows, 50 45lb Push presses, 50 Back extensions, 50 Wall ball shots with a 20 pound ball, 50 Burpees, and 50 Double unders. This is a long duration light weight test for mitochondrial density.

