 First things first: you have to have a marriage license to get married no matter where you are. Thankfully, acquiring a marriage license in Clark County, Nevada is pretty simple.


Both parties must be 18 and not currently married.
You must both appear before a Clerk at a Clark County Marriage Bureau location.
You can't marry a relative closer than your first cousin.
Both parties must also provide identification that proves name and age. Refer to the Clark County website for a list of acceptable identification.Non-U.S. citizens should check with officials in their home country or embassy to find out if a union in Las Vegas will be recognized in their home country.;
, While you will have to appear before a Clerk to receive a marriage license, you can submit a Marriage License Pre-Application online to speed the process.


The completed Marriage License Pre-Application stays on file for 60 days., It costs money to receive a marriage license. The Clark County website has a more in-depth list of acceptable payment options, but the easiest way to pay is with cash, travelers’ checks, or money orders. You should expect to pay $77.00 to apply for the license. If you wish to have the ceremony at the Office of Civil Marriages, it is another $75.00., No blood test is required, and marriage licenses are issued the same day as application. There is no waiting period.


Your marriage license is good for one year from the date it was issued.
The license simply allows you to marry in the state of Nevada. It is not a proof of marriage.
Your marriage license is a public document., When planning a wedding in Vegas, it’s important to consider when you’ll be getting married. Not only is Las Vegas a massive tourist attraction, it is also in the middle of the desert. The best times to get married in Vegas are spring and fall.


Avoid holiday weddings. While it may seem like a sweet idea to get married on Valentine’s Day, you’re almost guaranteed a long wait to do so. Same goes for other big days like New Year’s Eve, for example., You’ll likely want to bring friends to help you celebrate your big day, and they’ll need places to stay as well. If you plan your wedding for a common vacation time, you’ll need to plan very far in advance. Even then you may not have an easy time accommodating everyone.


Keep in mind the number of people attending the wedding and plan accordingly. If the number of guests is relatively small, don't book a lavish reception hall built to hold hundreds of people.
 Las Vegas has countless options when it comes to marriage venues. To find the spot that suits you, it’s best to know what you’re looking for.


Many hotels in Vegas not only have wedding chapels in them, but they offer entire wedding packages, complete with photographers, florists, reception services, and transportation if needed.If your marriage is a spur of the moment decision, Vegas offers plenty of quick wedding chapels. All you have to do is walk-in (with your marriage license, of course). Some chapels even offer license services to make the process easier., If you’re looking for a themed wedding, Vegas has you covered. Get married by Elvis, or ride motorcycles through the chapel.


Some places offer drive-thru weddings. A popular option for couples on the go, the drive-thru wedding actually started as a novel way for disabled couples to get married.Vegas is the go-to spot for crazy weddings. The potential for unique weddings is nearly endless. You can even get married underwater!Check with the various wedding chapels to see if your crazy idea can be accommodated. Most likely someone in Vegas can help make your dreams come true.
 If you don't already have a dress, don't worry. There are plenty of places to buy (or rent) a dress for your wedding day.


When shopping for a wedding dress consider things like the time of year you'll be getting married, your body type, and gown styles.
Don't forget to set a budget. Wedding dresses can be very expensive. Setting a budget beforehand may help narrow your choices.
While shopping for the groom's tuxedo is likely to be less stressful than shopping for a dress, it is still important. Thankfully, most places that allow you to shop for dresses have options for the men in your wedding as well.
 After the wedding ceremony is complete, you'll want to have a reception. Decide if you want to have a dinner reception or a cocktail reception with simple finger foods and drinks.


Many casinos and hotels in Vegas offer catering services for your wedding. If you plan on having the ceremony at one of the many Vegas hotels, consider having them cater your wedding as well.
If you plan on opting for a cocktail reception, make sure your guests know that a full meal will not be served.
Keep in mind the dietary restrictions of your guests. Make sure you have options for vegetarian, vegan, or gluten-free guests.
 As with searching for your wedding dress, when shopping for wedding cake be mindful of the budget, especially in Vegas.


There is no shortage of options for extravagant wedding cakes in Las Vegas. You could even have your wedding cake made at Carlo's Bakery, of Cake Boss fame.
You don't have to go crazy with the cake. There are plenty of pre-made wedding cakes to fit any budget., If shopping for a dress, planning a reception, and finding a cake all sound like too much to handle on top of planning a trip to Vegas, hire a wedding planner. It is their job to make your life easier and ensure a smooth wedding.

