 These establishments provide a social environment where people can meet and have fun. You may find other people at a bar with a similar hope of meeting interesting people, or a group of established friends that may be happy to include you in their conversation. It is normal to interact briefly with people that you don’t know, but don’t push yourself into a conversation unless an invitation was extended.


Do some quick research. If you are nervous about picking a bar that you do not know, check their website or some reviews to see if seems like what you want. If you hate talking about sports, you may want to avoid a bar that proudly advertises that its TVs play every game.
Some people go to bars or clubs with the specific intention of finding a partner for casual sex. Know what you want out of meeting interesting people, and be aware that others may want something else.
 People often chose cafés for a sociable environment to work and read. Look for a café that has large “community” tables so that you can sit with fellow customers. A patron reading a book that you have read may have interesting thoughts that they would like to share with you.


Ask questions that will allow you to explore mutual interests: Have you read that author’s other works? How did you become familiar with that topic? Why do you think that this book is so popular?
If a fellow patron is working, respect their privacy. A person wearing headphones does not want to talk to you, and someone who gives only minimal responses to your questions is politely signaling that they are too busy to talk.
 Show up a little early, or prepare to stay once the show ends. While a performance does not provide many chances to talk to other audience members, there is a good chance that people you meet at such an event will share some of your other interests as well. You may make interesting connections through casual conversation before or after the show.


You can start with questions about the performer or exhibit: Have you seen this band perform before? What do you think of the performer’s most recent album? How did you learn of this artist’s work?

, Your chances of meeting new types of people dramatically increase if you visit a new city or country.


Check travel guides for the area you are visiting. A good guide book or website may list social activities for tourists.
Stay in a hostel with a lobby. There will be plenty of visitors with diverse backgrounds to talk to in the evening.
Stay with a local. You can use couchsurfing.com or AirBnB.com to find a host in the city you are visiting.
Use your network. Search for friends of your Facebook connections to see if you have possible connections in the area that you are visiting. Ask your connection if they could introduce you to their friends.
Introduce yourself to other travelers. If you are at a popular tourism site, it is likely that some people around you are also traveling alone. Ask them where they are from or why they made the trip to this destination; you make meet an interesting person.

