 Before making any changes to your child's diet, it's best to talk to their pediatrician first. Discuss your concerns with them, and ask if they suggest dietary changes or vitamin supplements.Tell the doctor about your child's activity level and any symptoms you've observed, such as sudden weight loss.;
, Skinless poultry, fish, eggs, and unsalted nuts are better for overall health than higher fat options, like red meat. Daily requirements vary based on a child’s age, sex, and activity level:Children two to three years old need two ounces in the protein food group per day.
Children four to eight need four ounces per day.
Preteen boys and girls up to age 18 need five ounces per day.
Teenage boys need six and a half ounces per day.
Examples of one ounce servings include an ounce of meat or fish, one egg, a tablespoon of nut butter, and a half ounce of nuts or seeds.
 In addition to being great sources of calcium, dairy products also add protein to a child’s diet. Offer your child two to three servings of milk, cheese, or yogurt per day.Low-sugar fortified cereal or oatmeal with milk are great breakfast options.  
Try making grilled cheese sandwiches with two to three slices of cheese to increase the meal’s dairy content.
Go for lactose-free or non-dairy milks, yogurts, and cheeses if your child is lactose intolerant., Greek yogurt contains more protein than regular yogurt. If your child isn’t a fan of the texture, try making smoothies and parfaits with it.You can blend or mix honey and fruit with Greek yogurt for a healthy snack or dessert.
 When you make sandwiches for lunch, try doubling the slices of meat to increase the protein serving. Adding cheese to the sandwich also adds nutritional value.Processed deli meats can contain a lot of salt, so look for lower sodium options and try to limit your child’s sodium intake elsewhere., Kids need lots of daily nutrients, but their stomachs are still growing. Smaller meals and snacks throughout the day are best, so keep healthy, protein-rich snacks on hand. Go for unsalted nuts and seeds, like peanuts, almonds, and pistachios.