 Typical non-vegan cake baking ingredients include eggs, butter, milk and even refined white sugar, which is manufactured with animal bones.;
,


Most non-vegan cake ingredients such as eggs and butter can be easily replaced with typical household grocery items. For example, bananas and applesauce replace eggs and margarine replaces butter.



One egg can be replaced with 2 tbsp. ground flax seed stirred into 3 tbsp. of water.
Replace a single egg by mashing half of a banana or using 3 tbsp. applesauce. 1 egg may also be replaced with 1/4 cup (59.14 ml) of soft tofu that's been run through a blender.
Buy a vegan egg replacement product. This non-dairy powdered mix is usually found in health food stores.
 Soy and almond milk are the most recommended replacements when baking. You can also use hemp, coconut, or hazelnut milk.


Use the same measurements when substituting dairy milk with vegan replacements.
 Be sure that the margarine you use is not made with animal-based ingredients. Health food stores usually carry 100 percent vegan margarine.


Another option for replacing butter with a vegan ingredient is vegetable shortening or applesauce, which can replace up to 3/4 of the total butter used in any baking recipe.
 These include granulated cane sugar and date sugar as well as new plant-based sweeteners. Granulated cane sugar may be used in the same proportion as refined sugar. If using date sugar or a plant-based sweetener, use less amounts in the recipe than refined sugar. These products are far sweeter than typical refined sugar.


Liquid sweeteners such as barley malt and maple syrup can also be used but be sure to slightly reduce the use of other liquids in your cake recipe.
 Vegans prefer to use non-refined flours made with barley, brown rice, potato and Kamut, which are found in health food stores.


Alternatively, you can ground 1 cup (236.5 ml) of whole rolled oats to create 3/4 cup (177.4 ml) of oat flour.
 For a vegan cake frosting, replace the use of butter with blended tofu and cooking oil or margarine.

