 The detergent method will work best if it hasn't set in completely yet.It's also the easiest to pull off on the fly, as most people should have detergent on hand, whether you're at home or at work. If you don't have any detergent available, you can try using bar or liquid soap. It may not be as effective, but you definitely want to attempt to clean the fabric before the paint dries.






;
, You should rinse from behind the stain, isolating the section that's been covered. If the stain has come from a watercolor or kids' tempera paint, it will probably start to rinse out fairly quickly.These washable paints don't always come out immediately, but you'll definitely start to see some color bleeding out of the fabric. Check the paint bottle to see if you have a washable paint. If you do, you'll have a much easier time cleaning the stain, and you may just have to rinse with water and can skip using the detergent.
 Before starting to apply to your clothing, you'll want to check the labels of your garment and your detergent to ensure that they're compatible.If you're not totally sure, apply the mixture to an inconspicuous area of your garment. This way, you can check the viability of your mixture without damaging your clothes irreparably. Soak a clean sponge in the detergent and water mixture. Be sure not to use a paper towel or cotton cloth. The fibers will get stuck and rub off in your clothing, creating a larger mess.









Always put a cloth or fabric underneath your damaged clothing. You don't want it to bleed onto the surface that you're operating on. Even if the paint is washable, you'll avoid staining your countertop or table with any excess color.
 Remember that blotting is different than rubbing. If you rub at the fabric with your sponge, you'll essentially push the paint deeper into the fibers of your fabric. While you can be pretty vigorous with the blotting, you want to make sure you aren't permanently damaging your garment. You can also put the shirt between your fingers, rubbing the mixture gently into the fabric.
 If you're cleaning a washable paint, then a good amount of pigment should be washing out from your fabric. Make sure that you aren't staining anything else with your dripping, including your sink. If there's excess paint and water in the garment, make sure to wring it into a separate bowl. You'll be able to dispose of it more easily.
 You might want to try using a bristled toothbrush to rub at the stained area. This can often be successful in releasing paint from the fibers of your clothes without rubbing the color any deeper into the fabric. Be cautious with this, however, as any excessive force may get the pigment stuck in the fabric.
 Running your stained article of clothing through a wash cycle can often get rid of the stain completely. You've loosened the paint using the detergent, so your washing machine will work much more efficiently. Without pre-treating the garment, however, the washing machine might not be able to fully eliminate your stain. Certain washable or water-based paints may not require this step.


Don't wash your paint stained garment with another article of clothing, as the paint will bleed onto your other clothes. You don't want to damage your entire wardrobe just to save a single item.
If the stain is still present after a wash cycle, place a bit of acetone on the front of the garment and blot with a clean sponge. Do not put acetone on fabrics that also contain acetate or triacetate, as it will melt these fabrics on contact. 