 Sharing your experiences with stigma with your healthcare provider is an excellent way to cope with it. Not only does your physician have knowledge of your specific history of Crohn’s disease, they also have experience helping others cope with the stigma of the disease.Tell your physician what’s been going on, how you feel about it, and ask for support coping with it.


You might say, “Recently I’ve been experiencing some stigma related to my disease. Can you suggest any ways for me to handle it or could I come in to the office so that we could talk about it?”
Ask your healthcare provider for handouts or other resources related to coping with the stigma of your disease. You can say, “Could you give me some information about coping with emotional and social parts of having Crohn’s disease?”
You might even want to ask a close friend or family member to accompany you and help you take notes so that you can review the information later.
 Some people may try to hide their Crohn’s disease from their loved ones for a number of reasons. You may feel embarrassed about the symptoms or you may not want to be a burden on your friends and family.Don’t try to hide your illness or make it seem as though your Crohn’s disease doesn’t affect you as much as it does. Instead be honest with the people that care about you and turn to them for support in dealing with the stigma of your illness.


Surround yourself with supportive loved ones and reduce the time that you spend with people who have a negative effect on you.
Let your loved ones know how Crohn’s disease affects you. For example, you might say, “Having Crohn’s disease is a major challenge for me even though I try to remain positive.”
Ask them to help you cope with the stigma you may feel. For instance, you could try, “Sometimes having Crohn’s disease makes me feel bad about myself. Could you help me cope with this?”
Tell the people that care about you exactly how they can support you. For example, you could tell your best friend, “Could you help me educate people when they say something negative about Crohn’s disease?

, It can be a great relief to talk with others that have Crohn’s disease as well. They can understand and relate to the experiences that you are having. They may also be able to offer you specific strategies and techniques for coping with the disease. They can provide guidance in handling the stigma associated with it.Take some time to research support groups in your area or online.


Ask your physician about support groups for Crohn’s disease in your area. You might say, “Could you recommend some support groups in the community that could help me handle the stigma of this disease?”
In the U.S. you can visit Crohn’s and Colitis Federation of America (CCFA) at http://www.ccfa.org/mobile/support-groups/find-a-support-group.html to find a Crohn’s disease support group near you.
You can also look into online support groups if there are no groups in your area or if you just prefer to connect with people online.
 Sometimes the stigma associated with having Crohn’s disease can cause serious problems in your day-to-day life. You may feel anxious or develop depression. If this is the case you should consider talking with a therapist about what you are feeling. A therapist can provide you with strategies, tips, tools, techniques, and support for dealing with your Crohn’s disease and the stigma that comes with it.Talk to your health care provider about therapists near you. For example, you could say, “I’ve been experiencing some negative feelings lately because of the stigma of my Crohn’s disease. Can you recommend a therapist to help me work through this?”
Ask the people close to you if they can recommend a therapist. For instance, you might ask your best friend, “Can you recommend a therapist in our neighborhood?”
Check with your insurance company as well to find out who is near you and who is covered under your plan.

