 The manicure will make you want to not bite your nails due to how nice they look. Not to mention, having nail polish on may push back the urge to bite your nails, since you don't want to bite into nail polish or ruin your manicure. Once your nails are in great shape, you should focus on keeping them that way, and the best way to show off your shiny new nails is to get a manicure.


Chat with the manicurist about having great nails. You're allowed to brag!;
, A simple manicure can help maintain your healthy nails, and so will keeping them relatively short and preventing yourself from biting them more.


If you have any surplus growth, cut your nails back. Keep clippers with you at all times. You can't bite if there's nothing there.
 Many nail-biters do not have "moons" on the base of their fingernails because their cuticles have not been pushed back. To do this, gently push your cuticles towards your finger to reveal more of your nail. This is easier to do after a shower when your hands and nails are wet.


This makes the nail appear longer, and it gives a more attractive shape, which might also be a motivation to stop biting.
 A healthy diet will help you feel better overall and will help your nails repair and grow well. Eat calcium and magnesium rich foods so that your nails will repair and grow well. Not only that, but most of the reason that the human body wants to bite nails is a lack of calcium and magnesium in the body. The body needs that material back.


Eggs, soy, whole grains, and liver are also helpful to nails. Sulfurous minerals found in apples, cucumbers, grapes, garlic, asparagus, and onions all help consistent growth.
Essential fatty acids, or EFAs, are found in tuna fish, salmon, shellfish, leafy vegetables, nuts and seeds. They are needed for human metabolic processes and help keep nails shiny and pliable.
 Don't be afraid to show off your new nails to your friends, or even to people you don't know very well. Show them your hands and say, "Can you believe I used to have a nail-biting problem?"


Take photos of your hands and enjoy how good they look. You can even hang them up, or hang them next to a photo of your ragged "before" nails to show that you are capable of making big changes in your life.

