 Typically you can find contact information on the original judgment form at the clerk's office.


Under Georgia law, creditors usually can only garnish up to 25 percent from your paycheck.However, you may not be able to pay your bills on only 75 percent of your pay. If you have money saved up, you might consider using some of your savings to pay off your debt.
You might consider having a bankruptcy attorney contract the creditor. If the creditor hears from a bankruptcy attorney's office, they may believe that you intend to file for bankruptcy – in which case they would get no money at all. This prospect can make the creditor more willing to work with you., If you have the ability to pay, the creditor may be willing to take substantially less money than you owe to settle the debt.


You typically will have better luck negotiating a settlement if you contact the creditor through an attorney.Although you may believe you don't have the money to pay for an attorney's fees, it could be worth it if the attorney is able to get the creditor to settle for a fraction of the amount you owe.
Creditors typically will want a lump-sum payment to settle your debt.After having gone through the effort to get a judgment against you, they often aren't willing to set up a payment plan with you – especially since they have no guarantee that you'll keep up with the payments.
In some situations, you may be able to get a stipulated judgment through the court. This would mean that you would pay the debt through the court rather than having the money garnished from your paycheck, which would allow you to plan smaller payments.Talk to an attorney or someone in the legal aid office to learn more about your options.
 Once you and the creditor reach an agreement, make sure you get the agreement in writing, including any promise to dismiss the garnishment.
 After you've paid the creditor, make sure no more money is taken out of your paycheck.


Since you have a judgment against you, get a satisfaction of judgment signed by the creditor and filed with the court, and follow up with your credit reports to make sure the judgment is removed.