 Using your fingernail or fingertips, lift the crown straight out as far as it will go.


Wait until the second hand reaches the 12-o'clock mark before pulling the crown out.
You should hear two clicks; do not stop after the first click. Make sure that all hands have stopped moving before proceeding to the next step.
Note that some models may have a screw-down lock on the crown. If this is the case for your watch, you will need to unlock the crown by turning it toward you. Once it loosens, pull the crown out to its furthest position as usual.
 Turn the crown toward you to turn the hands of the watch clockwise. Continue rotating the hands until you reach the correct time.


You must turn the hands until the date changes, even if the date is not yet correct. Doing so resets the clock to midnight.
For AM time, simply turn the hands until they reach the correct time after resetting the clock to midnight. For PM time, you will need to turn the hands past the 12-o'clock position once more before setting them to the correct time.
Rotate the minute hand roughly five minutes past the correct time, then carefully turn it back to the correct minute marker by turning the crown in the opposite direction. By doing this, you can prevent the minute hand from accidentally advancing.
 Once your watch shows the correct time, push the crown all the way back into the side.


You should hear two clicks and the hands should start moving again.
 Pull the crown straight out until it clicks into its halfway or intermediate position.


Do not pull the crown out completely. You should only hear one click, and the hands of the clock should still be moving.
 Turn the crown toward you while it is in its intermediate position. Continue turning until the date dial or window reflects the current date.
 Once the date changes over, push the crown back into the side of the watch as far as it will go.


You should hear one click, indicating that both the time and date settings are actively running.
 Pull the crown out to its halfway or intermediate position.


The hands should still be moving and you should only hear one click.
Note that the chronograph needs to be set if you have never used it, but after setting it the first time, you should not need to set it again unless you change the battery or damage the watch.
 Push the top button in until the 1/10 second hand moves to the "O" position of the 1/10 dial.


The 1/10 dial is the small dial located at the 2-o'clock position of the watch.
 Push the bottom button in until the chrono second hand moves to the 12-o'clock position of the main clock face.


The chrono second hand is the long hand located on the main face of the watch.
 Pull the crown out until you hear another click before setting the last dial.


Note that the crown should be in its full "out" position, and the hands of the watch should stop.
 Push the top button until the 30-minute chrono hand moves to the "0" position of the 30-minute dial.


The 30-minute dial is the small dial located at the 10-o'clock position on the watch.
 Press the crown back into the side of the watch, pushing it in as far as it will go.


You should hear two clicks and the hands of the watch should start moving again.
 The chronograph should now be set and ready to use.


To start and stop the chronograph, press the top button.
To reset the chronograph, press the bottom button after stopping the chronograph.
To split times, press the bottom button while the chronograph is running. The long chrono hand will stop. Press the bottom button again to force the hands forward toward the true elapsed time again.

