 Your face is the first thing people see when they meet you. Caring for your skin is important to prevent acne, dry skin, or oily skin, and to look and feel your best.


Wash your face with either cold or lukewarm water. Avoid using warm/hot water when you wash up.Use a gentle exfoliator once or twice a week. Don't exfoliate too often, or you could irritate your skin.Pat your face dry with a clean, gentle cloth. Don't rub your face dry, or you could upset the skin., Brushing and flossing should be a part of your daily routine, at least twice each day. Proper dental care will help prevent bad breath and keep your teeth bright and healthy.


Use an 18 inch-long piece of dental floss to get between your teeth, starting with the top row and working your way to the bottom. Form a C-shape around each tooth to ensure you get all sides (including the backs of teeth).Use an antiseptic mouthwash to help kill bacteria in your mouth. Swish with mouthwash for roughly 30 to 60 seconds, then spit.
Apply a pea-sized glob of fluoride toothpaste onto your toothbrush and work it across your teeth in a circular motion. Brush the front, back, and chewing surface of each tooth, then gently work your brush along the gum line to remove plaque and food residue., Most Americans shower on a daily basis, though many shower every other day or even less frequently, depending on water availability. Whenever you shower, it's important to take care of yourself for a cleaner, more confident body.Try to keep to a lukewarm temperature. Temperature extremes can dry out your skin.
Lather the shampoo of your choice and rub it into your scalp. You should also wash your beard (if you have facial hair) with shampoo to keep it clean and odor-free.
Rinse out all the shampoo from your hair.
If using conditioner, apply it similarly to your scalp and wash it all out.
Use soap or body wash to clean everything from your neck down. Lather, apply, and rinse thoroughly.
Wash your genital area and posterior, moving from front to back.
Make sure you've rinsed away any residual soap before exiting the shower/bath.
 At the very least, you should be wearing deodorant on a daily basis.However, the finer points of men's fragrance comes down to personal preference. If deodorant is enough for you, then choose a deodorant that you like and you're all set. If you're interested in a personal fragrance (like cologne or body spray), find one that works for you and try it out in small doses.Deodorant should be worn everyday, no matter where you'll be.
If using cologne or body spray, remember that less is more.

