 Sometimes, your eyebrows can become coarse and unmanageable, just like your hair. Using a conditioner on them can make them softer and easier to work with.Start by putting warm water on a washcloth and placing it over your eyebrows. Leave it there for a minute or two, making your eyebrows damp and warm.
If you have a leave-in conditioner, simply apply a small amount to each eyebrow, making sure to rub it in well so it doesn't get in your eyes.
If you want to use a wash-out conditioner, pick one that's fairly thick. Apply enough to cover each eyebrow, and leave it on there for about 5 minutes. Try not to look up and get it on your eyelashes while it's in. Use a washcloth to wipe it off at the end, then wash your eyebrows more thoroughly. You can also do this step in the shower, but be careful about getting it in your eyes.
You can buy conditioners specifically for eyebrows, though you'll pay more for them. Some of these products promise to help regrow hair.
 Eyebrow pencils come in a variety of colors, and you can use them to shape and fill in your brows. Pick a color that matches your eyebrow hair or is slightly darker.For heavy definition, use the pencil to line the underside of your eyebrow along the hairline.
To fill in your brow, use the pencil to make small strokes across your eyebrows, following the direction of the hair. When you're done, comb your brows with a spoolie brush to even it out a little.
 Powders can also help fill in your eyebrows. You pick a powder that matches your eyebrow color, though you'll want a slightly darker color and a slightly lighter color. It will likely come with wax to apply before the powder and maybe concealer to clean up the shape.Start by brushing your brows into shape with a spoolie brush.
Use your finger to pull out a little wax. Run your finger over your brow, going with the direction of the hair.
Start with a slightly darker color at the arch. Use a small angled brush. Use small strokes to brush the powder in, moving towards the tip and going in the direction of the hair. With a lighter shade, start at the inside of the brow, moving toward the arch. Blend it in as you get to the arch.
You can set the powder by running a brow gel over it, gently.
 Pomades can provide shape and color to your eyebrows, depending on the product. Once you've brushed your brows, you can use the pomade to create a more finished look for your brows. When picking one out, choose one that matches your eyebrow hair color.Use an angled brush with a defined line to apply pomade along the bottom of the brow line along the hair line. Don't start all the way on the inside of the brow. Come a little bit in. Pull the line all the way out to the end, making it as pointed as you want it. If you want some product on the inner part of your eyebrow, choose a product that fills in lighter, and still don't go all the way to the inside. If you use a lighter color, make sure to blend it into the darker color.
Once you have a small line, use the brush to lightly pull it up into the hair.
You can also add a line to the top for more definition, especially if you have bushier eyebrows., Another option is brow mascara. Brow mascaras add body and build to your eyebrows, if you prefer yours to be bushier. They also add color.








Brow mascaras come in a tube like eyelash mascara.
To apply with a ball brush that comes in some of these mascaras, start by working from the outer edge in. That is, brush from the outer corner to the inner corner, against the grain. Then go back the other way.
Repeat if you want them even bushier.
 A mattifying gel is meant to take the shine off. When you get your hair removed, you may have shiny skin underneath. Applying this type of gel can work to take care of that shine, so it doesn't stand out against the rest of your skin.Just a apply a small amount to the skin where you've had hair removed near your eyebrows. For instance, you may want to put some between your eyebrows.
 If you're tweezers have been hiding in the bottom of a makeup bag for years, it's time to get a new pair. Old pairs aren't as sharp, meaning you will need to pluck hairs more than once.Pick a pair that has a slanted edge, coming down to a point. These tweezers make it easier to grab hairs than a strictly pointed pair.
When looking at tweezers, pick a stainless steel pair. This metal isn't irritating for most people. It's also easy to clean and long-lasting., If you don't have the money to invest in a new pair of tweezers, you can sharpen an old pair. The easiest way to do it is to rub a nail file along the edge you pluck with, which will help create a better grip.You can also use sand instead, rubbing it along the edge.
Clean your tweezers every time you use them with a bit of rubbing alcohol.
 When plucking, you need a good light to see by. If you can, invest in a good vanity light to make sure you can see. You can also do fairly well in a brightly lit bathroom, if you don't want to use a vanity light.If you have neither of these options, move to natural light. You can move over to the window to see better.
A magnified mirror can also help you see better.

