 Herbal supplements are required to include certain information on the package. Before you purchase an herbal supplement, read the label and make sure that it includes:the name of the herbal supplement including the common and Latin name for the herbthe manufacturer’s or distributor’s name and address
the amount, serving size, and active ingredients
a full list of ingredients including inactive ingredients

, Herbal supplements with a United States Pharmacopeial (USP) seal are likely to be of higher quality than those without a USP seal. The USP seal means that the ingredients have been lab-tested and verified by a third party. It also means that what you see listed on the bottle is what is actually in the bottle. An herbal supplement with a USP seal has also been determined to be free of potentially harmful ingredients and has been produced under sanitary conditions that meet the FDA’s guidelines.Steer clear of herbal supplements that do not have a USP seal. Studies have shown that some herbal supplements do not contain the right herb, while others may also contain metals, pesticides, and even prescription drugs., Although herbal supplements from Europe are well regulated, many of the supplements from Mexico, China, and India are not well regulated. Make sure to check the label to determine where the supplement was produced. Avoid any supplements that were not produced in the United States or Europe., Any manufacturer claims the herb will prevent, treat, or cure a disease should have you on your guard. Herbal supplement manufacturers may include information about proven effects of the herb, but they do not have to submit this proof to the FDA. Therefore, some herbal supplement packages may contain information that is not verified.Be wary of any supplements that seem to be making incredible claims about what the supplement can do. For example, if the label claims that a product will prevent or cure a specific disease, then investigate these claims before you purchase and use the product.

