 Time is valuable. If you show up late, you are telling your date that your time is more valuable than his or her time. Being late is sending the wrong message before the date has even started.If you're running late, call ahead to let your date know, or reschedule well in advance.


If you are usually late to things, plan to leave extra early . Also, consider the traffic you may encounter on the way.
If you are going to a place you have never been before, map it out so you can gauge how long it will take you to get there.
 A date is a time for you and your date to get to know one another. Don't do or say things that you would usually wouldn't just to get your date's attention or to get them to like you.

Your goal is to find someone that you are compatible with and likes you for the person you are. The best way to do this is present your true self while you are on the date.

Be truthful about your likes and dislikes and answer questions honestly. There is no need to embellish or make things sound better in an effort to impress your date.
If you snort when you laugh really hard, go ahead and let it happen. It is something that makes you unique.
 It is fine to talk about your last relationship if your date asks, but do not go into too much detail or reveal all of the bad things about your ex. You should focus on the present and the possibility of building something with this new person.Talking about your ex can also give the impression that you may bring baggage into a new relationship and can be a turn off to your date.
 If you are nervous, it may seem like a good idea to have a drink or two to relax. However, drinking too much alcohol may backfire on you.You do not want to say or do something because your inhibitions have been lowered. If you drove yourself to the date, drinking and driving is another reason to limit your alcohol intake.


Do not drink more than two alcoholic drinks on your date and make sure you drink some water.
Also, if you know that you have a low alcohol tolerance, you may want to refrain from drinking alcohol all together.

