 Because they started as a utilitarian piece for servicemen strapped with equipment, they’re naturally oversized.However, designers haven’t been afraid to play around with the bomber jacket design. You can wear them as an oversized piece, but you can also find them in slim fitting versions, cropped versions, and so on.


Getting the proper fit is key to rocking this look. Before you purchase a bomber jacket, it’s best to try it on.;
, There is a bomber jacket in every color of the rainbow. If you’re going to invest in a bomber jacket, decide what exactly you want it for. You can get a neutral color, like black, gray, or even a muted green, that you can wear daily as your primary outerwear. You could also purchase your bomber jacket in a flashy color or print to rock as a statement piece.
 Just like with colors, bomber jackets come in a variety of different materials and fabrics as well. The traditional bomber jacket is made from nylon, but you certainly aren’t limited to that. If you want to wear your bomber in colder weather, you could choose a leather bomber jacket, or a quilted, insulated one. If you’re more worried about style than warmth, you can find bomber jackets in materials like silk and khaki. Explore all your bomber jacket options – there are many!, A T-shirt and jeans might be the most basic combination, but you can take it to another level by popping a bomber jacket over top. Add your favorite pair of sneakers, and you look effortlessly trendy. Wear this outfit running errands or out to eat with friends. The bomber jacket is an eye-catching piece on an otherwise simple outfit., These cut-off shirts are another piece that are extremely popular right now. If the weather is a bit too chilly to wear the crop top alone, or if you just want to cover up a bit, pop a bomber jacket on top. Add a pair of high-waisted jeans or shorts to create a chic outfit that shows a sexy pop of skin., If you’re heading to the gym, leaving the gym, or if you’re embracing the athleisure trend, adding a bomber jacket can make it street-ready. By popping a bomber jacket over your exercise clothing, you can take your gym clothes from the weight room (or the couch) to the outside world seamlessly., Wearing a bomber jacket over a little black dress – or any formfitting, cocktail dress – completely transforms that look. The boxy fit of the bomber jacket gives an unexpected edge of sportiness to this otherwise straightforward “night out” outfit. If you need a jacket to wear over a dress or just want to put a different spin on a dress you’ve already worn, a bomber jacket is the perfect solution.You can also turn a tiny, evening dress into a daytime dress by adding sneakers and a bomber.
 There is nothing more chic than a sleek, one color outfit. Pair some black pants with a black shirt, and pop a black bomber on top. Not only is this flattering, but you can easily dress it up. Add a chunky watch or a metallic belt for a little pop of color., You might be surprised, but you can easily fit a bomber jacket into your work wardrobe. If you want to wear your bomber jacket into a professional environment, make sure to choose one that is thin and more form fitting. Bulky, oversized bombers jackets are harder to dress up, but a tailored version can easily be pulled off over a shirt and tie or dress.