 There are two ways to establish a connection between your phone and your computer:

Use a data cable. Most Nokia phones come with their own data cables. Use these to plug and connect your phone to your computer.



 


Connect via Bluetooth. If your phone has Bluetooth, turn it on and have your phone and your computer pair up.





;
, Look for the Nokia PC Suite under “All Programs” in the Start menu of your Windows desktop. Click on it to launch the program.
 On the left panel, you can see a drop-down list. Click on this to select the phone where the photos and videos you’d like to back up are located.
 The Nokia PC Suite has a panel of icons at the right side for all the functions available on it. Look for the icon of a file cabinet with a photo. Click on this to launch the Nokia Image Store.


You will see a welcome page for the Image Store settings wizard. Click the right arrow at the bottom to proceed.
 Tick on the corresponding check boxes for “Images” and “Videos” to let the phone know which file types you’d like to copy to your computer; you can choose both.


Click the right arrow at the bottom to proceed.
 Set the destination folder for the files on the first field.

Click on the folder icon beside the field to open up the file directory.






From the file directory, you can navigate to the location of the folder to be used. You can also create a new folder if one doesn’t exist yet.
 Use the options listed to define how the files to be transferred will be categorized through subfolders on your PC. Subfolders will be created based on the “Transfer date,” “Shooting date,” “Shooting month,” or “None.”


“Transfer date” pertains to the date when the transfer from the phone happened.
“Shooting date” pertains to the date when the photo or video was taken.
“Shooting month” pertains to the month when the photo or video was taken.
If you choose “None,” all files would be put under the root folder without any categorization.
Select one of these options, and click on the right arrow at the bottom to proceed.



If you’d like the source files to be deleted after the transfer, tick “Erase images and videos from the phone.”
If you’d like them to be available on your phone, leave this option blank.
If you’d like to view the files you’ve transferred, tick “View images and videos,” and then select the appropriate program to be used for viewing.



Click the right arrow at the bottom to proceed.
 The Nokia PC Suite has a panel of icons at the right side for all the functions available on it.


Look for the icon of a file cabinet with a photo. Click on this to launch the Nokia Image Store.
 Once launched, the Image Store will automatically transfer the photos and videos based on the settings you’ve set in part 3. The status of the transfer will be displayed on the screen.
 Once the transfer is finished, a summary report will be displayed. The report will include the destination folder, how many files were stored, and what was done to the source files on your phone.
 Click on the red circle button at the bottom part of the summary screen to close and exit the program.