 Before everything else, you need to progress your story. The Cactakara Forest questline involves giant fighting robots, ancient civilizations, and a quirky side-character who gets a change of heart due to your good graces. Each quest has clear conditions, and with the auto-complete function, it would probably just take you a couple hours at the most if you don’t pause to mess around. In lieu of spoilers, the questline ends when a plan of yours falls short, and you’re prompted to head back to Navea.;
, If you just speed-completed the quests, chances are that you may have not met the level conditions. Level 40 is the minimum level requirement to get a subclass. You might have reached Level 40 at this point, but if you haven’t yet, it’s time to kill some monsters! The highest-leveled ones are around the Rarnor Falls, where your last few Quests took place. Sarpas and Caustic Sarpas are around level 40, which makes them perfect to grind for your EXP needs.


You can also tackle Daily Quests from NPCs, missions from the Mission Boards in town, or even use the Monster XP Books you most likely found or received while exploring.
 Once at level 40, it’s time to head back to Navea. You most likely remember it from the end of the Crescent Hill questline. The easiest route to Navea is by going to a nearby Warp Portal. It’s a pagoda-like structure with a decorated teardrop-shaped blue crystal floating above it. Click the large floating crystal and you’ll see a selection of places to go to. At the very top is Navea; click the city name.


Warp Portals can be found on the world map as a blue wing icon in a white circle.
If you still have some errands to run in Crescent Hill or fancy the long route, head back to Brevis. Go through the portal to Crescent Hill, then when you’re ready, just head on northwest until you see the giant walls and gate.
 Navea is a huge sprawling city, so it’s easy to get lost if you didn’t spend some time exploring the place earlier on. Head to the northwest section of the city. Use the map on the upper right of the screen to navigate until you see the huge building, then enter the portal in the front of the large doors.


You can also take the portal to the church instead. It’s found in the Trade District, just directly east of the fountain. It’s a circle on the ground with a glowing gold symbol floating above it, and if you’re close enough, it has the label “Portal to Church.”

, Report to the Bishop to fulfill the Quest conditions. After receiving the reward, you get to read some more exposition about the story and the setting of Aura Kingdom. He’ll then prompt you to head to Andre.
 It’s the huge courtyard around east of the church, and when you enter it, you’ll see loads of knight NPCs training in the grounds. Look north from the gate, and you’ll see a huge building, a wide set of stairs, and a quest marker! Go up the stairs, and get hit by a wave of familiarity as you speak to Andre, the lead Templar himself!

, He’ll say some admittedly unflattering things about you, but after a while, you both get into the meat of the conversation: training you to wield a secondary weapon, otherwise known as a Subclass! A short cutscene will trigger afterwards, but when that’s over, you can finally get yourself a Subclass!

, You have free choice between the classes, but certain classes have skills for you to unlock with your main class. For Guardian, you can find the Duelist (Dual Blades), Ranger (Bow), and Ravager (Axe) have some skills you can unlock. They’re unlocked in your Envoy’s Path, so feel free to mess around with it and take the skills you need!

