 Something with shine or glitter would be sweet, or something transparent and flowing. Bright colors are good too. The fabric type is important because it will help to suggest fairy wings when the wearer puts these on.


You'll need about a yard or 90cm of it for a child's size, and about half that size more for an adult.;
, If needed, cut to shape.
 Pull the center of the fabric in from the top and from the bottom. This will cause the fabric to bunch up. Tie a rubber band or elastic around the center, where the two edges meet from being bunched up. Wrap a pretty ribbon in a matching or contrasting color around the rubber band, to cover it up and look prettier. Glue, knot or stitch in place.
 This means whichever part you've decided will form the top of the wings. Leave plenty of loop space open for going around the child or adult wearer's wrists.
 The wings will be attached after the rest of the costume has been assembled.
 Some suggestions for colors include the natural greens, blues and purples of the forest floor or the bright colors of bold butterflies not trying to hard, such as oranges, reds and bright blues.
 The style of the clothing should emphasize ease of movement (think stretch fabric) and a little glamour (think flowing, lace, sparkly). Camisoles, gym tops, leggings, short flowing bamboo skirts, etc., are just some possibilities. Don't be constrained by these suggestions––check the wardrobe and feel free to mix and match existing clothing to create a fairy style, accounting for the colors you're trying to convey too. Also consider the color and style of the wings made earlier––what will work well with those?


It doesn't matter that you wouldn't normally wear certain items together, after all, this is costume time.
 Ballet shoes are a good choice but sneakers, sandals or kitten heels could also work well.
 You can buy these or make them. Simple ones could be made using a headband and attaching skinny spring lengths to the headband with pompoms glued on top.


You can always substitute with buns on top of your head if you don't want to make a headband antennae.
 Sparkly hair spray can add glitter, and doesn't have to be confined to your hair, go all out! You could also use glitter nail polish and face glitter for added sparkle. And consider having a butterfly face paint done by someone who knows how.
 Then have the wings pinned to the back using safety pins. You'll definitely need a helper for this, and be sure to stand still while it is being pinned on. Thread your hands through the elastic loops to hold the wings in place. They will only look like wings when you lift your arms up and "flutter" them but that's the whole point of these easy-to-make wings. Finally, put on your shoes.
 Pull your hair up off your face and place in a ponytail or the two buns if you're not using antennae. Have someone paint a butterfly on your face, if this is happening or simply add the glitter makeup.


If using glitter spray in your hair, spray it on now.
, You're all good to go. Don't forget to get a photo taken at least once. And flutter to make those wings work!


Show your wings moving after you've received your treats, as a way to say thank you to people. Put your treat bucket down first.

