 Go to www.foursquare.com to begin using the Explore feature. If you have an account with Foursquare, log into your account using your registered email address or mobile number and password in the required fields.


Note that if you have Foursquare version 8.0, you can use the Explore feature without logging in.;
, Type the name of your desired place to check out in the “My Location” search box at the top of the Foursquare home page. For a more accurate search, include the name and address (city, state, country).


While typing the location name, you should see different recommended locations following your searching words. You can choose one of those locations to make your task easier.
 There is a drop-down menu on the left of the search bar. In this drop-down menu, you can customize your search result by selecting a particular category for places, such as “Best nearby,” “Specials,” “Food,” “Nightlife,” “Coffee,” “Shopping,” “Sights,” “Arts,” “Outdoors,” “Trending,” “Saved,” and “Recently opened.”


Click on the “I’m looking for…” box to choose one of the categories according to your preference.After choosing an option, the location search result will be updated matching your location keywords.
If you do not want to categorize places and just want to browse all types of places near the location you indicated, choose the “Best Nearby” option. You can also type a category name of your preference in the category box to modify the search results.
 You should see a list of nearby locations on the left side and a map on the right side according to your the location you entered in Step 1. You will also see serial numbers on the map matching the serial numbers of locations listed on the left.


To find a location quickly, just match the serial numbers. Click on the listed number on the map to view the location’s details on the left.
On the top left side of the map area, you can zoom in or zoom out the map screen by clicking on the “+” or “-” sign. If you want to use your current location on the universal map, click on the “Up arrow” button on the top of the map.
 Notice the place ratings on your location list. The ratings feature is a great way to find the best places nearby. These are the ratings given by people who have visited the place before.
 There is an extra customization bar under the search boxes, the “Show me” search bar, where you can select a sub-category to find an exact location. You can input different types of information in your search here, such as special places, your visited or unseen places, places from your friend’s searching, or present condition of the places. You can even save your search result by clicking on the chosen tab over there.


Click on the suggested sub-category links on the top to find a specific place of your interest. Foursquare will suggest a lot of sub-categorized links on the top to help you find the right place.
 Select a location’s name from the list to view its information page.


Click on a location and it information page will open. There, you will see the location’s address, the visitor number, the number of likes, opening and closing hours, menu or function, and the contact number.
Read the reviews and tips of this location posted by other users or visitors. It will help you decide whether the place is right for you. You can easily know both the positive aspects and negative aspects of an exact location from the tips of users and visitors.
Find the exact tips on a particular feature of that location by clicking on “Tips” under the Filter option.

