 If food never touches the inside of your garbage bin, it won’t have the chance to smell. The best way to ensure this is by using the thickest trash bags you can get, so they won’t tear or leak. If you want a little extra protection, there are odor-reducing trash bags available, as well., If your garbage doesn’t marinate in the garbage bin, it won’t get the chance to smell as bad! Remove the bag from the trash can at least once a week. Ideally, you should coordinate this time with the time your city collects the garbage., The scraps and leftovers you produce when cooking are some of the biggest culprits in making the trash smell bad. Collect them, and you can help your garden (or a city garden) and simultaneously keep your garbage bin cleaner. Compost can be kept in a pile or sealed bin outside, or in a container in the freezer., It’s not just good for the environment; it’s good for your trashcan. Recyclables take up a lot of space in the bin, and food can spill on cardboard and smell bad quickly. Rinse recyclables like bottles and cans that had food touching them, and keep them in a separate bin., If you’re working with food scraps that get smelly extra-fast, like meat, fish bones, or cheese rinds, defend your trashcan and nose from them. Pop them in a smaller plastic bag, then seal it with a knot or twist tie, before chucking them into the can., Most of the smell of a trash can is concentrated at the bottom, so it makes sense to place something at the bottom to soak up the stench. There are a few different options, but whatever you choose, remember to switch it up every couple of weeks. Otherwise, it will stop serving its purpose.


Baking soda is a classic and inexpensive odor absorber. Sprinkle a generous layer along the bottom of the garbage bin.Cat litter was made to combat bad smells, so it’s an ideal odor absorber, as well. Sprinkle it along the bottom of the bin, and make sure it doesn’t get wet and clump up.Dryer sheets are a miracle of science--they can de-static your clothes and keep your trash can from smelling. Put one or two in a scent you like in the can.