 As a parent, you tend to put the needs of others before yourself on a daily basis. Start including yourself in the mix by setting aside time and money each month to pamper yourself. How you do this will depend on your budget and circumstances, but take a moment each month to look over your calendar and schedule in some "me-time."This might translate to finally using that gift card your mom gave you to the local spa, or playing a round of golf with the guys. Get a manicure, a haircut, or buy yourself that new article of clothing you have been coveting.
Scheduling in me-time doesn't have to drastically shake up your normal schedule. Join a gym that has childcare services. Plan a playdate where the kids can go crazy with each other while a group of parents gossip over coffee.;
, Believe it or not, lots of children are sleep-deprived. Of course, tons of parents are, too. While it may start off as a battle, setting an earlier bedtime will benefit your children and you. Not only are children more alert when they get a good night's sleep, but sleep supports physical and mental health, too.Plus, when your children go to sleep earlier, you can get some much-needed rest, also. But, before you do that, create a blissful wind-down routine that you can look forward to. Play soft music as you prepare for bed. Light some scented candles. Pour yourself a glass of wine. Run an indulgent bubble bath. Read a novel in quiet. Putting the kids down early can be a treat for everyone.
Keep in mind that your child’s bedtime and bedtime routine will depend on their age. For example, a young child might enjoy it if you read them a bedtime story, while a teenage may benefit from 30 minutes of quiet reading time before bed that is observed by the whole family. Talk with your child’s pediatrician or check out some books to find age-appropriate advice on bedtimes and helpful routines.
 Mindfulness is the practice of being present in the moment. Cultivating a mindful outlook can lower your stress levels and help you enjoy your day-to-day tasks more.For instance, when you’re cooking or driving, don’t let your mind race ahead to the next thing on your to-do list. Just focus on the job at hand.
Keep in mind that mindfulness takes time and patience to master. It is not something that comes naturally. Start out with short mindfulness exercises to build this skill. Over time you will find yourself living a more mindful existence.
 Designate two or three 15-minute intervals during the day as “me-time.” If you use a planner, schedule your personal time just like you would any other appointment. You’re more likely to stick to your plans if you commit to them beforehand.During your "me-time," you might listen to some soothing music, enjoy an indulgent dessert, do a quick workout, or simply sit on your back porch and watch the sun set. Avoid doing anything productive during your alone time. This time is meant to be restorative and relaxing.
 Having kids can make it more difficult to focus on your relationship. Schedule a regular date night with your partner, or get up half an hour earlier to have coffee together in the mornings before the kids are awake.Make sure that your partner prioritizes your special time, too. You might say, "Hey, I feel like we don't spend much time together during the week. How about each night, after we put the kids to bed, we sit out on the deck and chat for a few minutes? I'd really love to give you more of my undivided attention."

, Spending time with friends can be a fun way to recharge. Hire a babysitter so you can have an occasional afternoon out, or plan activities with family friends so that all your kids can play together.Call up your best pals and say, "How about we create a weekly girls' (or guys') night? We all need a break from routine...What do you think?" You could go out for dinner on this night or stay in and watch movies or football and eat popcorn. It's up to you.
 Gratitude is a powerful mood-lifter. When you’re in the habit of being grateful for what you have, you’ll feel less stressed and more grounded.Try writing a few lines in a gratitude journal every night, surrounding yourself with positive reminders, or just expressing your appreciation to the people in your life more often.
To maintain an attitude of gratitude, you may need to start distancing yourself from people who are critical, ungrateful, or otherwise harmful for you to be around.
 If you’ve been used to taking care of everybody else’s needs, you might feel selfish for thinking about yourself. Don’t feel guilty – you need care just like everyone else. Practicing basic self-care keeps you healthy and in a positive frame of mind, which makes you better able to fulfill your responsibilities.Hold yourself to the same standards as you would a friend. You wouldn’t expect a friend to be able to do things for other people all day without taking a little time out to rest, so cut yourself some slack, too.
Practicing self-care will also help to teach your children that they are not the center of the universe, which is a very important lesson. It will also increase the chances that they will practice self-care as adults.
 Don’t say “yes” to requests you know are going to run you ragged. It’s OK to have limits in place for how much you’re willing to do in a day. Make self-care a priority, and honor that promise to yourself.Let's say you are asked to head up the yearly fundraiser at your kids' school. You might decline the request by saying, "You know I really enjoy fundraising, but I have a lot on my plate right now. Is there anyone else you can ask?"
If you get overwhelmed by your to-do items, then you can also try making your to-do list for the day and then cutting it in half. This will help you to do see that the world will not end if you don’t do everything.
 You might not be able to keep the house looking immaculate and put an elaborate dinner on the table every night, but a few cobwebs and a simple meal never hurt anybody. Lower your expectations a little. It’s OK for things to be imperfect.Keep in mind that people make their memories around things that are made, not things they have, such as accommodations or possessions.
 Hire a babysitter for a few hours a week, ask a family member to take your kids to the park, or see if a friend would be willing to pick up groceries for you. For many parents, seeking help from others is essential for maintaining a good balance between family life and personal life.You might say, "Hey, Carla, I've been super stressed with work. Can I bring the kids over for a play-date this weekend so I can have a few hours to myself?"
You might even consider setting up regular appointments for help, such as from a housekeeper, gardener, or babysitter.
 Being efficient with your time can help you find time for yourself. Adopt a good morning and evening routine to make the day go more smoothly and free up time later on.In the morning, start a meal in the slow cooker, so you won’t have to spend an hour on dinner after you come home from work.
In the evening, help your kids set out their clothes, backpacks, breakfast cereal, and anything else they’ll need to get out the door quickly the next morning.
 Exercise keeps your body fit, rejuvenates your mind, and lifts your mood. Aim to get at least thirty minutes of activity every day.Consider getting up early in the morning to fit your workout into the day.
Look for exercises you can do with your kids. Younger kids might enjoy doing an exercise DVD with you. Hiking is a good choice for older kids.
 Sleep is crucial for your well-being, so don’t neglect it. Make it a priority to get at least seven to eight hours every night.If you feel like you don’t have time for a full night of sleep, examine your activities and see if there are any--like watching TV or surfing the internet--that you could cut back on to get more rest.
If you have a hard time falling asleep, try creating a calming bedtime ritual for yourself. Turn off your electronics and spend a few minutes reading, taking a warm bath, or writing in a journal to unwind.
 The foods you eat have a big impact on your mood. When you’re busy, you might feel tempted to choose convenient or comforting options, but many of these foods aren’t very nutritious and will make you feel worse in the long run. Instead, opt for a diet full of fruits, vegetables, lean protein, and whole grains.Avoid refined sugars and white flour. These foods can cause your blood sugar to spike and then crash, resulting in low energy and mood swings.
 Many parents will forgo annual appointments with a doctor or will not go to see a doctor when they are sick. This is not good for you or for your kids, especially if something happened to you. Make sure to see your general practitioner at least once per year for an annual exam and any time you are feeling sick.