 Street View is a function of Google Maps. Google cars equipped with specialized camera equipment drive the road networks of a variety of countries, taking 360° photos to aid in navigation and exploration. Google Maps allows you to see everywhere that Street View is available.


You can also access Street View through Google Earth.;
, You can search for a location or use your mouse to navigate around the map. Searching for something will often place a pin on the map at that location.
 Once you've found the location you want to look at, you can turn on Street View. Depending on how you found the location and what version of Maps you are using, there are several different ways to start Street View.


Street View for a search result. If you've searched for an address or location and a pin has been placed on the map, you can access the Street View for that location by clicking on the photo in the information box that appears when the pin is selected.
Drag and drop the Pegman. Click and hold the Pegman icon to "Grab" it. The roads will highlight to show where Street View is available. Roads with Street View will have a blue line running down the middle. Buildings that you can see inside have a yellow circle. Scenic spots will have a blue circle. If you are using the new Google maps preview, clicking the Pegman will toggle the Street View layer on the map.
Use the Explore bar. If you are using the new Maps preview, you can click the arrow icon in the lower-right corner to open the Explore bar. This will display notable locations and sights near your current location on the map. Clicking these photos will take you directly to the Street View for that spot.
Zoom all the way in. Zooming in past the closest level in Maps will automatically load Street View for that location if it is available.
 While in Street View, you can look around by clicking and dragging your mouse. Looking is usually by opposite mouse directions; for example, to look left you would click, hold, and move your mouse to the right.


You can use the buttons around the compass to look around as well. This is located in the upper-left corner of the original Maps and the lower-right corner of the new Maps preview.
 The true beauty of Street View lies in your ability to completely navigate while using it. Click anywhere on the image and Street View will attempt to move you to the closest spot. Use this to explore neighborhoods, take a virtual vacation, or look for landmarks for when you visit in person.


Streets will have arrows when you look at them. Clicking these arrows will move you a small distance on that street in that direction.