 Measure out 5 cups (500 g) of rye flour and remove a few tablespoons of the flour. Set this small amount aside for sprinkling over your work surface. Dump the remaining rye flour into a large mixing bowl. Add 1/2 tablespoon (10 g) of salt to one side of the bowl and put 3 1/2 teaspoons (10 g) of instant yeast in the other side of the bowl. Stir to combine the dry ingredients.You want to avoid placing the salt right on the yeast, or the salt could kill the yeast.
 Measure 1 1/2 cups (350 ml) of cool water and pour about 1 cup (240 ml) of it into the bowl with the dry ingredients. Add 4 teaspoons of molasses. Use your fingers or a rubber spatula to stir the mixture.If you don't have molasses, you could use black treacle.
 You should have about 1/2 cup (120 ml) of water set aside. Add a few tablespoons to the dough bowl at a time and mix the dough well in between additions. The dough should come away from the sides of the bowl once you've added enough of the water.You might not need to add all of the water to the dough. Avoid adding so much water that the dough becomes sticky and soggy.
 Spread a little olive oil on your work surface and scoop the shaggy dough onto it. Use the palms of your hands to knead the dough for about 10 minutes. The dough should become smoother (although not as elastic as dough made with white wheat flour).There are many ways to knead dough. For a basic way to knead dough, use one palm to spread the dough away from you. Fold the dough back to the center and turn it about 45 degrees. Use your palm to push the dough away again. Continue pushing, folding, and turning.
 Use your hands to shape the dough into a smooth ball. You can turn and tuck the dough until you've got a smooth ball with a small seam underneath.Since you won't bake this bread in a pan, it's important to get the dough into a tight free form ball.
 Sprinkle the inside of a large, round bowl with rye flour and set the ball of dough into it. If the ball has a seam, you should place that on the bottom of the bowl. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap or a kitchen towel and set the dough in a warm place. Prove the dough for at least eight hours or overnight.Rye flour takes much longer to prove than wheat flour, but the dough should double in volume.
 About 30 minutes before your dough has finished proving, turn on the oven to 425 degrees F (220 C). Set a roasting pan in the bottom of the oven while the oven preheats. Once it gets hot, carefully pour enough boiling water to fill the pan half full.The roasting pan full of water will make steam in the oven. This gives your rye bread a better crust than if you baked it in a dry oven.
 Lay a sheet of parchment paper or a silicone mat on a baking sheet. Carefully turn the risen dough out of the bowl and onto the baking sheet. Use a sharp knife to make three deep slashes on top of the dough.You can do straight slashes or crosshatches. The slashes help steam escape from the dough as it bakes.
 Put the bread in the preheated oven for 30 minutes. Since you won't be able to tell whether the bread is finished baking based on the color, you'll need to take it out of the oven. Turn the bread over and tap the bottom. Once the bread is cooked, it will sound hollow. If it doesn't, return it to the oven for a few more minutes.Cool the bread completely before you slice it.

