 Don’t blame yourself for your spouse’s self-harming behaviors. Even if things within your marriage are not going well, the self-harm is not your fault. You are not responsible for your spouse’s behavior.Perhaps you take responsibility for increasing your spouse’s stress or problems. This might be true, but you have not caused them to self-harm.
 Remember that your spouse isn’t trying to purposefully hurt you or your marriage. They aren’t trying to make you feel guilty or trying to get attention in this way.Instead, recognize that your spouse is experiencing intense emotions that are difficult to cope with. Even if you feel angered or frustrated by your spouse’s behavior, respond kindly to them instead of with anger.


If you’re struggling with your own intense emotions, take a break from talking to your spouse. Go on a walk or say that you need a moment before interacting.
 While it’s hard to see someone at their best when they are in crisis, remember who your spouse is outside of their self-harm. What are the things that attracted you to this person, and what made you want to marry them? Think about their good qualities and remind yourself that self-harm is not who they are, but just a part of their life at this moment.Spend time with your spouse doing something that you enjoy together and remind yourself that you can still have fun and enjoy each other together. Go to a movie or take a hike that you both enjoy.
 Sometimes, self-harm can be one way that people deal with overwhelming stress or dissatisfaction. Think about what causes your spouse stress and see what you can do to help relieve it so you can spend time together. While this won’t stop their self-harming, it can help you feel closer and build your relationship instead of taking it down.For example, if your spouse feels overwhelmed with taking care of the children or works tireless hours away from home, set aside time once a week where it’s just the two of you doing something enjoyable together. Get a babysitter, make dinner plans, or buy tickets to see a movie.
 You may also want to help reduce any additional stress that may exacerbate their desire to self-harm. If you know certain chores or errands like paying the bills cause your partner additional stress, offer to take up those responsibilities.Even if there is no predictable stress trigger, it may help your spouse maintain overall calm and mental balance when you offer to take on some stressful activities.

