 Look online, in journals, at conferences, in newspapers, on the radio and on TV to see where your competition has paid to advertise. If your competition advertises in specific places time after time, it is likely that they have contacts and success.;
, Although you may directly ask for advertising contacts, important advertising information may come through conversations with executives, newspaper articles and more. It is important to jot down any information that might help you build an advertising network as you hear it.


Include paid advertising sources, like advertising sales representatives at national, state and city media outlets.
Include free advertising sources, like editors, reporters, talk radio hosts, bloggers and more. Keep a list of people to whom you can send press releases, photographs and headlines. These contacts will pick up your story more easily after developing a relationship with them.
 A great way to accelerate the relationship process is to get to know someone face to face, or by telephone through a personal connection. The following are ways to strike up a personal introduction:


Ask your predecessor to introduce you. As part of your training, you should set up meetings with a senior employee who has handled advertising in the past. Do conference calls or meetings in order to establish a personal rapport and let the person know you are handling advertising from now on.
Call your school's alumni office. Request a list of alumni contacts who work in the media. Most of these people have already said they would be willing to speak to other alumni. Call or visit these people at newspapers, TV stations, social media sites, conferences, national organizations and more.
Attend conferences or seminars about your industry. Ask advice from other professionals, or seek out media contacts who are there to do stories or present.
Attend events that are held by advertising agencies in the area. These agencies may be able to bid on projects in the future. They often hold networking events to get more clients.
 If you have an opening, a promotion or even a company cocktail hour, you can invite editors, ad sales people, possible sponsorship organizers and more to attend. This casual business atmosphere is good for both talking about personal and professional topics, allowing you to maximize your networking efforts and put a face to a name.
 Pay to be a member and go to the meetings. Focus on having sincere face to face conversations with as many business people as possible, and your list of advertising contacts, as well as general business contacts, will grow.
 If your company, professional organization or Chamber of Commerce needs help with their planning committee or event staff, this is a great way to meet advertising contacts. They will contact you for information and you can strike up a professional relationship.
 Many people hold on to business cards. Keep any business cards you receive and refer back to them occasionally when you are interested in trying new advertising avenues.

