 To contact the Chatroulette staff, create a new email and address it to chatroulette@chatroulette.com.Chatroulette does not have a feedback form on its homepage or a separate email account for technical complaints or unbanning requests. All feedback for the chat site goes through this email address, so understand that it might take a little while before the staff gets to your message.;
, In the body of the email, explain that your IP was banned from the site and state why you believe the ban to be unfair.


You have a better chance of getting the ban lifted if you were legitimately not in the wrong. Many users claim that people hit the “Report” button whenever they see someone they do not want to see. For instance, this could happen if a man wants to reduce the number of men on the site to improve his odds of chatting with a woman, or if a woman or man runs across someone that she or he deems unattractive. If you suspect that you were banned for a reason like this, make sure to elaborate on that.
If you did do something that could be perceived as a violation of the rules, your best bet is to apologize and promise to behave yourself in the future. It may or may not work, but the staff can go back into your chat logs to determine if you were violating the rules or not, so owning up to your error is still a better bet than trying to deny it.
 You should also provide Chatroulette with your IP address and the approximate time at which the ban begin. The staff might be able to figure out who you are if they trace the email back to its source, but making the process easier for them improves your chances.


As noted previously, Chatroulette can use this information to go back into the chat log and determine if you were legitimately banned or not.
 It could take hours, days, or weeks for Chatroulette staff to respond—if they choose to do so at all. In the meantime, continue checking the site to see if your ban has been lifted yet.






Understand that Chatroulette is under no obligation to lift the ban or reply to your email, no matter how innocent you may or may not be.
Also understand that you might be unbanned but may not receive an email back to let you know about it. That is why you should continue to check the site even if you have not heard back from the staff.

