 Double click the desktop shortcut or click on the "Start" menu and locate the application in "Programs".


You must have MS Word downloaded to your PC to locate and utilize it.;
, Click the "Office Button" located in the upper left corner of the window and select "New" to start creating your document

, After clicking "New", Word will provide an assortment of document types to use. In the left column of the new window, you will see "Templates"


You can find a selection of templates under the list "Installed Templates". If you cannot locate a suitable template there, search for one under the "Microsoft Office Online" heading in the same window

, Select a template that is visually pleasing. Your newsletter should be organized and reader-friendly. Select a template that is appropriate and relates to your newsletter"s nature. Choose a template with the needed space for your information

, After you have selected your template, the outline of the template will be shown as your new document. Click and highlight a sample heading such as, "Heading 1" or "Title". Fill in your newsletter information accordingly.
 Once you have selected an image to use, save it to a recognizable folder in Windows "File Explorer". Move the typing cursor to the location you want to place your image, then click the "Insert" tab located on the top toolbar. Click "Picture" under the insert tab. Select your desired image in the file explorer.


Sometimes you can simply copy and paste the image directly to your document

, Right click the sample image. Select "Change Picture". Then select the image you would like to use in the file explorer

, Click on the "Insert" tab. Next, click on the "Chart" icon. A new window will appear showing various chart selections. Choose a chart type in the left column of that window. Select the appropriate specifications for your chart. Microsoft Excel will open in a new window. Apply your chart data accordingly. Close the Excel window and click "OK" in the chart window. Your new information will be inserted into your newsletter.


If you wish to change the chart type or style, click on the chart, then find the chart editing under the insert tab

, Include the Name, Date, and other vital information to your newsletter. Make sure to cover all important topics required for the document.
 Make sure to utilize vibrant and attractive color schemes to attract the audience. Organize your document structure for an "easy read". Make your newsletter pop and stand out to catch one's eye.
 Utilize the "Spell Check" button located under the "Home" toolbar. This will show any spelling or grammatical errors. Print a rough copy of your document to further review and edit.


Try reading your newsletter out loud to yourself to recognize any errors or miscommunication.
Have another person read you your newsletter to avoid any other errors.
 Click on the "Office Button" at the upper right of the window, then select "Save As". Select where you want to place the file. Click "Save".


Make sure to name your file and place it in a file that you can easily locate.

