 Cut the lid and flaps off of an egg carton first. Next, cut it straight down the middle so that you have two rows of egg cups. Set one of those strips aside for another project.


A 12 or 18-cup egg carton will work better than a 6-cup egg carton, otherwise you'll get a very short caterpillar.
Use scissors to trim off any sharp corners from the cups so that they are nice and smooth.;
, Flip the strip over so that you can see the outside of the cups. Paint it using acrylic paint, tempera paint, or poster paint. You can paint it all one color, or many different colors. You can even paint one end red, and the rest of it green to make it a "very hungry" caterpillar. Let the caterpillar dry before moving on.
 Choose an end to be the head, then poke two holes in the middle for the antenna. You can do this with a pair of scissors or a pencil. Younger children may need help with this step.If you made a "very hungry" caterpillar, the red end is the head.
You can paint the inside of the caterpillar if you want to.
 Flip the caterpillar over so that you can see the inside. Cut a pipe cleaner in half. Poke each end through a hole.Set the other half of the pipe cleaner aside for another project.
 Turn the caterpillar back over. Twist the pipe cleaner once, then spread it open to make a V. Decorate the pipe cleaners by gluing a pompom to the ends. You can also curl the ends over a pencil instead.If the antenna are too long, cut them shorter.
 Glue two googly eyes onto the front end, just below the antenna. Use a marker to draw a smile below the eyes. If you don't have any googly eyes, you can draw the eyes on instead., Cut some pipe cleaners into thirds. Stick two mini pipe cleaners into each cup (except for the head). Tape the pipe cleaners in place, one on each side of every cup. Bend the pipe cleaners into an L shape, if desired.How many pipe cleaners you cut depends on how many cups make up your caterpillars body.
 Let your imagination run wild! Paint spots or stripes on to it. Glue some pompoms down its back. Give it a goofy tongue, eyelashes, or a nose. Bend its antenna into a new shape. The possibilities are endless!

