 Did you abandon a bank account? Might you have inherited money or a trust fund? Have you failed to cash in on stocks, bonds, dividends, security deposits, trust funds, or escrow accounts? Are you eligible for government benefits, pension funds, that you have not claimed?Did you leave a job with money owed to you? Were you earning pension funds at a business that closed?
Are you owed a tax refund?;
, The U.S. National Association of Unclaimed Property Administrators (NAUPA) has a website where you can search by state. You will be directed to your state government treasury department's website, which provides information on unclaimed personal or business properties., NAUPA endorses a free search data based called Missing Money. When you locate Missing Money on the NAUPA website (or through searching online), enter your first and last names and any state you have lived in. The database will find a match if you are owed funds.
 Millions of tax refunds are left unclaimed every year. If you were expecting a refund that you did not receive, check the IRS' Refund Status website. Enter your social security number, your filing status, and the dollar amount you expected refunded. Alternately, call the IRS' Refund Hotline.If you didn't receive your refund because you moved and the IRS didn't have your new address, you may be prompted to enter a new address.
If you do not file taxes, but federal taxes are withheld from your pay, or you qualify for an Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), you may be owed money. File a return within three years of the passed filing deadline to get your refund.
 Contact the unclaimed property office in your state, or in the state where you are owed money. Especially if you have been contacted by a third party "finer" or "locator" who wants to charge you a percentage of the total you will gain. It may take longer, but going through the government will get you your money for free, no strings attached.Locators are often employed by companies that owe you money before they turn the funds over to the state. Contact your local government or contact the company directly to avoid dealing with the locator.
Many finders and locators work within the law, but others are scam artists. Never sign a contract with one without contacting your local unclaimed property office.
 People may try to trick you out of your money by claiming to represent the government. The government will not contact you to let you know you are owed funds. If you are contacted by anyone claiming to have money for you, do not give them any information about yourself. Contact your state unclaimed property office to verify any communications you receive about unclaimed money.If you are sure an email is a scam, report it to the Internet Crime Complaint Center.

