 If you have had surgery or visited an orthopedist with an injury or complaint, your hospital or doctor will usually issue you a pair of crutches – typically underarm crutches in the U.S. and forearm crutches elsewhere. Before accepting them, or indeed before your surgery, ask how much they cost and how much of the cost will be covered by insurance. Some hospitals, in particular, overcharge for crutches.You can save by purchasing your own.


The advantage of getting crutches from your hospital or doctor is that your healthcare professional will help you ensure that the crutches fit properly. If you buy them on your own, you may not buy ones that fit correctly.;
, If you know someone who has had knee or ankle surgery or suffered a broken bone and recovered, they may still have their crutches. Especially if they had a nicer pair than the standard underarm crutches, this is a great way to get a good pair of crutches for free. Just make sure the crutches fit you and that they are in good repair.


Pay particular attention to the rubber tips on the bottoms of the crutches. They wear out quickly, but can be replaced cheaply.
 Particularly if you are looking to buy spring-loaded or articulated crutches, you will usually need to go online. Large vendors like amazon.com, drug stores, and medical supply companies such as Allegro Medical and the Medical Supply Group all offer crutches for sale online, making the internet a great place to comparison shop and get the best price. However, there are two drawbacks:


Medicare rarely reimburses online purchases. If you have private insurance, you will need to request an invoice in order to file a claim, and your insurance company may not reimburse you.
It is important to try out crutches to ensure comfort and fit. If you are buying online, consider ordering several pairs of crutches and returning all but the ones you prefer. Check the store's return policy first to ensure that you can get your money back without paying high return fees.
 Most drug stores sell crutches, but be aware that your choice will be limited. Many stores offer only one type of underarm and one type of forearm crutch. Be sure to make sure the store participates in Medicaid or to contact your insurance company to make sure the crutches are covered by your insurance.
 Like drug stores, local medical supply companies typically only offer one type of underarm and one type of forearm crutch. However, particularly if you are borrowing a pair of crutches that needs repair, medical supply stores can be a good place to get replacement crutch tips or handles.

