 Donut forms can be purchased in the hair accessories section of the drugstore, but it's just as easy to make your own with a sock. You want a large, stretchy tube sock that's easy to roll. Use an old pair because you will be cutting the toe off.


It's best if you have a sock that's similar to your hair color, but any sock will work.
If using a store-bought doughnut form, skip to step 4.;
, You now have one long tube that's open at both ends.
 Take the top edge of the sock and roll it down toward the bottom edge. The sock will begin to form a doughnut shape. Make sure it's tight and evenly shape.
 The ponytail can be high or low, depending on what style you like. If you want your bun to look full, tease your ponytail a bit to create more texture. If you want it to look smooth and sleek, comb your hair straight.









A donut bun will hold best in second or third day hair, since it's not as slippery. Use a little dry shampoo if your roots are oily.
If you're working with clean hair, spray it with a light coating of hairspray to add a little texture to your hair so it will stay in the bun.
 Make sure all of your hair gets through the hole. Slide the sock donut a few inches down your ponytail so that the tips of your hair are sticking out of the hole.
 Tuck the tips under so that your hair is evenly spread in a donut shape, covering the sock or form.









This step takes the longest, because you want to make sure your hair is completely covering the sock or form. Try to spread it out evenly without leaving any gaps.
If your hair isn't thick enough to cover the sock or form, you may want to start over with a smaller sock.
 Begin rolling it down toward the base of your ponytail to create a growing donut shape. Make sure your hair is getting neatly rolled into the donut. Keep going until the donut is flat against your head.








Is your hair too short to roll? No problem! Simply gather your hair over the donut form or sock in a donut shape. Use a hairband to secure the tips of your hair in place.
For extra hold, use bobby pins to secure the tips of your hair in place.
 Use two mirrors to view the back of your head. Your hair should be completely covering the sock or form to hide it from view., If the donut seems a little loose, pin it against your head using a few bobby pins. Use firm-hold hairspray to keep your hair from getting messy.








