 Before you can decide if compression therapy is right for you, you should see your physician. Your doctor will help you decide if compression therapy is right for you and your particular situation. Your doctor can also help figure out how much compression is needed for your condition.


The correct amount of compression will vary per person. You may need more or less compression depending on the severity of the swelling or amount of decreased blood flow in your extremities.
Your doctor should also be able to provide you with over-the-counter compression products for free, or minimal charge, as well as give you a prescription if you need a custom fit device. A prescription from your doctor can help get your insurance company to pay for at least part of the equipment .;
, The most common area for compression therapy is the legs. For this area, you can buy compression socks, pantyhose, stockings, or leg sleeves. These will have a variety of elastic strengths, which are different pressure grades depending on the severity of your condition. Your doctor will help you decide what grade to get.


You need to make sure that you have the correct size and form of compression therapy gear., You may also need compression gear for your arms or hands. For this area, there are a variety of gloves and sleeves you can buy. The elastic strengths needed will be decided by your doctor.


The compression gloves and sleeves will help increase the circulation to the hands and arms., For minor injuries or muscle pain, you can try elastic compression bandages. These offer more variable compression strengths that can be changed at will. They work by reducing swelling and encouraging circulation.These elastic bands can be bought at your local pharmacy or general store.
 You can choose from a few different colors, styles, heights, and lengths to best fit your particular needs. You can also have your compression gear custom made for your particular circumstances. The supplier will measure the affected area for the right size and compression strengths.The compression products you buy can be obtained at local medical supply companies or online. Some common and reputable companies include Corolon, Cicaid, Farrow and Jobst.