 Work with teachers and administrators to create school-wide activities. Hold assemblies and make them both informative and fun (go multimedia!).;
, Most often, both victims and witnesses are too intimidated or ashamed to come forward.



Brainstorm with your school counselors on ways to helped bullied students take control of their situation.
Make informational fliers, innovative videos. Help students to understand what bullying is, use examples of lesser understood bullying techniques to highlight problem areas that your school might be experiencing or exposed to (such as online bullying).
Give the students tools to work with to actively spot and prevent bullying rather than just information.
 Block those bullies!


Encourage students to think carefully about whom they let into their online circle of friends. Don't add people as friends just because they insist; if a student doesn't feel comfortable having these people as part of their online group, trust that feeling and leave them out.
Encourage students to learn how to be safe online.
Provide information on how to block harassing people or remove unwanted posts from social networking sites.
, Find exciting, positive projects that appeal to many. Maybe it’s the first ever video yearbook. Or a large community service activity.
 Interconnectivity is key! You could also develop a reference page with links to support groups, websites, books, and videos related to bullying.


Provide clear information on what to do if a student is a victim of bullying, and who they can contact immediately.
Don't forget to provide information for those doing the bullying too. They wouldn't be bullying if they had healthy self-esteem and giving them options to seek counseling and change can be helpful for everyone.
 Get the details in an inviting and engaging way. Ask not only about schoolwork but also about friends and extracurricular activities. Remain informed about his or her social relationships. Get to know your child’s friends and their parents.


Pay attention to their behavior and if it changes, find out why. If your children become distanced or withdrawn, talk to them and try to help or offer other resources they'll listen to.
Share stories about being bullied at work or when you were a kid. This can help them to understand that it's not only them experiencing bullying and that they'll be fine with your support.
 While all children need some amount of privacy, especially teenagers, the World Wide Web can be a dangerous and lonely place if your child is being cyber-bullied. There are a number of software products available for this. Several online businesses will not only monitor cyber-traffic, but also submit regular activity reports to parents.
 This might be part of your Parent Teacher Association or it might be a separate group. Connect with a national organizationand network beyond your immediate community.
 Establish a collective approach that helps you to hold your school officials accountable for incidents of bullying. It is often easier to confront bullying with the support of a team or group than to try to go it alone as a parent.

Mandatory awareness programs for students and staff.
Protocols for urgent response.
Ongoing professional development for your school’s staff.
Community-building strategies.
, Authorize an assembly, provide funds, or participate with your students. Embrace your school community!

,


There is strength in numbers. Even if they get a black eye (a serious matter warranting immediate intervention), those standing up to it will most likely get respect as well.
Let your kids know that it's important to get help from the authorities (school or otherwise) when someone is bullying.
Support your kids if they get in a bullying-related fight.

