 They will be accepted by scrap recycling companies as whole assemblies.;
, They will be accepted by scrap recycling companies as whole assemblies.
 Iron, steel and other ferrous metals are magnetic. If they are small enough and the magnet is large enough, they can be lifted out with a magnet. Larger ferrous pieces are identified by noting that a magnet will stick to these pieces. All ferrous metals will be accepted as 1 type of item by scrap recycling companies.
 Stainless steel -- alloyed (mixed) in smelting with chromium -- has a dull shine and is heavier than chrome-/or nickel-plated steel. It may be slightly magnetic in some alloys.
Note: If "stainless steel" has magnetic attraction, it must be added to the iron pieces, rather than among the stainless steel pieces.
 Copper is lightweight and reddish in color. Copper may become greenish over time due to corrosion. Copper comes in 3 grades.


Gather all electrical wiring. This wiring is considered light copper. Strip, using wire strippers (burning-off insulation is illegal, see "Warnings" section). Discard the stripped insulation. Some metal recyclers accept wire with the insulation on, including Christmas lights, at a much lower price.
Segregate copper tubing (considered medium copper). Remove any brass fittings from the tubing. Scrap recycling companies likely will offer only the lower price of brass if the copper tubing still has brass fittings attached, because of labor of handling and removing the brass (in buildings, air conditioner piping may be copper).
Put aside copper tanks, such as special, water heater tanks. These tanks are considered heavy copper. Remove any attached insulation, covers and fittings from the tank (ordinary water heater tanks are zinc galvanized and "glass/ceramic lined").
 Aluminum is a lightweight metal with a dull silver color. Soda cans and lightweight lawn furniture are considered light aluminum. Remove all plastic fittings from pieces of lawn furniture. All other aluminum is considered heavy aluminum. Aluminum can be further sorted into "clean" and "coated" as some recyclers pay more for aluminum which is not painted or otherwise pre-finished.


Remove aluminum, automobile parts such as engine overhead-cam-/and valve-covers, intake manifold and thermostat housing (some bright trim may be aluminum).
 Lead is soft and heavy, and has a dull gray color. Lead is often used for piping, scuba diving weights and fishing plumbs.
 Brass is yellow. It is often used for bathroom fixtures, door knobs and as trim hardware.
 Bronze is reddish yellow. Bronze is often used for hose fittings and couplings. Remove any hose from the bronze coupling.
 The field windings (parts with copper wire wound around) should be separated out from the iron and steel for the best price (armatures are very difficult to separate and might be cut/chiseled out).

