 Learn to firmly say no to someone who wants to change your mind. You can say no without being aggressive or rude. Pay attention to your tone of voice. Remember to state that you have chosen what you believe is best. If you have to give a negative response, you may want to say something like, “I’m sorry if this is not what you want to hear, but I have made my decision. It’s the college that is right for me.”

, You may need to tell the person who wants to change your mind that you have given it a lot of thought. You carefully evaluated the situation and came to best decision.


Try saying, “I have weighed the pros and cons of both universities and I came to decision that is best for me at this time.”

, If someone is upset about your actions, he may say confrontational things to force you to defend yourself. Try not to get sucked into this behavior.


For example, say a short response like, “That’s my decision,” or “You seem upset. Let’s talk about this later” may help.
 In some cases, you will not have the final say. You may make a decision, only to have it changed or overruled by someone in a higher position, like your boss. In this situation, you can speak to your boss about why you made the decision — calmly state all your reasons for why you think you made the best choice. Then listen to what your boss has to say. She may have more information than you do, or different priorities, or just outright disagree. If the decision ultimately lies in her hands, then take in her reasons for overruling you, and move on. Know that you made what you felt was the best decision based on the information you had, and it's okay that the other person disagreed.


Try not to linger on the fact that your decision was overruled or badmouth the other person's decision, even if you think your decision was the right one. It can be frustrating, especially if, down the line, it turns out your decision would have been better, but it reflects badly on you if you complain or have an "I told you so" attitude.

