 Think about how cool it would be if you had excerpts of your favorite book lining your wall. Pretty neat, huh? If you’re willing to part with a copy, you can do just that. Carefully take a box cutter or exacto knife to the pages and cut them out close to the seam. Instant wallpaper.


When you’re finished, look at their sizes. Are they different? If so, you may wish to cut them all to the same size. That being said, there’s no rule that says they have to be the same size. Heck, you could use multiple books that all have different size pages. It just depends on whether you want a more tile-like or collage-like feel.
 How big are the papers that you’re working with? Now, how big is your wall? It’s gonna go a lot easier if you don’t have to stop halfway through to cut out more paper (or, heaven forbid, buy another book). Knowing your measurements beforehand will let you know if you have to cut them to a different size, too.


Let’s say your wall is 70” across and 90” tall. Your papers are 7” across and 10” tall. Length-wise, you’re fine: that’s 9 sheets of paper at 10” tall, making 90”. But for the width, do you want 11 sheets that are 7” across and one sheet that’s 3” or do you want to size them all down to 5” to make it perfect, or, say, 6.75” to make it “just about” right?

, Odds are no two of your pages are the same, so what do you want the final wall to look like? Clear out a large area (like a big table or the floor), and start setting up your papers like you want them to look. You’ll be glad you spent this time later when you don’t have all the footnotes section accidentally lumped together.


Because you're working with free-standing pages right now, be sure to turn off any fans and close the winds – or else you're going to have to enlist the help of a bunch of paperweights.
 One at a time, brush the back of a page and place it on the wall. Start at a corner so it’s easy to spread out from there. Don’t try to do a bunch of gluing and then a bunch of placing – you don’t want the paste to start drying on you.After each page, take a second to make sure it’s aligned correctly. If it’s not, you still have time right then to adjust it before the paste dries.
 Once all the pages are on the wall just how you like them, you’re almost done. All that’s left is sealing them with a non-yellowing, clear surface top coat. These come in both liquid and spray forms, but spray is much easier to work with. Cover the entire area with a thin, even layer, let it dry, and you’re done.


Technically, you could use a colored seal or even spray it with glitter. That part is up to you!

