 Most of the popular Facebook games are available for free on the Google Play Store. You'll be able to connect to your Facebook account and sync your progress.


It will be difficult or impossible to play games on the Facebook website using your Android's browser. Installing the game from the Play Store is the best way to play your Facebook games on the go.
If you're using an Amazon device, open the Amazon App Store instead. You should still be able to find most games, but if the game you want is only available on Google Play, you can try putting the Play Store on your Kindle.;
, You'll see this at the top of the Play Store screen.
 Search for the name of the game that you play on Facebook. You should be able to find the Android version of the same game if you type the name in exactly.
 Compare the name and the icon to the game on the Facebook website. You can also look at the developer name to ensure that you're downloading the same game.
 Pretty much any game that you played on Facebook will be available for free on Android.
 If you're logged into the Facebook app on your Android device, syncing your game will usually be a lot simpler.


You can install the Facebook app by opening the Play Store or the Amazon App Store and searching for Facebook.
 You'll find this in your Apps list after installing it. Open your Apps list by tapping the ⋮⋮⋮ button on your Home screen.
, Your Facebook feed will load and your account will be logged into the Facebook app.
, It may be on your Home screen, or you can tap the Apps button (⋮⋮⋮) and find it in the list.
 This button will look different and be in a different location in every game, but can typically be found on the game's main menu or title screen. Look for the Facebook logo, or a button that says "Connect." You may need to open the game's Options or Settings menu.


For example, in Subway Surfers you'll need to tap the Gear button in the upper-right corner of the main menu, then tap "Log in to Facebook."
As another example, King games like Candy Crush Saga and Bubble Witch require you to tap the ☰ button in the lower-left corner of the main menu, then tap the Facebook icon.
 If you're already logged into the Facebook app, you'll likely not be prompted to enter your login details again. Some apps may still ask, and you'll be asked if you don't have the Facebook app.
 Once you're successfully connected, you should be able to start the game and resume from where you left off on the Facebook website.

