 If you are concerned about pet overpopulation and the number of dogs that are homeless, then look for your dog at a shelter or through a rescue organization. They have fewer purebred dogs but you will be adopting a dog that really needs a home.It can be more difficult to determine if a rescue dog is hypoallergenic than to determine if a dog that comes from a breeder is hypoallergenic. That being said, there are some hybrid dogs that are hypoallergenic, especially dogs that are poodle mixes., If you have a specific breed in mind, then you can go through a breeder to get your dog. One way to find a reputable breeder is to look at the websites of dog groups that focus on the breed you want. They should have lists of reputable breeders that specialize in the breed you want.


Discuss the breeders practices and standards with them before committing to buying a dog from them. This will help ensure that you are paying an ethical breeder.
 Once you have identified a breeder or a rescue, you will need to meet potential dogs to see if they are a match. Since you are looking for a hypoallergenic dog in particular, this is a good time to assess if you are allergic to them or not. Spend some time with the dog and assess whether you are having an allergic reaction.If you want to make sure you are not allergic to the potential dog, you can bring a shirt or some other piece of clothing with you when you meet the dog. Rub the clothing on the dog and then wear it for awhile after the meeting. If you have an allergy attack, it is likely coming from something on the dog.
When meeting the dog you will also need to assess the dog's temperament. Make sure the dog has a good personality and is healthy before agreeing to adopt it.
 Once you have found a dog that you like and that you are not allergic to you can pay any adoption fees required and bring it home. The decision may have taken some time but will assure that you get the right hypoallergenic dog for you and your family.


There are some things you can do to even further reduce allergens on any dog. These include bathing and grooming the dog regularly, cleaning your house regularly, and changing air filters in your home regularly as well.