 Each socialite has their own different look. Paris and Kim have Barbie doll looks, Lindsay has a punk, skater, girly look, Ashlee also has a look, Jessica has an urban prep look, Nicole has a very trendy look, and Mary-Kate and Ashley have homeless people looks. Britney has the messed-up look and the glamorous look like Paris.


Wear nice and classy clothes. Don't ditch your style, but think about whether or not a mature and "looked up to" young adult would be seen wearing it. Think of someone successful that you know, college-age, even someone you saw walking to the subway station in NY, whatever! Get that 'idol' for your wardrobe and go for it!





;
, If you don't like your hair color, then dye it a natural normal color. Many paparazzi princesses have platinum blonde locks; Paris, Lindsay, Mary-Kate, Ashley, and sometimes Nicole and Ashlee. Cut it and style it or get extensions, most of these Princesses have extensions.
 First of all the tan. This isn't needed for the Ashlee, Ashley and Mary-Kate look, but for the Paris, Lindsay, Nicole, Kim, Britney and Jessica look, this is needed. Paris, Kim and Nicole do spray-on; even though Kim and Nicole don't need fake tans since they're naturally tan; Lindsay and Britney do the cocktail, which is bed and mystic or bed and spray on. Jessica does the spray-on also.
 Oversize sunglasses are a must, they don't always have to be the Jackie O or Dior Glossy style, they can be oversize aviators or oversize shields.
 Shower and take good care of your body.
 A responsible young adult and/or socialite is not unhealthy. Obesity is a major concern and confidence fails from it too. Take charge now!

, The 'reward' of being a responsible young adult, is simply to go out and have fun. Since you are under 21, try an under 21 dance club, a nice lounge-restaurant that allows younger people, a beach road trip, a free weekend with the girls, spa time, hair done, a night off of life...etc.


Once parents feel like you are responsible in all that you do, they will trust you. They have to! What have you done to make them suspicious?







, Not only will it help your future, but you will gain confidence and feel better about yourself knowing that you took good care of your grades and classes.
 You need your friends to let the good times roll.
 Everyone knows that a shy and timid person is always overlooked in a crowd. So stand up tall and talk with a smart and secure attitude. Don't cross your arms. Don't talk down to people. Speak only when you must and always have your cell nearby to text or even pretend you are texting.
 'Play hard-to-get'. You should make everyone feel as though they are around a celeb (you) and they should feel privileged. It works like a charm every time.
 Don't pick fights and act younger than your age. Always think of a high-profile, SUCCESSFUL celebrity, like Reese Witherspoon for example, and think to yourself, 'Would Reese say that? Would Reese do something like that?' It will help your image and adults will grow to like you more too.
 Let people know on each one of these which ones you have.


Make your Instagram, Facebook, or Twitter pages public. If you like your privacy, then have two accounts for each. Make sure you're organized.
Make sure to take lots of pictures and post them in your photo gallery. Make sure to label them carefully and by event/date. For example: Torrie's Bash Mark 2015.
 Don't be too picky because then you know that someone is free everyday/night. Call/text them, face book them, IM, Myspace, whatever. Just don't act like you have nothing to do.
 No, that is not drinking and having 'sleepovers' at your boyfriends house! Try things like walking on the beach talking about your future and college, shopping at nice stores, going to fancy restaurants with friends (even if you can only afford tapas and drinks!), read books, watch quality TV and stay up to date with current events, save money, be responsible, act very mature in everything that you do. And you will be rewarded! :)

, Talk to both girls and boys with the same air. Crushes are hard but you can handle it maturely!

, Be a good friend!

, Not in the bad manipulative way though.
 This will show that you have good taste in cars.

