 The best things to use for this sort of air freshener are expired spices, fragrant herbs fresh from the garden, and left-over citrus from your last cooking or baking project. Listed below are some combination ideas to get you started. It is enough to fill one pot or a 2 pint (0.95 liter) mason jar. If you are using a small container, use less of the items listed. Here are some combinations to give you some ideas:To create a scent perfect for winter or fall, combine 1 sliced orange, 1 to 2 cinnamon sticks, ½ tablespoon of whole cloves, ½ tablespoon of whole allspice. For a final touch, consider adding 1 anise star.
If you like something that is fresh and sweet at the same time, try 2 sliced lemons, 3 sprigs of rosemary, and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract.
Another fresh and sweet combination is three to four sprigs of thyme, ½ teaspoon of mint extract, 1 teaspoon of vanilla, and 3 sliced limes.
To create a forest-y, winter-y scent, combine a handful of pine needles, 4 bay leaves, and 1 whole nutmeg. Be sure to grate the outer layer of the nutmeg; this will help it release its scent.
 You don't want to fill the pot with water. The water level should not come past the top of your ingredients.
 This will heat up the ingredients, and give off a pleasant scent. You can continue simmering the ingredients in your pot, or you can transfer the ingredients to another heat source. Here are some ideas to get you started:Transfer the ingredients into a crock pot. Turn the crock pot on, and leave it uncovered so that the ingredients can release their pleasant scent. This will be a little more subtle than simmering on the stove.
Transfer the ingredients into a fondue pot. Keep in mind that if your fondue pot uses candles, you will need to keep an eye on the candles. The candles will usually burn for 3 ½ to 4 hours.
You can also transfer the ingredients into a jar, mug, or small bowl, and place it on top of a mug warmer, a candle warmer, or a tea pot warmer.
 As the water continues to heat, the ingredients you used will give off a pleasant smell. If the smell it strong enough, it may even go into other rooms as well. Do not leave your air freshener unattended however!

, As the water continues to heat, it will evaporate, and the water level will drop. If it drops too low, your ingredients will scorch. You also want to use hot water when you refill so that you don't lower the temperature.
 If you need to leave the house, turn your stove, crock pot, or warmers off, and extinguish any candles that you are using. Transfer the ingredients into a jar, and place the jar into the refrigerator.
 Keep it in a jar in the fridge whenever you are not using it. If the water starts to get murky, consider adding a few slices of citrus or a sprig of whatever herb you were using.