


If it's a brand new tank make sure the filter has been running for at least a week, preferably two weeks, so enough bacteria builds up in the filter to process nitrates (for small fish tanks a nitrite peak builds up after around 10 days).
Add all the ornaments/gravel and plants before you put in the new fish. Aquatic plants (if any) need time to build up roots and get used to the tank too. Fertilisers and possible dirt in the gravel have to set on the floor and break down.
Put in the correct amount of tap safe or chlorine inhibitor for the amount of water in the tank.
If you are adding the fish to an existing tank, rearrange the decorations. This will break up the territories of other fish, reducing the potential for aggression toward the newcomer.
 The seller will usually place the fish in a plastic bag for transport. On your way home, cover the fish with a towel, paper bag, or your shirt, since changes in light will stress fish out.


Don't worry if your fish dulls in color on its trip. This is caused by stress and your fish will recover quickly after it is in its new home.
 Untie the bag, and then place the bag carefully to prevent the water in the bag from mixing with the tank water. If the bag doesn't float and keeps tipping over, tape one side of it to the side of the tank. The water in the bag will gradually change temperature to match the tank, preventing injury and death from a sudden temperature change.


If the bag is untied, you can wait a full hour to be cautious.
 Pick up a little tank water with a clean cup and add it to the bag. Give it another 5-10 minutes to adjust, or up to 15 minutes to be extra safe. This will prevent the fish from dying due to a sudden and drastic pH change.
 You can either tip the majority of the water from the bag into another container and then let the fish swim from the bag into the tank or tip the bag at an angle, allowing the fish to swim out. Then dispose of the rest of the bag water elsewhere. Water from the bag may contain microorganisms or chemicals that damage your other fish.


If you don't feel comfortable adding any of the water from the bag into the tank, scoop up the fish with a small net and place it in the tank.
 Check on your new fish frequently, especially if it frantically avoids the other fish or seems too energetic. They should settle down eventually if you have enough (non-plastic) plants for them to hide in. If they do not, you may need to separate them temporarily with a tank divider.

