 Goat cheese is rich enough in flavor and creaminess to make a great accompaniment to crackers or bread. You can purchase goat cheese that has been seasoned with herbs, or season pieces of goat cheeses yourself with your favorite herbs.For a delectable snack, roll goat cheese in crushed ground nuts or breadcrumbs and bake for 10 minutes at 350°F(177°C).;
, Mozzarella isn’t your only option for a deliciously cheesy pizza. Try using goat cheese with pesto, greens, and butternut squash. Buy pre-made whole-wheat pizza dough (or crust), or make your own beforehand. Similarly, make your own pesto, or buy some from the grocery store too.Cut butternut squash ribbons with a vegetable peeler. Toss them in olive oil, salt, and pepper before topping. Top your dough or crust with pesto, goat cheese, the ribbons, chopped garlic, and arugula or kale.
In many ovens, pizzas bake best at 500 degrees Fahrenheit on the top rack. Cooking times will vary, based on the type of crust you’re going for.
Sprinkle on a handful of crushed pumpkin seeds or pecans for additional flavor and nutritional value.
 Though the specific types of veggies are up to you, grilled mushrooms, bell peppers, and eggplants are especially good with goat cheese. Grab some green onions and kalamata olives as well. Toss the veggies together with goat cheese, lemon juice, salt, and pepper. A few leaves of lettuce can also add crunch and size to your wrap. Use them to line a whole wheat tortilla, and add the goat cheese and veggie slurry before wrapping tightly.
 Goat cheese can be added to all sorts of salads, including a classic steak and potato salad with goat cheese. A particularly enjoyable recipe calls for roasted beets, baby spinach, walnuts, and a sweet vinaigrette.To roast beets yourself, place them in a tightly-sealed aluminum foil pouch on a baking sheet. Bake them for 40 minutes at 400°F (204°C). Allow the beets to steam for 10 minutes after removing them from the oven. Once the beets have cooled, remove and discard the skin, and cut them into small pieces.
Sherry vinegar mixed with a bit of mustard and honey makes for just the right dressing. Add olive oil, salt, and pepper as well.
Consider toasting the walnuts before using them to garnish your salad.
 Stuffing roasted peppers or pork tenderloin is another great way to use goat cheese in an entree. You can also crumble goat cheese onto many side dishes, like steamed asparagus or grilled zucchini.Another great way to use goat cheese is adding it to omelets or other egg dishes. It will add creaminess, as well as flavor. Goat cheese pairs especially well with egg dishes that include a cured meat like prosciutto.

