 If someone is following you, touching you, or you feel threatened, don't be afraid to seek help. Find a friend or authority figure who may be able to help you. Don't confront someone if you think they may become violent or aggressive--just get away from them and get help.If someone is following you on the street, try slipping into a coffee shop. Find another woman and tell her you are being followed, and ask if she minds if you sit with her for a minute or if she can act like she's your friend. The harasser will see you joining your friend and probably go away. If you're still worried, call the police.
 These people are looking for your attention--good or bad--and ignoring them denies them what they want.If you feel you need to respond, stay calm, look directly at them, and don't swear or call them names.Say something like, "Repeat what you just said to me,""Stop harassing women," or "Show some respect."If they insult you or become defensive, don't respond. Again, they want your attention. Just walk away., Tell the boy who keeps staring at your chest, "Stop staring at me." Tell the guy who keeps asking you out, "I'm not interested. Please leave me alone." It can be scary and difficult to be blunt, but sometimes people don't get the hint, and you need to make it clear. Remember, they are the ones doing something wrong, not you.Attack the behavior, not the person. Don't say, "Ugh, you're so gross!" or "You're a jerk." Instead, tell them that what they are doing is not okay, it's harassment, and it needs to stop.
Remember that just because someone isn't intending to make you uncomfortable or doesn't realize their behavior is inappropriate doesn't mean it's not harassment. A group of guys who whistle, comment on your appearance, or stare every time you walk past might think they are complimenting you, but what they are doing is harassing you.Tell them to stop or talk to a teacher about what's happening.
 If you are constantly harassed at school, or someone groped you on the bus, or a customer is being inappropriate, talk to a teacher, the bus driver, or your manager. They can support you by talking to the harasser, asking them to leave, or even calling the police.Try not to worry about getting him in trouble. You may be afraid of what a classmate or coworker will do if you talk to your teacher or manager, but your school or workplace should have policies against retaliation that will get them in serious trouble. Remember that having large breasts doesn't give someone else the right to stare, comment, or touch you without your permission.

