 If you want a fresh start after a breakup, get rid of all the things that will remind you of your ex. There's little sense in keeping mementos of the good times, because they'll be more likely to remind you of the loss in the long run. If you have old photographs, mementos and trinkets from your relationship, you'll be able to get over that relationship and start fresh a whole lot faster the sooner you get rid of that stuff.


Make it a ritual. Take all those photos and delete them, one by one. Burn the letters in the backyard, saying, "Be gone, jerk" with every one.
 It's good to take some time to reflect after a break-up, to allow yourself to figure out what went wrong, and figure out what you could do better next time. It's good to do this, but not to let it go so far that it becomes an obsession. If you find yourself unable to think about anything but your ex, it's important to get moving on and looking forward.


If you find yourself obsessing, or rethinking the break-up, or even wanting to rekindle that flame, train yourself to remember something negative. Think of all the things you dislike about your partner. You won't be obsessing over them for long, if you do that.
 Don't give yourself the opportunity to rethink the decision to break up. A fresh start means you need to avoid your old partner's hangouts and do everything it takes to not see this person, think about this person, or do things you did with this person. Make significant changes, emotionally and physically, to recalibrate your life, post-breakup.


Don't regress. No reconsidering the decision. Relationships that end once fail more often than they succeed., Spend time with the people you still care about, and who care about you. Don't be afraid to talk about it, or to get together and rip on your ex. Laugh it off together and support each other.


If you and your partner had many of the same friends, don't be afraid to stake your claim and stand up for yourself. You don't need to cower in your room and avoid the situation because you're afraid of seeing your ex, or because you're worried about negotiating that tangled web.
At the same time, it's important to recognize when friendships might be over as well. If a friendship was situational, and that situation had to do with your relationship that's now over, don't be afraid of moving on and making new friends.
 Do something by yourself, something that your ex may have disapproved of, or something that your ex wouldn't have gone in for. Take a flamenco class, or start doing Cross-Fit, or play your favorite music super-loud, first thing in the morning. Get a crazy haircut. Celebrate your singleness with a new activity.


Think of something that your partner held back in you. If you never had the time to work on your creative projects, because your partner was always criticizing, or distracting you, let yourself be creative again. Throw yourself into some kind of project that would have been impossible with your partner.
 While jumping into a new relationship might seem like a fast-track to a fresh start, it's loaded with the potential for sour emotions and trouble. Don't bring the baggage of that relationship into someone else's life. Depending on how long your relationship was, you may need a couple weeks, or even a couple months, to really get over things.


If you find something you think you're genuinely compatible with, and you think you may be able to be with them, without staying focused on comparing it to your old relationship, that's how you know you're ready to start again.

