 Before you choose the subject at the top of your hierarchy map, you should write down a list of important subjects related to your project or assignment. If you know that your project should be about trees, for example, then that word would go at the top of your concept map. But if you just know that you have to write or think about objects in nature, or materials made from nature, then your task is a bit harder.First, write out all of the concepts related to your general subject:


Trees
Oxygen
Wood
Humans
Plants
Animals
Houses
Paper;
, Once you've brainstormed a list of concepts related to your project, you can choose the concept that is most essential to all of the others -- the one from which all of the others stem. This may be obvious, or it may require a little thought. Remember, if it's a hierarchical map, then the central word should be the one that connects all of the others. In this case, the word is "Trees."


This word will appear in a box or oval at the top of your map.
Note that in some cases, you can skip the first step. If you already know that you have to write a paper or give a presentation on "Trees," for example, you can write that word at the top of the hierarchical map right away.
 Once you've found your keys word, draw arrows extending downward to the left and right that connect the word to the next two or three most important words. These next words should be able to connect to the other words you've brainstormed, which will appear below them. In this case, the hierarchical term is "Trees," and it will be linked to the two next most important terms, "Oxygen," and "Wood."

, Now that you've found your key word and the next most important words, you can write the words that relate to the second key words below these. These terms will become more specific, and should relate back to the words above them, "Oxygen" and "Wood," as well as the most central word, "Trees." Here are the terms that you'll list below these more central terms:


Humans
Plants
Animals
Houses
Paper
Furniture

, Add lines to connect the terms, and explain the relationship between the terms in a word or two. The relationships can vary; one concept can be part of another, it can be crucial to another concept, it can be used to produce another concept, or there can be a variety of other relationships. Here are the relationships between the concepts on this map:


Trees give oxygen and wood
Oxygen is important to humans, plants, and animals
Wood is used to make houses, paper, furniture

