 Dive into your interests. Do whatever it is you want to do with your big imagination. There’s no time like the present, even if you think you aren’t there yet. Starting now will just build your creativity even more.


Begin writing, drawing, sculpting, dancing, or whatever interests you. Challenge yourself, if you can. Make a goal to write a story or paint a picture every day. You’ll just become more skilled in your craft and increase your creativity., Doing something you’ve never done before can light a fire under your creativity. It can give you the confidence to try other new activities and inspire your ideas. Leave your inhibitions at the door and go have some fun.


Tag along with your friends to participate in a new activity. Having someone there with you may make you feel more comfortable and encourage you to dive right in., The more we use our artistic abilities, the more creative and imaginative we become. Whether you perform a monologue at a school talent show or read stories to local seniors, connect with your artistic side to expand your creative thinking.


Visualizing magical places or themes through art can expand your imagination as well. Try drawing or painting, even if you don’t fancy yourself much of an artist. Incorporating all of your other senses as you imagine a place or idea can help your imagination grow.
 You may be surprised at how much your surroundings can affect you. Create an environment that makes you feel comfortable and you’ll likely see an improvement in your creativity. Even if you have to rent a studio space, it will be worth it when you see your imagination flow.


Surround yourself with pictures and objects that inspire you. Place comfortable furniture in your space and play music that gets you creative. Block out all negativity and just let your mind go free. You’ll likely create the best work you ever have., One of the biggest deterrents to imagination and creativity is the fear of failure. However, if you use your imagination to redefine how you look at failure, you can overcome this common roadblock.Practice positive reframing in which "I failed" becomes "I haven't succeeded yet." Then, make a list of every avenue you've tried. Cross of the ineffective strategies and use your imagination to come up with new ways to tackle your problem.

