 Get an external hard drive and regularly do backups. Do not leave this connected to your main PC, as it may get infected as well if your PC gets infected. You can also explore backing your files in one of the cloud storage services, like Dropbox, Box, and SkyDrive.;
, Use online photo-sharing sites, like Flickr and Picasa, to backup your photos and videos. Most files can be redone, but lost photos and videos are lost forever.
 A good antivirus software can protect your computer and files against these types of threats and malicious attacks. Make sure to regularly update its virus definitions so that you are well protected. Avast! and McAfee are some of the good antivirus programs that may detect and catch Cryptolocker.
 Make sure you regularly update your operating system, web browsers, and other add-ons. Updates to these often include security patches that can address the most recent threats.
 A lot of threats can get into your computer through emails. Make sure you know how to properly manage your inbox.


Use the spam filter—If your email service has a spam filter, use it. This will trim down the number of spam and potentially dangerous emails reaching your inbox.
Don’t click on links—A lot of shady sites online distribute worms and trojans when you visit them. If you see an embedded link in your email, ignore it and don’t click on it.
Never download attachments from people you don’t know—Do not download and open attachments in your emails from people you don’t know, especially executable files. You may just be opening the door to your computer and files to your attackers.
 Do not click on all the advertisements you see online as these might direct you to a malicious site. Pay attention to buttons, as shady sites try to trick you with fake buttons that are actually links to malware.
 Do not just let anybody use your computer. You may not know where they go online. They might be ignorant on all these online threats and expose your computer to them. Turn your computer off when you’re not using it or lock it if you’re just stepping out.

