 Whether it’s helping a cultural group, mentoring younger kids, or volunteering at the local stable, choose a position and topic you’re interested in.


If you need ideas, ask your school’s guidance office for help in finding something beneficial to do outside of school.
Volunteering can range from donating your used clothing to planting trees for Arbor Day.Consider teaching computer skills to the elderly or coaching a youth sport’s team., Once you've found an area of interest, you can look into organizations that explore that area. For example, you may find a local animal shelter to volunteer at if you love animals. You should do a little research to figure out how to volunteer. You should also make sure the company's ethics match your personal passions.


Learn about the volunteer process. How does one become a volunteer? Is there a training session? Do you have to be a certain age to volunteer without a parent? Can anyone volunteer, or do you have to meet specific requirements.
Also, make sure the organization is a place you would be happy to donate your time to. Not every organization will match with your values. Returning to the animal shelter example, maybe you feel strongly against euthanasia. You would not want to work for a kill shelter if this is the case.
 Most colleges and hiring managers like to see consistency and commitment when it comes to volunteer work. Stay at the organization for at least 6 months to two years.


Work volunteering into your weekly schedule. If you're quitting a sports team or club to volunteer, you can use the time freed up to volunteer. For example, if you no longer have hockey practice on Tuesday afternoons, maybe you can use that time to do some volunteer work.
Commit to the mission of the organization, and learn all you can in your time there. You'll want to be informed about an organization to come off as an active volunteer. Ask founding members about how the organization has grown and changed, and what their main missions and goals are.
Get to know the people there, and keep in contact with them after you leave. You can use people you worked with as references down the road.
 Often times, colleges or jobs will need letters of recommendation or proof that you were where you said you were. Ask someone who supervised you for a letter.


Most organizations will understand the need for a letter of verification, so don't be shy about asking. Simply approach the manager of the organization and say something like, "If you have time, could you write me a letter of verification proving I worked here?"
If you need the letter for a particular application, make sure you ask well in advance. Volunteer supervisors may be busy, and you want to make sure you give them enough time to compose the letter.
By the end of your time with the organization, make sure you get your letter on official paper with the manager or your advisor's signature and dates of your service.

