 The first step in finding an airport job will be to examine what jobs are available in the air travel industry. Since the field is rather large you will have plenty of positions to choose from. Take your time and look for jobs or careers that you feel are appealing to you and your professional interests..Most jobs at an airport will focus on customer service.
Airports offer positions for security workers.
Many airports feature shops or restaurants and may offer positions in them.
You might want to work directly with airplanes or assisting runway procedures.
Flight attendants work directly with passengers during the flight.
For a comprehensive list of air port careers check on-line at websites like http://www.avjobs.com/ or http://www.airlinejobfinder.com/
;
, Once you have found an airport job or career that you are interested in you will need to discover what training, qualifications, education, or skills it might require. These requirements will vary drastically between positions and doing a little research can help you gain an understanding of what your chosen position might require from you.


Some airport jobs such as pilot or air traffic controller will require years highly specialized and rigorous training.
Custodians or maintenance workers are responsible for the upkeep of the airport and are generally great entry level positions.
Some security positions with the TSA only require you to pass a background check, have a high school diploma and be a US citizen of at least 18 years of age., After you have determined which position you would like to pursue in the air industry you will need to set out to obtain the skills or education required by it. If you already have these skills you might want to consider how up to date they are and seek refresher courses if needed.


Some positions at airports will offer on the job training, such as the TSA Other positions with airports will require you to receive training or education through an outside organization, such as is required of pilots or other specialists., An important part of any resume is to include your full and accurate contact information. Although this may seem obvious it can be the case that an important point of contact was omitted, causing you to miss a job offer if the employer selected you for an interview. Include the following contact information:Your full name.
Your address.
Phone numbers.
An email address.
Any websites that you have created that have contact information or highlight your relevant professional skills.
 It is considered standard procedure to include a list of your past employers over a period of ten years.This will demonstrate that you were able to be committed to some form of employment during this time and can also demonstrate your skills and capabilities. Make sure your list is complete and contains the following details about your past employers:Full name of the employer
The date you were hired and the date you left.
Where that employer was located.
Focus on your roles and responsibilities with that employer.
 Your employer will use your resume to judge if you are a good potential candidate for the position you are applying for. In order to demonstrate this you will want to include any relevant skills and qualification to the position as well as your current level of education. Presenting these details in your resume will help your chances of landing an interview.Include the name and address of all colleges attended.
Detail any degrees including majors and minors that you obtained from those colleges.
List any skills that you might have and that are relevant to the position.
Some positions require specific qualifications or certification that should be included in your resume.
 Although the airport you are applying to may not require you to do so, preparing a list of high quality references can be a useful step to take. References will be able to verify your character, work ethic, and qualifications to an employer. By having contact information for your references ready you will be able to provide them quickly should you be asked to do so.


References will be included on a separate page, not on your resume itself.Only include references that you feel will give you a good review.
Make sure your references know that you are including them.
Include the full name and contact information of each reference.List what your relationship is with you reference.
 After your resume has been completed and it is up to date it's time to begin applying to open positions at the airport. Try to submit an application to any open position that you have an interest in and are qualified for. Stay positive and persistent as you follow the application process through to an interview.


Keep a list of which positions you have applied for, where you applied and when you applied.
Stay positive and upbeat even if you don't ear back after applying.
Apply to as many open positions as you can to increase your chances of getting an interview.
 Arriving early to an interview is a simple step that you can take to allow you to do your best during the process. Make sure to leave yourself plenty of time for the commute to your interview and plan on arriving at least ten minutes before your scheduled interview time.Plan your travel route out before hand to avoid getting stuck in traffic or arriving late.
Arriving early can demonstrate punctuality to you potential employer.
Having a few extra minutes will allow you to relax, calm down, and focus before interviewing.
 Although interviewing can be a difficult and stressful process, expressing confidence can go a long way in helping you secure the position. Try to keep some of the following things in mind to help you appear confident and enthusiastic during the interview:


Offer a firm handshake, holding it for around two seconds and make eye contact when greeting your interviewers.Use good body language, avoiding things like fidgeting, scratching or constantly adjusting your clothes., Practice makes perfect and interviews are no different. Getting some practice in can help to you to stay calmer during your actual interview and represent yourself how you want to. Knowing what you want to say and how you want to say it can also help you feel more confident, improving your chances of getting the job.Try using mock interview services.
Practice your responses to questions you expect to be asked.
Think of how you want to represent yourself and how you might do that with your responses.
 Interviews should go both ways, allowing your interviewer to better understand you and allowing you to better understand your potential employer. Don't be afraid to ask a few well thought out questions during your interview as this can demonstrate interest in the position.Take some time to research the position and airline you might be working for.
Avoid asking any questions about salary.
For example, you might inquire as to where they think the company or airline is heading in the future.
 After your interview it can be a good idea to send your interviewer or contact a short thank you message. Sending this message can indicate that you are serious about the position, courteous, and can help make an impression with the interviewer.Send your thank you within 48 hours after your interview.
Keep your thank you message short.
Thank the interviewer for their time and consideration.
Let your contact know that you enjoyed meeting them and are happy for the opportunity.

