 Stress and anxiety result in labored breathing. You can effectively control anxiety and activate the body’s natural relaxation response with deep breathing, which will counter your brain’s sense that you are in danger. These exercises help you realize that you are safe—your heart rate slows, your blood pressure falls, and your muscles start to relax.Begin a deep breathing practice that you can use in the place of avoidance coping.
Try breathing in slowly with your nose to a count of five. Hold the breath briefly. Then, exhale through your mouth to a count of five. Repeat this several times until you start to feel more relaxed., Often, when you face anxiety, you tense up various muscle groups. Learning to soften and relax these muscles can help you lessen the anxiety you feel.To practice progressive muscle relaxation, find a quiet, comfortable place to sit or lie down. Start either at the top of your head or the bottom of your feet. Working your way up, tense each muscle group. Hold the tension for a moment, and then release it. Notice how the relaxed state feels. Continue over your entire body.
 Stepping back and viewing your thoughts from a different lens may help you to notice that they don’t have to have power over you. This also helps you gain objectivity for when you want to start challenging anxious thoughts.When an anxious thought arises, vocalize it. You might say, “I am having the thought that I want to skip the social event. I don’t want people looking at me.”

, Mindfulness can be used throughout everyday life to help you regulate your attention. It helps when anxious thoughts are overtaking your brain to slow down and focus on the present moment. The goal is to focus entirely on the activity at hand without giving any attention to competing thoughts.You can do mindfulness when you are eating by only focusing on the sensations of the food, chewing, and swallowing. You can also take a mindful shower, dress mindfully, or drive with mindfulness.
To make this a habit, include mindfulness exercises as a regular part of your schedule. This will help to increase your awareness of your body, breath, and mind all of the time.

