 Worse means "of a lower quality; less attractive, pleasing, etc; more serious or severe."Worse is a form of the word bad.;
, Worse is an example of a comparative adjective. Comparative adjectives are used to compare the characteristics of the objects they modify. They will be used with two nouns in a sentence, which include physical objects, concepts, places, and people.I think eggplant is worse than boiled cabbage, but that's just my opinion.
That red dress looks worse on you than the white one.
Which is worse for your health, smoking or drinking?

, Since worse is a comparative word, it is commonly used with the word than when comparing the two nouns. The sentences commonly following the following pattern:


Noun + verb + comparative adjective + than + noun.Winter weather is worse than summer weather.
One tricky use of worse is when two or more objects act as a group noun.
The car is worse than the other two you showed me.In this example, the two things being compared are car and the other two, which functions as one object. There are still two things being compared.
 Although this situation commonly only lists one thing, technically speaking, you are still comparing two things - one state of being to another. Often, one of these states is implied instead of mentioned outright.


This is going to get a lot worse before it gets better.
I think my handwriting is worse .
I am feeling worse , In some sentences, the than is implied. That means there won't be two things being compared in the sentence; the second thing will be implied.


Bob and Fred are bad drivers, but I think Bob is worse .
 Worst means "worse than all the others; least helpful or skillful; most unfavorable or corrupt."Worst is a form of the word bad.
 Worst is a superlative adjective. A superlative adjective is one which is used to denote the extreme highest or lowest out of a group of nouns.This is used when comparing three or more things.


Unlike worse, you can’t use worst when only comparing two things.
Dirty diapers smell worse than rotten milk, but week-old fish is the worst of all.
Math is the worst of all my classes.
 Worse and worst correspond to words like colder and coldest.


Use worse whenever you would use a -er word. The -er is the comparative.
The weather in Boston is colder than it is in Miami. / The weather in Boston is worse than it is in Miami.
Use worst whenever you would use a -est word. The -est is the superlative.
Washington state has the wettest weather in the US. / Washington state has the worst rain in the US.
The growing intensity scale of the word is: bad - worse - worst. Worst is the most bad and worse is more bad than bad.
The weather in November is bad, but it's worse in December. The worst weather all winter is in January.
 Since worst is used to single out one inferior thing, it always comes after the word the.


I disagree. Eggplant and boiled cabbage are both vile, but squash is the worst!
That is the worst cake I have ever tasted.
 Use worst to compare something to other things that are implied but not mentioned outright.


Chartreuse is the worst color .
He’s the worst person imaginable .
 The phrase worst case scenario points to the extreme negative outcome of a situation. Because it is using an extreme, use worst.


The reason people say worse case scenario is due to speaking patterns. In many common words, the -t is dropped; therefore, you hear worse case when the person actually means worst case., According to modern usage, it is okay to say "if worst comes to worst," "if worse comes to worse," or "if worse comes to worst."The idiom was first seen in 1596 as if the worst come to the worst. This meant that the worst case scenario happened. In 1719, Daniel Defoe wrote in Robinson Crusoe, "if the worse came to the worst." This new use of the idiom meant that things are getting worse.