 Try to put yourself in your children's shoes. If you can understand what they are thinking, what they might be going through, you can be a mother that values her child's opinion, and respects them. This is how you earn respect back, in turn.


As your kids get older, you may find that they talk less and less, or let you in just a little less than they used to. This can be hard, but try to take it as a sign that they're independent. They're growing into real people. Make yourself available if they need you, but don't pry into their lives.;
, Patience is a necessity when you're a mother. If you lose your cool with a five year old, you're just having an adult temper tantrum. Instead, remind yourself that kids are (brutal truth, here) kind of annoying sometimes. They're going to be that way. The less you hold onto some ideal version of the way they should behave, the happier you and your kids will be allowed to be.


Accept who your kids are and don't try too much to change them. You can influence their behavior in little ways, but you can't make them into something they're not. Give your kids a hug and move on.
 Sometimes, the world can seem too overwhelming. If you're getting frustrated with all the responsibilities, it can be tempting to want to check out for a while. But the real trick to happiness as a mom is in staying in the room. Let yourself be satisfied that you're providing for your kids with your positive presence. Be the best mom you can be.


If you have quiet time for yourself, it's still possible to be around your kids. Sit in the living room and read your book, or zone into your computer if that's how you choose to relax. Don't lock yourself away. Just being there means a lot.
 Simply put, the more you can invest in your kids' lives, the happier everyone will be. Play with your kids. Talk to them and try to understand what they're doing when they're playing.


As your kids get older, it's still important to spend quality time with them. Don't force them into a march that they're not interested in. Let them decide what you do together. Take your child to their first Rated-R movie when they're almost old enough. Give them a little thrill every now and then.
Of course, playing blocks with a five year old isn't the most interesting thing in the world, so find a way to budget your time. Give your kid 15 minutes of block playing in exchange for some clean-up time, to help take some chores off your to-do list. Win-win.
 Motherhood doesn't have to be about punishment and rules. Remember, you're the one in charge. Talk to your kids and get more invested in their lives. When you do have to punish them, take the time to explain what you're doing and why you're doing it, so they don't come to see you as an angry presence in their life, but as a just authority figure.
 Motherhood is tough, especially if you're doing it on your own. Sometimes, it takes a whole village to raise a child. You need a support network that you can rely on if you're starting to feel stressed and over-worked. Don't take it out on your kids. Get people to help you.


Talk to family members, friends, neighbors, and others if you need someone to watch the kid for a couple hours. Even just half an hour to yourself can be a life-saver. Pay for childcare if you can afford it.
Get the father involved, if he's on the scene. Father involvement in their children's lives have so many benefits for the children, but also for you as a mother. It will support you and bring you closer together as a family.
 Take a day at least once a week for a girls night out, or a date night. It'll help you feel young and stay happy. Arrange childcare for the night and let your kids know it will be a regular thing.


Your kids can have fun with the arrangement too. Let them have a movie and pizza night while you're out.
Alternatively, arrange a night where your kids spend the night and their grandparents, or stay with a friend or a neighbor. Take the night to just relax around the suddenly quiet household. Total bliss.
 If you're married, single, or in some other arrangement, it's important to spend enough time working on your relationship. Having kids can make romance tough, but it's absolutely important for your health and happiness. If you're in a bad relationship, your happiness will suffer, and your kids will suffer in turn. Make it a priority.


If you're in a bad, or manipulative relationship, you need to end it. It's never good to remain in a bad relationship "for the kids."

, Parenting takes up a lot of your time, but it doesn't have to be your life. Find something that you can devote a couple hours a week to doing, after your kids go to sleep. Pick up a new skill that you can be working on aside from your regular parenting duties. Learn to play an instrument, if you're so inclined, or start playing a sport.


If you start jogging, that can be 15-20 minutes each week that you have totally to yourself. Outrun your stress.
If you don't work, consider arranging your time so you can do something part time. Even 10 hours a week can help you feel like you've got a new social group and responsibility as an outlet. It can really help. Plus, you'll have a little side money!

, Even if it's just an hour a day to do a workout, or 10 minutes to put some make-up on, it can make all the difference to how you feel for the rest of the day. It will make you happier and as a result it will make your little one happier. Schedule it into your day. Make it a serious priority.


Have little daily relaxations, like a cup of tea on the porch, or a good book with a glass of wine. Also schedule in more significant relaxations every now and then. Get a massage. Go on vacation. Treat yourself.

