 Draw one large oval in the center of the paper, then add a slightly smaller one directly beside it on the upper right side. Finish by drawing an even smaller circle to the upper right of the second.


The largest oval will form the main part of the kangaroo's body, and it should be just a little taller than it is wide.
The middle oval will continue the body. It should nearly be a perfect circle, and it should be roughly half as big as the first circle. Its edge should meet the edge of the bigger circle.
The small circle will form the head and needs to be roughly two-thirds the size of the middle circle. Its edge should also meet the edge of the middle circle.
 Draw one cone off the right side of the top circle; this will be the kangaroo's muzzle. Draw a second cone near the top left of the top circle; this will be the ear.


The muzzle should have rounded edges, and it should also point slightly downward. Make it just a little smaller than the circle itself.
The ear should be thinner and slightly longer than the muzzle. It should also point upward.
 Draw lines that connect the head to the middle of the body, and separate lines that connect the middle of the body to the bottom.


The lines connecting the head to the middle will form the neck. They should run tangent to both circles and be fairly straight on either side (left and right).
The lines connecting the middle to the bottom will form the outer edge of the actual body. The top line should form a downward arc between the top of the middle oval and the top left of the bottom oval. The bottom line should be a smaller upward arc connecting the bottom of the middle oval to the right side of the bottom oval.
After drawing your connecting lines, you can erase the inner oval/circle edges lying in between these new lines.
 Sketch a series of three blocks for the arm, two blocks for the lower leg, and three blocks for the tail.


The blocks forming the arm should start at the center of the middle circle and hang beneath the animal's belly. The first block should slant back and end where the oval ended; the second should slant forward and drop beneath the belly; the third should be slant back and be roughly half the size of the first.
The blocks forming the back leg should form an "L" shape, and the top of the first block should connect to the bottom edge of the lowest oval. Both blocks should be the same size.
The blocks forming the tail should connect to the lower left side of the lowest oval, just behind the back leg. Curve these blocks away from the body and make them progressively narrower. The final block should have a pointed outer tip.
 Trace back over the outer edges of the arm and leg blocks, smoothing out the connecting points and making them less sharp.


Angle the top line of the last block in each leg so that it comes down at a gentle "C" curve. Both of these last blocks should form the feet of the kangaroo.
After smoothing out the legs, erase the inner block lines, leaving only the outline of each leg.
 Draw a line just above the bottom leg line. It should match the direction and shape of the bottom leg line, but it should stop a little shorter than the established leg.


Similarly, draw a line to the inside of front leg/arm line, matching the direction and shape of the front leg but falling just a little short of the overall length.
Both of these new lines should form the legs "furthest" away from the viewer.
 Smooth out the connecting points between the tail blocks, making them less sharp.


Erase the inner tail lines, leaving only the outline behind.
 Erase the line between the muzzle and the main portion of the head, then draw a semi-circle nose at the tip of the muzzle. Add a large dot for the eye near the right edge of the original head circle.


You should also add another ear that mimics the line of the first.
Detailing the face is the final step in this drawing method. Once you finish drawing the face, the kangaroo should be done.

