 Tap the gear icon app from the Springboard to open your iPhone’s device settings screen.
 Select “Phone” from the list of options in the Settings menu.
 This displays the number of the SIM card inserted in your iPhone.
 Tap the green phone icon located on your iPhone’s app dock at the bottom of the screen or anywhere from your Springboard to display your phone’s contact list.
 Scroll to the top of your contacts list. Place your finger above the first contact and drag down. The phone's contact info should appear, including the phone number for the current SIM card., This method should work on both Mac and Windows computers.Warning: if you have not already connected your iPhone to this computer, be careful. A mistake during this method could delete the music on your phone.
 Every iPhone comes with a USB cable. Plug one end into your iPhone's charging port. Plug the other end into the computer's USB port.

This method also works with wireless syncing.
 Some users may see a popup that says "Sign in to the iTunes Store". If you see this, enter the Apple ID you use on your iPhone.

Skip this step if this popup does not appear.
 Some users may see a popup that asks if you want to erase and sync the phone. If this happens, click "Cancel." Syncing to someone else's computer could delete all the music on your phone.

Skip this step if the popup does not appear.
 The location of the button depends on your version of iTunes:iTunes 12: Click the small button with a picture of a phone, near the top left corner.
iTunes 11: Click the button that says "iPhone" near the top right corner. If you do not see it, click "Library" in the top right to exit the store. If you still do not see it, select "View" in the top drop-down menu, then "Hide Sidebar".
iTunes 10 and earlier: Look in the left-hand sidebar for "Devices". Click on the name of your device underneath that word.
 This should be listed near the top of your iTunes window, near the image of an iPhone.

If you do not see a phone number, click the "Summary" button. This could be an option on the left-hand sidebar, or a tab at the top of the screen.

