 Coat two 9-inch (22.86-centimeter) cake pans with cooking spray, then set them aside. Regular pans will work better for this than springform pans, especially if you plan on adding a glaze.
 Place the sugar and butter into a large mixing bowl. Add the grated lemon rind, thawed lemonade concentrate, and vanilla extract. Blend everything together on medium speed using a mixer. Keep blending until everything is evenly combined, about 5 minutes., Add two whole eggs (yolk and whites) into the butter mixture, beating well after each one. Next, add two more egg whites (no yolks), beating after each one you add. Save the second set of yolks for another recipe., Pour the flour into a separate mixing bowl. Add the baking powder, salt, and baking soda. Stir the ingredients together with a whisk., Beat half of the flour mixture into the butter mixture. Pour in half of the buttermilk into the butter mixture, and beat it again until well blended. Repeat with the remaining flour and buttermilk., Try to distribute the batter as evenly as you can between the two pans. Tap the pans against the counter. This will help settle the batter and remove any air bubbles., They are ready when a toothpick poked into the center comes out clean. If you have a small oven, bake the cakes on two different racks, then switch them halfway through the baking time; this ensures that they bake evenly., Do not remove them from their pans just yet. This section will teach you how to make a tasty glaze to add between your cake layers. It will result in a moister, tastier cake. If you do not wish to add the glaze, you can skip to the next section., Without removing the cakes from the pans, cut off as much as you can from the top, bumpy part of each cake. Don't worry about leveling off the edges of the cake.Save the scraps for making cake balls or eat them.
 You only need to poke holes in the part that was not cut. This will give the glaze more gaps to sink into., Pour the powdered sugar into a mixing bowl. Add the thawed lemonade concentrate and water. Stir briskly with a whisk until everything is combined and smooth. Don't worry if the glaze looks liquid-y; this will help the glaze soak into the cakes better., Without removing the cakes from their pans, pour the glaze evenly over the top of each one. Don't worry if the glaze pools in the corners., Wrap the top of each cake with plastic wrap. Place the cakes into the fridge for at least 1 hour up to overnight.The frosting will also need to be chilled. Save some time, and prepare the frosting while the cake is chilling, then stick it into the fridge. By the time the frosting is done chilling, the cake will too.
 Let the cakes cool off on a wire rack for 10 minutes first. Run a knife around the inside edges of the pans, then invert the cakes onto a flat surface. Let them cool off completely.

If you glazed the cakes, you do not need to chill them further; the initial 1 hour or so of chilling is plenty. Simply take them out of the fridge and remove them from their pans.
 Place the butter into a large mixing bowl. Add the grated lemon rind, thawed lemonade concentrate, vanilla extract, and cream cheese. Beat everything together on high speed until the frosting turns light and fluffy., Beat the frosting on low speed until everything is just blended. Do not over-mix the frosting., This will allow the frosting to firm up and make it easier tp spread., Place one of the cakes, glazed-side-up on a serving place. Spread about ½ cup (115 grams) of frosting on top of the cake with a butter knife or an angled cake decorating spatula., Spread some frosting over the top of the cake, then more frosting down the sides. If you have any frosting left over, you can put it into a piping bag fitted with a star-shaped tip, and pipe little stars around the edge of the cake.

The second layer should also be placed glazed-side-up on top of the first layer.

