 You can either plant directly in the window box, or you can place potted plants inside the window box and fill the empty space around the pots with a filler material like moss or bark. Choose which option you like the best.If you plant directly in the window box, it will be harder to change things out when you want to or as the seasons change. Putting potted plants directly in the window box gives you more flexibility, but they may not grow quite as well.
Make sure your pots have small holes in the bottom – not big enough for the soil to fall out, but large enough to provide drain access for excess water.;
, Go to your local gardening store and choose a high quality potting mix for your window box. It may include peat moss, pine bark, or even a bit of fertilizer.And remember that potting mix is different than potting soil. Potting soil is intended for use in flowerbeds, while potting mix is made for planters and pots.
For window boxes, you should avoid using garden loam. This is because loam packs down more firmly over time and the window box plants won’t be able to grow their roots through it.
 If your window box is in a place that gets a lot of direct sunlight, you may want to consider adding a few water storing crystals to the soil. These crystals retain water longer than the soil does, so they help keep your plants hydrated.You should be able to purchase water storing crystals at any gardening or home improvement store.
You might also want to consider adding some water retaining crystals if you think you might occasionally forget to water your plants or if you travel often and are away from home.
When considering your plants’ water needs, you’ll also need to think about the location of the box and whether you’ll be able to reach it easily.
You should also make sure that your window box has the proper holes in the bottom for drainage.
 Different plants need different amounts of sunlight in order to survive. Think about the placement of your window box and consider how many hours of sunlight per day the plants will receive in this location. Choose plants that fit with this scenario.


Some plants that tolerate a lot of sun well include rosemary, lavender, daylilies, hibiscus, petunias, and geraniums.Some plants that will handle mostly shade well include creeping fig, maidenhair ferns, devil’s ivy, spider plants, and peace lilies., When arranging your window box, you should have a color scheme in mind so that the window box fits in with the rest of your exterior. Choose some leafy green plants and add some flowering plants too.Try to choose colors that match with your existing décor. Or, if the façade of your home is rather plain, choose some colorful flowers to add a nice pop of color.
 You don’t want your window box to look lopsided or haphazardly thrown together. Try to organize the plants in such a way that they look somewhat symmetrical in the window box. Include a variety of leafy plants and flowering plants on each side, not just each concentrated in one area.Try to get plants that will overlap each other slightly so there are no big holes in the organization of the window box.
 Remember that the key to a full, healthy looking window box is to include a lot of plants. Some plants may do poorly if they are overcrowded in a small window box space, so choose plants that are known to flourish in packed situations.Some good plants to choose for a packed window box include ferns, tuberous-rooted begonias, fuchsias, ageratums, geraniums, caladiums, and coleus.
You can also choose plants that seem to produce a “fluffy” growth, which will look more packed than it actually is like ferns, dracaena, frosted curls, and summer snapdragon. This will help your window box look more packed than it actually is.
Including quite a few plants will always look better than a sparse, underplanted window box., When deciding which plants to include in your window box, you should also think about the expected heights of the plants and how those plants will look together as a whole in the box. You might want to put a taller plant on one side with a draping vining plant on the other side to even it out. Play around with the combinations and decide what you think looks the best.Remember that hanging plants or plants with vines that drape down over the edge of the box can add dimension and an element of drama to your window box.
Very tall plants might not belong in your window box, depending on the location. They might also block the view of the windows.
 A window box full of very similar plants might end up looking a bit boring. Try mixing it up by adding a variety of textures and sizes of plants.You might choose one plant with beautiful colorful blooms, one with wide-spanning leaves, and one with a trailing vine. Or include some spikey succulents with some fluffy-leafed plants.
 You’ll want the soil in the window box to stay slightly damp at all times. But you don’t want to overwater it and drown the plants. You also don’t want the soil to get too dry. Check the soil in your window box every day to make sure it stays slightly moist to the touch.You will probably need to water it once every two or three days, depending on the types of plants you chose and their specific water needs.
 In order to maintain the beauty of your window box arrangement, you’ll need to perform routine pruning. Use sharp shears to make clean cuts on the plants close to the stem. Prune your plants just after they finish flowering or right before a new period of growth.Focus on discarding any dead or unattractive portions of the plant first. Then think about the overall look and appearance of the plant to make strategic pruning decisions.
For example, if one plant is growing much more quickly than the plant next to it and it is really overtaking the slower plant, you might want to prune it back a bit so the slower plant still has a chance to shine in the window box.
 Nothing kills outdoor plants quicker than an unexpected frost. If you hear that the ground will freeze overnight, take a moment to cover the plants in your window box. You can use a piece of plastic to cover the plants.This will help keep your plants warm and give them a better chance of surviving the cold winter weather.
 Since the window box is small, it might be a good idea to replace the potting soil each year to help replenish the nutrients for the plants. You don’t have to fully remove and replant each plant. But just carefully shovel out most of the loose soil and replace it with fresh, new potting mix.Be careful not to damage any of the plant roots during this process.

