 One of the side effects of menopause is urinary incontinence or leakage. To help combat this before these health issues arise during menopause, you can start doing pelvic exercises, called Kegel exercises, to help strengthen your pelvic floor muscles.Kegels are a series of muscle tensing and releasing exercises in different positions and for different lengths of time. You can identify the muscles used in Kegels by trying to stop the flow of urine as you pee. The muscles you squeeze to accomplish this are the muscles you will be working curing Kegels.
Start out by squeezing your pelvic floor muscles for two to five seconds, then release for 10 seconds. Do this ten times to complete one set. Do one set three to four times daily.
Increase the time you squeeze and hold your muscles to 10-second intervals. Continue to do three to four sets daily.
Kegels can be done just about anywhere and at any time. Do them while driving, sitting at your desk, watching TV, or whenever works for you.
 When you are preparing for the changes your body goes through during menopause, you can start to avoid the substances that trigger hot flashes. This will help them to get out of your system before you start menopause so you won’t start out with bad hot flashes.


These triggers include hot and caffeinated beverages, alcohol, and spicy foods.
Many of these things trigger other menopause symptoms as well, so you will be healthier and more prepared overall if you avoid these., One of the major side effects of the reduction in estrogen during menopause is vaginal dryness. Before you go through menopause, you can ask what your doctor can do for you if this happens. A common treatment that is prescribed during menopause is vaginal estrogen, which is a cream, rings, or tablet inserted directly into the vagina to be absorbed by the tissues.


You can prepare for this eventual health change by seeing if your insurance covers these treatments, looking into types of these medications that you have access to, and stocking up on these medications.
These treatments will help with dryness and discomfort during sex.You can also look into the best over-the-counter lubricants or moisturizers so you are ready when this symptoms occurs. Look for glycerin-free versions because glycerin can cause irritation in some women.If you already experience some issues with vaginal dryness, you can also use over-the-counter lubricants or ask your doctor about additional help.
 There are some symptoms of menopause that have various types of treatments you can undergo once they start, but you can’t treat them before they happen. To help prepare for these beforehand, you can be mentally prepared for them to help you deal them. Research menopause in more detail so you can learn about everything that will happen to your body so you are more prepared. Menopause symptoms you may have include:


Insomnia
FatigueJoint aches
Heart palpitations
Loss of libido
Painful or difficult intercourse
Vaginal irritation
Difficulty concentrating
Increased skin wrinkling
Loss of skin tone or elasticity