


A thick tedious book full of abstract scientific terms is needed to know what each video format means and the details how various video formats are created. But we don’t have to be a scientist in order to make a video conversion, some basic knowledge is enough.
Most video files have at least two different types: the container, and the codec.
A container format is a computer file format that can contain various types of data, compressed in a manner of standardized codecs. The container describes the structure of the file: where the various pieces are stored, how they are interleaved, and which codecs are used by which pieces. It may also specify an audio codec as well as video.
Codec, short for compressor/decompressor, allows you to store the digital music, photos, and movies in the form of compact, manageable files, which can then be opened or decompressed to deliver the original contents. The common video codecs include DivX, XviD, 3ivx, MPEG(MPEG-1,2,3,4), ReadVideo.
A video can be thought of as being made up of numerous snapshots, called frames. Frame rate is the number of still pictures per unit of time of video, and most often expressed in frames per second (fps). Motion pictures shot on film do so at 24 FPS. Both video and audio file resolution is measured in kilobytes per second (kbps) — that is, how many thousands of bytes it takes to store one second of sound or videos. This figure is known as the bitrate. A higher bitrate allows better video quality.
Aspect ratio describes the dimensions of video screens and video picture elements. All popular video formats are rectilinear, and so can be described by a ratio between width and height. The screen aspect ratio of a traditional television screen is 4:3, or about 1.33:1. High definition televisions use an aspect ratio of 16:9, or about 1.78:1. The aspect ratio of a full 35 mm film frame with soundtrack (also known as the Academy ratio) is 1.375:1.
Video is made up of static pictures being flashed before us in rapid succession. When we talk about picture resolution we are referring to the elements, pixels, which make up the pictures. For example, iPod classic video is 320*240.
Finally, theoretically video conversion won’t improve video quality. You shall not expect better quality than source video.;
,


A good video converter is vital to whether you can successfully finish video conversion. There are tons of available Mac video converter applications. Good Mac video conversion software can make you look like a video whiz with minimal effort. Since most video converters are trialware, you can try before purchasing.



A lot of the ugly-looking grainy clips you see online are the victims of bad conversion practices. Poorly encoded or converted video can end up looking horrible, which is an eye torture.
To avoid this, you need to make sure you take the correct output settings. Some video converters have provided some convenient way to optimize the output.
Those preloaded profiles cover most our requirements. But you can still modify some parameters according to your specialized requirements. As introduced in Tip 1, you can customize the frame rate, bitrate, video size, aspect ratio, etc., to get best result. For example, you can increase the value of video/audio bitrate to get a higher image/sound quality and for a compressed file you can decrease the value. You can save the customized profile for handier usage and quicker access in the future.



Stop thinking video editing requires professional expertise and only Hollywood geek could do it. Most video converters allow you to add a wide variety of eye–popping effects to your videos. You can clip, crop, apply visual effects, and add background music, subtitle and watermark to personalize your movies, transform it into a work of art. Good video converter tool usually provides detailed help information which is easy to understand. Feel free to try out the available editing functions then you will master them.



The best way to sharpen your video conversion skill is through practice. You may explore the video converter with different setting and apply more effects. In addition, though understanding everything about video formats just isn’t an option for most, knowing more knowledge will make your video conversion job better. You might want to take a look at some video knowledge websites like Videohelp.com etc. You can share your experience with others and also learn some advanced skills from other people. You may also publish you videos on some websites to show off your accomplishments.

