 Some people are more prone to folic acid deficiency than others because of genetic causes, chronic illness, and use of certain medications. Talk to your physician if you have risk factors that may prevent you from absorbing enough folic acid.


Genetic mutations such as polymorphism (a genetic variance or flaw) can be a risk factor for folic acid deficiency. Known as a MTHFR mutation, your body may have trouble making an enzyme called methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase which is critical for the body’s processing of folic acid.Chronic illnesses that affect absorption in the gastrointestinal tract may also cause folic acid deficiencies. If you suffer from Crohn’s or celiac disease, or are on dialysis, discuss strategies with your doctor to ensure you are ingesting enough folic acid.A number of common medications may interfere with folic acid absorption, including anti-inflammatories, antibiotics, and antacids. If you are being treated for a particular condition, do not take folic acid supplements without first discussing it with your physician.;
, Symptoms of anemia, a sign of folate deficiency, include weakness, lack of concentration, and lightness.Other symptoms may include diarrhea, numbness of the hands and feet, muscle weakness and depression., Take Vitamin B12 and folic acid together for best results. Folic acid supplements alone can mask anemia caused by a vitamin B12 deficiency.Vitamin B12 and folic acid work synergistically to support heart and nerve health. , This ensures that your body will process and digest the supplement along with your food.Stick to a schedule. Because daily intake is important for folic acid, take it at a convenient time when you will remember. If you have trouble, set an alarm on your phone or computer.Avoid taking folic acid while drinking green tea. Some research suggests it decreases folic acid absorption. , Alcohol can interfere in the body's ability to absorb folic acid and promotes excretion of folic acid into urine.Alcoholics with folate deficiency are more at risk to develop liver injuries., Folic acid is destroyed by air and heat and the amount present in the foods can decrease significantly if food is improperly stored, overcooked, or reheated.Steaming is an excellent method for cooking vegetables since it preserves vitamins, including folate, better than boiling., Orange juice or a Vitamin C supplement can aid in the body's absorption of nutrients including folic acid.