 A couple of hundred is probably okay, particularly if you are a student. A couple of thousand may not be okay if you live in a small home. Is it intruding on other aspects of your home? Are they gathering dust or obstructing parts of your home? If they're merely disorganized then organize them. Box up any you never read.;
, Keep only particularly valuable books after reading. Donate the rest to your local library or charity, or trade them with other book lovers online. You can also sell your books:


Look up your books by ISBN on BookScouter.com or RentScouter which also ranks the companies offering to buy your books. This will give you and idea how much your book is worth if you choose to sell it online. It also has feedback on ratings from most book-buying websites so you know which sites are reputable and which to avoid.
Look in the yellow pages of your local phone book under "Books - Used." Call the promising-looking stores and find out if they are buying books, if they give cash or trade credit, and if you need to make an appointment. Selling to a local used bookstore is the fastest way to downsize while getting something back, but they generally will take only the ones they think they can sell. The leftover books can then be donated to a thrift store; many libraries also accept donations for their used book sales and will give a donation receipt for tax purposes as well.
Sites like Amazon.com, Half.com and eCampus.com allow individuals to sell books; listing is free and a small commission is taken when the book sells. Current textbooks in particular sell well. However, you're then stuck with storing listed books until they sell (if they sell), as well as the hassle of packaging and mailing them. Decide how much your time is worth and how much you want to make per book; a book that you would sell for $5 may not be worth the effort to list, store, package, and mail, but it would be worth it for a book that could sell for $25. Set a time limit (say, two months), and if a particular book doesn't sell online by then, either reduce the price, "un-list" it and take it to a local bookstore, or give it away.
 This is probably a good time to organize your books as well. First, break your books up into the following piles, and decide which ones have to stay and which ones have to go.
 These are books like encyclopedias, dictionaries, and other nonfiction sources that you come back to regularly for reliable information. If you haven't referred to a particular book for over a year, though, you should probably part with it. These days, you can find a lot of reference information online and there's always the option of using the local library.


Books you've already read, that you want to keep. Whether they're fiction or nonfiction, think carefully about why you're keeping them. Will you really be reading it again? Less than once a year perhaps? If you can get your hands on a copy at the library, why keep a copy at home? This would be extraneous. Keeping books on hand "just in case" you want to read it again is a surefire way to watch your book collection invade your abode.
Books you haven't read yet. These can be broken down into two other categories: books you haven't read because you haven't had time, and books you haven't read because you're not really interested in them (usually gifts). If you don't want to get rid of the books that you're not interested in, consider putting them into storage. For the other books you haven't read, follow the remaining steps in this article.
Generally, if you haven't touched the book in the last 2 years, it's probably time for it to go!

, Set a "read-to-purchase ratio". This solution works well because it lets you control your book purchasing habits without requiring that you wait several years until you've read the entire existing selection. It also encourages you to read more, knowing that you can reward yourself with a new book soon enough, and not feel guilty about it. Choosing a ratio that’ll work for you involves finding that sweet spot between how much time you have to read, how quickly you read, and how many shelves you’ve still got to get through.
 Look at your bookshelf, and pick out the next 10-14 books you want to read. The longer you've hoarded it, the better. Then write down the total pages in each book and add up the total. Give yourself a reasonable amount of time to finish all the books, break the total pages down into a daily reading assignment, and tell yourself that you can’t buy a new book until you finish half of the books within the syllabus.
 Sometimes the urge to get a book can be satiated by writing it down on a list of books you would like to read or acquire "someday." Gardening your list can be a satisfying activity. Your list can be as simple as a piece of paper tucked into your library, or as elaborate as a computer database. There are even websites that allow you to keep and catalogue a virtual library.
 Either donate it or give it to a friend, or list it for swapping with an online book swap such as http://www.paperbackswap.com. This can make you more cautious about buying a book, because you'll have to part with one that's already on your bookshelf!

, They also have online resources so you can look up for free and reserve books.
 Many titles can then be burned to a CD or transferred to another device such as an IPad.
 All your books are digital and there would be no worries of having piles of them!

, Some of the best post-retirement hours are spent with books that were selected years and years ago. Finding time to read is no longer an issue, no need to answer to anyone (including the library) about how long it's taking to get finished with a book, and keeping five books going in five different rooms at once is perfectly satisfactory. THEN, when you are satisfied you are really done with them (or you think you are not likely to live long enough to re-read all of them), they can go to someone else or to have the paper recycled.

