

If your ride happens to show up when you're not there, they could think that something bad happened to you. To avoid mishaps like this, calmly gather your things (if you have any) and wait for a few minutes. Maybe they are just running late, or you got done with practice early.;
,

If you own a cell phone, now is the time to use it. Call or text the person who was supposed to pick you up.
If you don't own a cellphone, you will have to try to find one. You could walk to a nearby restaurant or gas station, as long as it is safe to do so.
Once you have a phone, it is ideal to contact the person who was supposed to pick you up. If they answer, ask where they are or if they are still planning to give you a ride. At this point you can usually figure something out. Do not get upset with them if they forgot; try to be understanding.
If they don't answer, try calling someone else you know well and trust, such as a parent, friend, or neighbor. Maybe they'll be willing to give you a ride or help you contact someone who can give you one.


Is there anyone left that you know and trust that could help you contact your ride? If there is, you could try getting their attention before they drive off.
Even if there isn't someone there you know well, you could always ask to borrow a stranger's cell phone. Just remember to be respectful and most importantly safe.


Determine a reasonable time (say, 15-20 minutes) after you were supposed to be picked up. If you weren't able to contact anyone, and you still haven't seen your ride show up, you could always walk home as long as it's safe and practical to do so.
If you see a police officer, security guard, fireman, or any other official, know that it's perfectly fine to ask them for a ride home. They will understand, and you know that you can trust them.
Especially if it has been a while, and you can't walk home or contact anyone for a ride, or it's getting dark outside, go to the nearest public building and explain your situation to an employee. They will help you find someone to take you home, whether it's your parents or a cop.

