 Read the situation presented before you. A catcher must know how many runners are in position, how many are out, and if possible, what the likelihood is that the baserunners will steal. This will change how you set up your footwork, what kind of pitch you will call, or whether or not you should call for your pitcher to pick-off.;
, Before the pitch is thrown in a throwdown situation, you must be in position to make sure you can get a quick throw off. Your throwing foot should be half a foot further ahead than your back foot, to help reduce time in getting your footwork together. Depending on the situation, you should determine how close or far your should be to the plate. In a situation where there is a right-handed batter and a man possibly stealing third, it is best to line up slightly further from the plate in order to throw behind the batter. This would give you a clear target to third base to get the best possible throw off.
 There are several different ways to learn how to set up your feet for a throw down. I suggest setting up as shown earlier, and then proceeding as such. The first step is to make sure that you secure the ball in your glove before you worry about the throw to second. From here, make sure you cut down the amount of steps you take with the ball. As you receive the ball plant your front foot towards the base your throwing to and release as quickly as possible. Avoid shuffling at all costs, as the longer you are holding the ball, the more time the runner has to get to the base.
 Getting the ball out of your hand quickly is more important than how hard you actually throw the ball. As the ball is about to make impact with your glove, place your throwing hand directly behind your glove to create the fastest possible transfer time. Once you've caught the ball, bring the ball straight behind you and time your throw with your footwork. Follow through with your throw to throw as hard as possible and to reduce the chance of injury.
 If the man covering the base isn't at the base yet, he will be, so get your throw off and let him worry about his job. Most commonly, runners are trying to steal second, so we will focus on the primary targets there. A common mistake is to try to hit the glove of the man covering the base, which is difficult because it's a moving target. Common places to aim where your throwing is at the pitchers head or directly at the base. Keep your throw low and on your right side of the base to help apply an easy tag on the runner.

