 Stretching can help you to significantly improve your flexibility, but only if you do it regularly. This is because stretching is all about keeping the muscles loose and limber - if you wait too long between stretching sessions, your muscles will tighten up again, leaving you right back where you started. For this reason, it is much better to do short but regular bursts of stretching than an hour-long weekly session.








Try incorporating 20 minutes of stretching into your workout routine, five times a week.
To gain maximum benefits, break these 20 minutes up into 10 minutes of dynamic stretching before a workout and 10 minutes of static stretching post-workout.
 Breathing fully and deeply can noticeably improve your stretching sessions. Breathing deeply increases the oxygen flow to your bloodstream, improving circulation and removing harmful toxins and lactic acid from your muscles. This loosens up your muscles, making them easier to stretch. Inhaling deeply also helps your body to relax and really focuses your mind on the task at hand.Concentrate on breathing from your belly, rather than your chest. If you're doing this correctly, your stomach should inflate each time you take a breath. This engages the diaphragm, allowing for optimal oxygen intake.Inhale slowly through the nose and out through the mouth, in a measured, controlled fashion. Focus on the muscle or muscles that you're stretching as you breath - this awareness will help the muscles to relax even further as you exhale., Keeping your body hydrated is important for any form of physical activity and stretching is no exception. Muscles are mainly composed of water, so without adequate hydration muscles will fail to operate at peak levels. If your muscles are not working at an optimal level, you will fail to get the most from your stretches and find it more difficult to improve flexibility. Make sure to drink plenty of water before and during a workout to prevent dehydration.Drinking sports drinks is another way to rapidly improve hydration levels after a tough workout, while replacing lost energy and electrolytes.
 Stretching is most beneficial when performed on warm, even slightly tired muscles. It is for this reason that traditional, static stretching is best performed after a workout than before. Even your pre-workout dynamic stretches should be preceded by 30 seconds of jumping jacks or running on the spot to get the blood flowing and the muscles ready to go.If you want to stretch but don't have time for working out, don't worry. You can also effectively warm muscles by contracting and releasing them:









Just hold the specific muscle that you want to stretch in a contracted state for a minimum of 30 seconds, before releasing and moving into your stretch. Your muscle will automatically feel more relaxed., Stretching works most effectively when you target specific muscles or muscle groups individually, rather than trying to stretch them all at once. A properly performed stretching exercise will isolate just one muscle or group of muscles, so you can focus all of your energy where it's needed. The combined effect of each individual stretch will produce higher flexibility levels overall, than stretches which attempt to work several muscles at once.








Therefore, to improve overall flexibility, you will need to develop a routine of at least 5-6 different stretching exercises, which target specific areas of the body, in order to increase the flexibility of each individual muscle.
 Stretching should never be painful, and if it is you are either pushing yourself too far or performing the exercise incorrectly. Increasing your flexibility is a process - you will not suddenly achieve it overnight. As a result, you need to ensure that you are performing your stretches in a safe, controlled manner, without putting your muscles at risk of pulling or tearing.









If you feel pain while stretching, stop immediately or at the very least reduce the intensity of the stretch - pushing yourself to stretch further than your body feels comfortable with will only do more harm than good.

