 Special events include concerts, sports events, and other ticket holding events. The press pass for these events grants you free entry and sometimes allows you to go backstage to access for further coverage. Usually concerts will have a promoter separate from the venue that is responsible for granting these passes.Research the event and contact the venue for help tracking down who is in charge.;
, In order to get a press pass you're going to need credentials, or records that prove you work for a media outlet. Use previous articles or coverage that relates to the event you're interested in. It will benefit the promoters to see your style of work and your demographic as it pertains to the event in question.One of the best ways to prove your affiliation with a news source is to make contact using a work email address.
On your work email address, make sure to include a signature that says your role for the company. For example: "Gerald Straton / Photographer and Editor for L.A. Underground News"
An ID produced by either your newspaper or broadcasting outlet may be helpful as well.
 Try to contact them as early as possible. Let them know who you are and who you work for. Often a press office will go by the name, public affairs office, or public relations. You may need to sell them on why they want access to an event, and how you would provide them with positive coverage.


You’ll be required to offer information about your publication or blog's followers that will benefit from the coverage.
Craft a simple but professional email pitch. You could begin with, “Hello, My name is ________ and I am an avid photojournalist from ________. I am reaching out with an interest in applying for a photo pass for the Switchfoot Fest this coming July.”, Some pre-planned events will issue badges to certified members of the media. In these situations, the issuing authority can be pretty tough on credentials. Keep pushing that you are there to cover the story. Try to convince them it would be a good idea to give you a badge.


Whoever issues the badges at the event will have a record of all the names who get access to the event.
You should start applying for press passes as soon as possible!

, Some photographers keep all the little press badges they get for several reasons. Badges act as trophies for the journalist, and serve as a visual indication that you’re an experienced journalist. You may find that you can get preferential access to major events by using an old badge alone.
 You can become a member of a journalist union that protects and helps freelance photographers and writers cover events. Some of the unions require a fee from you and benefit you with paying jobs and less hassle acquiring press passes.


The application process is straightforward with most writing unions. They ask that you provide samples and writing proof.