 Take into account how much you and your spouse bring home each month. Use the after-tax amount. If your child is earning income, too, incorporate their earnings into your budget as well. You could make one column of your ledger or spreadsheet representing all the income your family brought in during the budgetary period, or create two or more separate columns, each representing the income an individual in your household brought in., This is the money you will definitely spend, no matter what month you’re calculating the budget for.


It’s best if you create several columns for the different types of fixed spending you regularly do. For instance, each month, you might insert a new value into the budget column for rent, another value for electric and gas, then another for groceries.
Place your expenditures next to the income in a separate column on either the spreadsheet or your ledger.
Involve your children in each step of the calculations. Tracking fixed spending with your family helps them better understand basic math, as well as the difference between needs (fixed expenses) and wants (discretionary funds).
 You could break the discretionary spending column of your budget ledger or spreadsheet down further. For instance, you might list separate values for coffee, dining out, video game rentals, and so on.


Talk to your family about how you can set a limit on your family’s discretionary spending. Children, especially, will enjoy finding creative ways to save money.
It is important to separate your fixed (necessary) spending from your discretionary spending. If you later realize that your expenses exceed your income, your discretionary spending should be the first thing to eliminate.
Transfer excess discretionary money into several separate funds for things you and your family can do together like going to the movies, seeing a baseball game, and ordering pizza on Fridays. Put the money in clear glass jars so your kids can watch the amount increase in a visible way.Once each week, take the money out with your kids and count it with them. Ask them if your family has saved enough to use the cash for the activity it is intended for.

