 Did you rip off about half the wallpaper in a room before giving up? Are there bare cement floors in the kitchen because tiling turned out to be harder than it looked? You’ll want to finish these projects yourself or hire someone to finish them, since they will greatly deter buyers.
 Give rooms a new look by putting on a fresh coat of paint. Use neutral wall tones but bright accessories and furnishings, to make rooms look accessible. Avoid dated colors, especially shades of yellow, green, and orange. Avoid genderizing rooms, such as painting a child’s room pink. Do use light colors to make rooms look bigger and brighter, while avoiding dark colors which can often do the opposite.
 Gross, stained carpet? Dated carpet? Get rid of it! Buyers will be much more attracted to wood floors, which can easily have an area rug placed over it, than wall-to-wall carpet which will need to be maintained and replaced as soon as it looks dated or doesn’t match with a design scheme.
 If your kitchen or bathroom cabinets look dated and you don’t have the money to replace them, simply paint over them, replace the doors, or replace the handles in order to give them a more modern look. This can be done easily and cheaply.
 You want your house to make a good first impression so be sure that the entrance and entryway look inviting.


Give your exterior a coat of fresh paint if you have the money, or just paint the front door if you don’t.
Make sure the yard is maintained, with a healthy, trim lawn and bushes and trees which are not out of place or overgrown. You can also put in fresh plants and flowers to make the house look happy and well cared for.
You will also want to take a hard look at your fences and decide if it might not be better to remove them. If they block the flow of space or look dated, they will likely deter buyers.
 Turn on all the lights and use a tripod for best clarity and brightness. Take pictures of most rooms at least two different perspectives. You may have 100 pictures of which perhaps 15 of the best would be used in the realtor listing. Too often, dark or blurry pictures taken by realtors using their cell phones will disappoint. Make sure to take bright, inviting pictures after you've gone through all the hard work of staging the house.