 The most exciting free movie is a free movie that hasn't even been released yet, which are often shown in advance to generate hype and get feedback. Look for these opportunities as frequently as you can, since tickets usually disappear fast. More opportunities are available in population centers.


Check GetScreening.com, like their Facebook page, and follow the Twitter announcements for your area.
To find screenings for a specific movie, go to AdvanceScreenings.com.
(US only) Visit Gofobo and enter your zip code. Many of the other websites will lead you here, so you can save some time by creating a free account in advance.(US only) Like the WildAboutMovies Facebook page, or visit Cinemit.com

Visit this fatwallet forum thread and go to the latest page to see recent deals found by other searchers.;
, If one of the sites above asks you for an RSVP code, search online for the name of the movie, the location it's being screened in, and "RSVP code" or "access code." Searching on twitter is also a good idea, since companies will sometimes give away these codes to followers.
 One of the largest of these is Allied Integral Marketing's 43KIX, which has many local twitter accounts in the United States. To find more of these companies in your area, look at the brand names on the advance screening advertisements or passes found through the sites above, or ask the people running an advance screening event.
 These tend to include a lot of promotions and advertising that don't include the magic words "free movie." If you're willing to sift through these for advance screening deals, sign up for the theater chains with a location in your area:


RegMovies
AMC Theaters

, There are usually more tickets given out than there are seats in the theater. Show up at least 45 minutes early to minimize the chance that you're turned away. Some screenings even have receptions before the movie, so you'll definitely want to show up early for those.Some people in San Francisco report the theater filling up as early as 1.5 hours before the movie begins., Some advance screenings do not allow mobile phones or cameras into the theater, to prevent competing studios from recording the film for the purposes of plagiarism. This practice is less common for screenings closer to the release date.

