 Why does dysphagia matter? Aspiration (ass-per-A-shun) is when some of the food or liquid goes past the vocal folds in the direction of your lungs. You might have experienced this as "something going down the wrong pipe", and it probably made you cough a lot. It happens to all of us once in a while (maybe someone said something funny while you were in the middle of taking a drink), but for someone with dysphagia, it could be happening with every meal or even with every bite or sip. If it's happening very often, the person can even stop feeling it and stop reacting in any way. They might have no idea that something is going down the wrong way. This is called "silent aspiration". Aspiration can lead to pneumonia, which is very serious and sometimes fatal.;
, Dysphagia is very common among the elderly, people who have had strokes, and people with dementia, Parkinson's Disease, MS, and other neurological conditions. However it can also affect anyone of any age, for many different reasons. (Dysphagia also affects infants, especially premature babies; however, this article will only discuss adults.)

, If any of these are true, the person might have "oral dysphagia", or dysphagia affecting the mouth.


Is the person taking a long time to chew?
Is the person chewing ineffectively or swallowing food that's only partially chewed up?
Is there food being held ("pocketed") in the person's cheek on one or both sides?
Is the person impulsively putting too much food in their mouth?
Is there residual food stuck to the person's tongue, teeth, or in the back of their throat after they swallowed? Remember that the person may or may not be able to feel it. Try to have the person open their mouth after they swallowed and take a peek inside.
Is the person losing any food or liquid out the front of their mouth, because their lips aren't closed all the way?

, If any of these are true, the person might have "pharyngeal dysphagia", or dysphagia affecting the throat.


Is the person coughing while they are eating or drinking? (This might happen before or after they swallow.)
Is the person clearing their throat while they are eating or drinking? (This can also happen before or after they swallow.)
Does the person have a "wet" or "gurgly" sounding voice during meals, or after they swallow something?

, If any of these are true, the person might have "esophageal dysphagia".


Does the person complain of something getting "stuck", especially in the upper chest area?
Does the person regurgitate food during or after meals?
Does the person have a history of stomach problems, heartburn, or reflux?

, If any of the above are true, talk to a doctor about getting a swallowing evaluation from a Speech-Language Pathologist (SLP). This is the professional who evaluates and treats swallowing disorders. Most SLPs work with children in schools, but many others specialize in treating adults with swallowing disorders. If you think that you or a loved one has difficulty swallowing, talk to your doctor and ask for a referral to an SLP who specializes in swallowing.


The SLP might recommend a modified diet, which could include changing the texture of either the solid foods, the liquids, or both.
Changes to the solid textures usually means avoiding certain hard or crunchy items (like nuts and popcorn), and might mean making all of the food softer. There are various levels of softness, ranging from just cutting the food up into bite-sized chunks, to foods that are completely pureed in the blender. The SLP will describe which texture is recommended for you and give you examples.
If you are having difficulty with liquids, the SLP might recommend thickening your liquids. There are several textures of liquids: Thin (normal water and most normal liquids), Nectar thick liquids, Honey thick liquids, and Pudding thick liquids. You can buy commercial thickeners at most drugstores that can be added to liquids to make them thicker. The SLP will let you know if you need thickened liquids and which texture is right for you.
 An SLP might also recommend exercises in order to make your swallow stronger. There are different exercises for different types of dysphagia, and you should only do the ones that are recommended to you by an SLP for your particular issue. 

, An SLP might also recommend further testing to find out the exact nature of your problem.


There are two different kinds of tests: A Modified Barium Swallow (MBS), which is a moving X-ray that can see exactly how the food goes down your throat, and a Fiberoptic Endoscopic Evaluation of Swallowing (FEES), which is a little camera that goes through your nose and points down into your throat as you swallow different foods.

