 This way, you'll be prepared when stress starts to build up.
 Stimmingand exercise reduce stress, burn calories, and provide numerous other benefits.They will relieve excess energy from your system and boost your mood and ability to focus. Here are small alterations you can make to increase your activity:


Take a 10-minute walk every evening. Bring a loved one and talk about your day.
Play backyard sports with family members.
Get off the bus one stop early and appreciate the fresh air.
Swing.
Substitute an exercise ball for a desk chair. Bounce as much as you please.
Take your kids or siblings out to a park.
 Sleeplessness and poor diet can increase your levels of stress, thus making it harder for you to stop a meltdown.
 It is okay to make adjustments, and it is okay to be disabled in public.Try going to the autistic community (start with #actuallyautistic or #askanautistic) for tips from like-minded people.


Ask for disability accommodations. These can help.
For auditory defensiveness, wear earplugs during your walk to school or work. You will still be able to hear sounds, but they won't hurt you.
Get a robotic vacuum cleaner, rather than trying to remember to clean by yourself.
Skip social events that don't interest you. Socializing is hard,and you aren't required to do it if the context isn't compelling enough.
Make schedules, diagrams, and lists as memory aids., If you can identify the things that bring on meltdowns, you can learn to avoid them, or prepare coping strategies beforehand.
 You might not be able to get rid of your father, your English class, or that annoying dog next door. But you do have the power to control some stressful aspects of your life. You can say something is not working, or a person is making your life miserable. Quitting is not always a bad thing; it can be a powerful act of self-care. For example:


You are taking college classes, but you are getting stressed out. You might consider dropping the most problematic classes and take a lighter load of classes. It might take longer to get your degree, but plenty of people take more than eight semesters.
Your friend makes fun of you and makes you sad. That is not a good friend—it is OK to stop spending time with her. Maybe you can work it out at some point, but you have every right not to socialize with someone who is unkind.
You enjoyed your job but had a change of supervisor. You really do not respond well to her style. You have tried to adapt, but it is not working out for you. It is OK to hand in your notice if it is making you miserable. Many people quit jobs because of this reason.
 This will improve your mood and the quality of your life.


Try to find a job, volunteer opportunity, or extracurricular activity related to your special interests. If you are given an open-ended project, try to relate it to your passions. Let your knowledge shine.
Find a productive hobby. Creating something (whether it's an article or a hat) will make you feel good.
Get together at least once a week with your closest friends. (If you don't have close friends, the aforementioned activity can help you find some.)
Find a therapist who makes you feel better, not worse. Your happiness and competence are a top priority.
 Autistic people are at high risk for developing anxiety, so it's important to give yourself plenty of rest. Try special interests, crochet, reading, music, journal writing, bubble baths, or whatever helps you feel centered and at ease.

