 There isn't much point wanting to be the spark that creates political or social change if it's not of interest to you or is too distant from your own passions and beliefs to be genuine. This is not about simply drumming up a bandwagon of excitement for a current issue; you'll only come across as genuine if you're already known for caring about the issues that have sparked the need for political change. For example, you might consistently tweet or update Facebook about environmental pollution, bureaucratic stuff-ups, democracy issues, corporate greed, or the lack of interest in funding education, etc. From your usual platform, you can extend your discussion, updates and viewpoints to a current issue in need of political change, whether it's as huge as protests of dissent seeking a change of government, or as small but still as significant as a campaign to increase the level of resourcing of education or libraries in your local area.


Your interest in democracy, human rights, education, gender equality, nature, the environment, animal welfare, and so forth, can easily keep you informed of and up-to-date about the bigger issues at stake; staying in the flow regularly means that when a particular situation arises or the time has come for real change, you're at the forefront of understanding its import and the necessity to jump in and support the fervor. All the same, don't curtail yourself; provided you have the passion, you can channel your activism and your passion for change into all similar issues grounded on ensuring human dignity, equality for all, and consideration for nature and other species.
Look for a catalyst for political change. Is there something in the news recently that would cause many to demand change? It is often much easier to promote something once a catalyst has started the process in the first place, provided you're knowledgeable about it.
 People are motivated most by affirming visions that describe a better future than the one they're experiencing now. Paint what the future should look like rather than focusing purely on the negatives. By all means be clear about current problems and even consider using examples and photos that goad people into action but don't keep the message on negativity all the time. Amplify and describe to people the future possibilities.


Try using interactive tools to let people work out things for themselves, to give them a sense of ownership. For example, during the BP oil spill, an interactive map showing how the oil spill was projected to bloom across the ocean over time was tweeted around. This was more effective at concerning people than a whole lot of words. Perhaps use maps, historical timelines, or visual histories to help people better understand what is happening now and why. For example, showing a country's history of repression on a visual timeline might help people less familiar with the happenings grasp the concepts faster and with more accuracy than a whole lot of paragraphs detailing the same information.
Read How to win friends and influence people and How to influence people, How to get more followers on Twitter for more details on what to do.
 You may need to consult others on this prior to proceeding and make sure what you write is legal, factual, and preferably considerate of all people involved in terms of gender, race, and ethnicity. Use blogs, Facebook, websites, and article sites to gt your longer written messages out there, and use your social networking accounts to share the links to your writing.


Video and photo essays are as effective as writing online, provided they're well produced. If you're keen on these media, use them to the full extent.

