 Buying larger quantities of food that you don't eat quickly is not usually good economy and you risk losing the food to spoilage if not used in time. With the exception of items eaten quickly in your household, only purchase small quantities of perishable food and refresh as needed.;
, Make sure that when you buy a new food item, you pull the unfinished one forward in the pantry cupboard or refrigerator so that the older item is finished first. Every now and then do a sweep of the food to bring forward all items that are getting near their use-by date.
 These items lose their flavour over time and the use-by date is there for a reason. Only purchase new ones when you are going to use them.
 Resist the temptation to not eat or use them in cooking or you may end up finding you waited too long. Enjoy them quickly so that you make the most of them. Don't let such items get stuck at the back of the fridge!

, Food stored next to the oven will deteriorate more quickly than food kept in a cooler environment. Move your food items that are stored next to the oven if necessary.
 Read them even before you buy and look for the freshest item to bring home. Once home, always be very careful to use refrigerated and frozen foods by their use-by date. Expired use-by dates on pantry items are often less urgent within a short period of time but remember that even food in tins and dried food loses its taste and appeal with too much storage.
 Maintaining freshness is dependent on knowing how the food should be stored. For many items, you can find the information on the packaging. There are also numerous articles on wikiHow about storing fruit, vegetables, meat etc. Freezers often indicate on the door how food should be stored. Following the food storage guidelines will help to prolong the freshness of your food.
 Pantries and food cupboards should be well lit; refrigerators and freezers should not be crammed so full that you can't bear to rummage in them. Use shelves, rolling wire storage drawers and other helpful storage elements to make arranging food at eye level possible. A small outlay on good kitchen storage can pay its way in less spoiled food.
 Plastic, glass and tin containers all work well and can be purchased in a wide variety of shapes and sizes suited to your needs.

