 A catcall could be whistling at, making kissing sounds at, or lobbing uninvited comments in a woman’s direction while she is walking about, minding her own business. “Hey, beautiful,” or “What are you doing later, sweetheart?” are examples of comments you should keep to yourself.If you see an attractive woman walking around, go about your business and leave her alone.
 Don’t leer. Don’t make that gaping-mouthed, wide-eyed caveman face. If a woman is walking towards you, do not assume it is because she wants to talk to you. She has somewhere to be and should be allowed to reach her destination without being subjected to your unwanted gaze. Staring is creepy, irritating, and gross for the woman in question.If you feel your eyes fixating on someone, just close your eyes or look away.
 When you’re in a bar or club, sexual harassment often takes the form of unwanted touching or groping. When alcohol is involved, the likelihood that women will be confronted with unwanted sexual attention increases. Understand that just as you have a right to dance and drink in public without being accosted, so to do women. If they rebuff your advances or are unreceptive to your invitations to drink and dance, do not try to coerce them by grabbing them by the arm, around the waist, or engaging in other forms of unwanted touching.


Be respectful of women’s wishes and demands at all times.
If you find liquor leads you to sexually harass women, try drinking at home with your friends.
 The most infamous of this category are so-called “blonde jokes,” whose punchline always drives home that women with blonde hair are stupid.This kind of gendered humor constitutes sexual harassment. Other jokes about women revolve around a variety of other traits traditionally considered feminine, such as cooking, cleaning, or caring for children. If a joke is at the expense of a woman’s integrity or feelings, don’t tell it. There are plenty of funny jokes which don’t turn women into the punchline.
 Misogynists and male chauvinists see no problem with sexual harassment. They think it is their right to touch or talk about women in whatever ways they want. By being with them, you are more likely to internalize and tacitly approve this behavior as acceptable. But when you choose not go out with them, you can take the opportunity to explain that you’re doing so in order to work towards a new life built on respect for, empathy with, and understanding of women. Hopefully your example will make them consider their behavior too.


Be firm when expressing your disdain for harassment. Look your friends in the eye so they know you are not joking.
Examples of things you can say to chastise your male chauvinist friends include:

How would you like it if people treated you like an object?
She's not a dog, don't whistle at her.What makes you think this kind of behavior is acceptable?



