 Anorexia looks different for different people. You may restrict your calories, purge, or do both. No matter what your anorexia looks like, you will need to get help.Even if you just find the idea of anorexia somewhat attractive, seek help now. A physician, psychologist or even a mentor can talk you through this. Anorexia isn't healthy or at all desirable.
If you are suffering from anorexia, seek hospitalization or therapy. You'll get professional help to get over this and make it through., Although you might be tempted to keep your attraction to anorexia or anorexic behavior secret, it is essential that you tell a trusted friend or family member, preferably someone older. Turn to someone in your personal circle who does not criticize his or her body and does not follow a strict diet. Sometimes an outside perspective can make all the difference.Discussing your concerns about your own body weight and self-image with a loved one can help you work toward improving your expectations for a healthy body and weight. This makes your battle less isolating and keeps you committed to making progress against anorexic tendencies., Request a physical or ask to discuss your weight and body image with a doctor or nurse practitioner. Inform him or her of your intense thoughts about restricting food intake and losing weight and ask for advice and help.Select a practitioner who is committed to helping you avoid or beat anorexia. If your first attempt at finding a helpful practitioner fails, search for someone who will remain involved and help you develop a treatment plan.In some cases, dietitians may be excellent resources and may have more time to discuss your progress than regular physicians.
Stick to your treatment plan and track your progress and discuss any deviations you may make from the treatment with your healthcare provider.
 If you have already begun eating habits that lead to anorexia, you may require vitamin and mineral supplementation or intravenous nutrition. Discuss counseling, support groups, exercise and anti-anxiety strategies, and proper meal planning with your healthcare provider.A mental health professional can be good for this, too. Not only will they be able to talk you through what you're going through now, but they can help you fight the reasons for the urges in the first place. They may also be able to prescribe medication.
Discuss an appropriate weight range for your age, sex, and height. Everyone is unique, but your healthcare provider can offer advice for a healthy and realistic weight range for someone with your characteristics.
 Your doctor or psychologist can help with this, too. Consider taking up art, journaling, yoga, meditation, nature photography, volunteering, or another daily activity to regularly commit to focusing less on food or losing weight and more on well-rounded health.Try choosing a mantra that reinforces a healthy body image and realistic expectations based on your size and body type. Write this mantra in your journal and recite it to yourself every morning. For example, you may want to choose something like “Food nourishes my body and makes me strong.”
Commit to an eating plan, too. Promise yourself (and your doctor) that you'll eat three healthy meals a day. If you don't do this, you'll be letting yourself and your doctor down. Have a reward set up for yourself when you eat right.You may also want to always plan to eat with someone and have a conversation with them during your meal to distract you and help to reduce your anxiety.
Track your progress and get regular support or feedback. Take note of the success you achieve in learning new things, trying new activities, overcoming your negative self-image and learning to appreciate and recognize healthy body types.
 If you do not have access to a health professional or if you prefer to first discuss your concerns over the phone, contact a national helpline. Here are a few useful numbers that can put you into contact with someone who can help:



KidsHealth for Parents, Children, and Teens: www.kidshealth.org or (+1) (904) 697-4100

Mental Health America: www.mentalhealthamerica.net or 1-800-969-6642

National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders: www.anad.org or (+1) (630) 577-1330

National Eating Disorders Association: www.nationaleatingdisorders.org or 1-800-931-2237

Beat - Beating Eating Disorders: www.b-eat.co.uk or 0845 634 1414

