 Some people think it is okay to study martial arts from a book, but it is not the same. An authentic school is preferable, but the important thing is to be in a class with good teachers.There are a litany of techniques you will learn to earn a black belt in karate. You will earn your way up the belt ladder, earning different color belts as you make your way to the black belt. Your instructor will teach increasingly complicated karate moves and defense techniques you continue.It can take years of training to earn a black belt. Enrolling in a class it just the first step. You will probably start by learning the very basics of karate. You'll learn basic stances, moves, and form.
Requirements for how long you'll take classes vary, and largely depend on how quickly you can rise through the ranks. Some schools require only 2 years of training, while others require at least 4 and a half years.;
, Practice at home or in the park when you can. Keep the mindset of a martial artist.Practice every day. Ask your instructor to give you a list of moves to practice at your home. Try to practice for your own benefit. Develop a sense of autonomy by reminding yourself why a black belt matters to you. Do not practice for your instructor or to impress others. Practice for your own feeling of accomplishment.
Think about the purpose of your practice. When you're feeling discouraged, go over the reasons you wanted to get a black belt. Did you want to feel more secure in yourself? Did you want to foster a sense of accomplishment? Whatever your reason, keeping it in mind can help you feel good about yourself and drive you to practice more.
If you have friends in your karate class, considering collaborating with them to practice moves on one another. Remember to be careful. Karate is about self-defense, so you should never strive to intentionally harm an opponent.
 Winners do things that losers don't think are necessary. Depending on which discipline you choose to study, there will be a number of belts you have to acquire before reaching black. Keep in mind that age and rank play a factor in the difficulties affiliated with earning belts. The older you are and the higher you go, the more that’s expected of you.
Be patient and climb up in the ranks slowly and with purpose.
 If you want to earn a black belt, you should know what it means to obtain one. Think about the history of black belts, and the steps you'll have to take to eventually earn your black belt.To earn your black belt, you will start at the lowest ranks and earn your belts along the way. A black belt is not just a measure of strength, however. It's a reward for putting years of discipline into a craft. A black belt should mold your mind as well as your body. It should teach your patience, dedication, and independence.
You should avoid any schools that award black belts after only a short period of training. A black belt is a great honor, and gaining a black belt takes year. Make sure the school you enroll in has a standard system of testing that all students must pass to rise in the ranks.
The longer you have your black belt, the higher you'll rise. There are different degrees of black belt you can earn as you continue to study karate. If karate is important to you, strive to one day be a sensei yourself. This, however, will take years and years of training and is something you cannot do until adulthood.