 It should be similar to the medical history page you fill out whenever you visit a doctor's office for the first time.This should include:


Any current medical conditions, or something that complicates moving you, such as Hemophilia, or Severe Osteoporosis.
Any allergies you may have.
Your date of birth.
All of your current prescription meds (including prescribing MD), plus over the counter drugs and supplements, with dosages.
Previous surgeries and major illnesses with the date.
Emergency contact information. These are the people you want to be contacted in the event you can't do it yourself. You should have at least 3, just in case. At least one should be local to you if possible. Include home, work, and mobile numbers.
Your insurance information is helpful but you may choose not to include it.
The name and phone number for all of your doctors and other healthcare providers (Chiropractors, Physical Therapists, etc.)
The name and phone number of your pharmacy (an Emergency Room can get your medication record if needed.)
Any other information you think would be important to convey if you could not speak for yourself. For example, if you would refuse a specific treatment or procedure on religious grounds.;
, It can serve as a medical history for you in the event of an accident where you may be unresponsive. Keep it in the glove compartment or center console of your car(s) or in your purse in an envelope marked with your name and "Emergency Medical Information". You can also carry a card in your wallet directing emergency workers where to find the more detailed document. Many first responders will look for something like this in the event of an accident.


If you have a severe or chronic disease that requires specific care, a copy can be put on your refrigerator with a magnet, near your doors, bedside table, or any other place you feel it would be easy for someone to find in an emergency. Just make sure they are in a clearly marked envelope and are all up-to-date.
The one page form can also serve as a handy way to remember everything you need to fill out on a medical history form in a doctor's office, as all of the information you need would be right there, since you have had time to look over it and add/edit as needed.
 With these, you carry or wear a bracelet or other device at all times that has a toll free number and a code that gives emergency workers access to detailed medical information.


You keep this information up to date through these services (usually online), and emergency personnel are used to these and work with them often.
The device usually has room for a small amount of printing or engraving for very critical information, such as food or drug allergies and if you have a major diagnosis such as Diabetes or something that complicates moving you, such as Hemophilia, or Severe Osteoporosis.



Write them down, along with the answers given, and take any printed handouts the provider supplies for you to read later.
Alternatively, if your doctor has no objections, see if you can record at least the audio of the visit. Most mobile phones have the ability to do that (learn how to use it properly ahead of time), or invest in an inexpensive voice recorder, and place it near the doctor to get their voice clearly.
If your doctor uses a term you do not know, after getting a clearer explanation from them, ask him or her to spell it out or write it down so you can research it more at a later time.
Never be afraid to ask follow up questions until you are satisfied you know what is going on.
Ask what to do if there is a problem with a new medication being prescribed. Should you stop using it? Take something else to counteract it? Call the office? Go to the ER? Something else?

, If you are being treated for a chronic disease such as Depression or Rheumatoid Arthritis, keep a diary of your daily symptoms/readings. Even if it is just a few words, ie; "Oct. 21 - weather getting colder, 47 degrees, pain increasing 7/10", it allows you and your doctor to track or spot patterns that may lead to more effective treatment.


The daily diary is also helpful when being treated for just about any other illness or healing from an injury that is going to last more than a few days. How you are feeling before and 1-2 hours after you take medications or perform any therapy is important information for the doctor to have, as different people respond differently to the same thing, and adjustments can be made for the individual.
 for your own records. There may be a small charge for the duplication, but it is easier than having to go through the hassle of getting the files transferred at a later date. Your medical records are yours. They can charge a fee to make a copy, but they cannot deny you access to your records. (Note: This is for the US. Other countries may have different laws. Find out what applies to you.) You can then bring these directly to a different doctor's office if you are referred to one.
 The more information you can get from your doctor, and the more informed you can be, the easier his/her job becomes, and the more effective the treatment is. The more information you can provide to the doctor, even after you feel better, or you have healed, can inform them for their next patient.


If you have figured out little "tricks" or "hacks" for making things work, for example, a different way of bandaging or dressing an area that works better than the traditional method, that is something you can present to your doctor, and it may help the next patient.

