 You have many options, and the type of child you want will drive who you work with during the adoption process. Spend some time considering the following:

Do you want to adopt a child in the U.S.? This is called a domestic adoption. However, you might have to wait a long time for a child to become available.
Do you want to adopt a child internationally? You might have a better chance at finding a child, but international adoptions can be complicated and more expensive.
Do you want a baby, or are you open to adopting an older child?
Would you like the child to be the same race, ethnicity, or religion as you? You might need to wait longer, depending on your preferences.;
, Check your phone book or perform an Internet search to find private agencies. Generally, private agencies provide full service, including adoption education, counseling, home studies, and post-adoption services. Adopting a child will cost you around $4,000-30,000.Make sure the agency is properly licensed. Call the Department of Social Services (DSS), Children’s Division, at 573-751-4954.
Also check with the Missouri State’s Attorney General’s Office to see if the agency has been sued., Instead of working with an agency, you can hire a lawyer. They can search for a child to adopt by contacting doctors, advertising in the newspaper, or helping you create a website.Make sure the lawyer specializes in adoption and not in another field. Obtain a referral from the Missouri bar association by calling 573-636-3635 or visiting www.mobar.org.
Discuss fees ahead of time. Lawyers charge different amounts depending on their experience and the complexity of the adoption. Generally, they charge $5,000-40,000.
 Missouri’s Department of Social Services handles the adoption process. There are about 2,000 foster children in Missouri awaiting adoption. You can either become a foster parent first or adopt the child directly.Some foster children are special needs, but don’t let that deter you from considering them. You can get money from the state, around $200-300 a month., Many people adopt from China, Eastern Europe, or Latin America. You should find an agency approved for Hague intercountry adoptions. International adoptions are complicated, so thoroughly research the adoption agency. International adoptions can cost up to $35,000.Ask for three or more referrals from people who have adopted through the agency and be sure to call them.
Ask the referrals how complicated the process was. Did the parents feel like they had sufficient support? Did someone from the agency travel with them to the foreign country?
Find out if there were hidden expenses or whether everything cost about what they expected.
 Before starting the adoption process, figure out how much work it will be. If you’re interested in a private adoption, contact the agency directly. If you want to adopt a foster child, then call DSS.

Discuss how long the adoption process takes. Times vary by type of adoption (domestic v. international) and the type of child you want.
 The foster agency should have an application you can fill out. There might be a paper application, or you can complete an application online. Generally, the agency will want basic background information to start, such as your name, age, race, employment, education, and salary., Contact an agency to obtain its list of requirements. If you’re looking to adopt a foster child, then you will need to meet the following requirements:You must be at least 21 years old.
You must pass a criminal record check for child abuse and neglect.
You’ll need a stable source of income.
Your home must meet certain licensing standards.
You must be in good mental and physical health.
 You can decide how much involvement the birth parents will have with the child. Closed adoptions used to be standard, but today there is no one way. Consider which works for you:

In a closed adoption, you and the birth parents won’t know each other. You’ll also have no contact after the adoption.In an open adoption, you will meet and know the identities of the birth parents. You can also choose to have continuing contact with one or both birth parents after the adoption.
There are many different degrees of open adoptions. For example, you might agree that the birth mother will write cards or letters to the child and you’ll send pictures. You can also agree to visits, if you want. The key is to decide what you want before searching for a child.
 With an open domestic adoption, you often meet the birth parents, who will choose which family gets to adopt the child.You should prepare thoroughly for your meetings. Often only the mother shows up.

You may put together an album of your family, including pictures of all family members and a short story about your life. Many agencies put this information on their webpages for birth mothers to look at.
The key is to be yourself. You don’t have to make the birth mother fall in love you.Also don’t make assumptions about the birth mother. Birth moms give up their children for a variety of reasons and come from all walks of life.
Nevertheless pay attention to whether the birth parents break appointments or tell conflicting stories. You don’t want to adopt a child if you think the parents will scam you., It’s illegal to buy a baby in Missouri. However, you can pay certain expenses to the birth parents in a reasonable amount, such as the following:legal costs
counseling
food
shelter
transportation
utilities

, Home studies are usually the lengthiest step in the adoption process. A social worker will want to review your family history, life, and home. Courts rely on the home study to determine you can provide a stable home before they’ll agree to let you adopt. Because it is so important, you should schedule the home study as soon as possible. Generally, the whole process can take up to eight weeks.States require that home studies be performed by licensed professionals. Check whether your agency is qualified to perform a home study.
 Your social worker should give you a complete checklist of documents. Gather them before your first meeting. For example, you typically need the following:

Get copies of the birth certificates for everyone in the family.
Obtain a copy of your marriage license if you are married.
Find financial information, such as tax returns, pay stubs, and income statements.
Ask your doctor to complete a health form. Medical conditions don’t automatically prevent you from adopting, but the agency will make a decision on a case-by-case basis., You’ll probably have to give fingerprints, so coordinate with your agency to get this done in a timely manner. The adoption agency will review any criminal arrests and may ask for follow-up information.

A conviction for a DUI or other criminal offense will not necessarily keep you from adopting. However, the agency will want to see proof that you’ve rehabilitated yourself, such as by completing drug or alcohol counseling.
 You’ll need to have at least one in-home meeting with the social worker. They will want to talk with each family member to assess your readiness to adopt.You should be prepared to discuss the following:

Your motivations for adopting a child.
Your own experiences with your family growing up.
Your marriage (if you’re married).
Your thoughts about discipline.
 The social worker also must make sure your home is safe for a child. You’ll have a chance to fix any problems the social worker finds, so don’t stress out. Nevertheless, you should prepare by doing the following:

Fix any obvious hazards, such as exposed wires, holes in the floor, or rickety stairways.
Secure any firearms and ammunition in separate containers.
Place chemicals (such as bleach and detergent) in cabinets outside the reach of children.
Make sure you have sufficient heat, hot water, and running water.
 After you bring your child home, consider whether to take time off. You are covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act, which requires that most employers give their employees unpaid time off.Talk with your Human Resources department if you have questions., You can expect a social worker to visit you in the months after you bring your child home. You’ll discuss how you’re adjusting and share any information from pediatrician visits. The number of visits will vary.

If you had an international adoption, you may need to complete a post-placement home study and send pictures or updates to the home country., Missouri law requires that you wait six months before a judge will finalize the adoption.Generally, this is nothing to worry about, but you should consult with a lawyer if you have questions.

Once your adoption is approved, you have the same rights as a biological parent. A new birth certificate will be printed with your names as the adoptive parents.
 Adoptive parents often experience many emotions—excitement at the presence of the child, confusion about whether they’ll be good parents, etc. You should see if you can find a support group near you.