 It’s a great way to detox from your obsessive texting habits and to begin anew cold turkey.


Go on a local hike on the outskirts of your city, either alone or with a friend. A signal will be spotty so you’ll have time to connect with yourself and prevent yourself from being so attached to your phone and checking who’s contacting you or who hasn’t every five minutes.
For a less dramatic route to a text detoxing, take the power from your cell by turning it off or placing it on airplane mode for 24 hours. This will take you off the map without traveling off the map.;
, There might be times where you find yourself looking at your phone or wanting to send another text to a person who hasn’t sent one back to you yet. Take your mind off it completely by releasing your emotions through exercise that will release the endorphins feeding your text stress.Engage in one of your favorite sports, but take things a step further by playing an active role in the game versus watching it on TV. Play a round of tennis or a game of basketball. Even if you’re a lousy player, you will feel so much better with this distraction.
Take up a kickboxing class, a spin class, or a barre class. Not only will the benefit of endorphins being released still be there, but it will be joined by a sense of confidence for taking up a new skill.
 Take your hands off of your phone and get busy using them to create something. Switch your focus from who is or isn’t texting you and become mentally preoccupied with a Pinterest project that hadn’t seen the light of day.Work on DIY projects around the house to add one of a kind decor pieces to your space.
Take the time to pick up new skills on an instrument you've always been interested in playing.
 Sure, texting is a way to instantly reconnect with others, but it will never replace interacting in real time. Step away from technology and spend a day out with friends.Strengthen relationships with in-person communication while shopping, going out for sushi, going to the movies, or going dancing at a club.
Make it a rule that no one is allowed to use their phones while you’re hanging out. There’s strength in numbers and you’ll find it easier to get your mind off texting if everyone is too busy having a good time.
 Using your phone at all times is not a necessity to life and treating your phone like it is one is the quickest way to annoy the people you’re around. Practice self restraint with when and how you use your phone to text.Texting people while you’re in a social setting like class, a meeting, work, at lunch, or at dinner, is impolite to the company you’re with at the time. Limit reading or responding to text messages to emergency situations or a family member calling.
Texting should be limited in environments where it’d be a nuisance to you or people around you too, i.e. do not text while at the movies.
 Composing, reading, and/or sending a message while you drive should not be an aspect of driving. An alarming number of accidents happen every day because people think they can balance using their cell phones while they drive. It’s a danger to you and anyone on the road.The great thing about a text is that its very nature means that it isn’t an urgent form of communication, so it can wait.
Do not use your cell phone while you’re at a red light or traffic stop either. It takes your focus off of the road and can be annoying to other drivers who have places they want to go.
Utilize blue tooth and hands-off options if interacting with your cell phone is a must while you drive. If you don’t have those things, cut it off completely or put it in a compartment in your car to avoid messing with it while you drive.

