 You will need to plan ahead of time for the party. Depending on the size of the party, you may want to plan a few months ahead of time. You should plan at least one month ahead of time in order to let people know about the party and have time for preparations. Consider the date and amount of people you want to invite to the party..


Try to pick a date when people are more likely to be free. You may get less of a turn out if you pick Memorial Day weekend or a holiday when people often travel.;
, You won’t need to make preparations for the date if you plan to have the party at your home. If you really want to go for the western theme, renting a barn or ranch would be fun and authentic. Any event space will do, however, if you plan on renting out a space.Consider the size of the space where you’d like to have the party. A house with a small backyard may not easily fit a large group of people. On the other hand, it might not be worth it to rent out a large event space for a small amount of people.
 Is this party for adults or children? If it’s for adults, you can play up the Wild West outlaw theme. If it’s a party for children, keep it light and cartoonish. Also, you can specialize the party for a girl or boy’s birthday party. Choose the western theme for your party so that you can make the invitations accordingly., Make your own invitations with things like cowboy boots and hats and wanted posters on them. Personalize any invitation by burning the edges of the invitation and using specific language. For example, you can address the person as “Cowgirl Annie” or “Bandit Tim,” and use language such as “The showdown starts at 6 p.m.”If personalizing invitations isn’t your thing, you can find western themed invitations online or at stores that carry invitations.
 Once you have the invitations made up, send them out. You should give your guests plenty of time before the party to make plans to come. Sending out the invitations at least one month before the party is ideal. If you think the invitations won’t be sent out in enough time, you can send a text or email to people you’re planning to invite about the party., Burlap is easy to decorate with, and it aligns with the western theme. You can use burlap for placemats, seat covers, or you can wrap mason jars with bands of burlap. You can buy a bag of burlap and cut it up to use it for creative ideas you’d like to try.Burlap is also great for a girl’s party because you can find burlap with lace attached to it that can be used for decoration on the mason jars.
You can also make table runners, utensil holders, and flower pot covers., Cow print is very commonly used for western themed birthday parties. Instead of burlap, you can use the cow print for placemats. You can also use it for things like trays, plates, napkins, title cards, and banners., Mason jars are fairly cheap and easy to find. You can find them at many supermarkets and arts and crafts stores. Buy enough mason jars for every person at the party plus a few extras just in case a few get broken. You can use them for drinks, but you can also use them for trail mix and party favors.You can put a name on each of the mason jars if you would like the guests to take them home.
 Hay bales are better for outside parties because they can be quite messy. Hay bales can be used as seating, pure decoration, or can be used for games. If they will be used for seating, make sure to cover them with something like burlap or cotton for comfort.You can ask about purchasing hay bales at farms and ranches.
Cover the hay bales with trash bags if you expect rain.
 Wanted posters are a classic part of the western theme. They can be found at some party and arts and crafts stores, but they are even more fun when they are personalized. Look for downloadable wanted posters online. Fill in the picture poster of the wanted poster with pictures of your guests.You can customize the text portion of the posters to specify “crimes” of your own choosing.
 You can set out real or fake cowboy boots as decorations. You can put things in the boots, like flowers, or use them to put party favors or wrapped silverware into. Use the bandanas to wrap the silverware in, or just use them as decoration.You can also use the cowboy boots as centerpieces, or to direct people to their table. For example, you can attach a button that has a “5” on it for table number five.
You can hand out bandanas to each of the party goers for them to put on.
 Use title cards to rename common snacks into western themed food. For example, rename chocolate cookies as “cow pies.” Or, rename rice crispy treats as “haystacks.”You can also use the title cards to name foods without changing their name.
 A buffet style is less formal and gives everyone the chance to grab whatever food they’d like. You can put out one long table with food, or you can have several smaller tables with certain types of food on them—like a table for appetizers, main courses, and dessert. Some foods that you can put out are pulled pork, corn muffins, vegetables, and baked beans., Trail mix is an easy thing to put out, and it fits well with the western theme. You can set out a bowl of trail mix, or you can put together bags of trail mix that the guests can eat there or take home. You can customize the ingredients for whatever guests you may have. Kids may not like nuts as much, so you can choose to use granola for them., The types of drinks you put of depends on the ages of the guests you will have. If you’re having adults, you can set out alcoholic and nonalcoholic drinks on the table. For a party with kids, you can set out only nonalcoholic drinks like root beer, lemonade, and sweet tea. If the party will have a mix of kids and adults, consider putting the nonalcoholic drinks on one table and alcoholic drinks on another table that won’t be as easily accessible for kids., Make cupcakes follow the western theme by using toppers. You can also use toppers on cakes instead of cupcakes. You can find toppers in the shape of horses and cowboy hats. One idea is to make chocolate cupcakes, use green sprinkles to look like grass, and then use a horse topper., Put out life-size cuts outs of cowboy and cowgirls with the face cut out of them. You can put out larger and smaller ones to accommodate guests of all sizes. Your guests can use to them to take pictures with as they please., Horseshoes is a fun and easy game that both children and adults can play. For adults, you can use regular horseshoes. For children, it would be easier to use stuffed or lightweight horseshoes., Musical chairs is a game that works for parties of any type, but you can customize the game to fit the western theme. If your party is outside, use hay bales as the chairs. Put on country and/or western music to play the game.
 You don’t have to purchase nice, expensive cowboy hats. You can buy several cowboy hats made of plastic or straw. Sheriff badges can also be found fairly easily at party stores. You can choose to give them out as is, or customize them with the names of your guests.You can use a sticker or a marker to write the names of your guests on the badges.
 You can fill the bags with items like cowboy erasers, pencils, or small toys. Or, you can have your guests make their own goodie bags filled with food like popcorn, pretzels, and chocolate candies. Put out bags or mason jars for each party goer to grab. Lay out several boxes of the treats that they can fill their bags or jars with.