 This can make you sluggish and unable to focus. Eat light, healthy meals with lots of protein before getting to work. This will give you the energy you need to complete the tasks without weighing you down. Eat small snacks at various points in your lessons to boost energy periodically rather than consuming large meals.Peppermint improves concentration. If you find your energy flagging or you’re getting distracted, grab a peppermint.
Eat fruits to get a natural sugar boost. Apples are a great option to increase energy and concentration naturally.
String cheese, Greek yogurt, and other low-fat dairy items help to boost energy without creating excessive fullness.
 If you notice you’re getting more easily distracted or working more slowly, you may want to shorten the period of time you spend working on each subject. This doesn’t work for every student, but try switching more often, every half hour instead a full hour, and see if helps you stay on task., Play a game of "Let’s Make a Deal." For example, you can tell yourself, "After I finish math, I can go outside with my dog for 10 minutes." Make sure that your parent or tutor approves of these rewards., Don’t force yourself to keep working without breaks for more than an hour or two. If you’re “in the zone” and don’t want to stop, keep going, but if you’re dragging, let yourself stand up and walk around for a few minutes every hour. This breaks up the day and re-energizes you to get back to work.


Taking a twenty minute nap midway through the day can increase your productivity in the afternoon, so you may want to consider laying down for just a few minutes.
Standing up, going for a walk, or stretching will get the blood flowing, improve circulation, and make you feel more alert., If you have a parent or tutor supervising your curriculum, ask them to help you come up with ways to keep things interesting with more project-based learning. That might mean taking a field trip or going to see a performance of play. You should also remember to be flexible. If you get really interested in one subject, keep going! If you just can’t concentrate on a task, switch it up.