 Lay it on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to cut it it into bite-sized chunks.If you're low on time, here are some shortcuts you can try:










Buy the beef pre-cut. Many butchers or grocery stores sell it in convenient bite-sized pieces for you. Look for "stew beef."

Use frozen beef. Plan ahead for next time you want to make beef stew by buying extra stew meat, chopping it up, and freezing it. That way next time you want to make it, all you have to do is throw the meat in the pot - frozen and all.;
, Wash, peel and chop the onions, carrots and potatoes. Chop the celery, too. This is easily the most time-consuming part (effort-wise) of making beef stew, so here are a few shortcuts that'll save you time when you only have a few minutes to spare:










Use pre-cut veggies. You can often find pre-cut veggies intended for use in vegetable soups and stews at the grocery.

Use frozen veggies. A bag of chopped carrots, a bag of chopped potatoes, and a bag of chopped onions, and you're done!

Use vegetable soup. If you're extremely short on time, you can simply get 2 cans of vegetable soup and add them to the meat. It won't taste as fresh, but it'll be quick.
 Peel and mince the garlic and measure out the salt, pepper, paprika, and lay out the bay leaves.If you don't have time for this extra preparation, use these tricks:










Use a spice mix. Instead of measuring out all the spices separately, have a good spice mix on hand. You can use one intended for soups. Look for one that has a mixture of salt, pepper, paprika, garlic powder, oregano and other spices you like.

Use what you have on hand. Don't have paprika? Swap it out for oregano. Don't have black pepper? Use white pepper or cayenne. Try rosemary, thyme, sage or whatever you've got.

Use garlic powder instead of fresh garlic. Just measure out 1/2 teaspoon instead of mincing fresh garlic.
 You'll need a teaspoon of Worcestershire and a cup of beef broth. Looking for a shortcut? Try one of these:










Replace the Worcestershire with sherry or red wine if you don't have any on hand.

Replace the beef broth with chicken broth, vegetable broth or plain water. Don't worry, it will still turn out delicious.
 Throw the meat, vegetables, spices, Worcestershire sauce, and broth into the crock pot. Use a spoon to stir it all together.
 Depending on your crock pot, it will take between 7 and 8 hours to cook your stew. No need to open your crock pot or stir the stew while it's cooking. Just let the crock pot do it's magic!









However, if you know your Crock Pot tends to burn things, you should stir the stew every few hours.
If you want it to be ready sooner, cook it on high heat, and it should only take 5 to 6 hours. Make sure to stir once every hour, or it could burn!

, About 1/2 an hour before the stew is ready, open up the crock pot and measure out about 1/3 cup of the liquid. Mix it with the 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of flour so that the flour dissolves. Stir the flour mixture into the stew - it'll make the stew nice and thick. Put the lid back on and keep cooking the stew.
 Eat it plain or ladle it over rice or egg noodles. Garnish with fresh parsley if you like.








