 If you want to get better at observation, slow down. Take your time to notice things about the people around you. You might notice the things you really like about them like their smile, laughter, or sense of humor. Find the things you love about them, then let them know. For example, you might notice how good your child is with the dog or how your spouse plays with the kids. Take time for these observations. Stop multitasking and start zooming in on what’s going on around you.Spend some time each day with someone you love and observe them. See what they’re good at, note their passions and dreams, and reflect on how these things shape who they are. Then, take the time to share these observations with them.
Slow down your thoughts and actions by slowing down your breathing. Intentionally lengthen your breath and breathe from your diaphragm, or even from your belly.;
, Instead of taking the floor to talk, focus on listening. You can learn and observe a lot by slowing down and letting your loved one speak. Notice not only the words they say but how they say them. Set aside your own agenda and stay away from distractions. Check in on your understanding by asking questions and getting clarification. People like to know that they are heard and understood, and this is a great way to show love.For example, say, “I hear you saying that you’d like the dishes taken care of right away.” You can also say, “I can tell you’re feeling angry. What happened?”

, Observe what your loved shows you through their body language. Look at their face and read their expressions. When feeling comfortable, people tend to arch their eyebrows and relax their arms and facial muscles. When someone is in a hurry, they may point their hips or legs in the direction of the exit, or not make as much eye contact. Be aware on not only their words but their actions.If you notice someone’s body language, adjust your conversation based on what you see. For example, say, “I can tell you need to go. Let’s catch up later.” This can make someone feel like you’re really tuned into them.
Mirroring often happens in loving relationships. This means that both people tend to behave in similar ways, talk in the same tone, and coordinate body movements.

