 Family law is very detailed and far reaching. So many different things are likely to impact your case, and judges have great latitude for discretion. If you can afford a local attorney who knows the types of things your judge favors and disfavors, it would be best to hire one. See . If you cannot afford a full-service attorney, some attorneys provide “unbundled services”. Unbundled services are limited in scope and often include:


Preparing documents
Giving you legal advice
Teaching you the law as it applies to your case
Coaching you through the legal process.;
, To file for divorce in Louisiana, you need to be domiciled in the state at the time of filing and a resident of Louisiana for at least one year. Louisiana also a fault state. This means you can file for divorce immediately if your spouse has committed adultery or been convicted of a felony and convicted to death or hard labor. To file because of any other reason, you must:Be separated from your spouse for at least 180 days of there are no minor children of the marriage;
Be separated from your spouse for at least 180 days if there are minor children and the court finds the other spouse has physically or sexually abused you or the child of either spouse;
Be separated from your spouse for at least 180 days if there are minor children and a protective order or injunction has been filed against the other spouse for protection of you or a child of either spouse from abuse. This order or injunction must have been issued either after a contested hearing or by consent; or
Be separated from your spouse for at least 365 days if there are minor children of the marriage and no issues of abuse.
 Louisiana recognizes a covenant marriage, in which a couple agrees to not seek a divorce for irreconcilable differences. Your marriage license will specifically state that it is a covenant marriage, and you will have been required to undergo specific counseling prior to the marriage for this to apply. If you have a covenant marriage, the only grounds for divorce are:Adultery by the other spouse;
The other spouse has been convicted of a felony and sentenced to death or hard labor;
Abandonment by the other spouse for at least one year with a refusal to return home;
Physical or sexual abuse by the other spouse toward you or a child of either spouse;
You have both been living separately without reconciliation for at least two (2) years; or
You have obtained a legal separation from bed and board (Louisiana’s statutory term for a legal separation), there are no minor children, and have continued to live apart without reconciliation for at least one year from the judgment of separation.
You have obtained a legal separation from bed and board, there are minor children, and have continued to live apart without reconciliation for at least one year and six months from the judgment of separation.
You have obtained a legal separation from bed and board because of the abuse of you or a child of the marriage, and you have continued to live apart without reconciliation for at least one year since the judgment of separation.
 Read the Louisiana Civil Code as it pertains to property settlement, custody, and support. These statutes will tell you any preferences or presumptions the judge is required to make and what the terminology is for the issue(s) you have, such as:Unless you and your spouse agree on the division of property, the court will equally divide your assets and liabilities.
Child support is based on the income of both parents and a percentage share of each to support the child based on the proportion of individual income to combined income.
Child custody will be determined based upon the best interest of the child.
 Locate the District Court in your parish. You will want to file your case in the parish in which you and your spouse currently live. If you live in different areas, you must file in the paris in which your spouse lives or where you and your spouse last lived together., Louisiana Law Help provides an interactive program to prepare custom forms for your use at http://louisianalawhelp.org/resource/how-to-use-the-computer-program-to-create-for?ref=oBEhG. You can also obtain complete packets at your parish District Court Clerk’s office, and you can often get assistance finding and completing your documents at your local self-help center. The forms you need will differ depending on your particular circumstances and parish, but at a minimum will include a petition for divorce and verification. The interactive program will provide you with the documents your individual situation requires. To use it:


Navigate to the Louisiana Law Help website above.
Answer the questions asked. They will include information about children and property.
Print your documents.
 Once the appropriate forms have been completed, you will need to sign them. Any forms that have a notary block on them will need to be signed in front of a notary. Most courthouses have a notary on staff or allow the deputy clerk to notarize documents. You can also find notary services at many places like check-cashing businesses, attorney offices, or others. Many banks provide a free notary service to account holders. Make 2 copies of all documents.
 Louisiana is a community property state. This means that unless you and your spouse agree to a property settlement, the judge will divide all marital property equally between the spouses. Separate property will remain with the spouse to which it belongs. Separate property includes:Property acquired by a spouse prior to the marriage;
Property acquired by a spouse by use of assets acquired prior to the marriage;
Property acquired by a spouse by individual inheritance or donation;
Damages awarded to one spouse against the other spouse through court process;
Property acquired by a spouse because of a voluntary partition of the community during the marriage.
 The parenting plan will spell out the responsibilities of each parent in regard to the child(ren). It will apportion decision making and parenting time of each parent. The interactive software package above will prepare a parenting plan for you. If you and your spouse do not agree on a parenting plan, the court will prepare one for you in accordance with the following best interest of the child factors:The love, affection, and other emotional ties between each party and the child.
The capacity and disposition of each party to give the child love, affection, and spiritual guidance and to continue the education and rearing of the child.
The capacity and disposition of each party to provide the child with food, clothing, medical care, and other material needs.
The length of time the child has lived in a stable, adequate environment, and the desirability of maintaining continuity of that environment.
The permanence, as a family unit, of the existing or proposed custodial home or homes.
The moral fitness of each party, insofar as it affects the welfare of the child.
The mental and physical health of each party.
The home, school, and community history of the child.
The reasonable preference of the child, if the court deems the child to be of sufficient age to express a preference.
The willingness and ability of each party to facilitate and encourage a close and continuing relationship between the child and the other party.
The distance between the respective residences of the parties.
The responsibility for the care and rearing of the child previously exercised by each party.
 In Louisiana, child support is ordered based on the income of both parents and the custody arrangement (sole, split, or shared custody). The following expenses are considered to be in addition to the basic child support obligation: Extraordinary medical expenses
Tuition or other expenses of special or private education
Transportation expenses for transporting the child from one parent to the other
Extracurricular or other special expenses to enhance the health, athletic, social, or cultural development of the child.
 The court may award spousal support. Louisiana awards support to a party that is free of fault and either in need of support or a victim of domestic violence perpetrated by the other spouse. A court will consider the all relevant factors when considering the amount and duration of the award. These factors include:The income and means of the parties, including the liquidity of such means
The financial obligations of the parties, including any interim allowance for final child support obligation.
The earning capacity of the parties
The effect of custody of children upon a party’s earning capacity
The time necessary for the claimant to acquire appropriate education, training, or employment
The health and age of the parties
The tax consequences to either or both parties
The existence, effect, and duration of any act of domestic abuse committed by the other spouse upon the claimant, regardless of whether the other spouse was prosecuted for the act of domestic violence.
 Give the original set of documents to the clerk of the court that will hear your case. A filing fee will be charged unless you apply and qualify for a waiver. You can ask the clerk to stamp your copies with the filing date.
 You must provide a copy of all of the documents filed with the clerk within 90 of the date you filed. If you and your spouse agree on all issues, and your spouse will waive service, serve by hand (as described below) and skip to “Schedule Your Hearing”.You can ask the sheriff to serve your spouse personally so long as you request this on your initial petition.
You can mail the documents via the US Post Office, return receipt requested (ask for assistance from your postal clerk). Once you receive the return receipt, file it with the clerk.
You can hand deliver the documents to your spouse, having him or her execute a Waiver of Service that you obtained with your documents, above. Once the waiver of service is executed, file it with the clerk.
 Your spouse has 15 days from the date s/he was served with the complaint to file a written answer. You should receive a copy of the answer, but if you do not, call the clerk and ask if it has been received.
 If no answer was filed, consider filing a Motion for Preliminary Default. Keep in mind that not all issues may be able to be resolved by default, especially if your spouse lives out of the court’s jurisdiction. For instance, if a party in default lived in a different state, but the child was in Louisiana, the court could modify the times and dates that parent was allowed to spend time with the child or what decisions that parent was able to make on the child’s behalf, but may not be able to issue an order for child support from that out-of-state parent., If you need to gather information or evidence to support your case in court, you will do this via discovery. Read the rules governing discovery found in the Code of Civil Procedure to learn about discovery techniques and processes in Louisiana. Contact your local family law self-help for assistance with some of these. In general, you can require the other party or other potential witnesses to: Provide you with copies of documents
Allow you to inspect items or property
Require them to answer questions under oath (written or oral).
Depending on the issues in your divorce, you may also be able to require the other party or child to undergo psychological/psychiatric testing or an evaluation by a professional to determine what type of arrangement would be in the best interest of the child and make a recommendation to the court.
 Throughout the case, you will need to make certain disclosures to the other party, and you should request these same disclosures if they are not made voluntarily. These disclosures may include financial affidavits if support is an issue, lists of people expected to testify at trial and what they intend to testify about, exhibits you intend to present at trial, either as evidence or for demonstration purposes. If these things are not disclosed prior to trial and the other party objects to their use, you may not be able to present them at your hearing.
 Be sure you understand them. If you have any questions about them, it is worth paying an attorney for assistance or instruction. You can find them at http://legis.la.gov/Legis/Laws_Toc.aspx?folder=70&level=Parent. It is a difficult document to understand, but if you are representing yourself in a contested divorce, you should learn them and be familiar with them. The Code of Evidence will spell out, among other things:


The various types of evidence that can be admitted in court
The various types of evidence that cannot be admitted in court
The methods for introducing different types of evidence
Any restrictions on types of witness testimony
Acceptable methods of questioning witnesses.
 In Louisiana, mediation may be ordered at the judge’s or either party’s request. In mediation, a neutral third party attempts to bring the parties to an agreement on the issues. There is no need to bring any evidence because the mediator does not make any decisions. The intent is for both parties to compromise a little bit so that the issues can be settled without the need for a trial. If mediation is successful, the mediator will generally prepare the proper documents, obtain the signature of each party, and submit the documents to the court. If mediation is unsuccessful, the parties simply proceed to court. In Louisiana, like most states, statements made in mediation cannot be used in court and the mediator makes no statements to the court other than whether mediation was successful., Contact the clerk of the court to schedule your hearing. You should be able to estimate to him/her the length of time you anticipate needing to put on evidence of your case. The clerk may schedule you for a scheduling conference or hearing, during which time, the judge will ask questions to be sure all issues are ready for trial and to determine how much time will be needed for the hearing. You will need to provide notice of the hearing to all other parties. You can do this by preparing a Notice of Hearing (a form that gives the details of the hearing – date, time, location, length of time, judge) or by sending a letter to the other party giving all details of the hearing (date, time, location, length of time, judge). Ask the clerk if your court provides a form for this. Issue any subpoenas necessary for any witnesses., On the day of your hearing, be sure you are dressed cleanly and respectfully. If you can wear a suit, do so. If not, clean clothes that would be suitable for the office are acceptable. If you can only wear jeans, be sure they are clean and in good repair. Do not wear shorts, flip flops, tank tops, miniskirts, or sagging pants. Arrive early. Speak only to the judge, not to the opposing party or their attorney. Address the judge with respect, calling him or her “Your Honor” or “Judge”. Stand when speaking. The case will likely proceed as follows, though this can vary under some circumstances:Opening statements of the petitioner (a roadmap of the case and what will be proven)
Opening statements of the respondent
Witnesses called by the petitioner and cross examined by the respondent.
Witnesses called by the respondent and cross examined by the petitioner.
Closing arguments by the petitioner (a summary of the trial and arguments as to why the judge should rule in petitioner’s favor)
Closing arguments by the respondent
Rebuttal by the petitioner
Ruling by the judge

, After the judge’s ruling, the prevailing party is usually tasked with preparing any orders. If you submitted proposed orders earlier, the judge may use those. The judge may also have stacks of blank orders on the bench that s/he fills out and signs while making the ruling. If you are tasked with preparing the order, locate the appropriate order form from the link above and complete it. Make 2 copies. File the original with the court, and send a copy to your spouse. Keep the other copy for your records. Once the judge signs the order, you can get a copy of the signed order from the clerk. If you disagree with the judge’s ruling, you have generally 30 days to file a Notice of Appeal with the trial court. Check the local rules for your appellate court for these deadlines.