 The main way that boxelder bugs enter homes is through cracks in walls, flooring, roofing, etc. Thus, a cheap and effective way of combating them is to make sure that all such cracks are sealed.For homes with plaster, stucco, stone, or brick veneer exteriors, check the outside walls for significant cracks. Especially check places where different materials meet, or where horizontal and vertical surfaces meet.
Use caulking suitable for outside locations and the surface you are applying it to to seal these cracks.
For stone or brick veneer, do not seal the weep holes with caulk, as they allow moisture to drain. Instead, use a bug screen or other solution that is sold at your local hardware store., Boxelder bugs can easily come in through open windows without screens. If you want to have your windows open, be sure you have screens covering the entire opening area.


Make sure that all screens on windows and doors are completely sealed. Boxelder bugs can fit through very small holes (about 1/8 of an inch).
Also check that there are screens on all vents, including kitchen and bathroom fans, as well as roof and soffit vents., You can use materials such as silicone, polyurethane, or copper mesh for this purpose. If using mesh, make sure there are no gaps for the bugs to fit through. You may need to research to see which caulking material is best for your specific purpose., These should be put on all doors that open to the outside. This will prevent bugs from entering underneath doors. Filling the space between the floor and the bottom of the door can be done by either attaching a door sweep to the bottom of the door or adding a threshold to the floor beneath the door.


For a door sweep, you usually attach a strip that is specially designed for this use to the bottom, inside edge of the door with screws or some form of adhesive. The length of the strip should be the same width as your door.
A threshold is added by screwing it to the floor under the door. Be careful, however, because a threshold can be a tripping hazard.

