 Banks and credit card companies typically have a dedicated fraud hotline, or you can simply call the customer service number on the back of your card.


Tell the representative that you are a victim of identity theft, and ask to have your accounts closed or frozen. If there are any suspicious or fraudulent transactions on your account, you can dispute them as well.Make this call as soon as possible after you discover that you've been a victim of identity theft – don't just wait and see if any unauthorized charges are made. If you report the identity theft before any unauthorized transactions post, you won't be liable for any fraudulent charges.If you report identity theft within two days of learning about the theft, you can only be held liable for $50 in charges. However, if you wait more than two days, you may be liable for up to $500 in unauthorized charges, and federal law doesn't limit your liability if you wait more than 60 calendar days.Debit cards have different rules. If someone makes unauthorized debits using your card number – not the card itself – you aren't liable for any of those charges provided you report the theft to the bank within 60 days after you received the monthly account statement on which the charges first appeared.You may need to call again once you've reported the identity theft to government agencies, or send a copy of the report to your bank.The representative will tell you if this is necessary.
Take detailed notes of your conversations with each company representative, including the date and time of the conversation and the name of the person with whom you spoke. Ask them to send you a written confirmation of the actions they take to protect your accounts.;
, If you didn't have your accounts closed, make sure you've changed any codes needed to access the accounts.Depending on how your information was compromised, you also may want to change your login name or email. If you believe your email account was compromised, set up a new one and use that address for any communications regarding the identity theft.
 If you see any suspicious transactions on your account, you should report them immediately.


The FTC has sample letters available at https://www.identitytheft.gov/sample-letters.html that you can copy and use as templates to send written notice regarding fraudulent transactions. Keep these templates handy so you can respond quickly to dispute transactions related to identity theft.
 If you see any strange accounts or other activity on your credit report, you should have it removed immediately.


You are entitled to one free credit report each year, which you can order by visiting annualcreditreport.com. This website is the only website approved by the government for ordering your free annual credit report.If there have been accounts opened in your name, call the bank or credit card provider at the number listed on the credit report and inform the representative that you have been a victim of identity theft. Have the account closed., If you have one credit bureau place a fraud alert on your report, it must notify the other two to do the same.


There is no charge to have a fraud alert placed on your report.The credit bureau you call may offer to sign you up for its fraud protection services for a monthly fee, but subscribing to one of these services is not necessary to place a fraud alert.
You can request placement of a fraud alert by visiting one of the credit bureau's websites, or by calling 1-800-680-7289 for TransUnion, 1-888-397-3742 for Experian, or 1-888-766-0008 for Equifax.Fraud alerts don't impact your credit score. Essentially, placing a fraud alert on your credit report requires creditors to take additional steps to verify your identity before increasing a credit limit or opening new accounts in your name., You must provide information such as your name, address, and Social Security number to get a fraud alert.


The initial fraud alert will stay on your credit report for 90 days. If you're still concerned after the initial period has ended, you may request an extended alert be placed on your report. The extended alert will last for seven years unless you request it be removed., Keep written documentation of anyone with whom you speak at any of the credit bureaus, and make sure you have confirmation of the fraud alert in writing.


When you receive written confirmation of the fraud alert from each of the three credit bureaus, it will include instructions on how to obtain a free credit report.Order it immediately, as it may take some time to process. Since not all companies report to all three credit bureaus, you may have information on one credit report that isn't present on the others.
Write down details of any accounts, transactions, or information that you don't recognize. If you provide this information in your police report and the complaint you file with the Federal Trade Commission, it can help investigators track down the culprit.You may want to set up a specific file or folder for managing all of the documents and notes you have related to the identity theft. You can organize this file by date or by account, whichever works better for you.
 At the end of the 90-day initial period, you can have the fraud alert extended to seven years.


After you've filed a police report and a complaint with the FTC, you can use these two documents to get your initial alert extended. Make a note on your calendar of the expiration date of the 90-day initial alert so you can decide at that time if you wish to extend it., You must file an identity theft complaint with the Federal Trade Commission to show other government agencies and businesses as proof that your identity was stolen.


You also can call 1-877-438-4338 to file your complaint.Take notes on the phone call and make sure the representative mails you a copy of your completed complaint.
 Before you begin the online form, you must choose the correct category and sub-category for your complaint.


When you choose the identity theft category, you must next choose a sub-category for your complaint. The FTC provides options to submit an identity theft report if someone has actually used your identity to open accounts or make fraudulent charges, if they attempted to use your identity, or if your information was exposed in a data breach. You also can file an identity theft report if your wallet or purse is lost or stolen., You can list the types of accounts that were misused or opened in your name as well as provide details about what happened and about possible suspects.Be thorough and include as many facts and details as possible. The more information you include, the more likely it is that investigators will be able to track down a suspect.
While you aren't required to provide your own contact information, doing so will enable the FTC or other law enforcement agencies to get in touch with you if there are developments in your case., After you've entered your information, you have the opportunity to review your complaint as a whole before you submit it.


Make sure all the information you've provided is complete and accurate before you submit your report.
The FTC will make your complaint available in a database used by federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies that investigate and prosecute identity theft., You should have a physical copy of your complaint both for your own files and to present to businesses or government agencies as you dispute any transactions that resulted from the identity theft.


Make sure you print a copy of your affidavit as well as saving it to your computer in case you need additional copies. You won't be able to access your complaint again after you leave the page. If you need to update your complaint, you can do so by calling 1-877-438-4338., You should bring a government-issued photo ID along with other documentation such as a birth certificate or Social Security card.


Take a copy of the FTC Identity Theft Affidavit produced as a result of your complaint. You also should bring some proof of your address such as a lease or mortgage statement, or a utility bill.Bring copies of any evidence you have of the identity theft, including any account notices or statements, your credit report, and any notes you made.The FTC has published a memo to local law enforcement detailing the importance of an identity theft report. If you anticipate police will be resistant or reluctant to file your report, you may want to print a copy of this memo to take with you.You can download a copy at http://www.consumer.ftc.gov/sites/default/files/articles/pdf/pdf-0088-ftc-memo-law-enforcement.pdf.
 Typically you'll need to report identity theft in person, rather than over the phone.


Introduce yourself and explain that you've been a victim of identity theft and want to file a report. Be prepared to show the officer documents that prove your identity and provide as many details as possible regarding the theft of your identity., Your police report combined with a copy of your FTC complaint can be used to report your identity theft to other businesses and government agencies.Once you have a full identity theft report, you have the right to get a seven-year extended fraud alert after your initial 90-day alert expires. The complete identity theft report also gives you the right to get free copies of your credit report, dispute fraudulent financial transactions or information, and stop debt collectors from pursuing fraudulent debts., If you acquire any additional information that might be helpful to the police, you can have your report updated.


For example, if a review of your credit report reveals that a new name or address was reported for you, that information may assist the police in identifying a suspect.
 Your identity theft report gives you access to additional free credit reports beyond the one free report you're guaranteed each year under federal law.Additionally, you may want to sign up for a monitoring service so you can view your credit report and receive alerts of new activity. You can pay a subscription fee for such a service, or use a free service such as Credit Karma or Mint to monitor your accounts.
 You must dispute fraudulent transactions in writing and provide a copy of your identity theft report.Notify the credit bureaus of any fraudulent entries on your report as soon as possible. The credit bureau must inform the creditor, and the debt cannot be sold to a debt collector if it is reported as fraudulent activity connected to your identity theft.The federal Fair Credit Reporting Act requires creditors and reporting agencies to correct inaccurate information in your report upon your written request.The FTC has a sample dispute letter you can use as a guide available at http://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0384-sample-letter-disputing-errors-your-credit-report.
Once you report an inaccurate or fraudulent entry, the credit bureau has 30 days to investigate your dispute and act accordingly to remove the entry.Be sure to request written proof of any action taken to remove fraudulent information from your credit report. On your request, the credit bureau may also send notice of the correction to any company that has requested your credit report.You also may have to contact the creditor or debt collector that provided the inaccurate information to the credit bureau to dispute the entry and request they stop reporting it.Continue to monitor your credit report to make sure that any fraudulent accounts or entries that you have removed stay off your report.
 If you receive any suspicious or unfamiliar notices from banks or debt collectors, call the provided phone number immediately and tell the representative you are a victim of identity theft.


You have the write to written information from a debt collector that tells you the original creditor and how much money is owed. If you receive a notice from a debt collector, send a letter requesting this information.If you send a creditor or debt collector a copy of your identity theft report (your FTC affidavit and your police report), they cannot continue to contact you or attempt to collect the debt from you. They also must stop reporting information about the fraudulent account or activity to credit reporting bureaus.If you have an account closed, get the representative to send you a written confirmation of the action, and continue to monitor your credit report to make sure the account doesn't show up again., There may be some accounts that you were unable to close or freeze because you had a continuous need for them.


In most cases, the bank or credit card company will issue you a new credit or debit card, and may change the account number of any checking or savings accounts that were compromised.
If you have online access to your account, review the transactions on a daily basis and compare them to your own receipts and records. If you notice any unauthorized transactions, report them immediately., Unlike a fraud alert, a credit freeze keeps anyone from accessing your credit report.


Your ability to get a credit freeze is determined by state, not federal, law. Depending on where you live, you may have to pay a small fee to start a credit freeze.
If you want to put a credit freeze on your reports, you must contact each of the three credit bureaus individually. To request a credit freeze, you can contact TransUnion by calling 1-888-909-8872, Experian by calling 1-888-397-3742, and Equifax by calling 1-800-349-9960.Although each state has certain exemptions, generally a credit freeze doesn't mean you can't access your own report, and won't keep companies with which you have a pre-existing relationship from accessing your report., Make sure you have written confirmation of any activity made on your behalf by credit bureaus, banks, or creditors, and keep these documents organized and in a safe place.If you speak to customer service representatives over the phone, make a note of the date and time of the phone call, the number you called (or received), and the name of the person with whom you spoke.
You may need to show these documents or refer to them again if additional activity appears related to that account or transaction at a later date.

