 Language is a major component of a world’s culture. Think about how the characters in your story communicate with one another. Consider if the language is spoken and written, if it uses letters, and if it is similar or different from English. Be consistent and detailed about the specifics of the language in the fictional world.There may also be more than one language spoken in your fictional world. Doing this will often create a richer and more diverse culture.
For example, you may have one group of people who speak a language similar to English and a group of aliens who speak a language very different from English.
Or you may have a city of people who speak a dialect similar to Chinese and people who live in the outskirts of the city who speak a completely made up language.;
, Another key element is the belief system or religion of the fictional world. This has a big impact of the culture of the fictional world, as what people believe in often shapes how they interact with one another and view the world. Determine if there are multiple religions in the world or one dominant religion and other less dominant religions.You may borrow from existing religions, such as the use of a book similar to the Bible or the saints in Catholicism. Try combining elements from several different religions to create a fictional one.
For example, you may have a dominant religion that closely resembles Christianity and less dominant religions that combine elements of Buddhism and Taoism.
 Write down any traditions that are practiced as part of the culture. Identify rituals that are done by members of a certain religion or group in the culture. Be specific and detailed. Most traditions and rituals are very old or ancient and have been practice for a long time. Consider this as you create your own for the fictional culture.For example, you may have traditions like reciting a prayer before a meal as part of the culture. Or you may have a ritual around visiting someone’s home that is expected in the culture.
 A big part of culture is how a society is organized on a social level. Think about the social hierarchy of the fictional world and how this affects the culture. Is there one group at the top of society and one group at the bottom? Is the society organized by class, race, or religion?For example, the world may have elected leaders or groups. Or there may be rightful heirs to the throne. May be people in the world discriminate against a certain group based on their religion, class, or race.
 Social norms are what is deemed normal or acceptable in a society. Culture often comes from social norms and expectations. Outline the social norms of the fictional world in detail. Ask yourself, what is considered normal in this world? What is deemed acceptable or okay to do in public?For example, a social norm in the fictional world may be that men and women wear full length clothing in public and refrain from touching.
 Taboos are practices that are considered unacceptable or indecent. Every culture has taboos that go against social norms. Identify a few taboos in your fictional world to create a more detailed and believable fictional culture.For example, there may be taboos around how the dead are mourned and buried. Perhaps it is against the social norm not to bury the dead in the cemetery.
There may also be taboos around sexuality and sexual relationships between people. It may be against social norms to be with someone of the same sex or to have more than one sexual partner at a time.
 Think about the economic system in the fictional world. Determine how characters make money and survive. This will influence the overall culture of the fictional world. Is it a bartering system with no money? Are there different levels to the economy? Are there wealthy and poor people?For example, you may start with how the main characters in your fiction earn their money. You may then think about how their jobs affect how they think, act, and communicate with others.
 You should also identify the political systems or systems in the fictional world, as this will inform the culture. Decide if the fictional world is based on American democracy or a totalitarian regime. Determine if there are winners and losers in the political system. Outline how politics affects the lives of the characters in your story.For example, your fictional world may have a political system based on American democracy, with political parties and the electoral college. Or your fictional world may combine elements of a totalitarian regime and socialism.
 Another major influence on culture is how the military functions in the fictional world. Think about whether the military has a strong presence in the world and if so, in what way. Consider if there is a history of wars or conflicts in the fictional world. These elements will all contribute to the culture of the world.For example, maybe there is a forgotten war that is only remembered by older people in the fictional world. This may then create a culture of disconnection from the past for the younger generation in the world.

