 WhatsApp Web will work with Chrome, Firefox, Opera, and Safari, so open a new browser tab or window, and enter web.whatsapp.com in the address bar. You will see a QR code on your monitor. This code needs to be scanned from your phone so that you can activate and link your account.;
, Tap the WhatsApp app on your phone. The app icon has the WhatsApp logo on it, the one with a phone inside a chat box.
 Tap the gear icon or settings button of your phone to access the main menu of the app. Tap on “WhatsApp Web” from here. You will see a box for scanning a QR code on your screen.
 Point your phone to your monitor where the QR code is. Position the box to read the QR code. No need to tap or press anything. Once the QR code has been read, you will be logged in to WhatsApp Web.
 The WhatsApp Web interface is split into two panels. The left panel contains all your messages or chats, much like your inbox, and the right panel is where your current chat stream is.
 The list of your messages are found in the left panel. Scroll through them, and click the one you’d like to read.
 The selected conversation will be displayed on the right panel via a chat window. You can scroll through the exchanges to read the past messages.
 Type the name of the contact you want to talk to in the search field. The search field is found on the top of the left panel. From the results, click on the name.


You can also continue a conversation from one of your existing messages. Just select a message to continue chatting on as described in the “Reading Messages” section.
 The chat window will appear in the right panel. The name or names of the people you’re talking to are displayed on the header bar.
 The message box is located on the bottom of the right panel. Type your message here. Press Enter to send your message. You will see it displayed in the chat trail.


You can send a picture with your message. To do this, click the clip icon on the header toolbar and click the “image” option. A file explorer window will appear. Use it to navigate through your computer and click on the picture you want to share.
You can also use emoticons as part of your message. Click the smiley icon right in front of the message box. There’s a wide variety of smileys, icons, and pictures you can use. Click on the ones you want to use.
 All the messages exchanged during the conversation will be displayed in the chat trail. Each message is tagged with the sender’s name and timestamp. Read through them as they appear.
 If you don’t want to save your current conversation, you can delete it. While still on the chat window, click the button with three vertical dots on the header bar. Then click “Delete chat” from here. This step is optional, and you don’t have to do this if you want to keep your conversation as part of your chat history.
 When you’re done with WhatsApp Web, click on the button with three vertical dots on the header bar on the left panel. Click “Log out” from here. You will be logged out and brought back to the main WhatsApp Web page with the QR code.
 If you want, you can continue chatting with WhatsApp on your phone when you’re stepping away from your computer.

