 What is most important to you? What do you want out of your life? Listen to what other people have to say, but remind yourself that you, like George W. Bush, are The Decider. You decide your life, not the toxic sludge people surrounding you. If they can't accept that, they can get out of the way.


Write down your short and long-term plans on paper. Paste it on a wall where you can constantly remind yourself and stay focused. This will also help you when times get tough and you feel the gripping desire to fall back into older negative habits., Lots of people go through life saying, "My parents wanted me to do X, so I did X", or "My spouse wanted to go to city X, so we went to city X." Do you want your life to be decided by someone else? Make a choice, for better or worse, and live with the consequences.


Don't allow other people or their preferences to be an excuse for you. Saying, "I'd be happy if X were different" is just another way of saying, "I'm not in charge of my own life. It's true that sometimes you need to need to make compromises with the people close to you. But don't let compromise be your go-to.
 Why would you hang out with people you don't like to be around? Find the guys and gals who are optimistic, upbeat, and happy. Your smiles will form a natural barrier against the haters.Move to a new town or switch jobs if you're surrounded by negative people at your old one. End that relationship and start a new one with someone who builds you up instead of dragging you down.
 Use the inspirational example of positive people in your life to guide yourself away from the toxic people. Smile, give compliments, say thank you, make eye contact, and generally do the things you would expect normal, nice people to do. Being nice is not hard, but some people need you to play the Big Bird to their Oscar the Grouch.
 If you constantly do battle with the negativity of others around you, you need to make a serious commitment to de-stressing. Find something that calms and centers you and to which you can retreat when you need to re-energize yourself. Kick loose and enjoy the world, wherever you are:


meditation
Yoga
Hiking or nature walks
Martial arts
Listen to music, read a book, or watch a movie.

