 That's about 3.8 centimeter (1.5 in). The best kind of "mirrors" for this are acrylic -- or those cheap little locker mirrors they sell everywhere when it's back-to-school season. They're not really mirrors, so they're fairly easy to cut into with a box or paper cutter.
 Be sure to leave a small gap between each strip. "Small gap" here means about 1/8" (.3 cm). Then, tape the mirrors together (along the gaps), bend them into a triangle shape, and set aside.
 This is easiest with a box cutter, but scissors will do. Just be careful not to stab yourself!

, Here's how:


Place one of the circular ends of your tube flat on a piece of paper -- contact paper is best, but construction paper or even gift wrap will work, too.
Cut about 1" (2.5 cm) around the traced circle; with that extra 1", cut little notches around the circle so it bends more easily (it'll sort of look like a firework).
Cut a triangle or circle in the center of the paper to view through. Center the cardboard tube on top of your circle and secure the edges with tape (unless you're using contact paper, of course).
 Get an empty plastic container or two and trace two circles using the end of your tube (permanent marker is easiest to see). With an object that's about ½" (1.25 cm) larger than your tube, draw around the previous ones. Then, cut around the each of the larger circles with scissors. Lenses!


With one of the circles, cut notches all the way to the inside of the smaller circle -- this'll be called lens 1. It should sort of resemble a gear. With the other circle, cut notches to the outside tracing of the smaller circle — this'll be lens 2. Lay them flat against the table and bend the notches upwards.
 To begin, slide your triangular mirror inside the cardboard tube. Take lens 1 and place it inside your tube against the edges of the mirror, notches facing up; this should form a sort of makeshift pouch. Place your selected beads, sequins, glitter, gems, and/or confetti on top of this plastic lens. Cap your gems using lens 2, notches facing down, and use masking tape to secure it all together.
 The easiest way to make this kaleidoscope look as impressive as possible is contact paper -- so long as you work out the bubbles! But you can also use construction paper or even gift wrap to jazz it up. And then add on some glitter or stickers if the urge strikes!


If there's some tape exposed where you secured your lens, cover it in glitter! It's easy and mess-free if you pour your glitter in the crease of a folded piece of paper. Just coat the very tip of your kaleidoscope in glue and place it in the crease, rotating it around until it's fully coated.
 Done! Now all you have to do is hold it up to the light and look through it. The light bounces off the mirrors, creating the kaleidoscope effect you see inside. What happens when you jostle it? When you turn it slowly? Can you ever create the same image twice?

