 For the four string weave, you will need four pieces of embroidery thread (sometimes called embroidery floss) in two different colors. You can find these at your local craft store, or in the craft section of most major retailers, like Walmart or Target. Look for two colors that complement each other, such as blue and green or red and orange.You can also make an ombre bracelet with two shades of a color, like blue or red. Ombre bracelets use a pattern where the color changes little by little from light to dark.;
, Cut two strings of a different color so they are 65” long. Now you can fold them in half and make a ¼ inch loop. This loop will form the base of your friendship bracelet.


If you don't have 65" of embroidery thread, you can make your bracelet without a loop. In this case, you will need to use a length of 30" for your thread., Place your strings on a flat surface, like a table or clipboard, and tape the loop firmly to it. This will help you weave your strings more easily, as the tape will hold each in place while you knot your threads.


If you have chosen to not loop your threads and instead are using 30" strands, simply tape your strings to your clipboard or flat surface.
 Move left to right and label each in your head as string 1, 2, 3, and 4. You should be using two colors, making sure that strings 1 and 3 are your first color, and strings 2 and 4 your second color.
 To tie a forward knot, you should loop one string twice over the string to its immediate right. You should then pull the loops tight into a knot. After you have finished your forward knot on string 2, move string 1 to string 3, repeating the process until you finish this round of forward knots on string 4.


Your strings should now be in the order: 2, 3, 4, 1.
 Tighten each knot so that it is tight and firm. After you have tied your final forward knot for string 2 on string 1, your strings should be in the order: 3, 4, 1, 2.
 Tighten each knot so that it is tight and firm. Your strings should now be in the order: 4, 1, 2, 3.
 Tighten each knot so that it is tight and firm. Your strings should now be in the same order you started: 1, 2, 3, 4.


Your bracelet should now have a diagonal striped pattern, with alternating colors., Do this until your bracelet is long enough to fit around your wrist. You can estimate or measure your friend’s wrist if you're worried your bracelet won't be big enough.
 A standard knot will do for tying off the loose ends of your new friendship bracelet. You should trim the ends so there is string left over. You will use this to tie the bracelet around the wearer’s wrist.


You can dip the ends in nail polish to prevent them from fraying.You can add a braid after your forward knots are finish to give your bracelet more character.