 If you think your card has been lost or stolen, immediately report it to the Social Security Office. If the card has been stolen, you should also contact the following offices:Report the theft on the Federal Trade Commission Consumer Information website.
Contact the Internal Revenue Service to ensure that no one is using your Social Security Number to file taxes fraudulently.
File a complaint with the Internet Crime Complaint Center.;
, In order to get a duplicate social security card, you must print out Form SS-5: Application for a Social Security Card.The U.S. Social Security Administration allows individuals to print Form SS-5 from its website.


To download Form SS-5, you will need to have Adobe Acrobat Reader installed on your computer and the ability to download PDF files. This program can be downloaded for free from Adobe's website.
Download and print Form SS-5 from the Social Security Administration’s website.
 Once you’ve printed out a hard copy of the form, fill it out with your information.
 You must provide originals or copies of specific, certified documents proving your citizenship in order to get a new social security card.The only approved forms of citizenship include a U.S. birth certificate, U.S. passport, U.S. consular report of birth, Certificate of Citizenship or a Certificate of Naturalization.
If you are not a U.S. citizen, you must provide immigration documents with your applications for replacement Social Security cards. The only acceptable documents are Form I-551, I-94 with an unexpired foreign passport, or a Department of Homeland Security work permit card.
Photocopies and notarized copies are not acceptable. They must either be originals or copies certified by the issuing agency.These documents will be sent back to you.
 Individuals may prove their identity in one of several ways. All documents must be current and show name, identifying information and a recent photograph.The most common documents used to prove identity are a U.S. driver's license, a state-issued identification card or a U.S. passport.
If these documents are not available, you may use an employee identification card, a school identification card, a marriage document, adoption decree, life insurance policy or a U.S. military identification card.
The identification document needs to have a recent photograph of the applicant.
 You can either submit your application in person or you can mail it. Find your local Social Security Office by visiting the Social Security Administration website or calling 1-800-772-1213.


It may be preferable to visit the Social Security Office in person, since you need to bring the originals of your identification. Remember, if you need to mail in your driver’s license as proof of identity, you won’t be able to drive until you get it back.
Be sure to check the hours for the office. They may have limited hours on certain days of the week.
 Mail or take the SS-5 form and all necessary documents to the proper Social Security office.


You must submit at least 2 of the qualifying documents: one to prove your identity and one to prove your citizenship.
If you mail your application to the Social Security Administration, it takes approximately 10-14 days after the Office receives your application., Once the Social Security Administration processes your application, you will be issued a new card. It will be sent to your house in the mail.

