 Cooking in Aura Kingdom gives you additional stats for an hour or more. To cook, you need ingredients. Ingredients can be obtained from harvesting from field maps.


Helonia—Ingredients that can be gathered in Helonia are Rainbow Fruit from Rainbow Grove, Ghost Pepper from Hot Pepper Tree, and Fragrant Flower from Sweet Grass.
Crescent Hill—Ingredients that can be gathered in this map are Crimson Eggs and Blue Speckled Eggs from Small Bird's Nest, Crescent Vanilla and Crescent Nectar from Crescent Flowers, Chopped Nuts from Nut Tree, and Tiger Lead Power from Patterned Grass.
Cactakara Forest—Here you can gather Multicolored Water Mushroom and Small Colored Mushroom from Colorful Water Mushroom, Vigor Leaves from Energizing Cabbage, Dried Berries and Small Berry from Berry Bushes, and Small Cranberry from Sourfruit Tree.
Demarech Mines—In this map you can gather Egg and Giant Egg from Nest of Twigs, Miracle Thornapple and Miracle Plum from Demarech Fruit Tree, Oasis Spices from Oasis Spices, and Miracle Flower from Demarech Flowers.
Candeo Marsh—Here, you can gather Sweet Coconut and Old Coconut from Coconut Tree. Fresh Garlic Sprouts from Garlic Plant, and Cocoa Fruit from Cocoa Tree.
Triatio Highlands—Ingredients in Triatio Highlands are Sand-Vine Fruit harvested from Desert Vine, Sweet Coconut and Old Coconut from Coconut Tree, and High Wheat Flour from Highland Wheat.
Ventos Prairie—You can harvest Grapes and Raisins from Grapevine; Green Allspice and Green Bay Leaves can be harvested from Wind Spice Bush.
Oblitus Wood—Small Egg and Wind Bird Eggs can be harvested from Wild Bird's Nest.
Navea—You can gather Small Mushrooms and Aromatic Spores from Mushrooms. Navea Soothing Herbs and Navea Herbs from Navea Vanilla, and Stardust Flower from Stardust Flowers.;
, You can view recipes by pressing B to open your bag and then right-clicking any ingredient you have. This will show the full recipe of foods that can be made using this ingredient.


Some of the ingredients needed can't be harvested, especially premade food. For example, in order to make Toast with Honey & Jam, you need 1 Fragrant flower and 1 Fruit Jam Toast. Fruit Jam Toast is a premade food, which means you can only obtain it by purchasing it from the Grocer or Merchant.
After purchasing the premade food and obtaining the remaining ingredients, you can now craft the food. To do so, right-click the ingredients again and then click Fuse Item.
Each fuse has a cost, so it's best to have enough money before cooking.
 Making drinks is the same as making food. You right-click an ingredient to see the recipe then gather the remaining ingredients, such as a premade drink from a Grocer or Merchant.


You can fuse item once you have all the ingredients in your bag.
Remember, you can use food and drink together; this is a good combination for bonus stats.
Most players cook food that are relevant to their class. For example, wizards and sorcerers prefer making food and drinks focusing on damage and double cast, tanks make ones such as Berserker, and guardians prefer boosts on HP and Crit.
 In every fuse of food and drinks, you will get an unidentified food item. Before you can use the food or drink you have created, you must right click the unidentified food item first to get a random grade. Every grade has different boost and duration.


White Grade—This is the most basic food item grade. This is mostly gained from purchasing food from a Grocer or Merchant. Its boost only lasts 30 minutes.
Green Grade—Compared to White Grade, Green Grade has added stats; for example, Helonian Fruit Jelly only has DMG +63 while Rainbow Jelly has DMG +63 and Crit DMG +5%. Usually, Green Grade food items lasts for 1 hour after using it.
Orange Grade—Orange Grade food items usually lasts 3 hours, with a higher stat compared to the Green Grade, and also has an additional boost. For example, a Green Grade Rainbow Jelly has Crit DMG +5%, but an Orange Grade Rainbow Jelly gets upgraded to Crit DMG against bosses +15%.
Purple Grade—Obtaining a Purple Grade food item can be difficult, but possible. It has the same duration as Orange Grade but with a slight difference of boost. In Purple Grade, a Rainbow Jelly gets upgraded from Crit DMG against bosses +15% to Crit DMG against players +15%.
Gold Grade—This is a very rare food grade. It slightly increases the boosts compared to Purple Grade. For example, an Orange Grade Rainbow Jelly gives DMG+ 76 and Crit DMG against players +15%; Gold Grade has DMG +82 and Crit DMG +15% (to both monsters and players). The boosts also lasts up to 6 hours.
 Players often make a lot of food and drinks until they obtain a high-grade food item. If you're planning to farm and fuse to get the grade you want, remember to sell your unwanted food item instead of throwing it away.


Food and drink items are a good source of money. The more gold you have, the more food you can fuse.
 You can sell your raw ingredients using the Auction or selling to the Grocer or Merchant to gain more silver. With this, you can save on inventory and earn profit.


Note that some ingredients and even food items cannot be traded.
 As you grow stronger in Aura Kingdom and advance to higher level maps, you will notice that monsters, especially in dungeons with high difficulty, become tougher. Using food items gives your character a boost in damage, speed, and even casting, since some of the food possesses double casting and even triple.
 In PVP, it is best to use food with +ACC; this will increase your character’s accuracy, giving your character a higher chance of hitting an opponent with huge speed.


Aside from accuracy, you can use double or triple damage. This takes effect on both monster and players; the same goes with double and triple cast.
 You can use food items to prepare for certain dungeons. For example, monsters in the Infernal Abyss dungeon are fire attributes. It means you need a food and weapons to counter this.


Lamb Wellington, a Gold Grade food from Spicy Grilled Lamb Rib, gives Crit +303, and Flame Skills do an extra +8%. If you're a wizard, it's advisable that you use this food during your exploration in Infernal Abyss for extra damage and quick kill against mobs and bosses.
You can use a drink item along with Lamb Wellington, such as a change to double cast.

