;
, Note the following:



Colouration: North Devons vary in red colouration from a rich deep red to a light red or chestnut colour. A bright ruby red colouration is preferable for breed standards, hence the nickname "Red Rubies." They have light pink noses, and slightly less pink skin surrounding their eyes. They also tend to have a lighter coloured tail switch.

Body type and characteristics: Devons are moderate-framed cattle, with mature bulls weighing in at an average of around 1700 to 2200 lbs and cows between 950 to 1300 lbs. Devons are a well-muscled breed, but not in the extremes like a lot of Continentals are. Devon cattle are the breed that has the thickest hide in the world among any breed of bovine in the world, which makes them highly resistant to external parasites. They have short and curly hair which slicks off nicely in the summer and forms a dense coat in the winter.

Head characteristics: Most Devon cattle are horned, though more cattle are being bred to be genetically naturally polled. Currently, 50% of registered Devons are polled. Devons tend to have a long face, which seems to be more obvious in cows than in bulls.

Other characteristics: Devons are known for their fertility, calving ease, docility, hardiness and ability to adapt to temperature extremes. Devon bulls tend to have a much more well-developed heat-regulating system in their scrotums which make them surprising more able to remain fertile in extremely hot summer weather. Devons are also noted for their early maturity, excellent performance on grass-only-based systems, highly average daily gains, great mothering and milking ability, natural resistance to disease, and high quality carcass merits no matter what system of feeding their on.

North Devon cattle are considered the oldest breed in existence today, with some authorities considering the breed has its origin back in the prehistoric period. This comes from the assumption that the breed is descended directly from Bos longifrons, the smaller type of aboriginal cattle in Britain. In fact, according to the official reference material compiled by the Devon Cattle Breeders Society in Somerset, England called Devon Cattle - The Red Rubies, it appears that this breed may have actually contributed to the start of the Hereford, Shorthorn and other British breeds.
This breed was previously recognized as a dual purpose breed (providing meat and milk), but are now considered a beef breed through the process of artificial selection over the last 400 years.

The native home of the Devon breed is in southwestern England primarily from the counties of Devon, Somerset, Cornwall, and Dorset.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Devon cattle, and compare them with pictures of North Devons on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.

