 Remember that a remedy is not a shampoo, shiner or conditioner. A remedy is a self-made product (liquid, cream or gas) for a specific purpose. Your purpose would be to make shiny hair. In order to do that, you need ingredients for your remedy. Since this is your own invention, you will choose what ingredients you want or do not want in your formula.;
, The materials you need, will be listed at the bottom of the page, or you can read on here. First, you will need a glass bowl (not used for cooking after!) a new wooden spoon, some plastic wrap and a notebook with a pencil. The notebook will be used for recording any notes while you figure out your formula

, We will not get into details like the ingredients listed behind your shampoo bottle, because those are scientific ingredients that are usually hard to get. First, you must know that you should include natural and organic materials in your formula (like fruit juices). Let's start with some ingredients below:


Olive oil. Olive oil (regular, as extra virgin smells) is great for your hair, because it nourishes your hair, smooths the ends and does not take away the hair`s natural oils. It replenishes the hair especially after a rough winter. If you use olive oil in your remedy, do not include a lot, mix it with warm water and always remember to wash it off later. Not only is olive oil good for the hair, but it is also really great for the skin too. (Some spa`s actually use olive oil to hydrate skin too!)
Coconut oil. Coconut oil has pretty much the same effects as olive oil. Not only that, but it also leaves hair smelling delightful. Natural coconut oil is more preferred, rather than canned coconut oil. Follow the same procedure with coconut oil (use, wash, rinse out with shampoo.)
Egg yolk. Although egg yolk may sound gross on your hair at first, it is actually really good for your hair. It is better on short hair rather than long, because egg yolk is quite thick. The reason it is so good for hair is because it has protein and natural oils as well. Just remember to wash the egg yolk off very thoroughly and do not leave it on for more than 30 minutes.
Rose petal juice. Another remedy for hair that can be used in mixture with other remedies is rose petal juice. This is made by boiling fresh rose petals in hot water, and using the cooled down extract for your hair. If used alone, you can keep the extract on your hair for more than 30 minutes, but you must rinse after.
 Some of the ingredients listed above for hair are natural, soft (not harsh) oily substances. Remember to avoid using acids on your hair (such as lemon acids and acids from most fruit) because they actually strip the hair of its natural oils and shine and burn the hair. It is not good to experiment on your hair with these acids. Instead lean towards using the oils mentioned above and extracts from herbs (like camomile).
 Using the information about oils and acids listed above and after recording down your own remedies or other online information, make a list of what ingredients you would like to use in your remedy. Remember to be sure if those ingredients should be mixed or not. It is not good to mix oils with thick ingredients (like olive oil and egg yolk). Also do not mix oils with substances like water because they will not mix (oil will float on top). A remedy does not mean mixing a bunch of good ingredients. A remedy also means choosing the ingredients and using them separately after following the remedy's procedure. Write down your list of ingredients in your notebook, after making sure they are safe on hair. Do not put unknown chemicals or ingredients in your hair, and do not put any ingredients together that will cause a reaction (like vinegar or baking soda). Read the precautions at the end of this article very carefully.
 After recording the ingredients, it is important to test them out in order to make sure that they are good for your hair. This is your remedy and it should be focused on improving your hair.


Try out each ingredient on your hair using the following steps:

Take a small amount of the ingredient and mix it with the same amount of warm water.
Leave the mixture on your hair for about 10 minutes.
Wash it out with warm water, and use shampoo to rinse it out.
Dry your hair with a towel.

It is important to mix the ingredient with warm water, so if it is not good for your hair, it is not too concentrated. Then do not leave the mixture in your hair for a long period of time, because it may have bad effects (that is the whole point of the test).
, Remember the remedy does not work right away, but how does your hair look right after. Is it greasy, is it clean or dirty, does it smell bad. Remember not to use more than one remedy every 3 days, because that will damage your hair as it requires you to keep washing your hair over and over. Washing your hair too often is not good for the hair (it takes away the oils).
 After finishing using one remedy on your list (every 3 days) record down the results as soon as you get out of the shower, when you dry your hair, and after 2.3 days, how does your hair seem. If you are not happy with the quality of your hair after this time has passed (your hair got worse) then cross this ingredient off of your list, and move on to the next. Remember to write a short summary of what happened to your hair beside the ingredient on your list. Do this with each and every one of your ingredients. Write something like:


This ingredient was not good (or was good) for my hair. It left my hair greasy (or clean) and very oily (or shiny). After 2 days my hair was worse (or better). I will (not) continue to use this product as part of my remedy.
 After weeks of testing out the effects of all the ingredients on your hair (and writing down a summary of what happened), write a new list with only the ingredients you would like to use in your remedy. These ingredients should be safe to use separately, and safe to use in a mixture. Be sure that these ingredients were good for your hair. If you are unsure about one ingredient, then test it out again. After you are done, write down the new list.
 After making the new list, decide whether you will mix the ingredients for your remedy, or whether you will use them separately. If you decide to mix them, then make sure that it is safe to do so. If you will use them separately, you will make a procedure stating in which order they should be used. Remember to include that after using one ingredient you must wash hair thoroughly and wait at least 3 days before using the next. Be very precise in your instructions. If you are deciding to mix them, you must state all the ingredients on a separate piece of paper and write ``Remember to leave only 30 minutes or less, and wash hair thoroughly after using`. This should be written for all remedies (time period may change though).
 After completing all of the above steps and procedures, you must actually make your remedy. If you are mixing the ingredients, then take an empty bottle (preferably a rinsed, clean, empty shampoo bottle and fill a quarter of it with warm water (do not use only the remedy because it will be too concentrated). Then mix the ingredients of the remedy in a separate bowl and when it is mixed thoroughly, pour it in the shampoo bottle. Close the lid and shake the ingredients, then use immediately. Since most of the ingredients are going to be extracts from food or juices that means they will spoil in a short time after mixing them altogether, so the remedy must be made fresh and used immediately after. Do not store any mix that remains, you must throw it out. If you are using the ingredients separately, you do not need to put them in separate bottles, just keep them in their natural bottles and take them out when needed and apply to hair. Just remember to make a list of instructions in order to remember the order and amount of ingredient for your remedy. In both cases, rinse the remedy out after 20-30 minutes (or less if desired).
 You can use the same bottle over and over for a mixture just make sure you rinse it out thoroughly and change it every 6 months. The label should include your name, the title of the remedy and precautions (like time to leave it in hair and that you must rinse it out and dispose of remaining mixture). Also remember to list the list of ingredients on the side of the bottle. If using ingredients separately, remember to make a procedure list.
 Now that your remedy is done, try it out and make it fresh. Follow the rules and enjoy the shiny hair. You can still use your old shampoo that wasn't really improving your hair with the remedy, which will give you shiny hair (according to your results). Just remember to wait. Shiny hair is not going to come after one use, but if you followed the correct procedures, then your hair will improve in 2 months or so. Remember not to use your remedy too often though.
 Share your remedy with friends or family and pass it around. You will have shiny hair and be proud knowing you created a remedy that works! Now you don`t have to buy an expensive hair product or go to the salon often, for the wrong reasons!

