 You may write something off as too “beneath you” to participate it or try, but why not try it before you knock it? You may find that you enjoy yourself. Don’t build a wall between you and something else (not to mention the other people who enjoy the activity) just because you look at it with preconceived notions.


Ask someone who loves the activity you disdain to tell you more about it. You might enjoy the activity more if you understand it or have some background information.
For example, you might dislike football, but you decide to keep an open mind and attend a game. Go with a friend who loves it, who can explain the intricacies of the game to you, and who knows how to enhance the experience -- they might know the best refreshments to order at the game, for example.
 If you normally shun popular culture because it is too “low-brow” for you, find something about it that you are at least minimally interested in so that you can carry on a conversation about it with others.


Follow a professional sports team. Or, at least be aware of how your local team is doing.
See a blockbuster movie.
Read the current “must-read” book that everyone is talking about.
Flip through a celebrity gossip magazine at the grocery store checkout or while waiting at the doctor’s office.
 Give back your time and talents to a cause you believe in. Your areas of expertise could be useful to many people.


Volunteer. Maybe you could teach your area of expertise to members of your community at a free class at your community center. Or consider donating your skill set to nonprofit organizations who could use your help. For example, if you’re a web designer, volunteer your time at a nonprofit you believe in and help update their webpages.
Many volunteer opportunities will expose you to different ideas and people, which will help you be less pretentious by becoming more open-minded and less judgmental., There is a time and a place for academic, professional language, but when you are in more casual settings, consider adopting a more everyday way of speaking. Big words can be fun to learn, but you risk alienating others by using them around people who might not understand them.


Consider that simple, straightforward speech often does the job just as well or better than more difficult words that risk the listener’s confusion. For example, “Refrain from grousing” and “Don’t complain” mean essentially the same thing, but the first is far more likely to make someone head to the dictionary.

