 Measure out the oil of your choice (peanut or vegetable) and add it to a large pot or Dutch oven. Turn the burner on medium-high and allow the oil to heat up. Be careful around the oil – it tends to pop and sizzle a bit as it gets hot., Once the oil is heated through, add the green curry paste to the pot. Stir the paste until it dissolves in the oil. You may want to turn on your overhead vent/fan or crack a nearby window, since the curry paste becomes pungent as it heats up.Curry paste can be purchased at most general grocery stores, as well as specialty Asian grocery stores.
If you have a very low tolerance for spicy foods, you may want to use half of the suggested amount of curry paste rather than the entire thing.
 Stir the oil and paste mixture frequently. Continue to be cautious, as the oil may continue to pop and sputter as it fries. Allow the paste to fry in the oil for about two minutes., Open both cans of coconut milk. Use a spoon to scoop out the coconut milk solids and add them to the curry mixture. Leave the watery milk part in the cans for now., Stirring frequently, fry the solids in the oil and paste mixture. Continue frying until the oil starts to separate from the rest of the mixture, appearing as small oil beads on top of the curry paste. This should take approximately two minutes., Thaw your chicken and cut it into 1 inch (2.5 cm) pieces. Carefully add the chicken to the curry mixture; watch out for popping oil. Stir the contents of the pot well to fully combine the ingredients.

For a vegetarian version of the dish, omit the chicken and cuttlefish balls. You can serve with just zucchini, or fry pieces of tofu separately and add them to the sauce right before serving., Dump the watery coconut milk remains in both cans into the pot with the curry mixture. If you’re using cuttlefish balls, go ahead and add those too. Stir well to combine the ingredients., Reduce the heat to medium-low and allow the mixture to gently simmer for about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Use a knife to carefully slice through one of the chicken pieces to confirm it has cooked through completely. If it hasn’t, give it a few more minutes., Wash the zucchini and chop them into thick wedges that resemble half-moons. Once the chicken is done, add the zucchini to the pot. Stir gently. Allow the mixture to continue simmering for a few more minutes, until the zucchini pieces are tender., Tastes differ when it comes to fish sauce, soy sauce and sugar in curry sauces, so there’s no set amount to add. Most people aim for a balanced flavor, so add a little bit of each, then stir and taste the sauce. Continue to adjust the seasonings as needed until you’ve achieved the flavor you like., Curry is traditionally served with white rice, although you can certainly substitute with rice noodles, if you prefer. Combine the rice and water in a large pot and follow the package instructions for boiling until the rice is softened and cooked through., To add more veggies to the dish and create a satisfying crunch, quickly sear baby bok choy and red peppers together in a wok or skillet. Add them to the curry sauce right before you ladle the sauce over the bowls of rice., Portion out the cooked rice in bowls, then carefully ladle the hot curry sauce over each bowl. Most people choose to cover the rice completely with the sauce, but individual preferences can be addressed when it comes to amount of sauce used., Set the table with the bottles of soy and fish sauce so that individuals can customize the flavor as needed. If there are leftovers, put them in two separate airtight Tupperware containers – one for the rice and one for the sauce. Place them in the refrigerator. The leftovers will keep for about five days.