 Set your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (or 177 degrees Celsius) and let it preheat while you get to work on the sliders. Grab a 9x13 baking dish and spread the softened, unsalted butter over the bottom and sides. Make sure everything is thoroughly covered, because the butter will keep your sliders from sticking. Plus, it’ll make the bread extra buttery., Don’t break them apart! Instead, take them out of the bag and set them on your cutting board. You want to cut your Hawaiian rolls in half, so that there is one large top and one large bottom. Think of the entire loaf as one very large roll! Slide a knife into the side and carefully wiggle it through the entire piece.Set the top aside, and put the bottom of the rolls into the pan.
 After the bottom half of the rolls are in the buttered pan, it’s time to add the most important ingredients. Spread half of your provolone cheese slices across the bread so that it is covered. Top it with your roast beef and the French fried onions. Grab the rest of the cheese and put it on top of that. Finally, top your masterpiece with the top of the rolls!, Put your butter in a microwave safe bowl. Pop it in the microwave for about 30 seconds, or until it’s completely melted. Room temperature butter will melt pretty quickly, but frozen or refrigerated butter will take a bit longer. Keep an eye on it, and only remove it once it’s completely liquefied., Once your butter is melted, add in 1 tablespoon of the au jus seasoning mix. Then pour in the Worcestershire sauce, the sesame seeds, the garlic, and the onion powder. If you like your French dip sandwiches salty, sprinkle in the salt as well. Whisk all of these ingredients together., Once all of the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, you can add them to the sandwiches. There are several ways you can do this. You can drizzle it over the sliders straight from the bowl, or you can brush it onto the sliders with a pastry brush. Whichever way you do it, make sure the sliders are completely coated with the mixture. This adds a lot!, Once your oven is preheated, pop your baking dish in the oven for about 15 to 20 minutes. Keep an eye on the sliders, because you’ll be able to visually tell when they are finished. They are done when the cheese is melted and the rolls are a light golden brown color.


Once you make these a few times, you’ll know how long they need to bake.
 While the sliders are in the oven, you should make the dipping sauce. The dipping sauce is a critical component of the French dip sandwich. Pour the rest of the au jus mixture and put it in a saucepan with two cups of cold water. Turn the stove to medium heat, and whisk the mixture as it heats. As soon as it begins to boil, reduce the heat and let it simmer.


As the sauce simmers, it will thicken up.
 Once your sandwiches are golden and gooey, take them out of the oven. Grab a sharp knife and slice along the ridges in the roll. It’s important to cut them, otherwise it’ll be a mess trying to grab them! Place the sliders on a platter and serve with the au jus. Enjoy!