 Classical as well in its construction with a rounded, gourd-like back, this mandolin is closest to the original mandolina if you're interested in an authentic piece. If you prefer a darker toned instrument, and are willing to pay more for a finer construction, as cheaper ones are rumored to have a poorer sound, consider purchasing a Neapolitan style mandolin.;
, The F-style is a fancier looking instrument and typically has a scrolled top and ornately carved body. Most professional bluegrass and country musicians prefer the F-style mandolin. However, when you are buying your first mandolin, realize that the F-style will cost much more than the A-style., A-style may be a good choice for beginners if you enjoy bluegrass, Irish music, old-time tunes, classical or rock and roll. A-style mandolins have carved tops, a flat back and a single or twin sound hole., Having the ability to amplify the sound of the mandolin, which can be muted by other stringed instruments in a band, makes choosing an electric mandolin appealing. Hooking your mandolin up to an amp and adapter can help the sound of the mandolin to resonate against the other instruments also. , With a price range of $200-$8000, there are many factors that add and subtract from the final cost of the instrument. Be prepared to consider the type of wood, whether it is solid construction or pieced together, and who is making it.

In the $200-$300 range, instruments will be in the A-style with a laminate style wood construction. These instruments are likely imported from Japan. They are still reported to sound fine despite their lesser construction, and could be a good choice for a beginner.The $500-$1000 range includes instruments of higher quality wood which are more ornately decorated. Parts of the instrument may be of a solid construction rather than pressed together. They are still of the A-style as you'll need to add approximately an additional $1200 to begin in the F-style.
The $2000-$3500 range includes even greater detailed instruments in finer wood qualities. You will finally be able to see some F-style instruments of good quality in this price range as they are a little fancier with the scroll at the top of the instrument and hand carved., Those who make mandolins are very careful about which piece of spruce they choose, testing each one for certain sounds before construction. Quality hardwoods do increase the price of the instrument., They still produce a decent sound, and you won't be spending the big bucks. You can tell if a piece is solid wood or laminated by checking out the seams to see if you can detect a layered effect.

If the piece is laminated, you will be able to see a thin layer of spruce over an under layer of mahogany or possibly even plywood.