 If you decide to import your business cards so they mesh seamlessly with your digital contacts, you’ll want to make sure that both pools are freshly organized and updated. Before uploading your business cards, take the opportunity to examine your existing contact list and remove any outdated ones.


If you don’t have a way to organize your digital contacts yet, Google Contacts is often recommended, because it’s free, reliable, and works across a variety of operating systems., There are many apps available for tablets and smartphones that will scan a business card and automatically upload its information to your contacts.You can’t use the app while in the middle of an event, obviously, but you can use it in your hotel room after you’re finished networking for the day. Here are a few popular options--they’re free or a few dollars at most:


Camcard scans physical cards and allows you to swap “e-cards” with other users.Worldcard automatically sorts cards, and is available in Japanese, Chinese, and Korean versions as well.ScanBizCards allows you to keep a clear version of the image after you’ve noted its information., If you find yourself sorting through dozens of business cards after every event, a seperately-purchased business card scanner might make your life a bit faster. Card Scan is a popular option.However, smartphone apps can do the same job, so if you’re not working with an intimidating volume of cards, this seperate purchase might not be necessary.
 When you return from a business lunch, trade show or meeting, immediately put the business cards you received in a safe and memorable place. When you have time, grab the business cards that have piled up in your desk drawer, and import them. Try to do this on a consistent schedule--once a day or week, for example.
 Just like you write on a physical business card, you should be able to add additional notes in a business card app. Type out any information that wasn't on the card: what the card’s owner does, what information or prospects they offered, when you met them, and so on. Be detailed: you’re not doing this on the spot, so you can take your time.


Copy your written notes out.
If you’ve looked up the person since you met them, you can also expand with additional research., Organize your contacts further by reflecting on how often you expect to write to or work with them. Split them into groups: reliable business contacts, potential business contacts, and those that you’ll probably never talk to again.Use a system you won’t forget so that you can categorize your contacts.


Some apps include a feature where you can make notes like this.
You could use a numbering system or a green, yellow and red stoplight system, depending on your app.
 Depending on your card or contacts app, you will have a lot of choices about the ways you can organize contacts. (You will also probably be able to tag contacts to sort them into different groups, meaning you can organize their information in many different ways.) Here are some ideas on how to put contacts in order:


Alphabetize by last name.
Categorize by alphabetical order of name or company.
City where you met.
Category of industry.

