 In 8th grade the focus will be on preparing you for high school. The exams will probably be harder, you'll probably spend some time with a guidance counselor, and your teachers will expect more from you. Meet these challenges head on! Begin studying for tests far in advance.


Brainstorm ideas about what you'd like to do with your life, so that your guidance counselor meetings are productive.
Take responsibility for your organization and your grades by working hard without being told to. Taking an active approach to these challenges will best prepare you for the transition to a new school.;
, Although curricula will vary from state to state, you can expect certain similarities across 8th grade. Basically, in every subject you’ll be asked to look at things in greater detail, use more critical thinking skills, and make deeper connections.In English or language arts classes, you can expect an emphasis on persuasive and expository writing (writing that offers an explanation). Begin keeping a journal or diary to strengthen your expository writing skills.
In history or social studies, you will be asked to relate the past to the present in greater detail. You can practice this skill whenever you watch a movie. Ask yourself: Which elements of this movie relate to older movies you have seen? Which elements relate to things from your real life?
Across all of your classes, there will be a greater emphasis on class discussion. Write down questions or comments you have while you are at home doing homework, so that you always have something to contribute.
 In 8th grade (and into high school and college), you are going to be expected to do more reading. You will be asked to read longer novels in your English classes, and you will need to read and understand challenging math, science, and history textbooks. If you struggle with reading, now is the time to seek some help. If you hate to read, now might be a good time to let that go. Start reading a little bit each night to strengthen your skills.Try reading the conclusion first. If you know the main idea before you begin, you may have an easier time understanding what you are reading.
Look up words you don't know. Taking the time to look up words will enable you to understand the reading, while building your vocabulary and making you a better reader over time.
Read at the right time. Some people will have a better time reading in the morning, and others at night. Others will read best right after lunch. Find your ideal reading time, and try to get your reading done when it is optimal for you.

