 There are four major types--white, black, oolong and green tea--and thousands of blends, brews and names within those groups. Tea has significance in various cultures and is touted for health benefits. If you are running a tea shop, expect to be asked questions about tea. You'll need to be knowledgeable about the regions tea comes from, the processing methods for tea, health benefits and significance of tea. Unlike other businesses you can choose, there is a lot to learn besides just how to start a tea store. Read about tea, join groups and go to seminars and presentations to get a good understanding of all there is to know about tea.;
, The customers you intend to sell to will dictate what kind of tea store to run. Some customers will be attracted to the ritual and perceived luxury of tea, while others may be interested in the health benefits.
 Based on your target market research, decide what type of tea shop to open and how to market it. Your niche and target market will determine everything from the location of your store to the look of your interior, website and stationary to the type of food you serve with tea. It will also help you to focus your advertising and marketing efforts.
 Decide how you will finance your business. Have a business plan written to attract investors or apply for loans.
 Think about the market you plan to serve as well as the amount of customers you want to be able to accommodate at one time when choosing a location. There must also be areas for tea and food preparation. Alternatively, you can open an Internet business selling loose or bulk tea. In this case you'll need room to store and package the tea as well as an office area to keep track of orders.
 Register your business with the Internal Revenue Service. Apply for local and state licenses, including inspections required to run a food selling business.
 Choose a tax status for your company, such as a corporation, sole proprietorship or joint ownership.
 Make sure to choose reputable companies and test all products. In addition to loose tea, you'll need food products, serving ware and preparation equipment.

