 If you don't already have one, contact your local passport office for information on how to get a passport and the materials you will need when applying. Also inquire about any visas you might need, depending on your country of citizenship on the passport.
 English is widely spoken, but knowing key words and phrases in Portuguese will make your travels smoother. If you have an eReader, smartphone or electronic tablet, download an app with the dictionary to make it easier to carry around everywhere you go in the city.
 If you have a digital camera, pack extra memory cards; if it's a film camera, have extra film. Rio de Janeiro is a beautiful place and is extremely photogenic, especially if you're participating in festivals or other events. Once there, be sure to photograph the Christ Redeemer statue, document your view from the Sugar Loaf cable car, the Botanical gardens or one of the many beaches.
 Brazilian outlets are either type A, B or C. Type A and B are common throughout North America, but older buildings in Brazil may still have C type outlets. It's helpful to have an adapter for your personal electronics, such as laptops, hair dryer or electric razor. However, if you forget to pack this, don't fret––either your hotel or a local electronics store should be able to sell you one there.
 The seasons in Rio are the opposite of those in North America, with North American winters being Rio's summer, and vice versa. Rio has an average temperature of 20 degrees Celsius, or 68 Fahrenheit, year round. Pack light clothing, especially when travelling during Rio's high summer months, December and January, when the temperature can reach 40 degrees Celsius, over 100 degrees Fahrenheit.


Dress simply but with style. Have day clothes and one flashier item for evenings out. Be aware that even the nightclubs are casual, so don't overdress. Good casual dress is fine for even the best restaurants.
Avoid the usual tourist garb of safari shorts and jacket, etc. unless you want to be recognized as a tourist.
Choose non-slip sandals and shoes because the sidewalks can be slippery when it rains.
Leave the expensive clothes and jewelry at home. You don't need them and they might make you a target for thieves.
 Rio is well known for its beaches, which are accessible year round due to Rio's mild climate. Bring a suit and enjoy the beaches at Copacabana, Ipanema, or dozens of other popular tourist destinations.


You don't need to go skimpy but can if you want to! Bikini culture is truly alive. If you wear a one-piece, the locals will know you're a tourist but it's your prerogative. A wrap, sarong or towel can help to cover you more modestly if preferred.
If you don't want to bring a towel to the beach, the air is usually warm enough to air-dry you quickly.
Flip flops are useful for beach walking.
 You will need to be protected from the sun as it's very easy to get burned, both walking around and spending time on the beaches of Rio. Of course, these can also be purchased in Rio if preferred; either way, just be sure to use them!

, The Brazilian Real is the local currency, and currency exchanges can be found in many hotels and banks. Many businesses that cater to tourists accept credit cards, but it is a good idea to carry Real additionally. You can also bring traveller's cheques.

