 Or the beliefs you have about yourself and when you tell yourself these messages the most. Is it around others? When you're alone? Going out? Speaking in front of people? When you feel insecure about the way you look? Etc. This is important to know because once you know where your irrational beliefs are coming from it will be easier for you to tackle them and get on track to finding yourself and build confidence.;
, Once you have recognized the messages you've been believing or telling yourself, its then that you can change them. You can start by analyzing them.It's okay if you can't get to the root of it right away. It takes time. Don't give up! Spend some time, read stories of others with the same struggles as you,listen to songs a lot of times songs will analyze struggles and might even offer advice,Try to get a therapist/counselor but pay attention to whether they understand you or not.
 If you catch yourself saying "I'm so stupid" or "I'm a failure" all the time. Recognize it and start changing it. You don't have to go from saying I'm so stupid to I'm so smart. Stay neutral at first then when you're ready,go for the positive. Try saying positive statements to yourself, like, "I am a positive force in the world!"

, For some people their negative thoughts come out mostly when they're alone. So try to talk to people, like your mom, friends, brother, sister, cousins, grandma, grandpa. Just to get your mind not thinking of negative things. Try doing hobbies, taking your dog for a walk, joining a club , do sports.
 This sometimes affects a persons confidence and drags them away from themselves. Know that judgments are quick predictions and are usually wrong.
 This might take you a while and that's perfectly fine. Include what you like,the hobbies you like,music,your personality traits,what you're proud of, anything related to you. Maybe creating a collage would be more fun than a list!

, If you're a little meaner than some people, they might find that funny. If you think you're nicer, people will definitely notice this. You might even inspire others to be nice!

, Tell yourself how great you are. Examples: When I believe in myself, so do others, I am my own unique self - special, creative and wonderful.
 It important to see and stay away from triggering things. Or talk to a person that might be a hazard to you.
 To stand up for yourself, you don't have to be mean,yell or fight with others. You can be nice but still not let people walk all over you. If you don't stand up for yourself or don't do it in the right way this can affect your confidence.
 This is effective if you want to find who you are. Go searching on YouTube for interviews of famous people whom you like. They might share interesting stories. Taylor Swift is a great one! Also find people that are comfortable in their own skin. Young Leonardo DiCaprio is someone who is comfortable in his own skin.
 A lot of people put themselves down and into a dark place by thinking they're all alone and no one is experiencing the same thing they are. The truth is, There's billions of people on this Earth! You are not alone. It will help you to know that whatever you do or however you feel you are not alone.

