 Women like to feel special, and nothing makes a woman feel less special than hearing the same line over and over again. A pick up line is designed to break the ice, start a conversation and put a woman at ease.If you’re stuck for what to say, make a joke or comment on what’s happening around you.
Try leading with, "You're so beautiful, you made me forget my pick up line."
The best "line" is always what feels natural to you as a person. Pretending to be something you're not is never the way to go.
Don’t "neg" a woman. "Negging" is a backhanded compliment designed to undermine a woman's confidence. In reality, negging a woman will only put her on the defensive.
 Starting the conversation is only the first step. Once you convince a woman to talk to you, you actually need to listen to what she has to say. Ask her questions about her life and her job and what she does for fun.Don’t spend the conversation thinking about what to say next. Listen to what she’s saying and you’ll find it much easier to craft your responses.
Don’t spend the whole conversation talking about yourself. Your goal is not to impress her, it’s to get to know her.
 Asking too many questions during a conversation may cause a woman to feel like she is in the midst of a job interview. You can avoid this by making a few assumptions. For instance, instead of asking a woman where she's from, try guessing.Try saying, "You're from around here, right?"
If you're wrong, the woman will correct you and the conversation will continue. If you're right, she'll be impressed by your insight, and that will help propel the conversation.
 Humans are very sensitive to body language, so make sure your body is conveying confidence. Planting your feet conveys assertiveness and helps women to feel more at ease around you. Be especially cognizant of this when you’re approaching women on the street – you don’t want them to worry that you’re going to attack or follow them.Make sure to look women in the eye when you’re having a conversation with them.
Don’t fidget – it makes you look nervous.
 When you reach the point in the conversation where you would normally ask the woman out, avoid asking her to dinner. Dinner is a wonderful date option, but a table creates a physical barrier, so offer out another alternative for your first date.Instead of dinner, ask her out to coffee or for a walk.
During the date, be physically affectionate. Off your date your hand to help her from her car or take her coat and let your hands gently brush her shoulders.
This will help you gauge whether or not there’s chemistry between you.
Make sure there is chemistry between you before going in for a kiss.
If a woman seems disinterested in the physical contact or asks you to stop, do so immediately.

