 A goat's water needs will vary from one season to the next. Be certain that your goats have a source of water at all times.Use heavy containers for water, as goats have a tendency to knock them over otherwise.
You may wish to consider an automatic watering system to reduce waste.
 The primary component of a Nubian goat's diet is a class of plants called "browse." Shrubs and bushes are "browsing" plants (as opposed to grazing plants such as grass).If there aren't already browsing plants growing in your goats' area, feed them browse you've gathered from elsewhere. Good choices include:Brambles
Blackberry bush
Ivy leaves and vines (not the flowers or berries)
Nettles
Thistles

, In addition to browsing, goats will also need to eat what is sometimes called "forage," i.e. mixed grasses and clover.You can allow your goats to graze naturally in their paddock for grasses (and should do so for at least eight hours a day), but should also feed them high quality hay such as clover and alfalfa., Especially during the winter months when their pasture area may not grow as much wild food, you may wish to supplement your Nubian goats' diets with commercially available goat feed pellets.This is especially important if you are raising your goats for milking.
It is easy overfeed with pellets, which can cause your goats to become obese. Feed your goats according to package instructions, and do not overfeed.
If you notice your goats gaining weight, consider switching out your pellets for a variety formulated to prevent obesity, such as DuMor.
 To stay healthy, goats require certain minerals in their diets which are not always available in browse and forage they eat. This is especially true in the winter months.You may need to provide supplements.


Goats can develop health problems if they become deficient in selenium or magnesium.
You can provide your goats with commercially available mineral blocks that can help them get the nutrients they need. Note that mineral blocks formulated for sheep do not contain copper, which goats do need., Goats will eat a wide variety of wild plants, but some of these can be poisonous to them. Make sure your goats' pasture areas do not contain any plants that can poison them, such as:Azalea
Daisy
Rhubarb
Daffodil
Lilac
Laurel
Pine
Tomato
If you believe your goat has eaten something poisonous, call a vet immediately.

