 New users for Stardoll are automatically given 500 Starcoins and 20 Stardollars as a start-up bonus. Making an account is the obvious first step if you're looking to make it big in Stardoll., Stardoll encourages users to network with friends in the game by offering a Starcoin bonus for each new in-game friendship made. Seeing as other people will likely be hounding for game cash as well, it's a mutually beneficial move and you won't often find users that will shirk away from the free money.Leave a message in their guestbook while you're at it! This will help attract more Starcoins into your piggy bank.
 If you're serious about making some cash in Stardoll, its important to have patience, consistency and dedication. Logging in every day will earn you 40 Starcoins. If you're subscribed as a Superstar, you can receive the equivalent of 100 Stardollars for a month of consistently logging in!


Changing your doll's clothes and editing the suite every day will earn you extra points on a daily basis. Don't forget about the Mystery Gift each day. It may not be much, but it's easy to get.
 Being a superstar is arguably the most effective way to make money in Stardoll; subscribing to superstardom shows you're serious about the game. Although it requires a start-up fee to get going, you'll find the money (particularly the Stardollars) starts rolling in faster.


You'll get 200 Stardollars by default for each month you're subscribed to Stardoll.
 You can get a display set up in the bazaar for other people to peruse and choose from your creative wardrobe. If you muster a great reputation for your good fashion sense, you'll find customers flocking to you in droves.


Try not to get too steep with your prices. In most market situations, it is better to sell larger amounts for more cheaply rather than relying on a few expensive sales.
 Stardoll regularly hosts contests you can join in, offering prizes with in-game monetary value. Contests will usually put your fashion skills up against other players; if you end up winning, you'll be all the richer. Contests and other far-flung schemes shouldn't be relied upon as a primary source of income. Rather, they should be a fun way to see if your creative talents are up to snuff.
 Even if you're not subscribed as a superstar, you can still get Stardollars via participating in associated surveys and offers. Stardoll's partners may be anything from a shopper's census to a sale offer. Keep in mind, however, that these tend to be very dull and detract from the overall enjoyment of the game. If you're looking to make a quick in-game buck they'll do in a pinch, but it's not recommended that you rely on them for your income.

