 Be it a hatchback, 2 or 4 door sedan, 2+2 or GT coupe, or maybe even a convertible/targa top.;
, The Japanese and Europeans are known for smaller, lighter, lower displacement sports cars, whereas the Americans are known for heaver, higher displacement cars.
 Do you want a highway cruiser? Or a tossable sports hatch? Many 60's and 70's American muscle cars are great on the open road, but would feel too large and ungainly for hill (Touge) racing or autocross racing. Likewise, a small hatchback might be uncomfortable for cruising, especially if it has higher gear ratios and a higher revving engine.
 Investigate magazines like Grassroots Motorsports or join internet forums pertaining to your car. Most, if not all, sports cars have a cult following somewhere, and they can be valuable sources of information. Take www.m42club.com for example, it is a forum dedicated to the BMW E30 318is only.
 Buying locally is generally easier and faster than trying to ship a car over distances.
 Arm yourself with knowledge about the car, and call the owner out if he says anything suspicious. For instance, if he fitted a manual switch for the radiator fan, be wary that the car may have had an overheating problem in the past. Few people would make that sort of modification if nothing was wrong with the stock component. Avoid buying a car that has sat for a while no matter how many times the owner said it "ran great" in the past. Always look at a car in the daytime, and it helps to take a friend. During the drive back home, discuss the car, he may have picked up on something you missed.
 The bane of any older car is rust, and it is very expensive to repair. If it comes down to either body rot or mechanical problems, replacing parts on an engine is generally cheaper than having the car taken to a body shop to have panels replaced. Of course, there are exceptions, and if you plan to have the car stripped down and repainted anyway, this may not be a problem. If rust really worries you, buy a car that came from dry, desert climates. When you have bought the car to protect it in the future keep it in a place where water can't get to it (e.g. a garage).
 Once you possess the car of your choice, take some time to make this list. Popular mods include exhaust systems, wheel and tire upgrades, visual styling parts like spoilers and ground effects, and interior upgrades like sound systems, seats, and steering wheels. Make sure the parts you buy were either designed for your car or used successfully on someone else's car.
 Think outside the box when it comes to modifications. Some parts from third party manufacturers can fit many cars. For instance, Bosch fuel injection and electrical components were shared on many cars of the 70's and 80's era like those from BMW, VW, Porsche and Audi. Also, some seats Recaro supplied to various factories can easily be made to fit other cars.
 You eventually want to own a car that can be fun to modify and drive. Autocross races are held all over the United States, check with your local SCCA (Sports Car Club of America) chapter or try a manufacturer specific club like PCA (Porsche Club of America).

