 For this decoration to work best, you’ll want to use some dolls that stand up. If you have old ones you are okay with ruining, use those, or consider looking through some garage sales or thrift stores. You probably don’t want to buy new ones, but you can.


It’s totally fine if they are dirty or kind of broken already. This will add to the effect that you are going for anyway.
If you use some that aren’t meant to stand up, you’ll just have to position them differently or use a stake of some kind to stand them up.
 You can use red paint to make scratches or stitch marks. You can use brown or gray to give the skin a sickly look. How creative you want to be and exactly how you want the dolls to look is up to you.You can paint all of the flesh to give the dolls a deadly grayish look, or you can just paint some marks here and there that give the appearance of blood.
In a pinch, red fingernail polish works great for this!

, Rip the dolls’ clothes and put some more red paint on the clothes for blood. You can even cut out some of the hair to make it seem like it fell out. Don’t be afraid to detach an arm or leg here and there to enhance the zombie-like appearance.


You could step on the dolls to add a dented or crushed look.
If the eyes are at all detachable, taking an eye out is a great way to add creepiness to the effect. You could also paint over the eyes in such a way that makes it look like an empty socket.
If the dolls are stuffed, you could cut them open and pull some of the stuffing out to imitate guts coming out.
 You can make it look like some of them are coming out of the ground, or you can stand them all up like they are waiting in formation. Another option is to stash them at different points around your house, inside or outside, so that it seems like they are coming from all over the place.


If you have some dolls that you can’t make stand up, you could sit them in a corner or in a chair. You could also prop them up with a stake if you are putting them outside.

