 If you discover that a guy you are interested in or involved with doesn’t care about you, the idea of being alone can be very scary and depressing. With a little effort, however, you can learn to enjoy the solitude and use alone time to help you recover.Psychologists recommend that you heal by nurturing your relationship with yourself. This means being comfortable and content spending time in your own company.One of the great things about being on your own is that you can do what you want. A good step toward getting over a guy who doesn’t care about you is to think about and set aside time for specific activities you enjoy or think you might enjoy.
Sometimes, it can be helpful to start out with more basic or small activities. For example, do you enjoy reading, having a cup of tea, or taking a bath? Make time each day for these things. Once you are comfortable taking time for yourself, you can move on to bigger activities such as going on a trip or enrolling in a class.If you are a busy person, it can be helpful to schedule time so it is part of your daily routine. Is there a period during your day where you have half an hour to yourself? If so, fill that time with something you enjoy.If you feel that you don’t have any time, ask yourself if there is a way to rearrange your schedule so that you can make time. For example, can you wake up 15 minutes earlier each morning or cut out a responsibility? You are important, and if this activity will help you feel more relaxed, confident, and independent, then it is worth the time investment., When you are trying to get over someone, it can be tempting to cope with your situation by engaging in unhealthy activities such as drinking, drug use, or casual sex. Although these behaviors might seem to provide temporary relief, they can be destructive and will not help you move forward with your life in a positive manner.If you are resorting to drugs, drinking, casual sex, or other destructive behaviors to cope, it’s a good time to contact a counselor or therapist who can help you find a more effective way to get over a person who doesn’t care about you.
 If you are trying to get over a guy who doesn't care about you, interacting with the person can be a painful reminder of the situation. To speed up your recovery, it's a good idea to give yourself some space and keep your interactions with the guy to a minimum.This might mean spending time in new places or hanging out with different friends if you travel in the same circles. You may also want to block him on social media accounts or delete contacts in your phone. You don’t have to avoid the person at all costs and it may not be realistic to cut him out of your life, but you should do what is needed to help you feel better.
Use this as an opportunity to meet and make new friends or try different activities. For example, you could join a book club, take an art class, or try a new coffee shop.
 It’s understandable to feel bummed when a guy doesn’t care about you the way you care about him, and shedding tears over the situation can actually help you feel better.Researchers have concluded that crying can relieve stress and promote healing, so don't be ashamed if you feel weepy and don't hold in your tears.
 Crying can be therapeutic when trying to get over a guy who doesn't care about you, but so can laughing and it’s usually a lot more fun. Research indicates that laughter relieves pain, lessens anxiety, helps you confront fears, and will make you feel more optimistic.To help you get over a guy who doesn’t care about you, take the time to laugh with friends, family, or coworkers. Watch a funny movie or pick an activity that makes you giggle.
 Although working out may be the last thing you want to do when you are feeling down, research shows that exercise releases endorphins, which will help you feel less depressed and more confident.You don’t have to run a marathon or perform a strenuous workout routine to boost your mood. Go for an easy walk in the park or go on a low key bike ride. Gradually increase your activity level each day and week, and you will soon notice a big improvement in your mood. When you feel better physically and mentally, it will be easier to move on.
Exercising also gives you a sense of control and power over your situation. Imagine that you are taking charge of your life in the same way you are taking charge of your physical activity.

