 If you wait to start training your dog as a teenager, it will already have developed some bad behaviors. What's cute in a puppy isn't cute in a full-grown dog, even in a small breed. Jumping up on people and biting or nipping, for instance, shouldn't be left uncorrected when your dog is still a puppy.However, if you get your dog as a teenager, you can still work on good behaviors. It may just take a bit more work than it did if you started with a puppy.;
, A clicker is a way to reinforce good behavior. In the beginning, you use a clicker with a treat to teach the dog that it's a good sound. Eventually, though, the clicker can become its own reward. Because it is an immediate, consistent sound, it becomes a bridge between the behavior you want and the command you want to use.Basically, a clicker is a little device that makes a clicking noise. You can also use a clicking pen if that's all you have.
You can find clickers at pet stores or online.
 When your teenage dog does something you like, click the clicker, and give it a treat. For instance, if your dog goes to the bathroom in the correct place, give it a click and a treat.The treat doesn't have to be a food treat. Sometimes, praising the dog and petting it can be enough, particularly after you've already reinforced the behavior with food.
Only click once when trying to reinforce behavior. However, you can give more than one treat if you want to emphasis your dog did well., The best command to start with is "touch" (or whatever you'd like to call it). Basically, you hold out your hand with two fingers extended. When the dog comes toward it, you reward the dog with a click and treat. Next, reward the dog if it touches your hand with its nose. After your dog gets the idea, you can add the command you picked, by saying it as the dog touches your finger ("Touch!").Once your dog has that down, move on to holding a stick. When it touches its nose to the stick, repeat the process of clicking, rewarding, and saying the command. Move the stick farther away so your dog has to move more.
You can also put a bit of peanut butter on the stick a few times in a row to get your dog interested.
Always click during the behavior, not afterwards.
 Once your dog has "touch" down, you can try other commands, such as "sit." Like "touch," you first get the dog to do what you want. For instance, you can use a treat to get the dog to sit. Hold it in front of its nose, and then pull it over its head. As you pull it up, the dog will look up, causing its back end to hit the ground. Use the clicker, and offer the treat as a reward.Repeat the process until the dog understands, then add in the command you choose for "sit."

, If your dog is starting to do what you want, you don't need to wait until you see the whole movement to click and reward. Getting partway there is a start, and you can continue to work towards your goal.For instance, if you're trying to get the dog to sit, if it sits partway, start with rewarding that behavior.
 Dogs, particularly young dogs, need consistency in their lives. If you constantly change the rules, it will only lead to confusion. Therefore, it's important to make sure your whole family is on the same page when it comes to both commands and corrections, employing them the same way every time.It's also important to keep using treats. You can phase out using a treat every single time. However, giving occasional treats will keep your dog interested., An adolescent dog isn't going to enjoy training sessions that are hours at time. Instead, practice a little each day. That way, you are reinforcing the behaviors you want every day, and your dog won't get bored. Try for 10 to 15 minutes a day. You can even break those sessions up into smaller sessions in a day., That is, every time your dog wants you to do something, get it to do something for you first. If your dog wants a treat, ask it to sit. If your dog wants to play ball, ask it to shake hands before you throw the ball. If you consistently provide training, your dog will learn that it needs to follow your commands to get what it wants., When correcting an adolescent dog (or really any dog), you should never hit or shout at it. Rather, be firm but gentle. You can say "No!" in a loud voice, but not shouting. Also, once you've corrected the dog, treat it like normal afterwards. If you ignore it or refuse to play with it, that will only confuse the dog, as it won't connect your behavior with what it did wrong.You can also grab the dog by the scruff and shake it gently. This correction is acceptable because an older dog would do the same thing to a younger dog as correction. However, rewards usually work better than corrections.
 Adolescent dogs will often "forget" the commands you've taught them. That forgetfulness could be actual forgetting, but it could just be your pup being stubborn, too. Either way, when a dog forgets, take a moment to help it relearn the command by using a treat to go over the trick again., Whether your dog is male or female, spaying or neutering it can help with training for a variety of reasons. For one, dogs that aren't fixed tend to be more aggressive, and they'll be more likely to pee inside. In addition, spaying or neutering helps with the dog's hormones, which in turn can help increase its attention span.You can have a dog spayed or neutered as early as 6 months., If the dog doesn't get enough exercise, it's going to tear up your house even more, as it will engage in "bad" behaviors out of boredom. However, if you exercise your dog every day, you'll tire it out, making it less likely the dog will destroy your home., If you find yourself getting frustrated with your puppy, take a moment to take a deep breath. Getting upset will only make your dog upset, which in turn will detract from what you're trying to do. If you need to, step away for a few minutes to calm down., The first step in socializing is to take your dog out into the world. That way, your dog can meet new people and gain new experiences. You should try to expose your dog to new situations, new places, and new surfaces (tiles, stairs, grass, etc.) on a regular basis.It's important to start socializing your dog as a puppy, as that's when it's deciding what's "normal." However, it's equally important to continue that socializing into teenhood and adulthood.
However, don't remove the dog from its family (mom and pup siblings) before 8 weeks, as that's also important to its development.
 Just like you want to encourage your dog to see a variety of places, meeting different types of people is important, too. When someone shows interest in your dog, encourage them to pet it or offer it a treat (that you carry with you). That way, your dog can get used to all different kinds of people.Another option is to invite people over to your house to interact with your dog. That way, you get the dog used to the people in your life., Your adolescent also needs to learn how to interact with other dogs. Otherwise, your dog may become aggressive as it gets older. Letting your dog play and romp with other dogs sends the message that other dogs are friends rather than enemies.Try to pick safe choices for dog interactions. That is, older dogs that are proven with puppies are a good choice. However, other puppies that majorly outweigh your dog can be bad, as they can hurt your dog without even realizing it.
 Your dog knows how to warn people when it feels uncomfortable. It will usually start with growling, and it may move up to snapping. While this behavior seems aggressive, it's actually an important warning system.In other words, if you try to train a dog not to growl at all, you won't have that warning system anymore when the dog feels uncomfortable, and it could move from feeling uncomfortable to attacking, rather than from feeling uncomfortable to growling.
Instead, teach your dog not to growl at you in certain situations. For instance, if your dog gets agitated when you come near it while it's playing with its favorite toy, teach it you are not a threat. Try bringing a bit of a treat with you as you come near your dog. Drop the treat near it. Let it see that every time you come near it when it's playing with it's toy, you'll have something good, and eventually, it will stop growling. You can slowly lay off the treats and just spend time near it.If your dog starts growling, it's time to change up the situation. Back away if it's growling at you, or take your dog away if it's growling at strangers.
Other indicators your dog is unhappy include it licking its lips, cowering, tucking its tail in, or laying its ears back.