 Good audit practices should serve as your initial guide for conducting your internal accounting audit. Using a business accounting software program, a tax attorney, or an accountant is the best way to ensure that your internal accounting audit is in line with generally accepted accounting practices.The General Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) are the most common auditing standards used to audit private companies. Consider the GAAS policies when commencing your internal accounting audit.
GAAS are the basic rules and standards that are used when doing an audit. While these typically are used by professional auditors, consulting these basic principles can provide a helpful guideline for your own personal audit.
 Review each place into which accounting information is input, including the general journal, the general ledger, and individual account balances. Account balances should be examined on a continual basis, rather than just before preparing the trial balance at the end of the accounting period.Make sure that all entries have corresponding entries across each element of your system, and that any discrepancies are resolved quickly. For example, a purchase of merchandise to sell would require an debit entry to the inventory account, and a credit to your cash account.
Use accounting documentation to verify your business’s gross income, expenses and costs.
If you have a very large number of transactions, it is acceptable to take a statistical sample in order to examine individual transactions, rather than trying to examine all of them.
 Check the fidelity of your own bookkeeping by comparing it against external records. For example, you can compare purchase receipts from your suppliers against your own purchase records. Note that issues that arise through this process may be due to external errors, such as miscalculations by a supplier or customer.If you encounter any errors, it is important to firstly correct the error. Any errors on the behalf of external factors (like a supplier error), should also be corrected by contacting the party involved. Next, it is important to document the error, and ask yourself why the error happened, and who is responsible. Is it a one-time mistake, or is there a problem with basic policy or procedure? From here, you can focus on ensuring the error is not repeated.
If you have physical products or use equipment in your business, you will need to conduct physical audits as well. For example, inventory or equipment should be counted and visually inspected.
 Look through your recent government tax receipts and compare these against your internal records regarding taxes paid and tax liabilities. In the U.S., keep tax receipts on hand for at least 7 years, as this is the statute of limitations on tax fraud.
 Compile a list of your findings into a succinct audit report. An audit report is simply a document that summarizes the findings of your audit. It will state problems you found, improvements that were made, and areas that were working well.Since this is your own audit, this does not need to be a formal document, and should simply be a useful document that you can refer to for your own usage, or that you can show the IRS in the event that your business is audited.

