 Systematic desensitization is an application of counterconditioning, or removing a learned response to a stimulus. It works on the idea that you cannot be relaxed and anxious (or fearful) at the same time. Before you can learn to substitute a relaxation response for a fearful one, you must learn to relax.Some good relaxation techniques to learn include:


Deep breathing
Meditation
Progressive muscle relaxation

, Whereas flooding exposes you to your wasps and bees all at once, systematic desensitization exposes you to your fears gradually. You should write out 15-20 items or scenarios related to wasps or bees that cause you to feel anxious or fearful. You will expose yourself to each of these scenarios over time.For example, you might start a list such as this:


Thinking about wasps and bees
Drawing a picture of wasps and bees
Watching a video of wasps and bees
Observing wasps and bees from a distance
Sitting in the backyard where wasps and bees may be present

, Use a scale of 0-100 to rank all of the items on your list. Zero designates no fear or anxiety associated with the item or scenario and 100 would be the most fear or anxiety that you can imagine. There is no need to overthink the rankings, just use the first number that comes to mind for each item.For example, your rankings might look something like this:


Thinking about wasps and bees 12
Drawing a picture of wasps and bees 30
Watching a video of wasps and bees 57
Observing live wasps and bees from a distance 71
Sitting outside and seeing wasps and bees nearby 92

, You should have five levels of fear or anxiety ranging from low anxiety to high anxiety. It is ideal to have at least two items in each category. If you do not have two in each category you may need to reconsider your ranking of some items, or add new items into those categories.Group items ranked 0-19 in the low anxiety category. (e.g., Thinking about wasps and bees)
Items that fall from 20-39 should be put in the medium-low anxiety category. (e.g., Drawing a picture of wasps and bees)
Rankings of 40-59 will go into the medium anxiety category. (e.g., Watching a video of wasps and bees)
Place items that rank 60-79 in the medium-high anxiety category. (e.g., Observing live wasps and bees from a distance)
Put any item that ranks 80-100 in the high anxiety category. (e.g., Letting a wasp or bee land on your arm)

, You should choose up to three items for your first systematic desensitization session. These items should come from the low anxiety category, and maybe the medium-low anxiety category. You do not want to overwhelm yourself with the first session., Begin by using your prefered method of relaxation to induce a very relaxed state. Once you are relaxed, introduce the first item or scenario that causes anxiety or fear, e.g., thinking about wasps and bees. Continue the exposure only as long as you are comfortable doing so, then stop and evaluate your anxiety level (from 0-100). If you are experiencing anxiety, repeat the process. Once you are no longer experiencing anxiety after exposure to this item, move on to the next one and use the same process.Systematic desensitization can be done in vivo (actually having the exposure) or in vitro (imagining having the exposure). In vivo produces the best results, but in some cases may not be convenient to facilitate., Each session should be concluded with thorough relaxation. You do not want to leave the sessions in a state of anxiety or fear. This will allow you to continue feeling in control of your sessions, and build your confidence to tackle the next session., You will usually need at least 4-12 sessions to accomplish your systematic desensitization goals.You should start each session by repeating the last item of the previous session. For example, if you ended the previous session by watching a video of wasps and bees, you will start the next session watching the same video.If you feel that you need additional guidance, you should consult a therapist for support.

