 If your baldness is more advanced, or you just feel more self-conscious about it, one option to consider is a hairpiece, sometimes called a toupee. Don’t write toupees off as a joke. A cheap toupee can look terrible, it is true, but a customized hairpiece is worth the money.Although no longer as popular as they once were, top-of-the-line, customized “hair systems” are much better than the “rugs” of old. These weave real human hair into a membrane that looks like scalp, which is then fitted to the client’s head.Adhesive technology has also come a long way. New hypoallergenic glues can bond the toupee to the scalp for as long as six weeks and even allow the wearer to swim.An elite hairpiece will not come cheap, however. Expect to pay out around $1,000 to $3,000.
 Balding men can also look to a number of medications that either slow hair loss or, in some cases, stop and reverse it. Many such products are ineffective – no better than snake oil. However, the last twenty years has seen at least two that are medically tested and proven. Talk to your doctor about these, especially Propecia and Minoxidil.Propecia was approved by the FDA in 1997 and works in a majority of men. About 65% of patients experience a “significant” increase in hair growth.Minoxidil, better known by the brand name Rogaine, is applied topically. While it does sometimes slow or halt hair loss, some physicians do not consider it effective. Users may also start to lose hair again after they stop treatment., Hair replacement therapy is one of the more aggressive ways to combat baldness. A doctor grafts baldness-resistant hair follicles from the back or sides of the head and “transplants” them to thinning patches, so that the new hair will also be resistant to balding.Hair transplants have a success rate of about 60% in 6 to 9 months. Often patients undergo the therapy in conjunction with hair growth topicals or medicine.
Talk to a doctor if you are interested in this procedure. Remember that it is a medical operation. You may experience pain or tenderness in your scalp for several days, and your doctor may prescribe pain meds or a surgical dressing for several days after.Be advised that, if done poorly, hair transplants can look unnatural. They are also expensive. You will need between 600-1000 individual scalp grafts, each costing around $6. That’s about $6,000 to $10,000 for a full head of hair.