 Before you meet your friend’s parents, try to learn a little about them so that you can avoid accidentally offending them. Ask your friend what you can do to make a good first impression on their parents.If their parents disapprove of a certain hobby, avoid bringing it up. For example, if they dislike skateboarding, don’t mention that you have a skateboard. Instead, discuss your other hobbies.
If their parents like something, on the other hand, you can find a way to bring it into conversation. For example, if their dad was a musician, you can say, “I heard you used to be in a band. That’s so interesting. Do you have any cool stories?”;
, When meeting them, smile, and offer your right hand for a firm handshake. Tell them your name. If you’d like, you can also tell them how you know their child or what you will be doing.For example, you can say, "Hi there, Mr. Mann. I'm Grace. Kayla and I have been working on our science project for a few days now. We'll just be upstairs, working. It's nice to meet you!"
Remember to smile. Avoid slouching or crossing your arms when meeting them.
 Never call the parents by their first name. Instead, refer to them by their last time and a title such as Mr. Smith, Mrs. Garcia, or Dr. Robertson. This will demonstrate that you are polite and respectful.Sometimes their parents may tell you to call them by their first name or a nickname. If they give you the OK to do this, feel free to call them by the other name.
 No matter where you’re meeting them, it should be right for the situation. For example, if you meet them at a nice restaurant, you might want to wear slacks or a dress, but if you're meeting them at a pool party, a bathing suit is acceptable.Make sure that your clothes are clean and unwrinkled. Remember to brush your hair.
If you know your friend’s parents like them to dress a certain way, you might want to copy that style. For example, if they don’t like tank tops, make sure to wear a shirt with sleeves.
 Your friend’s parents may ask you about your family, hobbies, home, or schoolwork. As long as you are comfortable with the subject, engage them in conversation. If they share something about themselves, act interested by asking questions.Avoid talking about politics, religion, or other touchy subjects, as you might accidentally offend their parents.If they ask you how you are, answer politely, and ask them back in return. Avoid one-word answers like “fine” or “OK.” Instead, answer with full sentences. You can say, “I’m doing pretty well today. How are you?”

, Some parents may try to interview you to see if you are a good influence on their child. Avoid talking about any bad habits, failures, or vices that you may have. Instead, focus on your positive qualities.

For example, you may be asked what you do for a living. If you don’t have a job, you can say something like, “I’m still looking for a job. I’ve had some positive leads recently, so fingers crossed!”
Be honest when answering, but frame things in a positive light. For example, if they ask how you are doing in a particular class, you can say, “I’m not the best at history. Algebra, on the other hand, is my favorite subject.”

