 Since your mouth may have stitches or an open wound, it requires special cleaning for the first few days. Do not brush your teeth, floss, or use mouthwash, or rinse your mouth out in any way for 24 hours. After that, follow this routine:If you have stitches and the gum covers the extraction site completely, then you can start brushing your teeth gently after 12 hours. Just make sure that you avoid the extraction area.
Rinse your mouth gently, without too much pressure, with saltwater every two hours and after every meal.
Brush your teeth gently, being careful not to touch the wound.
Floss your teeth carefully without going near the wound.
 Let your body's energy focus on healing, rather than other activities. In the first few days after getting surgery your mouth may be swollen and painful, so it shouldn't be difficult to take a few days off of work and school to allow yourself to rest.


Don't do a lot of talking. Let your mouth be still as the sockets begin to form a scab and the swelling goes down.
Don't do unnecessary exercise. Lie or sit on your sofa for the first 24 hours, then do light walking for the next few days.
Avoid touching the area of the extraction and also try not to sleep on that side for two to three days.
 Drink plenty of cool water after the surgery, but stay away from beverages that might interfere with the healing process. That means avoiding the following drinks:


Coffee, soda, and other drinks that contain caffeine.
Wine, beer, liquor, and other drinks that contain alcohol.
Soda, diet soda, and other drinks that are carbonated.
Hot tea, hot water, and other drinks that are warm or hot, since these can loosen the scab that is forming over the socket.
Don't use a straw when drinking liquids. The sucking motion puts stress on the wound, and can cause the scab not to form.
 Chewing tough foods is a sure way to break up the scab that is protecting your fragile nerves from exposure.Eat mashed potatoes, soup, applesauce, yogurt, and other soft food for the first couple of days. Graduate to semi soft foods when you're able to eat them without feeling pain. Avoid the following foods until your mouth has totally healed:


Chewy foods, like steak and chicken.
Sticky foods, like toffee and caramel.
Crunchy foods, like apples and potato chips.
Spicy foods, which can irritate the wound and prevent it from healing.
 If you can wait a few more days after that, your mouth will heal faster. Don't chew tobacco for at least a week after surgery.

