 Certain heel heights, however, are associated with certain styles. For example, heeled booties are often seen as being more chick fashionable, while flat ones are seen as being more casual and down to earth.


Booties with a flat heel are best for a hipster or boho look, especially if they are made from brown leather.
Booties with high heels will create an instant chic style, and are perfect for fashionistas.
Cowboy booties are very popular, and they can be worn to create a country or stylish vibe.
Low heels and wedges are versatile and exceptional for the urban casual style.;
, Choose flat booties with no heel if you will be on your feet all day. Consider wearing heel booties if you won't be on your feet all day. You can get away with wearing them to school, but make sure that you can get to and from your classes in them quickly and easily.
 Both will fill your bootie out more, and keep it from sliding around on your foot. A good sole insert can also cushion your foot and provide arch support. A gel heel insert/grip will help keep your bootie in place, and prevent painful blisters., Depending on the season and weather, different booties will suit your outfit and lifestyle better than others. Keep in mind that the weather for each season will vary depending on where you live. For some people, fall can be rainy and cold, while for others it can be hot and dry.


Choose waterproof booties for the spring. Stay away from the canvas ones, and opt for booties make from fake leather instead of real leather; they'll keep your feet dry and won't get ruined by the rain.
Try some open-toed booties for the summer. If you want to wear winter-styled booties, choose ones without a thick lining so that your feet don't sweat as much. Booties made from fabric are perfect for the summer.
Choose booties appropriate for the weather during the fall. If it is rainy where you live, choose waterproof materials, such as fake leather. If it is warm and dry, stick with regular leather or canvas.
Wear waterproof booties with a thick lining inside during the winter. If your area gets a lot of snow, choose booties with a thick sole and good traction.
 Blacks and browns will go with more of your wardrobe. Expand to colors, patterns and light leather once you settle on your favorite bootie fashions.
 Try to keep the colors the same as your outfit, however. For example, if your booties have a red and brown pattern on them, choose a top with a similar red and brown color scheme. The patterns will make your outfit look more interesting, but the similar colors will keep things from clashing.