 Many people who find success in this field have worked for years in real estate, home maintenance or property management in a vacation area. If you don't have any experience working with homes, consider spending a few years building contacts or partner with a real estate agent of good repute.;
, In this line of work, location is the main factor. You must base your business close enough to a large number of vacation properties that you will be able to clean them regularly, check up after storms and provide a security detail.


Request information from the tourist agencies and Chambers of Commerce in the area, if you are unfamiliar. They may be able to tell you how many families own vacation homes and the most popular tourist areas.
 Once you have chosen a location, find out what competition there is for vacation home care and who your customers would be. Ideally, you will want an area that has relatively few agencies but many vacation homes.
 In order to garner investors and have a successful start, you should have a document that helps you plan your structure, marketing, financing and management for at least 5 years into the future. Include the competition, the products and services you plan to offer and what will set you apart from your competition.


If you have not written a business plan before, you can seek training at the US Small Business Administration website, sba.gov.
 You will need to file documents that state the structure of your business, your fictitious name, your licenses and permits and your tax employment identification numbers before you can begin offering services.


In some states, you are required to run a newspaper ad announcing your fictitious name.
 You will need to hire employees, buy equipment and pay for marketing in order to launch your business. You may consider loans through the Small Business Administration, local banks or online banks, as well as private investors and your own equity.
 People who live away from their vacation homes are likely to use the Internet to find a vacation home caretaker. Invest in search engine marketing, an online contact form and a testimonial section.
 It is a good idea to handle jobs with the biggest security concerns in house, such as regular house cleaning, concierge services, billing and customer service. Other services, such as pest control, summer lawn care and furnace repair may only be required from time to time, so you can use local companies with good reputations.
 Vacation home care companies often receive a large amount of their business from referrals. Offer a referral bonus for any realtor that refers a client and offer a bonus, such as an added service, for any client that refers a friend.


Many partnerships can be mutually beneficial. For example, you can recommend the realtor if someone is trying to sell their house, a property management company if someone is trying to rent their house and you can contract with lawn care, pest management or other services that you don't keep in house.
 Ensure that all employees undergo a background check and are fully trustworthy. Network with local businesses, especially those that see a lot of tourist clientele. Encourage people to put testimonials on your website.


Many clients are paying for your reputation as well as your services. You will be judged based on the peace of mind that you give to homeowners.
 Some vacation home services use heat monitors, flood detectors and security cameras to ensure the homes are monitored sufficiently. You may be able to use this technology to expand your business and take on new clients.

