 Christians communicate with God regularly through prayer, meditation, going to church and loving one another. To be a Christian leader, you will need faith that you are called to lead.;
, This will help you prepare for leadership and give you the opportunity to gather support.
 There are many ways to lead. You might be called to the clergy or asked to lead as a musician, counselor, educator or some other role.


Keep an open mind. Christian leaders are not only priests, pastors, ministers or nuns. Leading a bible study, prayer group or Sunday school class also offers opportunities for leadership.
 Christians believe God will not call them to do more than can be handled. Let your community support and assist you.
 Restore confidence to people who are suffering, lift up those who are depressed, and remind people of their value to God and others.


Provide comfort. As a Christian leader, people will look to you for help when people die, lose their jobs and get sick. A good leader will do more than read Scripture from the Bible. Listen to people and let them know they are not alone.
 Leadership means taking people through rough periods without losing them. Empathize with those who are hurting, and remind them of better days to come and blessings that exist in an otherwise miserable situation.
 You will need to show people how to compromise as a Christian leader. Conflicts may arise between the people you are leading, and instead of choosing sides, you will need to diffuse the crisis.
 Whether you are leading the choir or managing the youth group, you will have to get everyone on the same page and moving towards the same goals.
 A leader has to do what she says she is going to do. Build trust by demonstrating that you can be relied upon.
 Christians believe Jesus lived and died for their sins. Since he was the original Christian leader, you will want to live and preach as Jesus did.


Study your Bible and read what scholars and theologians have written about Jesus. The more you learn, the more you can share with the people you lead.
 In the gospel of Mark, Jesus said "the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve." Christian leaders will be humble and willing to put the people they lead ahead of themselves.
 Christians are taught not to collect material possessions and to give generously to people in need. A Christian leader in a mansion with expensive cars might not be very credible.
 Christians believe no human is without sin, so a leader who has the same struggles as the people she leads will be respected and trusted.

