 There are wrap like ones, "Turkish" style ones, two pieces (not recommended for older women) and many more! There are even Persian style hijab, which is simply wrapped around your head and knotted under your chin. Look up websites on the Internet and you are more than likely to come across countless hijab sites. The variety of scarf styles are endless, but you're bound to find one that suits you.;
, You don't have to Google " Hijab stores near..." You will barely find anything with a name like that.You can find them in big stores like Walmart or even street vendors; just take your time to find out what design and material is right for you.
 Finding colors that suit your skin tone and typical style of dress will put you at an advantage.


You may want to avoid loud or flashy designs; remember, the hijab is not meant to draw attention.
 Try to go for colors similar to your eye color. Light eyes always look good in black and gray hijabs, while dark-eyed girls should go for lighter colors to emphasize the difference.
 Although this has been a controversial question of whether wearing the hijab with makeup defeats the purpose of trying to promote modesty, It is up to you to decide what you believe is "too much" makeup. A little mascara and lip-gloss is subtle, yet highlights the natural beauty that Allah has blessed women with.
 Wash your face regularly, without scrubbing or using harsh soaps, which may irritate your skin. Try to avoid excessively touching your face, to avoid acne as much as you can.


If you use makeup, a little bit of cover, powder and/or concealer can make your complexion seemingly flawless. However, this is your choice and isn't necessary.
 If you find you don't have a matching hijab, white and black hijab goes good with almost everything.
 Just because you are modestly dressed doesn't mean your sense of style needs to diminish - just don't go overboard. Make it appropriate. Try wearing long dresses with regular jeans underneath, with cute matching flats and a matching hijab.


You may want to avoid tight clothing, such as skinny jeans or tight tops, as these are often not considered modest.
 Even if your opinions conflict with others, express them in a rational way.

