 Some couples have a favorite color that immediately comes to mind when they think of their special day. For others, choosing wedding colors can be a daunting task. It is always a good idea to stick with colors you both like. To discover your favorite color or color schemes, look to your wardrobe and decorating style for inspiration.Look through your wardrobe. What are the other colors that emerge the most? These colors are a good indicator of your general color preferences.
Similarly, if you find that your home is fairly neutral with a pop or blue or purple, then that might be a good place to start when you are considering your wedding colors.
 Pinterest has tons of example wedding color schemes that you could take inspiration from. Search through different wedding images and pin color combinations that you like. Once you begin to notice a general theme to the images that you have pinned, you have likely landed on your ideal color pallette.For example, you may find that you are consistently attracted to vintage-style weddings that use light pastels and greys.
You can also look on Instagram, Etsy, or Facebook for ideas.
 You have probably already attended a number of weddings for friends or relatives. Was there any particular color scheme that stood out to you? You don’t have to copy the exact color scheme from your best friend’s wedding, but it might be a good starting point.Alternatively, you could look through old photographs from your parents' or other relatives' weddings. Although you likely despise the puffy sleeved dresses, you may love the sandy blush colors that were used.
 There are a number of different wedding color quizzes that you can take to help with choosing your wedding colors. Typically these quizzes will ask a variety of questions about your personal taste and style and will help to narrow down a color pallet. If you are really struggling with determining your color scheme, this may be a fun way to land on the perfect colors.Search online for a "wedding style quiz."

