



 



Half Cross Stitch: This is good for small areas, but not for covering large ones, as it will distort the shape of your canvas. Start at the top left of your canvas or block of color. Work from left to right in a row across the canvas and then return. You will see as vertical stitch on the "wrong" side of the canvas.







Tent or Continental stitch: This is the same as the previous stitch concerning use. Start at the top right. Work from right to left and then return. You will see a diagonal stitch on the "wrong" side of the canvas.







Basket Weave: This stitch allows good coverage of the canvas with the least distortion and should be used in large areas. Work this stitch diagonally, starting at the top right hand corner of the area. The "wrong" side of the canvas should resemble a basket weave.







Backstitch: This stitch is used for stitching a very small piece or outlining an area using thread.







Blanket stitch: This stitch is used to finish the edges of a project.





;
, Choose a project that you feel you will have the skill and patience to complete. You could buy your own mesh canvas and draw your own design if you like. Buy a tapestry needle that fits comfortably through the mesh size you've chosen.
 Keep your excess yarn organized too!

, This will keep the edges from unraveling. Use one inch wide or smaller tape. You can also hem the edges with a sewing machine.
 This outline will be used later to "block" the canvas once stitching is completed.
, It is generally best to select the smallest amount of color or most detailed area first. Then stitch the larger areas that surround the more detailed bits.
 To keep your embroidery floss from tangling, keep the tags on and cut the skein where it loops over. The strands are the perfect length for stitching and the paper bands keep everything together. Pull a single string from the remaining loop.
 Hold the thread in one hand and the needle in the other (eye up). Insert the tip of the thread into your mouth and flatten it with your teeth. Insert the tip of the thread into the eye of the needle. Pull the thread through until its tail is one or two inches long.
 This is called a waste knot and will keep the thread from going through the canvas. You do not have to use one if you do not prefer to do so. Simply press the string against the "wrong" side of the canvas with a finger and secure it as you stitch along.
 Pull the thread through to the "good" side from the "wrong" side. You should be underneath the intersection of two threads of the canvas.
,,, If the string becomes mussed, this is another good sign to stop. On the "wrong" side push the needle through three or four stitches and pull the string through. It isn't completely necessary, but it is generally a good idea to snip off the excess string.
 Be patient and take breaks if you become bored with your project. Try changing the area you're stitching.
 Belts and keychains are almost always finished in this way, but other projects such as pillows are finished differently around the edges.
 Remove the canvas from the frame (if you used some), dampen it (don't saturate it) with water, lay it (good side down) on the outline you drew before you started stitching (with a surface you can nail underneath) and stretch it out to its original shape. Pin it down with tacks or nails at one-inch (2.5 cm) intervals all the way around and allow to dry before removing. Repeat as needed., framing or making it into a pillow). Crafty individuals may be able to finish simple projects themselves.
