 By giving your some of your time to your child you will be setting the stage to build a healthy relationship. This relationship will help you guide an energetic child through life. It also gives you the tools necessary to teach your child to control their energy.Choose something that you and your child enjoy doing together. For example, you could designate one night a week as a movie night, or you could set aside one evening a week to take a hike together.;
, Energetic children often demand a lot of your attention. Rather than pushing their needs aside when you are busy, give them tasks to help you. If they are interested in spending time with you, they will help. If they would rather do something else, they will go play and allow you to finish your task.If you are trying to clean your living room and your child continues to need your attention, give them a job to do. You could say something like, “I’m very busy right now, we can talk when I’m finished. If you’d like to help me, you could do the dusting. That way, I’ll be finished sooner.”

, Talking to your child is always important, but this holds especially true if you are parenting an energetic child. Use words and phrases that they readily understand. Also, you should physically get down on their level to have a conversation. This keeps their attention on you for an engaged conversation.Avoid metaphors such as “You are walking on thin ice.” Your child may take this literally and be very confused.
 When your children understand what is expected of them and how to express themselves, they will work to conduct themselves accordingly. Teach your child social courtesies such as using please and thank you. Give them tools such as conversation and taking a walk to process strong emotions., There are many relaxation techniques and practices that help give you and your child a sense of calm. Engaging with these practices with your child will not only teach them how to relax but let you bond together over a common habit. You can try:

Yoga
Tai chi
Deep breathing
Meditation
Nature walks

, When correcting your child, keep the conversation as positive as possible. Make constructive criticism and discuss the behaviors that you want to see more of. Focusing on what a child should not do does little to teach them what they actually should do.For example, saying, “You shouldn’t run in a parking lot,” is less effective than telling your child something like, “You should always walk carefully in a parking lot.”

