 Prepare the marinade by combining the chicken stock, soy sauce, water, rice wine vinegar, honey, sesame oil, brown sugar, and cornstarch. Whisk everything together to form a smooth consistency. Separate six tablespoons of marinade from the rest of the mixture and toss with the prepared chicken breast pieces in a bowl. Place the coated chicken in a zip lock bag and leave to marinate in the fridge for at least half an hour. Set the rest of the marinade aside for now.






;
, To make the sauce, fry up the garlic, ginger and chili paste in a large skillet with the tablespoon of sesame oil. After two minutes, stir in 2 cups of the marinade mixture and simmer over a medium heat, whisking constantly, until the sauce has thickened. Take the sauce off the heat and cover with a lid.
 Use a wire whisk to foam the egg whites, then in a separate dish, mix the flour, baking soda, cornstarch and leftover marinade.
 Heat the vegetable oil in a Dutch oven or deep-fryer over a medium high-heat, until the temperature of the oil reaches 350ʡF (177ʡC). Use a good instant-read thermometer to check the temperature of the oil.
 Remove the marinated chicken from the refrigerator and take it out of the zip lock bag. Remove any excess marinade with a little paper towel. Toss the chicken in the egg whites, then roll in the flour mixture until fully coated. You may need to do this in two batches.
 Split the chicken into two batches for frying. Add one batch of the battered chicken to the deep fryer or dutch oven and fry until crisp and golden brown, turning once. The chicken should be cooked through in about 3 to 5 minutes. Drain the excess oil off the chicken by placing it on a plate lined with paper towel. As it drains, fry the second batch of chicken.
 Return the skillet containing the sauce to a medium heat. Once it begins to simmer, take it off the heat and toss in the fried chicken pieces until they're fully coated in the sauce.
 Serve the sesame chicken on a bed of white rice, topped with the toasted sesame seeds and chopped scallions.








