 Painting simple stars on your nails is much easier than you might think. You just need the right tools to do it. You will need:Nail polish in the color(s) of your choice
Fine tipped nail brush or paintbrush
Clear topcoat;
, Start by painting your nails in the color(s) of your choice. Consider the colors you will be using for the stars as you choose what color to paint your nails. For example, if you are going with navy blue nails, then choose a lighter color that will show up against the navy blue, such as a lighter shade of blue, white, or yellow.

Paint on a couple of coats to get good coverage.
Let the nail polish dry completely before starting on the stars.
 Dip your brush into the nail polish. Then, begin to make an “A” shape on one of your nails. This will be the base of your first star.Be sure to leave room on the sides of the “A” shape to draw the arms of the star.
Don’t worry if the shape is imperfect. You can always go over it later to touch it up.
 To create the arms of the star, paint a line through the center of the “A” shape horizontally. There should be two arms extending from either side of the “A” shape.Try to ensure that the arms are about the same length as the legs and head of the star. Don’t make them too long.
 To fill in the remaining areas and complete the star, paint a line from the tip of one arm to the tip of the opposite leg. Then repeat on the other side. These two lines will cross each other and finish the star’s legs and arms.This will complete your first star. Make as many others as you like on the same nail and on other nails.
 After you complete the first star, let it dry completely before doing anything else to it. Then, if necessary, you can fill in any gaps or make corrections to the star.For example, if there are any spots with less nail polish than others, you could go over them. Or, if there is a leg that is shorter than the other one or a little crooked, then you could correct it.
 To keep your stars around for as long as possible, add a layer of topcoat to your nails. This will also help to prevent chipping and give your nails a shiny finish. Let the topcoat dry completely before doing anything that might smudge your nail polish.