 Store each record in its original lightweight cardboard cover or in plastic record sleeves. Look for acid-free plastic sleeves if you haven't already got some.;
, Heat is a record's enemy and will warp records.Store records away from heating sources, such as baseboards, open fires, potbelly stoves, heaters, etc. Also store away from damp areas, as humidity will provide a fertile ground for mold growth, which can destroy your limited edition covers.Keep records away from direct sunlight. Sunlight will damage records both from heat and UV rays.If you do have a warped record from overheating, you can try this remedy: Put it between two thick pieces of plate glass and place heavy books on top of the glass. When doing this, take the cardboard cover off but leave the protective sleeve in place.While this may not work, given that the warped record is no longer any use to you, it's worth a try. If it doesn't mend, try making a Salvador Dali clock out of it!

, Some collectors also insist on storing records in a relatively airtight container or cabinet as additional protection, along with regularly vacuuming around them to keep the records dust-free., Obviously they are fragile and will break when dropped. However, even holding them with care can cause problems as the oils from your fingers are left behind and build up over time, so it's important to hold records by the sides or the center label only., Keeping your records clean will minimize the potential for damage from dust and other particles which could result in scratching. For cleaning:


Obtain a soft, lint-free cleaning cloth. Soft cotton or muslin are good choices.
Dampen the cloth with a cleaning mixture made from 1 part isopropyl alcohol and 4 parts distilled water (20 percent isopropyl to 80 percent water).Note: Do not use this mixture on 78s because they're made from shellac - see next step.
Wipe in a gentle circular motion from the edge to the middle or vice versa.
Allow to air dry.
 Any records made from shellac must not be cleaned using alcohol. Very early versions should be cleaned either professionally, or using professional cleaning solutions specifically made for this purpose because the earliest shellac records are very porous.For a shellac record that you think is older and a little more resilient, try a gentle dish washing liquid that has been heavily diluted, and apply with a fine bristle record brush to lift the dirt. Don't get the label wet, at all. Rinse and pat dry with a towel, then air dry on a dish rack (which takes some time, so be patient).
 That way, you won't transfer back any of the old dirt.
 A poorly maintained record player can harm your records. Keep the needle sharp and keep the turntable clean as well.

