 Good manners are a necessity to being feminine, and it's just good to have them. Feminine girls act properly in all situations. They know how to speak, act, write, eat, and be at all times. And they do it all with poise and grace. Here are some simple things you can do.


Saying Thank you, Excuse Me, I'm Sorry, and Please is basic etiquette. Don't blow up when someone does not display manners, simply ignore them and carry-on.
Stand tall, shoulders back and chin up. When you sit, learn to keep your legs together.
Love the dictionary! 'Don't type Or write Lykee This' on the internet, you should know how to type, write and speak correctly.
Learn Table Manners. If you don't have time you can search it at Google. For the basic and most common table etiquette, you should keep your elbows off of the table, don't slouch, keep your mouth closed while chewing, don't smack and don't talk with your mouth full.;
, Being hygienic is an absolute must if you want to be preppy, girly, and feminine. It helps with your preppy appearance and girly behaviour, as well as with your femininity. So, learn the basics here.


Use whitening toothpaste like Crest and Colgate, and a good toothbrush. Yellow teeth are not feminine on anyone.
If you wear braces, don't let it stop you! You can get clear braces, braces behind your teeth or you can flaunt them by wearing lady-like colors such as pale pink or pale purple.
Clean your tongue, a clean tongue avoids bad breath. Tongue Cleaners are easy to find at drugstores and supermarkets.
Use mouthwash after brushing your teeth, Listerine and Act are both top brands that get the job done.
Baking soda and mashed strawberry will both whiten teeth overtime, but use them sparingly as they can wear tooth enamel off.
Take a shower. You need to wash your body everyday with a sweet smelling soap or shower gel.
Stay moisturized. Use a nice smelling lotion after your evening shower to smell fresh and sweet and be soft all day long.
Wash your hair every other day with a matching shampoo and conditioner made for your hair. Use conditioner everyday.
Brush your hair everyday and night to keep it smooth and stylish. You should never have unkempt hair.
Use deodorant and perfume. Wear a vanilla or floral scented perfume and a sweet smelling deodorant.
 So, take care of each and every one of your hairs.


Curling irons and flattening irons are quick go-to's for bad hair days, but they are very damaging to your hair. Use heat protector, so your hair maintains a healthy shiny look.
Use natural ingredients. Such as Avocado and Olive Oil for super smooth hair, Tea tree oil for dandruff, and many more.
Change your hairstyle to something sophisticated. There are many different preppy hairstyles. The side bun, straight hair, loose barrel rolls, side braid, the fishtail braid, or a high-fashion ponytail.
 No need for 20 bracelets, necklaces, or piercings.


Learn to Accessorize simply. Always wear a pair of earrings, a necklace, and sometimes a bracelet.
Pearls, gold sterling silver, and diamonds scream girly. Faux or legitimate, as long as they look real, you're fine.
 Wearing certain brands, styles, and outfit combinations create the preppy look. So, learn the secrets of success in preppy dressing.


Shirts should be polo shirts, oxford shirts, tunics, dresses, solid colored shirts, and T shirts all either in pastel or bright colors and solid or with a simple pattern like floral, polka dots, or stripes. They should be made of soft material like silk, cotton, or spandex.
Pants should be skinny jeans, khakis, slacks, Bermuda shorts, proper length skirts, dockers, and dresses in colors like navy blue, khaki, brown, and black. They should be solid colored or skirts with minimal patterns. Also, materials should be denim, corduroy, cotton, or polyester.
Shoes need to be Sperry's topsiders, oxford shoes, tennis shoes, ballet flats, canvas shoes, and riding boots. They should be made of leather or a tweed, soft material. Colors should be black, navy blue, beige, white, and really any color.
Brands need to be specific. Clothes from Gap, Ralph Lauren, USPA, Beverley Hills Polo Club, Lacoste, Vineyard Vines, Izod, and Sperry's are recommended. But, as long as the clothing article suits the style and is preppy, it should work.
 Sports like polo, golf, tennis, volleyball, softball, ballet, gymnastics, cheerleading, and track are preppy, feminine, and girly. Participate in at least two sports.


Practice every single living breathing second you can. You need to be an expert to make the team.
Develop a healthy workout and exercise regimen to keep in shape.
Don't become overweight, obese, or morbidly obese, as this leads to health problems and problems with playing sports.
Eat a very healthy diet.
 Girly hobbies come across as feminine, girly, and innocent. Do one of each of these activities:


Musical: Instrument, song writing, singing, dancing.
Fashion: Jewelry making, sewing, designing fashions
Artistic: Drawing, painting, sketching, sculpting
Fun: Collecting, creating, making, designing, building

