 To unclog and clean your spa filter, take the cartridge out of the filter. Using a hose, run water over each pleat in the cartridge and clean any dirt and foreign matter out of the filter. Make sure to let the cleaned filter air dry completely before putting it back in your filter.


Replace the spa filter when it has become damaged or has stopped working. You’ll know this is the case when the filter quickly become dirty again after you have cleaned it.
If you are cleaning your filter cartridge in a dishwasher, be sure to turn off the built-in water heater. Water over 140 °F (60 °C) can damage the filter.
 Also use the cleanser on your filter every time you replace the water in your tub. Replace the dirty filter with a new, clean filter while your dirty filter is being cleaned. Clean out the filter with a hose, soak it the solution overnight, or following the instructions on the cleanser, and then let it dry it completely before putting it back into your filter.The least expensive filter cleaner is TSP - TriSodium Phosphate. This is the main ingredient in many dishwasher detergents. You can use one cup TSP with five gallons of water to make a cleaning solution for your filter.
 The first step to maintaining a clean spa is keeping the cover in good working order because it does the majority of the work to keep your spa clean. Before you apply your vinyl protector, you should clean your hot tub cover. If you have an acrylic cover, you do not have to condition the cover, but you should clean it once a month. You can use a gentle purpose cleaner and a rag or soft sponge on the hot tub cover to clean it.


Do not use abrasives, dish soaps or any detergents to clean the cover, because they can damage the topcoat of the vinyl causing it to deteriorate fasterChoose a warm or sunny day to wash your cover so it gets lots of sun while it air dries.
 Conditioning your cover will prolong its life. Conditioning the cover protects it against UV rays that break the chemical bonds and cause the cover to harden and crack. Additionally, conditioning your cover protects against mildew, which can grow on damp vinyl and damage the cover.


Only use conditioning products on the outside, and not the inside, of your hot tub cover.
Make sure your vinyl cover is clean and dry before you apply the conditioning product.
Spray a light coat of vinyl conditioner, like 303 Protectant or an equivalent, on the top and skirt of your cover. Use a soft sponge without abrasives to condition the cover and remove any stains. Rinse thoroughly, and dry the cover in the sun. You can use cover treatments recommended by your manufacturer, and avoid petroleum based conditioning products that can be harmful to your cover.
If you have any tree sap staining your vinyl, you can get it off by putting margarine or vegetable oil on the stain and scrubbing it with a soft sponge.
 You will be able to tell if you have mildew problems because your cover will start to smell. First unzip the cover and then carefully remove the foam interior from the cover.


Spray the inside and outside of the cover with a gentle multi-surface cleaner and scrub with a soft sponge to clean it. Then rinse the cover thoroughly. Towel dry the inside and outside of the cover and any inside parts.
Air dry in the sunlight for a day or two to kill the mildew.
If there is a plastic vapor barrier, spray and clean this plastic sheet protector as well. Replace the foam core if it has been waterlogged or rotted., If you mishandle your spa cover, it may sustain damages that lead to premature deterioration. Here are some tips for keeping your spa cover well maintained:


Do not sit or put your feet on the cover or allow children to sit on the cover.
Use the handles when opening or closing the spa cover. And do not lift the cover by the skirting.
Do not drag your cover across the ground.
Avoid puncturing the top of the cover with sharp objects.
Keep pets away from the cover so they do not chew or scratch the cover.
 If rain water puddles start to accumulate on your cover, you can flip over the foam core in your cover so that the bottom is facing up, and it may help correct the problem. If this does not work, you may need to purchase a new spa cover. Or if you live in a snowy area, make sure to carefully remove the snow accumulation off of top of your spa cover.Ensure that your cover fits tightly over your spa, and buy a new cover if needed.
 You can buy vinyl patch type A or B for different kinds of tears. If you get holes in the liner, use type A, and if you get small rips in the cover itself, you use type B. These patches are inexpensive and can you from prevent having to go to a professional to repair the cover. Prior to adhering your vinyl patches, clean and dry the surface with a gentle multi-purpose spray where you will be applying your patch.

