 Brushing your teeth changes when you have braces. After getting your braces put on, learn to brush your teeth carefully. Talk to your orthodontist about how to best brush your teeth and follow their instructions carefully. With braces, you brush each tooth carefully from the top to the bottom. Shift the brush at a 45 degree angle to get both the tops and the bottoms of your teeth while brushing. Then, use your brush to brush the bottom and inside surfaces of your teeth.Make sure to clean all of your teeth. Do not forget to brush the area below the braces. This area is frequently neglected.
A dentist may request that you use a special brush, called an interproximal brush, to clean between your braces. If a dentist gives you a brush like this, talk to them about how to best use it.;
, Flossing with braces can be a challenge. To start, gently feed the short end of the floss through the uppermost portion of your teeth, near your gums and the main arch of your braces. Saw back and forth to work the floss between your two teeth. Then, repeat between all the other gaps between your teeth.Be very gentle when flossing with braces. Do not press against the wire arch of your braces when flossing.
 A braces kit can be a handy tool to carry with you throughout the day. You can bring the kit with you to places like school or work. If anything happens with your braces while you're out, you will have the supplies you need. In a small toiletries bag, store the following:A mini toothbrush
Toothpaste
Dental floss
Dental picks
A small mirror
A pack of tissues
Some wax for your teeth

, Sometimes, food may get caught in your teeth when you're not home. In this case, take your dental kit to a public restroom. Take out the supplies you need to brush your teeth or dislodge anything stuck between your gums.As brushing your teeth in public can feel awkward, try to find a private bathroom if possible.
If you do have to brush your teeth in a public restroom, remember lots of people have braces. Most people will be understanding that you need to occasionally brush your teeth in public.
 It can be grating to have to wear braces. You may feel embarrassed or insecure about your braces. However, remember braces have positive long term effects. Even if you dislike having to wear braces now, remember that your teeth will be straighter and healthier. If you start to feel discouraged due to your braces, think about how nice your teeth will look when you get them removed.Try making your braces fun. Some dentists can provide you with special colors or glitter. This can make you feel excited about wearing braces. You can also look into invisible braces.
If you're insecure about your smile, try focusing on other aspects of how you look. Invest in some new clothes. Change your hairstyle. Try a new makeup routine.

