 Nests are pretty small, and enclosed spaces make baby birds feel safe and secure. Don't place a scared baby in a giant box. Give it a nice, small space to hang out in.
 Baby birds need more warmth than humans — although we're happy in a room that’s 70–75 °F (21.1–23.9 °C), a baby bird will need an environment of about 85 °F (29 °C). A heat pack or hot water bottle will do the trick. You could also use a heat lamp.


Don't use scalding hot water in the water bottle. Too much heat will hurt the bird.
You should be able to leave your hand under the lamp or on the warming device without burning yourself or feeling uncomfortable.
 Overhead lamps should be a comfortable distance from the bird to keep it from overheating. If using a direct heating method like a hot water bottle, don't put the bird in direct contact with it.Instead, arrange paper towels over the heat source in the shape of a nest, and place the bird on top of them.
 The quieter and darker you can make the "nest," the safer the baby bird will feel in this strange new place. Cover the box with a light blanket or with newspaper, but make sure to leave air holes so it can breathe. You might also place the box inside a cat or dog carrier.
 Your little bird will be happiest when left alone in a quiet area. Make sure children, pets and anything else that might scare the bird stay out of the room where you place the "nest."

, You may think the baby bird is adorable, but it might find you terrifying. Resist the urge to hold the bird for your own pleasure. Touch it only as much as you need to get it into its makeshift nest.
 Birds can carry any number of germs and diseases. Every time you handle the bird, wash your hands immediately. Keep the bird away from the kitchen or anywhere you handle food. You don't want any fecal matter getting into your food.
 If you try to give it water through a syringe or eyedropper, water can get into its lungs and cause death.
 If the center will take the bird in soon, representatives of the center may tell you to just wait until they can feed it themselves. However, if there's a delay, follow their expert advice on what to feed the baby.


Not all birds eat the same thing. Giving it milk, bread or other foods that "sound right" may cause diarrhea or other health problems. Follow the wildlife specialist’s directions carefully.
 In the short term, you can replace the bird's natural food with dog kibble until the bird is under expert care.


Soak the kibble in water for an hour using a ratio of 1 part kibble to 2 parts water.
Feed the bird small, pea-sized pieces of the now-spongy kibble.
Make sure it's not too wet. Remember, you don't want water to get into the baby's lungs!
You can also take a trip to the pet store and buy baby parrot hand-feeding formula. Follow the directions on the packaging to prepare the formula.
 Once you’ve contacted a wildlife rehabilitator, you will be told when you can bring the bird in. Until then, keep it as calm and quiet as possible, and just leave it alone.


Some veterinarians will take in wild birds and transfer them to wildlife specialists for you. Ask local vets if they'll do that for you.

