 If you’re used to traveling primarily by plane—a fast-paced, high-stress mode of travel—look into alternate options. For example, a road trip is a great way to see local attractions and parts of a country or region that you haven’t visited before. A road trip also allows you to slow down and travel at your own leisurely pace.If you’ve never traveled by train, it can be an excellent way to slow down the pace of your travel and have more local-color experiences while traveling. Train travel moves at a leisurely pace, and you won’t have to worry about catching connecting flights or navigating unfamiliar—and stressful—airports., You can also slow down the busy pace of your travel by focusing on in-depth exploration of a single local city, town, or region, rather than traveling across the country or world. Treating your own local environment like a travel destination will allow you to absorb local color that you haven’t noticed before, and you’ll be able to avoid the stressful tourist traps that draw inexperienced travelers in new cities and countries.As long as you’re traveling locally, you can try eating locally too. If there’s a farmer’s market open in the area, do your shopping there; you’ll doubtlessly be surprised by the varieties of local food that you’ve never sampled before.
You don’t have to stay in your own house to explore a local area. Look into local AirBnBs, traditional Bed and Breakfasts, and “mom and pop”-type hotel: say, within 30 miles of where you live.
 A cruise offers many conveniences that will help you keep your travel slow paced and not too stressful. The cruise ship will offer you a “home base” to start your daily explorations from, so you won’t have to worry about rushing from hotel to hotel, or from AirBnB to AirBnB. Cruise ships tend to travel at a moderate pace, giving their customers plenty of time to explore local cities and sites. The cruise will also confine you to a single region, which is beneficial to a slow-paced, low-stress travel plan.To book a cruise, first check large travel websites, including Expedia and Priceline. You can also book cruises directly through the websites of large providers, such as Carnival and Royal Caribbean Cruise.
If you travel with several family members or friends, the cruise line may offer you a group discount. Cruises can be surprisingly inexpensive, especially if booked for the off season.

