 There are a number of rat traps on the market, but it’s important that you choose the right kind to keep your rat safe. Many traps are designed to catch a rat or mouse using bait and a trap door. These are often the safest types of traps for catching your pet rat.


Only purchase traps that state “humane” or “live trap” on the packaging.
Some traps advertise that they are “humane killing” traps because they don’t cause pest mice to suffer. Make sure the trap you choose specifies that it keeps the rat caught alive.;
, The Havahart mousetrap (commonly called the “have a heart” mouse trap”) is unique because it is open on either side, allowing your rat to enter the trap from more than one direction. These traps are made of wire mesh and are designed to be safe for you and your pet rat.Position the bait in the center of the mouse trap so it will have to enter the trap completely from either side in order to get to it.
These traps are reusable and offer enough room inside for your rat to move around until you find it.
When placing your bait in this trap, it helps to add a small dab of peanut butter in the center, then place candy or treats in the peanut butter. This will prevent your bait from moving away from the center of the cage.
 The Smart Mouse Trap is among the most aesthetically pleasing traps on the market because it looks like a small green house for your rat! It is also recommended by humane societies and animal rights organizations all over the world. This trap involves using bait your rat won’t actually get access to (it’s inside a plastic container) so you will need to use strong smelling bait like bacon bits or strong smelling cheese.
This trap works by using a steel spring to shut the plastic door on the house after your rat enters the trap.
You may want to include some bait inside the trap itself so your rat has something to eat while it waits for you to come back.
 If you have a treat you often give your pet rat, use that as the bait in your store bought rat trap. The smell of treats may lure your rat out into the open and to the trap and you are most likely to catch your pet rat with bait you know it likes. Other options for bait include:


Peanut Butter
Bacon
Oatmeal
Crackers
Even slim jims!, You may catch your pet rat quickly, but it could feasibly take some time, so return often to see if your trap has sprung.


Check back every two hours to make sure your rat doesn’t go too long without water.
Check the bait to make sure your rat hasn’t eaten the bait without springing the trap.
If you are unsuccessful in catching your rat for a day or two, look for a new place to put the trap or consider changing your bait.

