 You need to figure out how to translate your emotions from their raw, unedited state into something productive that won't hurt others. Part of learning how to express your emotions is learning how to express them safely without hurting yourself or others. Use your journal to reframe your angry thoughts into sentences that express and validate how you feel, but won’t get you fired or in trouble.


For example, instead of screaming at someone and telling them you hate them, use your journal to write down different ways of expressing this that won’t have negative consequences on your life. Write phrases in your journal such as, "When my boss does this, I feel angry." or "When my parents yell at me, I feel angry." You are giving yourself the power to feel your emotions without letting your emotions have power over you.
This works for other emotions as well., It is important to become comfortable with your emotions as not a black and white type of scenario. This will allow you to let your emotions to guide you in knowing when it is time to speak up, or when it is appropriate to express your emotions privately and move on.


For example, employers can be very frustrating. However, you have to ask yourself in any given situation what the benefit will be to you. Will your boss hear you? Will your boss understand? Would it be healthier to express your anger at home, writing about it in your journal than to engage in confrontation? You want to make sure you are true to your emotions and act on the right form of expression.Most people haven’t been shown healthy examples of how to express emotions, and these basic emotional tools have been absent from our lives. Expressing emotions is an essential part of living an emotionally healthy life, setting boundaries in you relationships, feeling validated and getting your emotional needs met., Always use “I” statements when expressing your feelings to others. Say things like, “When you told me what happened, I felt very sad for you and what you are going through”. This can be used in relationships as well. For example, say “When you get frustrated with me for making mistakes, I feel ashamed.” or “When you say negative things about me, I feel angry.”


This way, you are taking full responsibility for yourself, your emotions, and expressing how you feel., Learning to navigate the complex array of emotions that you feel can be daunting, and it will take practice. If you are not used to expressing your emotions, you can look at this exercise almost like emotional weight training. At first, your emotional muscles may be sore, weak, and not used to being so rigorously used and paid attention to.


Exploring your authentic self and learning to express yourself is not easy. However, living an authentic life and feeling as though you are honoring yourself as well as validating your emotions will result in a richer, deeper, and more humanly authentic life experience.