 One way to increase your chances of getting an IPA that you will enjoy is to choose one that was made by a brewery you like. If you like the brewery’s other beers, then there is a better chance that you will like their IPA.


Keep in mind that it is important to consider other factors as well. Some breweries specialize in a specific type of beer, and IPAs might not be their thing. Be willing to try something new as well.;
, Many breweries take great care to describe their beers in a pleasing way, and these descriptions can also help you decide if the beer is something you might enjoy. Read the description and look for information about the beer’s flavor.


For example, a description of an IPA might include terms like “citrusy,” “herbal,” “hoppy,” or “smooth.” Note these terms and consider whether you might enjoy a beer with these characteristics. If you are not a fan of beers that have one or more of the characteristics in the description, then look for a different IPA.
Special terms in the description can also help you to make your decision. For example, you might notice the term “dry hopped” on some labels. An IPA that has been dry hopped will be less likely to have a bitter taste, so go for one of these IPAs if you dislike bitter beers. The term “imperial” might also show up on some bottles, and these IPAs are likely to have a higher ABV.Calories might also be something that you can find on the label. Breweries are not required to include the calorie counts on beer labels, but some breweries include this information anyways. Since some beers can be really high in calories, you might want to check the label for this information., Although an award is not a guarantee that you will like the IPA, it may help you to decide between a few choices or give you some direction if you are feeling overwhelmed by the number of IPAs you are considering. Check the package for any mention of awards and use this information to help you choose an IPA.


For example, you might notice that one of the IPAs you are considering took first place at a national competition. This might mean that the IPA has more mass appeal than the others, which may mean that you will be more likely to enjoy it.
 Other people can be a great way to find an IPA that you will enjoy. If you have any beer enthusiast friends, try asking what IPAs they liked and what ones they did not like. You can also go online and look for reviews of different beers.


Try to find beers that have been highly rated, such as getting 5 stars, 9/10, A- or A, or a 90% rating. These high marks mean that lots of people liked the IPA, so you might like it too.

