 It’s a purple, orange, and pink camera icon. You’ll typically find it on your home screen (iPhone/iPad) or in the app drawer (Android).;
, It’s the “+” (plus) sign in a square at the bottom of the screen.
 If you don’t see a list of photos and videos, tap Gallery at the bottom of the screen.


To take a new photo instead, tap Photo at the bottom of the screen, then tap the shutter button (the large circle) to snap the photo.
To record a new video, tap Video, then press and hold the shutter button (the large circle at the bottom of the screen) to record. When you’re finished recording, lift your finger and tap Next.
 This side-scrolling list is at the bottom of the screen. Tapping a filter applies it to the photo or video instantly. If you don't like the filter you selected, simply tap a different filter.


Scroll right across the Filter list to see more options.
To decrease a filter's strength, tap the filter’s name (e.g. Clarendon) a second time to bring up a slider, then drag the slider until the filter looks right.
To view hidden and disabled filters, scroll all the way to the right and tap Manage. Filters that haven't been added have empty circles next to their names. Tap a circle to select it, then tap the check mark at the top-left corner of the screen. The filter will now appear in the Filter list.
 This shows you the original version of the photo. When you lift your finger, you’ll see the photo with the filter again. Unfortunately, this won't work with a video.
 It's the first option in the Filter list (though it's not really a filter). The photo or video now appears as it did before you added a filter.


To further adjust aspects of the photo without adding a filter, tap Edit at the bottom of the screen, then select what you want to adjust.
, If you selected a filter, your photo or video will now upload to Instagram with that filter applied. If you toggled back to the “Normal” filter, your photo or video will appear as normal.


There’s no way to change the filter once you’ve already made the post (other than creating a new post).

