 Work out the number of bridesmaids, groomsmen, flower girls and pageboys that you will be having. Each person entitled to travel as your wedding party may also want you to arrange their transportation, so be clear about this in advance.


Knowing who needs to go in the wedding party car(s) will help you to decide how many cars need booking. If you require two or more cars, or a larger vehicle to get the whole wedding party to the areas you're going, organized appropriately and on time, then you need to know this now.;
, How many trips will the wedding party make through the day? Is the travel distance short or long? If it's longer than a quarter of an hour, comfort will be a very important factor. At all times, safety is a priority too.


Think about timing and be practical. Choose the journey ahead of schedule. A few ladies like to take a scenic route before the ceremony. In other words, they like to be fashionably late.
Also, after the service the bride and groom may like to get some photos taken at various spots.
 When deciding on your route and additional trips, consider what you need and allow plenty of time for everything.
 This may be a company with a lot of staff or it might be an owner-driver company who is well-known for having a very special car. Whoever you choose, they must have a good reputation and be known for their reliability.


Look for a company that has been established in the wedding car hire business for many years.
Ask for references from people who have used the wedding car/owner-driver business before. Or, check online for feedback.
Choose a firm who knows the area in which the wedding is taking place well. Ask if the drivers have GPS.
Make sure the chauffeurs follow a timetable. Good companies will know to check ahead for any disturbance on the streets or if there any arrangements for roadwork that may cause delays.
 This is important should anything go wrong on the day, such as mechanics or a sick driver. Knowing that the company has plans B and C will help to keep your mind at ease.
 It's your day and the car is a part of the whole package. The style of the auto is generally as critical as getting the colour plan of your wedding right. Aim to match the style of the wedding auto to the style of your wedding.


Do you like all things vintage? Then maybe a vintage car is a good choice.
Do you like traditional things? Then an exemplary Rolls Royce Silver Cloud, Bentley or Jaguar may be the best choice.
Do you like to live fast and racy? Perhaps a racing car or a car known for speed is your style.
Do you like making a bold statement? Maybe a stretch Hummer or a hotted up streetcar is more to your tastes?
Do you like modern and minimal? Choose a standard, modern and well accessorized car that is reliable and neat.
Do you like quirky? There might be unusual vehicles that are available for you to use. These might not be available through the usual wedding car specialists though, so keep that in mind when choosing a vehicle that is somewhat out of the ordinary.
 Hire companies vary in standards. The cars can differ enormously in their condition. Find out if the cars are garaged; if they are, it is likely that they will be of a higher standard and better kept up.


Good limo companies will have a showroom and will welcome you to view the cars at appointed times.
You may also be able to see the relevant cars at various wedding expos, if you're able to attend such events.
 As with the car's shade and style, you will likewise need to consider the size of the wedding car with respect to your dress. If you intend on having a large dress, or long train, then select a car that is suitable. Squashing into a small car will crease the dress or train and may well spoil the day for you.
 As you would expect, wedding car suppliers are popular at peak times, such as on Saturdays and during the summer months. Hence, it is important that you book your wedding auto well ahead of time, conceivably 12 months to a year and a half ahead, or when you have set the date for your wedding day.
 A few firms just have one or two autos and will attempt to profit as much as they can during the wedding season. They might likewise need to leave for an alternate wedding at a certain hour, which could upend your plans and prevent last-minute essential changes. Ensure that exclusivity is written into your car hire agreement.
 When booking, ensure that you have a clear contract/ wedding agreement that outlines the journey, hire period, type of car and what is expected on the day. If you don't understand the terms, ask for clarification. Better still, bring along someone who is familiar with contracts and is willing to read through it for you, such as a business person, a legal officer or someone who likes fine print and details.