 Although most landlords are going to get a rental agreement in writing for their own protection, don’t rely on it. A casual arrangement with unwritten terms might seem easier, but if you need to recover money down the line, it can be a nightmare.Make sure that your rental agreement spells out the length of the lease, the amount of deposit, and the amount of notice you need to give before you move out. Learn more about what should be in a rental agreement at Create a Rental Agreement
;
, The answer can save you a lot of hassle down the line, because certain landlords might have certain pet peeves or issues that they pay an unusual amount of attention to.


This can also tell you a lot about the quality of the landlord. Repainting is always considered normal wear and tear, and is not grounds for someone to lose a deposit. Nail holes are covered up by painters as a normal part of their work--generally not even considered a repair--and your landlord knows it. So if the landlord answers that they charge tenants for repainting and filling in nail holes, it should tell you they take advantage of their tenants.
 As a corollary to making sure you have a lease, make sure that you have a written account of items that need repair and the overall condition of the property when you move in.


This document cannot be too detailed.Again, most landlords will want this for their own protection, but don’t rely on it. If they do not provide a copy for you, send them a copy via email and certified postal mail.
 Notify your landlord of any defective conditions that develop on the property while you are the tenant.Then, keep a log of all maintenance requests and all requests that were completed. This way, you minimize the chance that you get blamed for a problem you did not create.
 Abide by whatever the terms of the lease are. If you signed a lease that states that you have to give 60 days’ notice, then give 60 days’ notice.Again, put your notice in writing.


If you are a tenant at-will, meaning you do not have a written rental agreement with your landlord, most states’ law require 30 days’ notice, but this will vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.If you are an at-will tenant, make sure to research your state’s law before you move out.
 Many minor repairs can be completed by you or a friend, typically at a much lower cost than your landlord would charge.Patch holes in walls and door jambs, replace any broken knobs, glass coverings for light fixtures, or handles on appliances.


At one time, procuring replacement materials was very difficult for an average consumer. However, with the advent of the internet, almost any replacement component can be found as long as you have the model number for your appliance.
 This can save you real money, so go above and beyond. A landlord is less likely to go over the property with a fine tooth comb if it generally appears to be well maintained.


If the lease says “broom clean,” meaning empty and swept, then sweep and empty it, and then touch it up by wiping down the walls and mopping the floors.It shouldn’t take you much more time, and it contributes to the impression of a well-kept property.
 It’s best to do a physical walkthrough with your landlord right before you leave. That way you should both be in agreement on the condition of the property, and you might even be able to remedy conditions that you would otherwise be unaware of.If you can’t do a walkthrough with your landlord, then do one with a friend. Have your friend record you as you as you walk through. It’s best to get a video with a date stamp, but if you can’t, getting a shot of the date on a cell phone or a computer screen is a good substitute.
 In all states, the landlord is allowed a “reasonable” amount of time to send you the deposit. Alternatively, they must send you an itemized list of deductions from the deposit within that same time period.


What is defined as “reasonable” differs from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Many jurisdictions consider 21 days to be reasonable. However, this changes from state to state. Massachusetts, Texas, and Tennessee, for example, all allow 30 days.Of course, your landlord can't send you your deposit if they don't know where to send it. Give them a forwarding address. Also, put your new address on file with the Post Office.
 If you still haven’t received your deposit after the deadline, you need to write your landlord. This communication is called a “demand letter.”Demand letters are fairly standard documents. You can look at an example at http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/sample-demand-letter-return-security-deposit.html They should include:


Your name, current and former address.
Date you moved out.
Condition of the property when you left.
A reference or an attached copy of your previously tendered notice, amount of the deposit, and condition of the property when you left it.
A reference to your rights under the relevant section of your state’s legal code, as well as your right to a remedy in small claims court.
 If your landlord sends you a list of deductions that eat away at all or part of your deposit, you may disagree with their assessment. You still have remedies under the law.


Your landlord may not deduct for normal wear and tear. That means painting, small nail holes, reasonable wear on carpets and flooring, and dents or chips in the wooden trim., If you feel that the charges are erroneous, the best thing to do is to get written quotes for the same type of repair your landlord is claiming to have done. For example, if your landlord says that you put abnormal wear and tear on your bedroom carpet, causing him to have to replace the carpet in that room, call a carpet service and get a quote per square foot.


Once you have compared your quotes with the landlord’s quoted price, if you still feel that you were overcharged, issue another demand letter. Include all of the information in the first letter, as well as the example price quotes and a reference to your first letter.
 If you still can’t recover your deposit, you may want to seek the advice of a tenant advocacy group, such as a tenant’s union.A large group advocating on your behalf may cause your landlord to reconsider his position.


Tenant’s unions are active in many states, but they are just as often local organizations. If you can’t find one in your state, try looking in your city.
 Small claims court is the last option, but sometimes a necessary option. Should you need to take your landlord to court, seek the advice of an attorney.


Legal Aid attorneys handle a lot of landlord-tenant disputes. If you meet the income guidelines, they are usually free or low-cost. It’s probably the best to start here. To find a local Legal Aid chapter, simply enter your zip at http://www.lsc.gov/what-legal-aid/find-legal-aid

If you have been in contact with a tenant’s group in your area, they may also be able to refer you to an attorney that specializes in landlord-tenant claims.

