 Cats are complex, and not fully understood. But what we do know is that there are a number of distinct patterns of involved with cat aggression. These can be broken into a series of situation-oriented categories that are not mutually exclusive.Play aggression happens when cats take play too far.
Fear/Defense aggression comes from the cat feeling endangered, possibly irrationally.
Territorial aggression is usually just among cats, but can be expressed toward humans and other animals.
Petting aggression is not well understood, and may come from over-stimulation.
Inter-Male aggression relies on the natural competitive nature between toms.
Maternal aggression is the queen cat's instinctual protective response.
Redirected aggression can come from frustration the cat cannot vent, which get redirected toward another target, such as a nearby cat or person.
Predatory aggression derives from cats who predatory instincts are triggered.
Pain aggression results from old or current sensations of pain either from illness or trauma.
Idiopathic aggression is spontaneous, and may be a threat to the physical safety of those who come into contact with the cat.
 It is very important to deal with aggression among cats. Cats do not work out their problems with fighting. In cases with extended aggression, it may be necessary to limit or control the cat's the in each other's presence. This is so that they become accustomed to being in a non-aggressive state when the other is near. Make sure you are prepared to do this if either of your cats become consistently aggressive.


Have room set up with food, water, a litter tray, and cat bed, and put the newest cat in there, as a form of time-out, to let the tension decrease.
Use a leash or harness. This can give your cats more freedom, while still limiting their access to each other.
 If the cats still cannot get along, your veterinarian may prescribe medication for both. Keep in mind that medication is only part of the solution, and your veterinarian may be reluctant to prescribe it before checking you have explored all behavioral options for introducing the cats to each other correctly. Medications are not a magic bullet. It must be used in conjunction with slow introductions and consistent rewards for peaceful behavior. Use medication as a last resort.Benzodiazepines are sometimes used when cats are fearful or aggressive in a highly reactive way. However, benzodiazepines reduce the cat's ability to learn, which makes it harder to teach the cat's to get along.
Tricyclic antidepressants can be used in case where there is extended conflict in multiple cat homes.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) work on similar neurotransmitters as Tricyclic antidepressants, but they work differently and with less selectivity, so they have a more general effect on the brain.