 Keep your skin moist and healthy by using moisturizers and skin creams. Avoid scented creams and lotions, BECAUSE you could have a reaction to them, causing more itching. Moisturize twice a day. Every time you shower, use one ounce or two tablespoons to moisturize your whole body, or use as needed.You should also avoid using scented soaps BECAUSE the chemicals in it can cause skin to get dry and irritated. Use mild, unscented soaps instead.;
, Too frequent bathing can cause itching to get worse. Limit baths to once every 2 days. Bathing frequency can vary depending on climate, weather and your activities. However, once in two days should suffice. Avoid using very hot water; it tends to make the skin more irritated. Use water at room temperature or lower. Hot water dilates vessels speeding up metabolism of insulin, which can trigger hypoglycemia.Another reason why diabetics should not use hot water is diabetics suffering from nerve damage lose sensitivity to pain and temperature and may unknowingly burn themselves with hot water.
 Summer is a time of sun and fun, but sun can also seriously irritate skin. To lessen itching in the summer, wear clothes made from light materials like cotton, chiffon or linen. Certain cloths like wool and silk can cause irritation and itching.:


Make sure to keep the skin dry from sweat as too much humidity can cause itching sometimes.
Drink plenty of water to keep skin hydrated. Drink 8 glasses (8-ounce glass) of water per day. However, if you engage in rigorous activity or live in an arid climate you may need to drink more water.
 Skin easily gets dry in winter, which is why it is very important for diabetics to keep skin well moisturized and hydrated. Moisturize your skin twice a day using unscented lotion. Switching on a humidifier when the heat is on also relieves and prevents itching from getting worse.
 Itching is exacerbated by feeling stress. This means that when you are in stressful situations, your itching increases. To combat feeling stressed, practice relaxation. These include:


Practicing meditation. Meditation is letting your mind become empty and releasing stress that you hold inside you. Meditate a few minutes each morning to stay relaxed throughout the day.
Using the trigger word method. Pick a phrase that is calming to you, like “It will be okay” or “all is well”. When you start to feel stressed, take several deep breaths and repeat your trigger phrase in your head until you feel calm.

