 Sodium is one of the most common electrolytes in the body. When your electrolytes are balanced, you generally have 135-145 mmol/L of sodium in your blood. You get most of your sodium through salty foods that you eat. It makes sense then that when your sodium levels are too low, which is known as hyponatremia, you crave salty foods.Symptoms: You will crave salty foods. Other common symptoms include feeling really tired accompanied by muscle weakness, and increased urination.
When your sodium levels get extremely low, seizures may occur, as well as coma and an inability to breathe. These only happen in very extreme circumstances.;
, As stated above, you normally have 135-145 mmol/L of sodium in your blood. When your levels get above 145 mmol/L, it is known as hypernatremia. Losing water through vomiting, diarrhea and burns can cause this condition. You can also get too much sodium when you don’t drink enough water or you eat too much salty food.Symptoms: You will begin craving water and your mouth will feel very dry. You may notice that your muscles start twitching, you feel irritable, and you have difficulty breathing.
When you have severely high amounts of sodium in your blood, you may have convulsions or decreased levels of consciousness.
 98% of your body’s potassium is found inside cells and your blood normally contains 3.5-5 mmol/L of potassium. Potassium promotes healthy skeletal and muscle movement, as well as healthy contractions of the heart. Hypokalemia is when you don’t have enough potassium in your body and your levels drop below 3.5 mmol/L. This can happen when you sweat too much while exercising, or if you are taking diuretics or laxatives.Symptoms: You will feel really fatigued and weak. You may also experience constipation, leg cramps, and decreased tendon reflexes.
When your potassium levels drop to a severe level, you may experience an irregular heartbeat, which is also known as arrhythmia.
 You will generally only develop high levels of potassium if you have an underlying disease like renal insufficiency and diabetes mellitus.



Symptoms: You will feel really weak because low potassium levels cause muscle weakness. You might also feel tingling and numbness in your muscles. In some cases, you might also develop mental confusion.
Severely high levels of potassium can cause irregular heartbeats that could, if extreme enough, lead to a heart attack.
 Calcium may be the most widely advertised electrolyte (got milk, anyone?) It is found in most dairy products and strengthens your bones and teeth. Normally, you have between 2.25-2.5 mmol/L of calcium in your blood. When your levels drop below this, you develop hypocalcemia.



Symptoms: Hypocalcemia can cause muscle cramps and tremors. Your bones can become brittle and weak.
You may start feeling irregular heartbeats or develop seizures if your calcium levels stay low for a long period of time.
 When your calcium levels spike above 2.5 mmol/L, you develop hypercalcemia. Your parathyroid hormone in your body helps to create calcium in your body. When your parathyroid becomes overactive (a condition called hyperparathyroidism), you have too much calcium in your body. This can also be brought on by immobilization.Symptoms: Hypercalcemia that is not to far about the normal levels of calcium generally doesn’t have any symptoms. However, as your calcium levels increase, you might develop weakness, bone pain, and constipation.
In severe cases, you might develop renal stones if your high levels of calcium go untreated.
 Magnesium is the fourth most abundant electrolyte in your body. The average human body contains 24 grams of magnesium, 53% of which is located in your bones. Hypomagnesemia generally only occurs in people who are in the hospital and is rarely found in nonhospitalized people.



Symptoms: Symptoms include slight tremors, disorientation, and difficulty swallowing.
Severe symptoms include difficulty breathing, anorexia, and convulsions.
 Hypermagnesemia is when you have too much magnesium in your body. This is very rarely seen and is mostly found in people who are in the hospital. Dehydration, bone carcinoma, hormone imbalances, or renal failure are some of the most common causes of hypermagnesemia.



Symptoms: Your skin might become flushed and warm. You might also experience decreased reflexes, weakness, and vomiting.
Severe symptoms include coma, paralysis, and respiratory depression. The slowing of your heartbeat may also occur.

