 Using the correct lighting can make or break the atmosphere that you want in your secret place.


Try to choose a spot near a window. Natural light will fill your secret space no matter the size of the window or space.
If there is no way to put your space near a window, use a small lamp or nightlight to brighten the dark space.
Hang a flashlight if there isn’t natural light or an outlet in your secret space.
 You should always enjoy your secret space and the way to do this is to create the perfect atmosphere. It should be filled with some of your favorite things and scream personality.


Decorations are a great way to express yourself in the space. Use posters, pictures, or anything else you wish to liven up your secret space. Wallpaper is a great way to add character to your space. Lay a small rug down in your space to add some color and comfort.
Add scent your space with aromatherapy. Make the space smell the way you want. You can do this with air fresheners, flowers, or essential oils. Choosing the right scents define the feeling of your secret space.
Include seating in your secret space. Chairs can be comfortable, but they may be too big. Try using pillows or bean bags if you need something smaller.
 Maybe you’re looking for a spot to sit and think, place to store your favorite pictures, or space to lay down and read a book. With your needs in mind, add some final touches to your secret space.


Fill your secret spot with things to keep you occupied while you’re there. Maybe you want magazines or crafts to fill your time. Think about what you want and be sure to stock up. If you prefer to store items in your secret space, use hangers, hooks, or storage boxes. You could even stack CDs or books to create a small but neat storage area. If you’re trying to store a lot of things, baskets and closet organizers are a great way to store tons of small items. Keep drinks or food in your secret spot if you plan to be there for a few hours. Make it as comfortable as possible for yourself.

