 Bottling up your feelings won’t help you mourn. Don’t listen to others who say you should just “be strong.” Acknowledging all the emotions that come with your loss is essential to the grieving process.Express your feelings however it comes natural to you. Shout into a pillow. Sit in a dark corner and cry for an hour.
If you don’t have anyone who will let you do this in their presence, take some time alone. Feeling all the horrible emotions that accompany your loss is the best way to gradually move through the pain.
 One method to express and move through your grief is by performing rituals. A simple ceremony can be a powerful way to gain closure about a loss and mark the beginning of a new chapter.


Attending a funeral or memorial service is a common ritual that allows loved ones to mourn the deceased and celebrate their life. In addition, you can write a letter telling the person you loss how much you miss them and, perhaps, sharing some words that you never got to say. Then, you might toss the letter in their grave after the burial, or let it float out to sea.Another option is to place a letter to your loved one in their casket or on an altar that you have made for them.
You may also consider keeping a memento of the person’s with you at all times so that you can pull it out in moments of pain and sadness. For example, you could keep a piece of the person’s jewelry or a watch, or even a favorite trinket. This may help to ease the pain and comfort you.
Keep in mind, some types of grief may are more resistant to finding closure. For instance, if you a parent died, it’s improbable that a ritual—or anything—will bring you closure from such a major loss.However, performing a ceremony is an intentional way to heal and move forward after the loss.
 Having some semblance of structure and normalcy after a loss can help you adjust and move forward as you learn to manage your grief. It’s important, however, to avoid overdoing it. Create a feasible schedule that offers structure, but also be sure to take it easy.


For example, you might strive to get up each morning, exercise, and make yourself a healthy breakfast before school or work. When your work or school day is complete, you might only have energy to lie on your couch, but you will feel more positive after completing some structure-based activities earlier in the day., The intense emotions that accompany a loss can take a toll on mental and physical health. You may have trouble sleeping, experience little desire to eat regular meals, and withdraw from friends and family.By building a stress-coping toolkit, you can counteract these negative effects and nourish your body and spirit as your grieve. You might include coping skills such as:


Meditation
Deep breathing
Gentle exercise
Phoning a friend
Watching a funny video or movie
Taking a nap
Eating delicious, whole foods
Writing in a journal
Drawing or coloring
Listening to music
Running a warm, bubble bath
Praying or attending spiritual services

, There is no set time-frame that is appropriate for mourning. It is a highly individual process. Still, if you find that your grief doesn’t seem to lift slightly over time, or you have trouble performing your daily activities, you may need to seek professional help. Grief or bereavement counselors are specially trained to help people navigate the confusing adjustment period that follows a significant loss. These counselors offer a safe, impartial environment where you can express your feelings and learn effective ways of coping with grief.Some things to watch for include:


Thinking about suicide or making plans.
Wishing you had died with your loved one.
Feeling guilty or to blame for the loss of your loved one.
Increased isolation and not wanting anyone to be around you.
Feeling numb and disconnected, and/or having an out of body experience as if the world is moving on without you and you are just watching from outside your body.
Having decreased ability to function with your normal daily tasks.

