 Break-ups can be tough. Even if your relationship didn't last that long, it can be hard to see the end of the tunnel. If you can feel like you're suddenly alone in the world, Try to remember that you've been single before, and you'll figure out a way to get through this in time.


Do the moping thing. Eat the ice cream. Watch the sappy Netflix movies. Let yourself be sad and go through the motions.
Don't let it go too far. Don't mope around for more than a couple days for every month you were together with this person. There's such a thing as over-reacting when it comes to break-ups.
 If you want to start recovering, then you need to stop pouring salt in the wound. If your broke up with someone, stop talking to them. If they broke up with you, definitely stop talking to them. Avoid all contact, at least for a couple weeks.


Unfriend or stop following this person on social networking. In fact, sometimes it's best to take a social media break if you're going through a break-up. Everyone's "I'm so happy on vacation" stuff will seem super-irritating. Don't make it worse by bingeing on Facebook.
The "let's be friends after" thing? It almost never works. But even if you think you're an exception, it's still important to let yourself be separate for a while. Give yourself a few weeks at least before you try to be friends again.
 Breaking up doesn't have to be a somber affair. Even though, yes, now you might be alone, you're also free. If you want to wake up on Saturday morning, play loud music at the crack of dawn, and eat Cheetos in your bathrobe, who's going to complain? Nobody!


Remember that thing that your ex hated? Yeah. Do that thing.
Make a big change in your appearance that your ex would have hated. It'll feel good. Also, you are your own person and you should do the things you like to do not what they liked.
Go out for a night with your friends and kick up your heels a bit. Live a little. Just don't go too crazy. Break-ups aren't a good excuse for getting nuts with tobacco, drugs, or alcohol.
 Sometimes, break-ups can give you a great opportunity to better yourself. Find something that you always wanted to do, but couldn't because of your relationship. If your relationship was holding you back in any way, go for it now that you're single.



Get in shape. Start exercising and working on getting fit. It'll help you feel better and more confident.
Consider moving into a new place if you shared a place with your partner. There can be lingering ghosts there that'll be hard to ignore.
Maybe it's time for an even bigger change. Why are you at your job? Why do you live where you live? What do you want to do? What would make you happy? Maybe it's time to move to Colorado and do that wilderness training.
 There's no solution to the break-up problem, usually, but letting it out can be really helpful. Find a close friend or loved one to open up to and talk about how you're feeling. Even if you're a normally private person, it can be very helpful to open up to someone and start the process of feeling better.
 You need to be with people right now. Go out with your friends, or have people over when you just want to hang out and have a quiet night at home. Just be together and talk to people about other things. Watch sports, talk about work. Just be.


Sometimes, you may just want to be alone. That's okay. If you really don't feel like being around a bunch of happy people right now, then stay home. But Try to recognize when you're being self-defeating, and when you're being honest with yourself.
 The more stuff you've got going on, the easier it is to avoid thinking about your ex. Sounds good right? Find something that will keep you busy so you can't slip back into depressive feelings.


Throw yourself into work responsibilities. See if you can work extra hours or take on additional responsibilities. Making more money and climbing the ladder at work as a grieving process? Now that's productive.
Find a new hobby. Sometimes, a break-up can be the perfect time to write that novel, or pick up bass guitar, or learn to scuba dive.
 While it will seem awkward and strange at first, you'll meet someone eventually. Even if it doesn't work out, have some fun while you can and play the field. There are a lot of people to meet out there.


Try not to compare your new partner to your old one. That can be very difficult at first. If you're not ready to meet and enjoy the company of someone for who they are, then you shouldn't be dating yet.
To test the waters and see if you're ready, try dating online. It can seem intense at first, but it's also a good way of dipping a toe in the water and seeing if it feels comfortable. If it is, try meeting someone.

