 Look for the Facebook app on your mobile device and tap on it.
 If you logged out of your previous Facebook session, you will be asked to log in. Enter your registered email address and password into the fields provided, and then tap “Log in” to access your account.
 Tap on the button with three horizontal bars on the upper left corner to see the main menu. Tap “Events” from here. You will be brought to your Events screen. You can see all your events from here.
 Tap the “Create” button on the rightmost part of the header tabs of the Events screen. A small window for “Create Event” will appear.


Type in the name of your event in the first field. Are you celebrating a birthday, a baptism, a wedding? Put it in and make it interesting.
You can put some additional info for your guests, such as attire, gift registries, and directions in the second field.
Clearly indicate where your event will take place in the next field. Make it very specific so that your guests can easily find it.
Clearly indicate the date and time of your event in the Date and Time field.
 The last field in creating an event is for Privacy. Tap the drop-down list to see the options. Select “Invite Only” to limit visibility and invitees to your event. Only you, as the host, can invite guests, thereby making your event strictly private.
 You will be brought to the event’s Facebook page.
 On your event’s screen, tap the “Invite” button on the header bar. A window will appear with your Facebook friends. Individually tap and select the people you will want to invite to your event.


Be sure to carefully select the people you’re inviting. You don’t want to mistakenly invite someone you wanted to block in the first place. It’s going to be an awkward situation to withdraw an invite once you’ve sent it.
 The people you’ve invited will be sent invitations on Facebook, and they will see your event on their Events pages. Since you’ve set it to “Invite Only,” you’re assured the other people you didn’t invite will not be able to see and know about your event.