 It wasn't when you were near the person, it was while you were away, thinking about them! So if you're constantly around her, she'll lose interest. Make sure you make her think about you while you're away.;
, This way she won't lose interest too fast. For example, if you just met her and she asks about your job, give a few details but don't go overboard because she will probably ask you about it some more herself; make her feel more included in the conversation.
 Show her she has competition. But at the same time, treat her just that little bit more special than you do them.
 The balance is 'I want you but I don't need you' if you could successfully communicate this balance to a girl this is going to make you a lot more attractive. One way to incorporate this balance into your personality is to say the same thing repeatedly into your head when her thought comes to your head. The reasons for it are...

Neediness. Women or girls find neediness Gross in a guy or a man. Think of it this way women are the one, in most cases and cultures, who are lead by men, but when a man becomes needy this is like role reversal, which is one of the reason why this is gross for a girl when a guy acts needy. Again Neediness is Gross, women don't like a guy who is insecure......Bottom-line.
Scarcity. Its human nature, we are attracted to things which we can't have or are scarce. In the same way this balance can sub-communicate to the girl that you are scarce in the market, which in return would make you more attractive.
 Find out what she likes and dislikes and make a conversation out of it.
 You may not know that you're going on and on talking about something you like. Some girls get bored to death really quickly!

, Girls like guys that are sensitive and not afraid to crack a little joke every now and then. Marilyn Monroe once said that if you can make a woman smile, you can make her do anything.
 If she's sad, find a way to make her happy. If she's happy, help her stay that way, so that you both can have a great day.
 She'll think it's awkward and instead of walking with you she might run off with her friends where she knows she can talk.
, Show her you can handle being the center of interest. To achieve this, you may want to work on your conversational skills.
, If you feel she may like you back then move on to complimenting her looks slightly - but not in a perverted way. Tell her she's beautiful or that she has nice eyes.
 A simple greeting is enough, then get back to your business.
, Gotta go." Always put kisses (not an over the top amount though!) this will show her you like her and also hints at more than friends.
, If it's her shirt, or her amazing eyes, it will make her feel better about herself!

