 Try to understand that safety is the most important concern for any school bus driver. Take a deep breath, consider the passengers on the bus and try to avoid anger or frustration that can lead to poor driving.;
, Try to anticipate dangerous situations, stops and other drivers' mistakes when you are driving near or with children. School buses have fewer accidents than standard vehicles, largely in part to the bus drivers' training in defensive driving.
 School buses stop frequently. They usually stop at all marked stop or yield signs and railroad crossings. They also stop to unload and load.
 Keep at least 10 feet (3 m) between you and the school bus at all times, to allow for stops. Watch the bus' brake lights to ensure you start to brake immediately when necessary.
 In all 50 United States, cars on both sides of the road are required to stop and wait during this process. This may not be required if there is a median between the 2 directions of traffic.


If the school bus has red flashing lights and/or an extended stop sign, this means it is loading or unloading children. If it has yellow flashing lights, it indicates that it is slowing down in order to stop. Most school bus related fatalities occur when drivers attempt to pass a school bus illegally. Consider if the consequences of passing a stopped or slow school bus are worth the risk of death.
 Passing on the left is permitted in multiple lane roadways. Ensure there are no warning lights and check all mirrors repeatedly, because putting your own car in danger also endangers children.


Do not pass school buses on the right hand side. This is where all loading and unloading happens. It is illegal in all 50 states to pass on the right hand side of a school bus.
 Although they have big mirrors, they may not be able to see you clearly. Slow down and allow the bus to switch lanes if the bus begins to flash its blinkers.
 Start with a slow speed and maintain your distance. Keep in mind that most school zones have a speed limit of approximately 15 mph (24 km/h).
 Watch for hand motions from the left driver's window. If the driver expects to stop for an extended period of time, there may be hand signals telling you to go around the bus on the left very carefully.
 Driving around school buses means there are usually more pedestrians. Stop signs should be anticipated and heeded, especially when a school bus has loaded or unloaded students.
 They may not understand the safety concerns associated with walking and picking up dropped items near crosswalks and cars. Always look out very carefully before beginning to move through traffic behind a school bus.

