 Dirt and small bits of plant matter harbor bacteria and fungi, making it impossible to sanitize the pruning shears thoroughly.;
, The hose should be one with a spray nozzle attached to spray the dirt and debris off the pruning shears. Examine the shears closely to make sure they are clean.
 When the blades on the pruning shears become pitted, they should be replaced. Diseased organisms are very difficult to kill when they are embedded in pits in the metal.


The blades on some pruning shears can be replaced but usually, when the blades have become pitted, it is time to buy new pruning shears.
 Household bleach and pine oil cleaner can be used to sanitize pruning shears when diluted to one-quarter strength.


Mix 1⁄4 gallon (0.9 L) of bleach or pine oil cleaner into 3⁄4 gallon (2.8 L) of water.
 Isopropyl (70%) rubbing alcohol can be diluted with water to half strength and used to sanitize pruning shears. Disinfecting household cleansers like Lysol or Nature Cleancan be used at full strength.
 If you do not have a 5 gallon (18.9 L) bucket, use any other container that is deep enough to hold the full length of the blades on the pruning shears.
 Pull them open as far as possible to expose the cutting edges of the blades to the sanitizing solution. Let them soak for at least 5 minutes.


Simply spraying the disinfectant on the blades will not be effective. They must soak in the solution long enough to kill the bacteria and fungi.
 Spray them with the hose to rinse off the disinfectant or let them air dry before using them.
 Use a rag to wipe the dirt and debris off the blades after each pruning cut and set them in the disinfectant for 5 minutes.


Wipe the disinfectant off with a fresh, clean rag or hose them off and let them dry for a few minutes before making the next pruning cut.
Do not use the shears to prune the plants while the disinfectant is still fresh and wet. Sanitizing solution will damage the plant tissue of trees, shrubs and herbaceous perennials.
 Do this when you have finished pruning one plant, and are moving on to the next, as well when pruning diseased trees, shrubs or perennials.


This can be accomplished by simply washing your hands with warm water and soap.
 Get fresh disinfecting solution after every ten plants or every two hours when tackling a big job where bacterial or fungal disease has been a problem.

