 While you may want to keep the cat a surprise, it is best to actually ask the recipient first if they want a cat. Some people may be allergic to cats, or they may not be allowed to own a cat in their home. Others simply may not want a cat.You can say “So I know you have a birthday coming up, and I was wondering: do you want a cat as a gift?”
You might want to follow this up with another question, such as, “If you had a cat, what type of cat would you want?”
Even if they have been discussing getting a cat, you should still check to make sure that they are fine with you adopting one for them. Some people want to choose the cat themselves or they may be waiting for the right time to adopt.;
, The age of the cat is important to consider. Younger cats and kittens may be more energetic and playful, but they will require more time and attention. Older cats may be more mellow, but they might also be more independent.If the recipient works away from home for long periods of time, an older cat might be better. Kittens require extensive attention and supervision.
Senior citizens may do better with older cats as they generally require less supervision and care.
Kittens are great for enthusiastic pet owners who will love playing with them. The recipient should be able to give them the time that they need to socialize and exercise.
 Cats are a long-term commitment. They can live for up to twenty years, and their care can cost between $500 and $1000 a year.To make sure that the recipient is able to care for the cat, carefully discuss the cat’s care with them.


Cats need to be fed once or twice a day. Their water bowl must always be filled with fresh water, and they need regular grooming. They need a litter box with fresh litter, a scratching post, toys, and veterinary attention when they are sick.Cat care can take between thirty and sixty minutes a day.Cats can sometimes scratch up furniture or shed around the house. Make sure the recipient is prepared to deal with these issues.
 If the person is already considering adopting a cat, you may want to think about giving them some supplies to help them start out. This will let the person have time to find the right cat for their lifestyle, but it will still help out with the cost of owning a cat.Some things you might buy a new cat owner include:


A scratching post
A variety of cat toys
A week's supply of cat food
Water bowls with the cat’s name on it
A cat bed

