 Dry eye can be treated with lubricating drops. Lubricating drops, also known as artificial tears, can help alleviate dryness by replacing the layer of tear film that helps keep eyes wet. It can also help spread tears evenly across the surface of your eye. Artificial tear drops are available over the counter and in many different brands, such as Clear Eyes and Visine. These over the counter drops can be used four to six times daily, or as needed.


Try many different brands to find what works best for your eyes. In some cases, a combination of a few brands may be even be necessary.Chronic dry eye sufferers should speak with their doctors. If you are always suffering from dry eye, eye fatigue, tired eyes or headaches, you may be a chronic dry eye sufferer.
 There are some drops that require a prescription from your eye doctor to use. They consist of an artificial tears and other medications and substances that lubricate the eyes. Prescription tear substitutes, such as restasis, are generally administered three to four times a day. These drops relieve the symptoms however usually need to be reapplied frequently. You can use them up to six times a day, or just as needed.


Hydroxypropyl methylcellulose and Carboxy Methylcellulose are the two most commonly used medications.
If you are unsure of the dosages required for your drops, call your doctor or speak to your pharmacist to clarify the dosage.
Contacts should be removed before drops you administer any drops and should stay out at least 30 minutes after you put them in. You may also be able to get drops specifically for contact users. , There are some other eye drops that might be helpful with your dry eyes. Some of these drops include lubricating agents such as hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC). Others drops may contain glycerin and polysorbate. These ingredients are able to mimic tears because they have similar surface tensions, which allows the drops to adhere to the surface of your eyes.


When used, these drop increase the concentration of CMC or HPMC, which causes a gel like tear to form like a lubricating seal across your eye.
These drops reduce the risk of allergy or sensitivity in already dry eyes.You may also use eye ointments, which can comfort your eyes due to their lubricating effect. These are particularly useful if you cannot use artificial tears for an extended period of time.

