 Careers in the entertainment industry function on networking. You’ll find that meeting and talking to people you know about your career can be the best way to succeed.If you find people who have similar interests, they are more likely to be able to put you in contact with people who can help you. Becoming friends with other aspiring teen actors or singers can introduce you to some of the right people.
When you meet people who may be able to help your career, be sure to ask them plenty of questions. They should find you interesting and want to stay in touch with you in the future.;
, If you have friends or family in the entertainment industry, they may be great sources of knowledge for you. However, even if they are not, they may know people or, at the very least, be able to offer you good advice on how to start a career.


Friends and family may be offer you great advice on how to start a career. Additionally, they may know people who can help you out.
If you know someone who works in the entertainment industry, reach out to them. Even if they are a distant relative or friend of a friend, they may still be able to offer you some advice on how to start your career.
 If you’re a teen actor or singer, you are likely in music or drama classes or activities. While your music or drama teacher may not be able to get you a job, they may have some good tips for how to get started in your career.Your music or drama teacher may have some connections in the entertainment industry. It’s possible a former pupil of theirs may be able to set you up with an agent or an audition.
You may also want to ask your music or drama teacher for tips on how to branch out your career beyond their classes and concerts/plays. Maybe local theater or singing competition may be a good way to begin building your reputation.
 If you have a local theater in your town, it may be a good idea to talk to them about upcoming events. They may be able to offer you a spot or tell you how best to audition for things on the calendar.


Whenever you have an event at a local theater, make an effort to talk to the people running the venue. They will appreciate it and make it easier for you to come back and ask them for opportunities in the future.
Many famous actors and singers got their start working at venues and theaters. You can learn a lot about the entertainment industry and also meet influential people., They may just be the one to help you get a gig down the line. You never know who might be the person that can set you up with that ideal meeting to start your career.


When people ask you what you want to do for a living, talk to them enthusiastically about your passion for singing or acting. They will remember you in the future and may be able to help you out.
Being friendly to everyone you meet will help them to think fondly of you. Even if it’s someone that you will never meet again, always speak kindly to them.
 Professional headshots can cost a small fortune, but they are necessary for any audition you will go to. If you can’t afford professional headshots, you can try to make them yourself, but make sure they look as polished as possible.


Headshots should have good lighting on your face and be generally from the chest up. You should be looking into the camera and the photo should not be blurry at all.
Your headshot should look like you. While you should be wearing professional attire and makeup, it’s important that your headshot demonstrates your look and personality accurately.
 An agent can help you find auditions rapidly and at a high volume. Whether or not you want to leg work of finding auditions yourself, an agent is a great person to have in your network.When you’re looking for an agent, send a short e-mail with a few pictures to the youth department of talent agencies. Though it’s possible you may not hear back from them, a response can help you to get an agent.
If you are lucky enough to meet with an agent, be enthusiastic, outgoing, and friendly. Personality counts for a lot when you’re meeting agents.

