 The most hardcore Rise Against fans will know everything about the band. Simply knowing what year they formed, the members they started with, their current members and when their albums were released can determine if you're a real fan or just a poser. A quick Wikipedia search will give you all of this information. The most basic things you will have to know are:


Year that they formed:

1999


The members that they formed with:

Tim Mcilrath on vocals
Joe Principe on bass
Toni Tintari on drums
Mr Precision on lead guitar


The current members:

Tim Mcilrath on vocals and rhythm guitar
Joe Principe on bass
Brandon Barnes on drums
Zach Blair on lead guitar


Their albums:

The Unraveling (2001)
Revolutions Per Minute (2003)
Siren Song Of The Counter Culture (2004)
The Sufferer And The Witness (2006)
Appeal to Reason (2008)
Endgame (2011)
Long Forgotten Songs: B sides & covers (2013)
The Black Market (2014)

;
, The next step is to buy their albums. If you go to a CD shop like HMV, you can usually pick up 2 CD's for £10. It can be quite expensive so you might want to buy two every month for a couple of months. Their newer albums are not as heavy as the first three so if you're into more hardcore stuff, get the older albums first. If you're not so hardcore, get their newer albums first. Always buy their albums - Don't download them illegally. If you're not sure if you'll like their music, listen to it on YouTube first.
 Nothing says "I'm a Rise Against fan" like having all of their albums. However, nothing says "I'm a hardcore Rise Against fan" like a Rise Against t-shirt. You can pick up some cheap clothes on websites like Amazon and Ebay, just make sure it's what you really want before you buy it; you may not be able to get a refund. Shop around too, you can find some seriously cheap shirts if you look around.
 To really appreciate their music, go see them live. You may have to wait a while for them to come to your area if you live outside of the US. However, if you do live in the US, they're pretty much always touring. Go see them play live if you think you're ready. Be warned though, know your stuff before you go. The people there are most likely to be hardcore fans and will know everything about the band. From their song lyrics to what equipment they use. If you do happen to get into a conversation with one of these fans, don't try to act like you've been a fan for very long. Tell them you've just heard of them and you really like them. They'll teach you some stuff about them rather than make you look stupid.
 Everyone in the band (apart from Brandon; the drummer) are straight-edge. This means that they do not smoke, they do not drink and they're also vegans. While you don't have to do all of that, it just shows how passionate the band are about helping the world. If you're passionate about the band's music, you should do the same. A good start will be to become a vegetarian. If you've heard their song "Ready To Fall", you'll know that the band are against killing animals. You could also become straight-edge if you want to. Note that you shouldn't let the band's views change your own - if you want to eat meat, go ahead. You should only do what the band are doing if you really want to, not to fit in.
 Rise Against didn't get famous through advertising, they got famous through word of mouth. If every one of their fans thought talking about them was a bad idea, they wouldn't be where they are now. Tell your friends that you've found this new band and ask them to listen to them. If they don't like them, it's their choice. If they do like them, you've given Rise Against another fan, what a great fan you are! Don't talk about them too much though, it can get annoying. Also, don't talk about them like you're an expert, the person you're talking to could be an expert themselves. If you're certain that the person knows nothing of Rise Against, go ahead and show off a tiny bit. Make sure the person knows that you're joking though, not making them look stupid.

