 Much of the makeup will be determined by whether or not you are portraying a character. If so, you will need to take into account how to make yourself appear more like the character. If it is an animal character, the colors used will be probably be entirely different from a human character, for example.
 It will make your skin supple and soft. Rub until you feel that it has been absorbed by the skin.;
,, Apply it on the marks or blemishes you do not like.
 Powder makes your skin look smooth. If you don't wear enough, you might look shiny when you sweat.
 Use a bright color and apply it right on top of the cheekbone. Start with the brush on your cheekbone and sweep it back to your hairline, right above your ear. Adding blush will give your face dimension.
 This is only needed if you have pale skin or blond eyebrows. Use a dark eyebrow pencil and fill in using tiny strokes on the top half of your eyebrow. If you're doing winged liner, extend your brows out a little more than you usually would, to help with the illusion of larger eyes.
 Put white on the center of your eyelids; it will make your eyes look bigger. Also blend white into your inner corners to brighten up your eyes. You can also put a little bit of white powder under the arch of your eyebrows, if desired.


A dark brown eyeshadow can help define your eyes too. Apply it just above the eyelashes, blend it into your crease, and on your outer lid. Make sure to keep the dark colors off the center of your lid.
 Use black eyeliner and draw thick lines. If you are performing in a very large theatre under harsh light, you may want to draw out "wings" or lines about half an inch from the top of your eyelid. Don't apply black eyeliner on your lower lash line, as it is too harsh. Use a brown one instead, and line your waterline with a waterproof white eyeliner to help your eyes appear larger.
 Curl your eyelashes and apply a lot of mascara. Alternatively, you can wear false eyelashes.
 Your lipstick color will probably be determined on your character and the color of your costume. Usually the color is a true red to help your lips stand out on stage. Be sure to line your lips with lip liner before so that the lipstick doesn't run.
 The combination of sweat and such thick makeup can easily clog your pores and create some nasty breakouts.

