 Bring a flashlight and potentially a battery-operated smoke detector. These may seem like overkill, but they don't cost much or take up much room in your luggage. Organize, don't agonize. The flashlight could save your life if you have to quickly navigate a dark hallway or stairwell, and the smoke detector can alert you to fires while you're sleeping.


Check the batteries on each of these before you leave. In most parts of the world, smoke detectors are mandatory in hotel rooms, but when was the last time you tested one?
If you don't bring a smoke detector with you, at least make sure the one in your room works.;
, If a fire starts, you'll want to get out of the building as quickly as possible. This can be difficult if your room is in the upper floors of a high-rise hotel. When you make your reservations, ask for a room on the ground floor or close to it. If you're not able to do this in the reservation process, request it when you check in. If you're in an earthquake area, taking this measure could be helpful.
 If a fire started in your home, you'd probably know the best way to get out and you'd probably be able to find your way there even in complete darkness. If you can't do this in your hotel, you're risking your life.


Ask for a map of the hotel at the front desk. If you can't get a map at the front desk, you may be able to find one on the inside of your room's door, depending on where you're traveling.
As soon as you get to your room, study the map and find the nearest exit. Then find the alternate exits. Walk the potential escape routes from your room all the way to the outside of the building, counting the number of doors between your room and the exits and noting any unusual features that may help you find your way. Check for potential hazards or obstructions along the way and try to make sure the exit doors open. Don't plan on using the elevator.
 If a blaze were to suddenly erupt, you can't leisurely test certain features of the building. Doing this ahead of time saves you time and reduces your action plan to instinct instead of analysis in the event of a fire.


Find out if stairwell doors lock behind you. If they do, you could be trapped in the stairwell if it's filled with smoke, so you'll want to exercise extra caution before committing to that option.
Make sure to keep the windows in your room open. If they do not, locate something in your room that you could throw through the window. Visualize how you would make your escape through the window, and make note of ledges or fire escapes that might assist you. Two stories is typically a reasonably safe jump — although there is still a good chance of injury — but if the window were your only possible escape route and you were in imminent danger you might need to risk jumping from a greater height. You can learn how to survive a fall from heights here.
Locate fire extinguishers and fire alarms and make sure you know how to use them.
 If you need to leave your room during a fire, you want to be sure to bring your keys and flashlight, and while you don't want to waste time dressing, shoes can make your escape easier. Keep them together, and hopefully you'll remember them.


If your hotel has multiple keys for different doors, make sure you know which keys open which doors, and label them if necessary.
Bring all keys with you if you have to leave your room, because you may not be able to exit some doors without them. You may find that your room is the safest place to be and you'll need your key to get back in.

