 Know when to be patient and when to be wise, or when to be understanding. Do not push pressing matters aside in fear of ruining his mood, but do not bring problems up on a daily basis. Do not accuse your partner of something unless you have proof. Try to put yourself in their shoes and try to let them know you are there for them. Try not to be too insecure, but if that is who you are, let them know. People want a relationship with feeling, not just romance and sexual encounters. Insecurity is common in relationships, and if you feel insecure in your relationship, you should communicate your feelings. Try not to complain about every little thing, after awhile it becomes tedious.


If you remain insecure in a relationship even after you tell them, do not give up on your relationship. Thing can still get better if you continue to work on it.;
, Try to look beautiful physically, but keep in mind some people like women in other shapes and sizes. Embrace who you are and be confident in who you are, because you are beautiful in your own way. People generally like confident women, and this is sure to draw their attention. Physical attraction is an important part of any romantic relationship, so it would be beneficial to groom yourself and use a little bit of makeup (believe it or not, people don't particularly find a ton of makeup appealing) to brighten your face and eyes.


Maintain good hygiene.
Try working out to build your confidence.
Go to the salon and have your hair and nails done. Strengthening your confidence will strengthen your relationship.
 They will experience good and bad times in their life and it is important to be there for them when they need you.
 Take care of them when they're sick, cuddle them while they sleep, kiss them on their forehead, or whisper to them "I love you" or "I will be always here for you".
 This shows them that you are thinking of them.
 People enjoy a little romantic time, so improving your sexual life with them will make both of you happier.
 Travel together, do activities you both enjoy. Quality time together can make your relationship stronger.
 They are only human, and if you give them something to work on they will likely try to make you happy.
 Do not force your beliefs on them, but be open about your views.
 Showing that you care about what they like can make them feel more comfortable around you.
 This will make you more confident in your body image, and it will make them see that you care about yourself. Have a good posture, this will make you look taller and more confident.
 You should put as much into the relationship as they do, and vice versa.
 Focus on their problems and complaints and try to help them fix them. Take some time and do the same for yourself.
 Although they may be the center of your focus now, if things go badly between the two of you, you need to be able to stand on your own feet and continue on in life.
 Try not to make an argument out of them and try to be understanding of their views. Let them know if you feel like they aren't doing the same.

