 Many people visit SCOAN because they want to be healed of an illness or disability. As a result, you will need to answer questions about your health when you submit your application.


Most health conditions will not negatively affect your application, but if you have medical troubles that make it difficult for you to move around, you won't be able to qualify for accommodations on the premises since these accommodations are on upper floors of the establishment.
If you do not qualify for SCOAN accommodations, you can have someone else visit for you as a proxy or you may arrange for daytime visitation to the prayer line. In the latter case, you will need to make separate accommodations.;
, This questionnaire is your visitation application, and you can access it through the SCOAN website. Fill it out truthfully and completely before submitting it.


You can access the form here: http://www.scoan.org/visit/visit-us/

You will need to provide your basic statistics (name, age, gender, nationality) as well as some basic contact information (phone number, e-mail address). You should also have a relative's name and contact information ready.
Indicate whether or not you are ill. If you are, you'll need to state the nature of your problem, its symptoms, its duration, and other related information.
You'll also need to indicate if you are HIV positive or have a physical handicap that prevents you from moving around freely.
Note that if you plan to be accompanied by someone else, each person much fill out a separate questionnaire. Indicate who you plan to come with in the final "Comments" section of the form.



Do not make any travel arrangements until you receive confirmation.
 If you need to contact the church before or after you receive confirmation, you can do so by sending an e-mail to: info@scoan.org

, SCOAN is located overseas, so if you do not have one already, you will need to apply for and receive a passport before you can take your trip.You will need to provide proof of citizenship and proof of identity when you apply for your passport. A passport photo is also required.
Fill out the appropriate form (Form DS-11) and submit it in person to a passport agency or acceptance facility. You'll need to pay a fee of $135 with your application, as well.
Wait until you receive your passport before applying for a visa.
 Anyone who does not live within West Africa will need a visa to enter the country of Nigeria, where SCOAN is located.


You will need to apply for a visa through the Nigerian Embassy.
When your visitation is approved, you will receive an official invitation letter. You should present this letter with your visa application form.
You will need to apply for a Nigerian tourist visa. Your applications and fees should be submitted to the Nigeria Immigration Service website: https://portal.immigration.gov.ng/pages/welcome

You will need to fill out the application online, print it out, and submit it to the Embassy of Nigeria in Washington, D.C.Embassy of Nigeria
Consular Section
3519 International Court, NW
Washington, DC 20008


With your application, you will need to include proof of your initial online payment, an additional processing fee of $30, your current passport, two passport size pictures, your letter of invitation, and evidence of sufficient funds for your stay. If you are not staying on SCOAN premises, you also need to provide your confirmed hotel reservation.
 You will need to schedule your own flight with any airline of your choosing. The scheduled arrival of your flight will need to be for the first day of your scheduled visit.


After you have your flight booked, you need to contact SCOAN with the arrival time. Church representatives will then be able to meet you at the airport.
 Unless you have a disability that the SCOAN premises are not equipped to handle, you can and should make arrangements with the church to stay in one of the establishment's guest rooms.


There are dormitories, family rooms, and private rooms.
Each room has a hot shower, toilet, and air conditioning.
The church also has a dining room that serves three full meals each day.
If extra drinks, snacks, or toiletries are needed, you can purchase them from the church shop.
If SCOAN cannot accommodate you, you can contact church representatives and ask for nearby hotel recommendations. You will need to book and pay for the hotel room yourself, however.
 Most international visitors stay for one week, but it is also possible to schedule a single daytime visit if you only want to visit the church prayer line.Single daytime visits are usually opted for only when a physical disability or severe illness prevents a guest from staying for the full week. Otherwise, most international guests are encouraged to stay for a full week.
The actual prayer line at SCOAN usually takes place every Sunday. If you only plan to visit for one day to seek some form of healing, Sunday will be the day you should plan on.
During a seven-day visit, you will be able to attend various church services, watch faith-building videos, listen to various testimonies, and listen to lectures from Prophet T.B. Joshua (the founder of the church).
You can also visit the Faith Resort Ground, where you can visit prayer huts and other prayer grounds and meet with various prayer partners.
 When preparing clothes for your visit, keep in mind that SCOAN is located in a hot, humid climate.


The temperatures in Lagos, Nigeria range are regularly within a range of 80 to 95 degrees Fahrenheit (26 to 35 degrees Celsius). These temperatures persist year-round.
Wear loose, cool, and comfortable clothing to prevent yourself from overheating.
Also keep in mind that your clothing should be fairly modest. Try to avoid being scantily dressed during your visit.
 Many basic necessities will be provided to you during your stay, but if you want to use any of the extra services offered by SCOAN, you will need to pay for them in cash.


Internet and telephone facilities on the premises must be paid for.
Anything purchased in the church shop must be paid for in cash, as well.
SCOAN accepts cash payments in the form of the U.S. Dollar, Pound Sterling, and Euro.
 From the moment you arrive to the moment you leave, you should rely on representatives from SCOAN to guide and assist you instead of wandering off alone.


As long as you contacted SCOAN with your flight information, a representative will meet you at the airport and escort you to the church. When you are scheduled to depart, a representative will escort you back to the airport, as well.
If you are staying on the premises, you will never need to leave. The only time you might wish to do so is if you want to visit the off-site prayer retreat center, but even in this case, you will be guided there by authorized church personnel.

