 Make sure you use a moisturizer on your nails in addition to your hands. Rub a nourishing hand oil or vitamin E oil onto your fingernails every night before bed. This can help your nails stay strong and healthy and may reduce the appearance of white dots., Essential oils have been known to heal white spots caused by injury to the nail or nail fungus. Tea tree oil and orange oil tend to work best. Mix a few drops of your essential oils with a carrier oil like olive oil and then rub the oil onto your fingernails. Orange oil should be left to soak for about 45 minutes while tea tree oil should soak for about 15 to 20 minutes.Always rinse and wash your nails after applying the oils.
 Mix one part white vinegar with one part water in a bowl. Dip your fingernails in the bowl. Soak them for 10 minutes and then rinse and dry your nails. Do this about four times a week and you may begin to see a reduction in white spots.If you have sensitive skin, use a higher water to vinegar ratio.
 Lemon has a lot of vitamin C and a deficiency in this vitamin sometimes causes white spots on nails. To use lemons, simply cut a lemon in half and rub the slice onto your fingernails. Leave the juice on for 20 to 30 minutes before rinsing and drying your nails., Natural, unsweetened yogurt without added flavors can bolster nail health and potentially reduce the appearance of white spots. Place around three tablespoons of yogurt into a bowl and dip your nails in the bowl for 10 to 15 minutes. When you're done, rinse your nails in warm water.You can also add a few drops of lemon juice or vitamin E oil to the yogurt.
 Alka seltzer tablets have been known to reduce white spots for some. Drop a couple of tablets in warm water and soak your fingernails in the water for five minutes., For the most part, patience is key to getting rid of white spots on nails. White spots will usually fade or grow out on their own with time. While you can take steps to speed up the process, sometimes you have just have to wait.