 In the movies, Hermione's hair varies from wavy to crimped, but it is genuinely curly and bushy in the books. Any naturally curly hair will work, whether your natural hair is wavy, spiral curls, big curls. It will all be fine. Stay natural! If your hair isn't already curly and you don't like the idea of using hot irons, then try these methods:


After you shower, leave your hair slightly wet and part it into a few sections. Twist each section up into a little bun and sleep on it. You should wake up with some nice waves in your hair.






Split your wet hair into a few sections (with more sections for thicker hair) and braid it. You could either sleep with the braids in your hair or keep them in for a half-day. You will end up with nice waves.






Curlers can also give you nice Hermione hair.






You can also dye your hair a shade of medium brown and wear brown contact lenses if your eyes are not already dark.






As a last resort, in the last film Hermione has her hair plaited so just a single braid down your back will work.





;
, Fashion is not something that Hermione worries about - she's more about books than looks. However, that doesn’t mean she lets herself look disheveled. Just remember to keep things tidy, simple and modest.



School uniform: This consists of a V-neck sweater, a white collared shirt with the Gryffindor tie, a pleated skirt, stockings or tights, Mary Jane shoes, a black cloak, and a wizard robe. (The first- and second-year uniforms are grey; thereafter, they are black). You may want to add a Gryffindor beanie and scarf in the house colors (gold and red), which you can knit yourself. Perhaps you could add a Prefect badge.

Casual dress: Because Hogwarts is rather chilly, Hermione opts for warm clothing when she dresses like a Muggle. This includes thick coats, jackets, striped or patterned knits, jeans, cords, cargo or chino pants, and a good pair of sneakers. You can also imitate Emma Watson's wardrobe from the movies by wearing sweaters, hoodies, and chinos that have a cute and classic flair.

Formal dress: For dressy occasions, Hermione straightens her hair and curls the ends. Make sure your hair has lots of volume. (This will have the same effect as the Sleekeazy's Hair Potion that Hermione uses.) She also wears an elaborate dresses for special events. In Hermione's fourth year, she attended the Yule Ball wearing a periwinkle blue dress; in the film, the dress is dusty pink. In the Deathly Hallows book, she wears a light purple dress to Bill and Fleur’s wedding; in the film, she wears a red dress.

Pajamas: Wear either a long nightgown with a light-colored dressing gown and a pair of slippers, or a plain tank top and pants with slippers and a dressing gown.
 Hermione does not care a dreadful lot about her appearance, so remember that it's your personality that counts - no matter what you wear or how you look. However, a light foundation, lip balm, natural-colored eye shadow and mascara can make your features stand out without looking too harsh. Hermione also has nicely shaped brows; you can use an eyebrow grooming brush and hold gel for this look.
 You could even include Quidditch Through the Ages, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, or The Tales of Beedle the Bard, which have been published (or you could just make fake covers).
 Hermione's wand (before it was stolen) was made of vine wood and dragon heart-string, and was fairly dark. You can use a twig for a wand, make one out of clay, paint a pencil or use whatever you like.
 Preferably one that is large, long-haired, and has a squashed-looking face so that it resembles Hermione's cat, Crookshanks. Crookshanks is a ginger Persian, but those cats can be expensive. You could also carry around a stuffed cat that has the same appearance.
 You might wear a SPEW pin, a lumpy, wool "house-elf" hat, or a golden chain with a small hourglass charm (to represent the Time-Turner).
 Hermione is always hygienic.

