 Messy hair screams just got out of bed. Nobody wants that! Try every day to at least brush out your hair. If you have frizz, it is recommended to use a serum to help keep the frizz to a minimum. To fool people at school or work into thinking you are very well groomed, try your hardest to go two or three days a week with a nice hairstyle. Try girly curls or some sleek and shiny hair. Whatever suits you and your personality. Just make an effort to not throw your hair in a pony every single day!;
, Good hygiene is part of looking nice and put together. Smelly breath, stinky body odor, and gross nails are completely off limits! You certainly don't want anyone thinking you don't know how to keep yourself clean. So: brush your teeth at least twice a day and floss. This will keep your teeth healthy and your breath nice and fresh. Make sure you floss too, that is an important part of both your oral health. Keep mints and gum if you are worried about bad breath. Take a shower! It seems obvious, but haven`t you ever had to sit next to someone who gave off an awful stench? You probably felt grossed out and uncomfortable, so don`t put anyone else through that on your account. Find a nice signature scent for people to recognize! Lastly, dirty nails are a major turn off so just clip your nails and keep them clean! You don`t even need to use polish, just keep them at a reasonable length and make sure they are not jagged or dirty. People will definitely notice your good hygiene.
 Everyone, male and female, feels pressure to be super thin and toned, but being healthy is more important. Don't binge on high calorie/high fat food! It all adds up inside your body! Work out when you get the chance by going swimming, ride a bike, go on a walk, or just stick to the gym. Anything to get up and moving! Keep your body in shape because if you treat your body well, it will treat you well.
 You may think smiles don't matter, but everyone notices them right away. It makes you look happy, and feel happy! People gravitate towards happy-looking people. Plus you never know who is falling in love with that smile. Right?

, If we could all have flawless skin with no work how amazing would that be? Sadly, in the real world it's not like that so here are some helpful tips. Wash your skin with a good, lathering facial wash that will work for whatever skin type you may have. Wash your face twice a day and moisturize! Use acne cream if you have acne breakouts. Keep your skin as clear as possible because it will look glowing. Nothing says put together more than nice skin!

, Now make sure you keep true to your personal style. But try to keep it classy and neat. Sweats and tees are nice to relax around the house in, but try to make more of an effort in your everyday life. Never wear clothes that reveal too much. Mix your favorite styles and trends to find the perfect look. Always remember you dress up for you.
 If you walk around looking sad and unhappy, you are not fooling anyone. Being put together doesn't just mean hair and makeup, it goes down below the surface too. If you really love yourself other people will understand that you are worth loving. Look in the mirror and be thankful for the wonderful, beautiful person you really are.

