 The best preventative step you can take to avoid dirty leaves is a regular rinse with lukewarm water. Avoid applying cold water, which can cause spots on the leaves and shock the roots (remember that houseplants nearly all hail from the tropics - they are accustomed to warm rainfall).


For rinsing small houseplants, place the plant into your kitchen sink. Spray it down with your kitchen faucet if you have a sprayer; otherwise use a spray bottle.






Large houseplants can be rinsed by placing them into your shower. Flexible, extending shower heads work well for this task. Allow the plant to drip dry before returning it to its home.





;
, For regularly removing dust buildup from houseplants with large leaves (such as a peace lily), wipe the leaves gently with a cloth moistened in lukewarm water.


Paper towels and terrycloth towels are acceptable for this task, but can be abrasive to the plant's leaves. Ideally, you should choose a very smooth cloth; rags made from old tee shirts work well.






It helps to support the leaves and stems with your free hand to prevent breaking any of them by applying too much pressure with the cloth.
 Houseplants with bristly leaves, such as African violets, can be dusted using a soft toothbrush.


Supporting the leaf with your free hand, clean it using gentle strokes of the toothbrush. Work from base to tip of each leaf. Clean the dust from the toothbrush occasionally.






In addition to a toothbrush, you can also use this technique with a soft-bristled paintbrush, a pipe cleaner, or even one of the plant's own fuzzy leaves.
 Houseplants with many small leaves, such as nerve plants, would be intensely time-consuming to clean leaf-by-leaf. Instead, these plants can be swished around in lukewarm water to remove dust.


Begin by filling a bucket with lukewarm water. Adding a few drops of mild dish soap will help clean the plant's leaves.






Supporting both the pot and the soil with your hands, turn the houseplant upside down and submerge its leaves into the bucket of water. Swish it around gently, and then allow it to air dry.
 Once a year, or every few years, use this method. It's ideal for plants that can get really dusty, such as Christmas cactus and Philodendron plants, especially when big.

Place the plants in a shower of tepid water. Set them on a waterproof stands if large.
Use a handheld shower (be careful to adjust the water temperature adequately) and gently spray the leaves to rinse off all grime and build-up. Don't spray too long.
Allow to drip dry.
Restore to their original place once dry.
 This process takes lots of time, and does not work for plants such as African Violets because the leaves are fuzzy.

Dust the leaves off first as well as spraying it with dishwashing soap and lukewarm water.
Put a bit of mayonnaise onto a wet cloth and wipe down each individual leaf. The oil in the mayo will create a shine on once dull-looking leaves!
Lightly wipe off the mayo with a cloth afterwards.

