 Learn everything that you can about horses. Go online and look up information about different horse breeds and their characteristics. Watch videos showing horse behaviors. Subscribe to two or three well-known horse magazines. These publications will provide useful information while also letting you know about horse events in your area.


Being an equestrian requires that you are a life-long learner of all things horse related. Never stop researching or asking questions. For example, if your horse reacts oddly to a certain harness, look up possible reasons online.;
, Making friends with fellow equestrians at your local barn is always a good idea. They can be excellent mentors for you. Being an equestrian is not a solo activity and you will require the assistance of many people in order to be a success. You can also get involved in equestrian communities online, especially by participating in one of the many horse blog networks.If you own a horse and choose to board it, your fellow riders at the boarding stable will become your community. To find a good boarding stable, search online for boarding and training facilities by state. You will want to choose a stable close to your home to make visiting easier. Visit your stable options to assess their cleanliness and general atmosphere.You can also build a community by going to a stable for riding lessons. In this case, you will want to very carefully choose your riding instructor. Make sure that they are a member of the Certified Horsemanship Association (CHA). Request references and ask questions about their experience level as well.
To keep the conversation going, before you head to the barn each day, think about a few questions to ask other riders. For example, you might say, “How long should I cool down my horse after a one hour work-out?”

, Take lessons at a local barn or volunteer to help out at a non-profit stable. If a neighbor owns horses, offer to help them out. You want to spend as many contact hours around horses as possible. Doing so will make you attuned to their behaviors and will help you hone your caretaking and horsemanship skills.


For true equestrians, riding is only part of the experience. You will also need to get your hands dirty mucking stalls, grooming, and feeding/watering. Don’t shirk these responsibilities or other riders will not take you seriously.
It is great to own a horse, but make sure that you have contact with other horses as well. Expose yourself to different horse personalities and alternative skill sets. For example, if you are interested in barrel racing, both you and your horse would benefit from spending time with an experienced racing team.
 As an equestrian, you are responsible for the well-being of the horses around you. Make a daily, weekly, and monthly calendar in which you note major health appointments. Use this calendar to also keep track of how much, and what items, you feed your horse every day. And, keep an eye out for your horse’s mental status. If your horse begins to act out violently or is really lethargic, it may need some extra attention or even a change of stall.


Treating all health concerns seriously is important for the horse, but also for your safety. Animals in pain are more likely to lash out, injuring their caretakers in the process.
Get to know all of the equine professionals who care for horses, including veterinarians and farriers. Vets take care of a horse’s vaccinations and dental work while farriers watch over a horse’s all-important hoof care.Horses will often take a wide variety of supplements and vitamins. It is important to note what a horse takes in so that you can trace its outward effects.
 No matter whether you are riding your personal horse or a shared barn horse, you need to treat all animals with the respect that they deserve. Keep calm when working with them and never act out of violence. Count to five if you get frustrated and try the same action once again.


Take note of the physical strength and size of a horse as well. They can hurt you without even meaning to if you aren’t careful. For example, when you walk beside a horse, watch the placement of your feet. If a horse steps on your foot it can lead to bruises and even fractures., Some local horse programs offer formal apprenticeship programs. However, you can usually arrange your own. Find a trainer or horse professional who you admire and feel comfortable working with. Tell them about your interests and ask them to teach you everything that they know. In return, offer to help them care for the horses.When you are a more experienced equestrian, make sure that you return this favor by accepting apprentices yourself. Or, even less formally, act like a mentor to younger riders.

