 Liposuction is a procedure that can remove unwanted pockets of fat from nearly any area of the body, including the thighs.However, this is considered a drastic or serious method to taking an inch off your thighs and is an expensive way to address unwanted fat on your thighs.


This treatment uses a very narrow tube, called a cannula, which is inserted directly into the thigh. The cannula is attached to a suction device, which removes fat cells, resulting in a smoother, leaner contour to the thigh.
The procedure is typically performed on an outpatient basis, and discomfort and recovery time after the procedure is generally minimal.
However, the procedure can be expensive. Depending on the location where you plan to get liposuction done and the surgeon performing the surgery, you can expect to pay between $2,000 - $5,000 for inner thigh liposuction and between $1,600 - $5,000 for outer thigh liposuction., Like other surgical procedures, thigh liposuction has some possible risks and side effects. These include:


Blood clots, infection, fat clots, skin sensitivity changes, bleeding, irregular or uneven body contours, swelling, skin discoloration, skin and nerve damage, scarring, anesthesia risks, pain, and loose skin.
It’s important to keep in mind that while liposuction will help remove fat from your thighs and give them a more contoured look, it cannot treat obesity or make up for a poor diet without exercise. It will not solve other health issues from obesity or a lack of physical activity.
Liposuction also cannot treat cellulite, which are the dimpled marks on the thighs and buttocks. It cannot treat loose or sagging skin.The results of thigh liposuction can be long-lasting with proper care. But if you gain back any weight in your thighs, you can completely reverse the look of the thigh liposuction. So its essential you adopt a healthy lifestyle with a good diet and exercise before and after the procedure.
 A thigh lift, or thighplasty, is a more invasive surgical procedure that reshapes the thigh, removing excess skin and some fat.The procedure is often performed in combination with liposuction to reshape and smooth the thigh after fat is removed through the liposuction session.
Thigh lifts may also be done on an outpatient basis, but recovery can take one week or more. Most patients are back to all normal activities within a few weeks after surgery.
However, thighplasty procedures can be expensive. Prices range from $2,000 - $10,000, with the average procedure costing about $4,500., This surgical procedure has several possible risks and side effects, including:


Poor wound healing, bleeding, fluid accumulation, major wound separation, skin discoloration or swelling, skin loss, persistent pain, deep vein thrombosis, risks from anesthesia, unfavorable scarring, numbness or other changes to skin sensation and loose skin.While the surgeon may be able to remove some thin layers of stubborn fat on your thighs during the procedure, a thigh lift is not focused on removing many layers of fat. It is not a substitute for other fat burners like a healthy diet and daily exercise.Before a surgeon performs a thighplasty, they will make sure you are at a stable weight as losing further weight could cause your thigh tissue to droop again. As well, a significant weight gain after the procedure could also interfere with the results. So its important to maintain a healthy diet and exercise regime before and after the surgery.