 Every girl has a couple outfits that make her feel better than anything else in her wardrobe; there’s outfits that make her smile bigger and walk taller than any others. Pick one of these to wear when you’re going to talk to the boy you like. If he can’t take his eyes off of you, chances are he’s interested., If your number one choice of outfit is your prom dress—go with number two. Keep your outfit appropriate for the occasion. He’ll likely be distracted if you’re wearing an outlandish outfit.
 If you’ve outgrown your favorite outfit, that’s ok. Go out and buy a new one, or pick something else from your closet. You want to be as comfortable as possible, while still looking good. This way, you aren’t fidgeting with your clothes while you talk to him; you’ll come off as nervous and make him uncomfortable.
 Ask open ended questions to get him engaged in the conversation. Talk about absolutely anything that you’re comfortable with. This will get him talking to you and can show off some of your interests as well. Have a few in mind before you strike up a conversation in case there is any extended silence.


"What did you think about the game last week?"
"What are your plans for the weekend?"
"What did you think about the end of that new movie?"

, Pay attention to what they’re saying. Show interest in who they are and what they’re all about. If you bring up something that he likes, it’s likely that he’ll want to talk about it—to you—more. Don’t act as though you like something that you don’t. If you fake it, he’ll likely pick up on it and no guy wants to be faked out.


Don’t be afraid to disagree, but stay open-minded to their opinions too.
 Don’t be a reporter and rattle off question after question. Joke with him and laugh at his jokes. Laughing at his jokes, even if they aren’t hilarious, will get his attention. When you’re happy and laughing, it will be hard for him not to catch on.
 Don’t swear or speak poorly of people. If he’s talking about something he really likes and cares about, swearing or speaking down on it would be an automatic flag telling him that he shouldn’t be interested in you.
 Don’t be so focused on impressing him that you begin lying about yourself. Don’t fake interests or opinions. Not only does this show him bad ethics, but it will come back to haunt you later. Share the truth about yourself. If your family, friends, or personal interests are constantly on your mind, talk about them. Don’t be afraid to talk about what you do best., This is a non-verbal tool that is just as important as the things you’re saying. It communicates confidence, sincerity, and respect. Eye contact connects you with him.You can even flirt with your eyes. Do this by holding eye contact for two or three seconds and then looking away during the beginning of the conversation. It will keep him looking for your eye contact again, practice it on and off throughout the time that you’re speaking.You should know what color his eyes are after the first conversation.
 If you’re noticeably nervous, he will feel uncomfortable. Be comfortable and proud of your unique and amazing personality. Show yourself off by having good posture, and speaking clearly.Slouching and mumbling aren’t attractive.

