 Or, at least be open to forgiving. Even if you don’t receive an apology from the person who has betrayed you, you still have to be willing to forgive the person so that you can move on. Consider forgiving your friend as a gift to yourself, not as a gift to the friend who betrayed you.



If you forgive, you can let the incident go and move on. If you don’t, then it keeps you in the situation -- stuck there. Without forgiving, you’ll likely hold a grudge, and months or years later you might still be mad as if the incident just occurred.[
Ideally the friend who betrayed you should offer an apology, and the apology would be weighed in your decision to forgive. However, many times there is no apology, or there’s an insincere apology,neither of which can be weighed in your decision. So, many times you will have to work through the forgiveness stage irrespective of what the friend who has betrayed you has done because there might not be an apology.Try not to think about it over and over and over again. Once you forgive, pack up the situation , put it in a box and move on. One way to catch yourself and stop yourself from thinking about it is to wear a rubber band on your wrist. Then, snap the band every time that you think about it.Forgive yourself for telling your friend your secret. You didn't know that your friend couldn't keep a secret.
 Many times, a friend who has betrayed you once will do it again, but this depends on the situation and the person. So, you have to decide if you want the person in your life as a friend, an associate or not at all.


If you decide that you still want the person in your life but to a lesser degree, you might consider the person an acquaintance instead of friend. Or, if you feel it is best, you might not want any sort of relationship with this person at all.
If you find that you no longer want to be friends with this person, sever all ties with him or her. You don't have to be mean about it. Assuming you talked to your friend about it, he already knows that you are upset with him, which will make ending your friendship easier.
If your best friend leaves you for other friends the best way to feel better is to make yourself a better person and not stoop to her level .Think what you care about! Is someone who doesn't care about you really important !Or do you come first .For example if you both go to the same school the best was is to beat her academic wise .Try studying extra at home to beat her .One day she will regret leaving you because deep down she is just a user if she left you for others .
If you find that you want to maintain your friendship, make sure the other person understands that you feel like they did something wrong, but you have forgiven them and want to continue being friends.
If your friend is not remorseful or apologetic and you still want to maintain a relationship with person, then really consider it. You might be setting yourself up for a repeat event.
You could continue to maintain a relationship with your friend, but you won't be telling your friend anymore major secrets. However, if you feel like you tell all your friends major secrets, then you will have to re-consider your friendship with this person.
 Think of it as a lesson learned. Now, you know the signs and symptoms of a betrayal, and you can pinpoint them in the future. This, of course, will keep you from making the same mistake again, or from possibly being betrayed again. Of course, you cannot control if someone betrays you. However, you can control if you will be caught off guard, and how you will deal with it if it happens.Now you know that some people can't keep secrets even if that person is your best friend. Next time, you'll think twice about telling someone a major secret especially if this person cannot keep secrets.

