 You must be at least 18 before you can get your real estate license in Texas. If you're not yet 18, you'll have to wait until you turn 18 to begin taking steps to becoming a real estate agent.In the meantime, you can work on developing career skills by taking business and economic classes in high school.;
, You need to take 180 hours of coursework approved by the Texas Commission of Real Estate (TREC). Courses can be taken in person or online. Courses can cost up to $800 depending on the route you take. Whether you're learning in a classroom or on your computer, make sure the classes are TREC-approved before signing up., Sometimes, the choice is practical. If no courses are offered near you, you will have to get your training online. However, if you have both options, weigh the benefits and drawbacks of each.

An increasing number of people are starting successful careers by taking real estate classes online. This is a great option if in person classes are out of your budget.
The one downside to online classes is that they require more personal motivation. If you struggle to complete tasks at home, in person classes may be better for you.
 The TREC requires 180 classroom hours before you can sign up and take the real estate exam. During the course of your studies, you will learn the basics of business, housing, buying, and selling. As all this material will show up on the exam, pay close attention to lectures, reading, and assignments to increase your chances of passing the exam.The types of classes vary, but usually you study the basic principals of real estate as well as laws and regulations specific to Texas. You will also learn hands-on skills realtors need, such as how to write a contract.Classes will vary slightly in terms of set up and expectations, so make sure you read your syllabus closely so you know what to expect in your class.
 To start, create a user account via the TREC website. You will be asked to fill out basic information, like your name and address, and pay the $205 application fee. You must then include the following to prove you completed training:A copy of course completion certificates
College transcripts (if applicable)

