 You can purchase chain armor from blacksmiths by exchanging emeralds. Emeralds can be obtained by trading with other villagers or through mining.


Villagers are also willing to buy items from you by paying you with emeralds. See what other villagers are looking to trade with. For example a brown robed villager will offer an emerald for a certain amount of wheat.
Emeralds can be found by mining emerald ore and can usually be found in Extreme Hill biomes. However locating emerald ore is very uncommon and is more time consuming than initiating trades with villagers.
The price of chain armor pieces vary. A Chain Helmet requires 5-6 emeralds, a Chain Chest plate requires 11-14 emeralds, a pair of Chain Leggings requires 9-10 emeralds and a pair of Chain Boots requires 5-6 emeralds.;
, These villagers live in a Forge building that features a lava pool on the front porch and can be seen wearing a black colored apron. Only blacksmiths with the armorer job will trade chain armor. , Right-click on the villager to show the trade graphics user interface (GUI.) This will show what the villager has on offer to trade with. You will need to identify that the blacksmith has the armorer job title which you can see at the top of the trade window. Click the left or right arrows to see what items the villager has to trade with and their requirements to make the trade.


The blacksmith may have a different occupation such as a Tool Smith or Weapon Smith. These types do not craft chain armor.
If the village does not contain a blacksmith with the armorer job occupation, try finding another village.
 The armorer may not have the chain armor available for trade. This depends on their tier rating which determines the different items they have available. In order for the armorer to offer chain armor pieces to trade, you may have to trade it for other items to help it advance in it’s tier rating.


If they do not have any chain armor pieces to trade with, trade with the last item they have in their list by clicking on the right arrow to reach the end of the list and initiate the trade. Close the trade GUI screen. There is a chance the armorer will appear with a glow. This means that they have advanced in their tier rating and may potentially have a piece of the chain armor available for trade. Repeat the process until the chain armor pieces become available.

