 One of the nicest things about flannel shirts is, as a result of their nap, they lock in heat and are incredibly comfortable. This makes them the ideal shirt for fall and winter when temperatures drop and you need warm clothing. Rather than wearing your flannel for the purpose of style, keep it utilitarian; layer a flannel shirt with other long sleeve shirts to keep you warm for work or recreation outdoors. Throw on a jacket over the top for a clean finish.;
, Flannel shirts all have a traditional plaid print, making them easy to wear alone or with other things. Slip on your favorite pair of jeans, add your flannel shirt, and you’re done! Button it up all the way for an easy completed look. For an extra casual look. roll up the sleeves a bit.
 For an effortlessly cool look that will always be classic, layer a flannel shirt under, rather than over, an additional shirt. Choose any of your favorite lightweight t-shirts or henleys to pull on over the top of your flannel. Fold back the flannel sleeves a bit and adjust your collar for a completed look.
 So you’ve got a family holiday or a big get together to attend that requires more than just your faux-tux t-shirt. To stay comfortable while being a bit more formal, put on a flannel underneath a nice sweater or sweater vest. Giving just a glimpse of your flannel under these nicer articles of clothing will keep you feeling relaxed while concurrently showing a bit of style over the top.
 Think back to the 90’s grunge scene in Seattle; Nirvana shirts abounded, layered up with dark hued flannels and hair that was long and lustrous. While its been awhile since the 90’s, you can pull off a much more sophisticated version of the ever-popular grunge look. Pair your favorite band t-shirt with a flannel in corresponding colors. Leave the front open or button the bottom few only, and you’re done!

, It’s snowing outside, and you need a solid outfit to wear under your coat. Rather than opting for a flimsy shirt or plain henley, pull on a combination of a flannel and a quilted vest. The combination of warmth and comfort will have you ready for any outdoor adventure.

