 Be the quiet type of person. Don't speak unless you are asked to speak. Listen when others talk to you, but occasionally drift into a daydream (though you should still pay attention in school of course — dim-wittedness is hardly romantic). Think lots about your one true love. Be shy and imaginative — in a word, dreamy.


Remember to look up into the sky sometimes. When people ask what you're looking at (and they will) (especially if it's a clear day and there's nary a cloud in the sky) just smile dreamily and say "Oh, nothing..." and get back to sky gazing.
Point out beautiful sunsets & look at the sky often.;
, (Preferably a nice thick one, because if you carry around a grocery store romance novel, people may think that's all you read.)

, If someone says that their life is bad, say "Love conquers all. Remember that!" Also, it never hurts to quote Shakespeare (though as with quoting in general, it's classy to credit your source, so make sure you've actually read his plays, especially if someone hears you quoting the Bard and strikes up a conversation).


Say things such as "Oh, how romantic", "Love conquers all", "Why hate? Choose love", "Don't be in despair. Love will always find a way", and "A kiss without a hug is like a flower without the fragrance".
Always put your hands on your heart when you are thinking about something romantic or saying something romantic.
 They're not called Romance languages for nothing! (There's a bit of history behind that — look it up online if you're interested.) Some useful Italian expressions include: Ti amo (I love you), Romanticismo (romance), and Bello (beautiful). To find more, Google Translate is your friend.


As with any dictionary or online translator, be careful and check with a native speaker to make sure you're actually saying what you think you're saying.
 This helps you become more in love. You could try a classic form like a sonnet, or even a free verse poem (it doesn't even have to rhyme). Express yourself in art, poems, prose, writing... whatever works for you.
 Try taking photographs and placing them in your room. Look up to photographers like Ansel Adams, who only did black and white photos. (There are many black and white blogs on Tumblr whose owners might be able to point you in the right direction.) If you're not interested in photography, try a performing art like acting, dancing, or singing. You never know where it might take you.
 Be able to reference them in any situation. (And not just your own culture's tales — feel free to mix it up and add an appropriate reference to another culture's story.)

, Try to keep your TV shows intellectual but romantic and your movies should always be age-appropriate romances! Watch a lot of romantic movies (on your own time) and take features you like and apply them to yourself.


For TV look at The History Channel. Also, watch soap operas such as Coronation Street (Britain), The Young and the Restless (America), etc.
Some good movies are Titanic, When in Rome, and The Notebook. Watch romantic movies on a rainy day or a snowy afternoon when school is closed. Plus, look at old movies (think Turner Classic Movies) that feature such movie stars as Audrey Hepburn and Cary Grant.
 It's natural and calming. Do not listen to hip-hop, rap, techno, etc, as these are more likely to stir you up rather than calm you down. Find some composers you like, or some classical radio stations, for example WETA (which you can listen to online).
 Wear mostly jeans, ballet flats, maxi skirts, shrugs, and maybe a flower in your hair sometimes. Accessories should be made of dogeared wood, especially bracelets. Wear a lot of pink, red, and white. They are the main colors of love.
 If you have braces, get then in pink or red or even both!

,, Also, do research online about kissing and how it all started.

