 This will help you find out which character will be found on hand at which time on any given day of the year. While a few characters can be found on premises each day, not all characters make an appearance, and the Times Guide will be able to tell you which ones you can see. Plan your times ahead of schedule, if there is a special character you'd like to see. Try to prevent meltdowns from beginning just by reading this schedule.;
,, At some points of the day, characters can be found in their house in Toontown USA (near Fantasyland).
 Some characters, especially classic Mickey and even sometimes Minnie, make special appearances around hundreds of thousands of fans in front of Sleeping Beauty Castle.
 These other characters may meet and sign kids books with the same name, but some kids become reluctant to see these characters when they don't look the same as what they are shown in movies and television.
 While some may make a few special appearances, this park is meant for the older crowd and adults, and few times characters don't think they may interact with kids in that specific park.
, Some will walk and hope to catch your gleaming eye.
 However, when one child finds a character, most children speak up loud enough that other kids nearby will visit and character meets become "scenes".
 Some are more than willing to talk with the children than others. Don't let your child (or the child inside you) be discouraged if the character isn't allowed to say anything back. Some non-face characters are told not to speak with children for obvious reasons of breaking character, while most face characters (as Disney calls them) are more than willing to talk with most guests they encounter during the day. Non-face characters talk using hand actions and body language. They can still talk in their own way.


However, don't plan to take up the characters entire time, if the character is able to speak with your child. They can answer a question or two, but they'll need to consult with other fans too. Don't let your children feel insulted if the character answers a question and then walks off or talks with other children.

