 If you’re a reluctant camper, you will definitely enjoy yourself more if you’re excited about where you choose to camp. Think about combining your camping trip with seeing a new part of the country or exploring a different habitat. Whether you want to be near the mountains or in the desert southwest, national parks offer varied opportunities for adventure.State parks also offer campsites throughout diverse settings. You could sleep by the shores of a Great Lakeor near caves ready for you to explore.;
, Many national parks offer campsites ranging from remote to full service. Remote, or backcountry, camping sites include few to no amenities like running water, electricity hookups, restrooms, or picnic tables.Full service campgrounds typically offer flush toilets, parking spaces, grills, and picnic tables.Extra services and amenities may enhance your camping experience, and you can often find these at privately owned camp sites. From delivery of fresh-caught lobster to your tentto heated indoor and outdoor pools,private camp sites can cater to your every need.
 Your tent will be your temporary home away from home, and if you choose well, you will enhance your camping experience.


Consider choosing a tent with a larger capacity than you will actually need. This will give your more space and can be helpful if you don’t like closed spaces or if you move around a lot while sleeping.Look at the weather forecast before you get a tent. If you are a new camper, a three-season tent, designed to be lightweight and good for camping in moderate conditions in the spring, summer, and fall, will probably suffice. If you will face harsher conditions, however, a four-season tent may be the right choice for you.Bring a tarp to place under your tent to protect it from damp, soggy ground.
Another useful item is a mat for your tent entrance to help keep down the amount of dirt tracked in to your outdoor home.
Regardless of the type of tent you choose, you should be sure to bring along extra stakes for the tent, in case you have a problem with one.
 You will definitely enjoy your camping experience more if you have everything you need to make your stay comfortable.


Bring camp chairs, folding tables, and hammocks so you’re not stuck sitting on the ground.
Extra blankets are good for wrapping up while around the campfire.
Most camping problems are easily solved if you bring along tools and hardware like a hammer or axe, rope, matches, pocket knives, lanterns, and flashlights.Other items that will help ensure your comfort and pleasure while camping include fire wood, toilet paper, paper towels, hand sanitizer, extra batteries, shower shoes and towels for bathing, and rain gear/umbrella.
 Your camping experience will be enhanced if you remember a few simple items for sleeping well under the stars:


Bring an air mattress, cot, or foam pad for under your sleeping bag. If you bring an air mattress, remember to bring your air pump as well.
Remember your pillow. There are pillows specifically designed for camping, but many prefer to just bring their comfortable one from home.Eyeshades and earplugs are also useful to help block out unfamiliar sounds or lights while sleeping in your tent.
 Who says camping cuisine needs to be limited to beef jerky, hot dogs, and dehydrated soups? If you pack foods and drinks you enjoy, you’ll ensure that at least your palate is happy.


Yogurt and granola are easy breakfast foods to bring, and bagels and muffins work well too.
Bean salads, pasta salads, fruit salads, and gourmet sandwiches are easily packable and could make for a tasty lunch or light dinner.
For dinner, you could bring items to cook over the campfire, like macaroni and cheese or Dutch oven lasagna. A quick Internet search will give you dozens of ideas.
Bring lots of ice in a cooler to keep your food from spoiling.
To keep food safe from foraging animals, odor-proof plastic bags or bear canisters are useful., Whether you’re camping in the heat of summer or facing rain or wind, having the proper clothes will make you more comfortable and ready to enjoy your outing.


Proper footwear, like hiking boots or trail shoes, will keep you comfortable and safe on trails near your campsite. Be sure to pack a few extra pairs of wool socks, too. They’ll help prevent blisters, and extra socks will be welcome if you face wet conditions.It’s good to think about layering when packing for camping. That way, you can remove or add layers depending on the conditions. If you’re comfortable, you are more likely to enjoy your campout.
A hat and sunscreen will help keep the sun off of your face, and rain gear will keep you dry in inclement weather.
 Having this essential item will increase your pleasure by helping you avoid itchy bites. Chemical bug repellents, like those containing DEET, are effective at deterring both mosquitos and ticks.You could spray the outside of your tent with bug spray to deter mosquitos and other pests from bothering you while sleeping.Citronella candles are another helpful item for keeping pests at bay.Although DEET has been declared safe by the Environmental Protection Agency, some still prefer “natural” bug repellents. Those containing oil of lemon eucalyptus have been found to be effective against mosquitos and ticks., Dermatologists recommend using a broad-spectrum sunscreen (which protects against both UVA and UVB rays) of at least SPF 30. Be sure the sunscreen is water resistant, since you may be sweating or swimming while camping.While outside, reapply your sunscreen every two hours, and don’t forget areas like your lips, ears, and back of your hands.

