 Chihuahua’s are extremely territorial of their owners and love being around them. They like nothing more than to snuggle up in your lap and nap. Indulge your pets desire to snuggle and keep your Chihuahua close. This will only intensify your dog’s already strong bond.Consider carrying your Chihuahua in a carrier designed for small dogs.
Hold your Chihuahua in your lap and pet it while you watch TV.;
, One of the easiest ways to establish a bond with any dog is by feeding it. Establishing routine feeding times will help keep your Chihuahua’s anxiety levels down, helping it feel more comfortable with you. Feeding your dog also creates a positive association between you and your Chihuahua’s food.Avoid leaving the food in the bowl all day. Instead, give the dog its food at mealtime. You want your dog’s positive association with feedings to be with you and not the bowl.
Because Chihuahuas can develop such intense bonds with one person, make sure that you are the one feeding the dog. If someone else is feeding it, your Chihuahua may end up bonding with them.
Giving your dog a treat every now and then will also strengthen its affection towards you.
 Regularly petting and grooming your Chihuahua causes its body to release hormones that make it less anxious. This will also strengthen its bond with you. Stroke your dog’s fur while it sits in your lap. If you have a longhaired Chihuahua, give its coat a regular brushing. The more that you touch your Chihuahua, the closer its bond with you will be.Washing your Chihuahua and clipping its nails will also help strengthen your bond.
Because they tend to only bond with one person, you should groom your dog and avoid hiring someone else to do it. Your Chihuahua may react negatively to someone else.
 Training is a great way to build a bond between you and your Chihuahua. You will spend more time together. You will also give it encouragement and the occasional treat. All of these things will build a sense of teamwork and strengthen the bond between you and your dog.Rewarding your dog with treats will reinforce good behavior and create a positive association between you and treats.
Maintain an even and warm tone during training. Getting frustrated and yelling at your dog will frighten your Chihuahua and make it anxious around you.
Chihuahuas can be difficult to train. You may want to work with a trainer. However, you will need to be present and conduct much of the training to ensure that your dog bonds with you., In general, playing with your dog is one of the best ways to build a strong bond between an owner and their pet. You can play fetch, hide-and-seek, tug-of-war and other games with your dog. As you do more things that it enjoys, your Chihuahua will develop a positive association between you and having fun.Try to avoid roughhousing with your Chihuahua. They are delicate dogs that can be easily injured.
If you take your Chihuahua on a walk, only go a short distance. Chihuahuas exert their energy in short bursts and do not have the stamina for long walks.

