 Use a regular 12 pt. font, such as Times New Roman or Sans Serif. Leave plenty of white space, use bold headlines and increase the size of your font for your name and section headings.


If you are applying for an art or graphic design job, then take extra time to format your resume in a creative way. It does not have to be a list, so work with the space that you are given.
 This is usually a short prose section at the top that is an "elevator pitch" to the agency. Include your years of experience, major accomplishments, promotions and managerial skills.
 Whether you are using a chronological or functional format, you will need to list your skills and successes using short, specific sentences. Each sentence should begin with an action verb.


If you are applying for a creative advertising position, consider using action verbs like authored, composed, directed, conceived, conceptualized, developed, edited, designed, created, planned, launched, originated, established, produced and presented.
If you are applying for a managerial or accounts position, consider using action verbs like augmented, proposed, increased, initiated, excelled, led, revitalized, consulted, resolved, developed, implemented, generated, promoted, improved, negotiated, sold and produced.
 Examples of these words include click through rate, display ads, cost per click, cross promotion, real-time bidding, rill rate and rich media ads. Review advertising annuals, advertising blogs or notes from advertising classes if you are unsure whether you are using enough advertising terminology.
 Ad agencies will be looking for people with experience in the industries they often work with.
 If you went to an advertising school or a school with a good alumni network, this may help you to form a bond with potential employers. Make this a short section.
 Internships with major agencies where you have relevant experience can work to your advantage; however, serving or retail experience will not help you get a job if you are applying for a creative position. It may be easier to parlay retail or business jobs into relevant experience if you are apply for an account management or planning position with an agency.
 If you write an advertising blog, include it here and say how long you've done it. If you volunteer advertising time for a charity, write a few details about this experience.
 Showing that you are a member of the American Advertising Federation, the American Marketing Association, the Society for Marketing Professional Services or a similar state wide association will show a dedication and interest in being part of the professional community. If you do not already belong to an association, you should consider joining.

