 The Flare Gun, which replaces the shotgun, shoots flares that can set enemies on fire from a distance. A flare fired arcs down when travelling through a long distance, and flies pretty slowly through the air, so hitting anything that is moving may be quite difficult. This is useful for hitting stationary or slow targets like Snipers or Heavies. Most enemies though, when seeing a Pyro with a little flare gun trying to hit them, assumes low threat towards the Pyro, as opposed to him using the Flamethrower. The flare gun also has a 100% critical chance against burning opponents. A critical flare deals 90 damage, which can be devastating to any class.
 One of the biggest advantages of the flare gun is that it allows the Pyro - traditionally one of of the shortest-ranged classes - to attack from long ranges. This allows a cautious, accurate Pyro to take out sentries that aren't accompanied by an engineer, which the Pyro would otherwise have no way of doing. Level 1 sentries will take about 5 hits from the flare gun to hit, while higher-level sentries will take more hits.

Watch out for spies. Taking a sentry out with flares can take a relatively long time, during which you'll be vulnerable to a well-placed back stab.
 The Backburner, which replaces the flamethrower, does constant critical damage when shooting someone in the back. The tradeoff for this is a huge increase in the cost of your air compression blast (From 20 to 50), so you may want to use it more frugally. If you're using this weapon, you ideally want to attack your enemies from behind, so this weapon encourages a stealthy style of play.
 The Axtinguisher, which replaces the basic axe, does half the damage of the regular axe if the enemy isn't burning but has a 100% critical hit chance if the enemy is on fire. This can also be useful in some situations, like if you manage to approach a firing Heavy from behind without him seeing you, you can give him a quick puff from the Flamethrower, whip out your Axtinguisher, and hack into him. This should usually kill him in about two swings, whereas the normal ax would take much longer.
 hit Escape). The "m" key will also take you straight to the "loadout" screen, where you can change all your weapon options.

