 Preheat your oven to 250 degrees Fahrenheit (121 degrees Celsius). Arrange your nuts on a baking sheet. Cook them for 10 to 15 minutes.Roasting temperature and time may vary by oven. For your first time, start with the lower temperature of 250 degrees F (121 degrees C) to avoid burning the nuts. Once you have a better sense of cooking time, use a higher temperature (350 degrees F or 177 degrees C) for a quicker roasting time (about 8 to 10 minutes.Pay attention to their coloring as they cook. Remove when they have toasted to a slight brown, before they can burn.This step is not strictly necessary, but heating the nuts’ natural oils will make blending them easier.;
, Alternately, use a food blender if that is all you have, but a food processor will blend the nuts more thoroughly without needing as much added oil.Slowly pour the almonds in while running the processor on pulse. Allow the processor to start chopping the nuts a little at a time rather than dumping the whole load in at once.








Set aside some nuts to add later if you prefer a chunky butter., Run the processor for approximately 10 minutes, at which point the nuts’ released oils should begin to smooth the mixture. Turn the machine off as the blended nuts start to build up along the container’s sides. Remove the lid and use a spatula to push the mixture back down toward the blades. Replace the lid and resume blending until you need to push the mixture back down again. Repeat as needed.








The amount of time may vary according to the strength of your food processor and the amount of nuts.
 After approximately 20 minutes of constant blending, expect the mixture to attain a creamier consistency.If clumpiness persists, add a teaspoon of olive oil to soften the mixture. Continue blending and adding oil until it reaches your desired consistency.








Add salt as desired and continue blending to mix it in.
Add extra roasted almonds and process briefly for chunky butter.
 Unplug the machine and detach the canister from the base. Use a serving spoon to transfer the bulk of the butter from the processor to an airtight container. Remove the S-blade and use your spoon or spatula to push any clinging butter into the container. Then rake up any butter clinging to the processor’s sides. Seal your container when finished and store it in the refrigerator.Refrigerated almond butter should last up to 3 weeks.