 Choose well-tailored clothes that flatter your figure, and are not too revealing or flashy.


Begin building your wardrobe around neutral colors (black, white, grey, brown, navy), and add color as an accent.
Basic pieces like button-up shirts, shirtdresses, nice slacks, blazers and sweaters are good pieces to start with.
You can still be fashionable, but steer clear of items that are too tight, short or low-cut.
Little things make a difference, like buttoning just one more button on your shirt, or layering a cami under a sweater that is a little too clingy.
Don't wear tops with low necklines as to show cleavage, it is important not to show too much skin. Or if you are wearing a collared shirt, consider doing up all of the buttons. This has an effect on the rest of your outfit as well, making you appear more prim, proper, sensible and conservative (the desired effect!).;
, Keep jewelry and other accessories modest, tasteful and classic.


Pearl strands, diamond or CZ studs, and tennis bracelets are all examples of classic jewelry.
A pretty print scarf, a glittery brooch or a single statement necklace are easy ways to add a bit of color and style while remaining tasteful.
 Conservative girls keep their hair well maintained but basic.


Basic hairstyles are best. A bob or a cut with soft layers are both solid choices. A neat bun or ponytail are also good options.
It's fine to color your hair, but stick to natural hair colors. You won't find too many conservative girls with green streaks in their hair.
Whatever style you choose, keeping your hair neat is key.
 Stick with neutral, natural looking colors.


Apply makeup with a light hand. Too much makeup can look fake and cheap.
If you like to use bright makeup, choose one part of your face to highlight and keep the rest understated. A really red lipstick would call for more subtle eye makeup; if you love a bright eyeshadow, choose a neutral lip color or just opt for a colorless gloss.
A tasteful tattoo is OK, but you might want to get it in an area you can easily cover up with clothing.

