 Most modern washing machines have a bleach dispenser drawer or compartment. Fill the drawer or compartment completely with bleach.Older models may not have a bleach dispenser. If this is the case with your washer, simply add between a half and a full cup of bleach directly into your machine's tub.If your bleach dispenser holds less than a quarter cup of bleach, you may want to consider using concentrated bleach. This will allow you to use the bleach dispenser but get the cleaning power of more bleach.;
, Hot water will help to sanitize and clean the inside of the washer. It will more effectively loosen any oils and grease that has built up over time than cold water would.The hot cycle does require more energy than a cold cycle, but if you only clean your washer every few months, you are not using than much more energy.
 You can either run a regular long cycle or, if your washer has one of these settings, a “Maintenance Cycle” or “Clean Out Cycle.” Both will swirl the bleach and hot water around the washer basin and the agitator, cleaning them thoroughly.Make sure the washer is empty when you run it. Any fabrics that are left in the washer will get bleach on them.
 In order to allow the bleach to really clean the inside of your machine, you should turn the machine off and allow the bleach to soak in the drum. Let it sit for about an hour before turning it back on and finishing up the cycle.You can stop the cycle on most machines by opening the door or pulling on the dial.
 If you are concerned with some residual bleach being present in the tub of your washer, consider running the washer a second time on hot, but without adding bleach. This second wash will get rid of any left over bleach. However, you could just choose to run a cycle of whites after you clean the washer, which would clean out any residual bleach and benefit the white fabrics.

Some people also suggest that you put a little vinegar in with this second wash to really get rid of the bleach. However, mixing bleach and vinegar can cause dangerous chlorine gas to be created, so this should not be done.