 Before deciding to close your business, it is important to evaluate your business’ financial strengths and its debt obligations.


Determine whether there are costs that you can cut in order to make the business more profitable. You should check to see if you can reduce your payroll costs, renegotiate your lease, or reduce business overhead by changing vendors. Reducing costs may allow you to stay in business longer or make your company more sellable.;
, Before you make any final decisions about closing your business, you should speak with your accountant, lawyer and potentially other trusted business advisors.


You want to make sure that you have exhausted all avenues for making a profit and your accountant can review your books and explain the likelihood of turning a failing business around.
If you still think you should close your business, your lawyer can help guide you through all of the legal requirements. This may entail filing payroll taxes, corporate dissolution documents or other IRS tax forms., If you are an LLC or a corporation, you must review your corporate documents, including bylaws, articles of organization and any partner agreements to determine what, if any, steps you must take to gain partner approval to close the business.


Generally, LLCs require partners to meet and vote on a dissolution. If there is a majority that support closing the business then the LLC can move forward with settling its accounts, paying its employees and filing its paperwork.It is important that you follow the specific state rules where your business is registered or incorporated. You can find a state-by-state guide to requirements for dissolving an LLC at: http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/how-dissolve-llc-your-state.html

Corporations also require a require a vote by shareholders or members to dissolve the company. Typically, the corporation’s business documents will dictate the procedures for closure, but if they don’t then you must review your state’s business statutes and follow any requirements.., You are required to notify your creditors before closing your business. This allows your creditors to calculate all of your outstanding debt and position themselves to collect. Before selling any assets you should discuss your plans for liquidation with your creditor and explain how you intend to repay your debt., Once you have decided to close your business, you want to make sure that you get as much money as you can in order to pay off creditors and hopefully walk away with the business with some profit. Since you need to collect the outstanding debt as quickly as possible, consider the following:


Call debtors directly and ask them to remit payment. You can also offer a discount as an incentive for the debtor to pay you quickly.
Attempt to collect on the debt before you announce the closure of the business. A debtor may try to hold out on paying you if he or she knows the business is closing anyway.
If you have significant accounts receivable, consider selling them to a company that buys accounts receivables. These companies will buy your debt at a reduced value and then aggressively pursue debt collection for their own company. While you will not get full value for your accounts receivable, you do not have to try to collect on any debt and you can get access to funds fairly quickly., If you are under contract to provide certain goods and/or services, you must either fulfill your end of the bargain or try to negotiate to end your relationship early. It is very important that you speak to your customers with outstanding orders and try to reach a solution. If you fail to reach a compromise or complete the order, you can be sued for breach of contract., It is important to take a thorough inventory of all your assets and then begin the process of selling them. Depending on how quickly you need to close the business, you may need to offer significant discounts to move the products quickly.You can also consider selling your assets in the following ways:


Sell your assets at an auction. You can hold an auction on your business premises and this allows you to sell the greatest amount of inventory with the least amount of extra work and additional shipping costs.
Sell to a local consignment store. These businesses take your goods and when they sell them, they pay you a percentage of the sale.
Sell items online. There are a number of places like EBAY where people sell their goods through an online marketplace. This may be a good venue for selling smaller items. If you have large pieces of equipment, however, shipping costs may make the sale cost prohibitive for many buyers., If your business is renting space, you need to provide the landlord with notice of when you are terminating your lease. You may be required to pay for the entirety of the lease unless you or the landlord can find a new tenant. This is called mitigating damages and you would only be responsible for the rent from the time you ended your lease until the new tenant moved in.


Some landlords may be willing to allow you to pay a fee to terminate the lease, especially if the location is under high demand.
Because you are closing your business, landlords may be more willing to negotiate with you in order to ensure that they are receiving some payment for the terminated lease., As the business winds down, you must pay your employees what they are owed. This could include wages or unused vacation time.


You may be required to provide employees with a final paycheck within a certain amount of time. You can check state-specific laws regarding final paychecks here: http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/final-paycheck-employee-rights-chart-29882.html

The U.S. Department of Labor provides links to state agencies so that you can determine whether your state requires you to pay employees for their unused vacation time. You can find that information here: http://www.dol.gov/whd/contacts/state_of.htm

Depending on the size of your business, you may be required to provide employees a certain amount of notice before closing your business. For companies with 100 or more employees, you may be required to provide employees with 60-days notice., It is very important that you submit employees’ withheld taxes to the state and federal government on time. Failure to submit these taxes could result in a penalty equal to the amount owed and the government can seize assets in order to be collect on the amount., Once you have sold all of your assets, you must inform your creditors and pay your outstanding debt. If your business had few assets, creditors may be willing to negotiate a debt settlement with you.


Since you previously notified your creditors, you should have received their claims for unpaid debt. You should begin by paying secured loans (loans that are guaranteed repayment by using property as collateral) and then pay off your secured debts.
You can then pay off any business credit cards or outstanding bills to suppliers., You must file all required state and federal tax information. The IRS created a checklist for closing businesses to ensure that they meet their tax obligations. The checklist can be found at: https://www.irs.gov/Businesses/Small-Businesses-&-Self-Employed/Closing-a-Business-Checklist. Generally, you should discuss with your accountant which of the following taxes you must pay:


Payroll taxes and Sales tax.
Federal and State Income tax.
Business tax returns, including those required of an employer.
Pension plans, withholding statements and employees’ Social Security and Medicare., If, after paying all of your creditors, you still have funds remaining, you can distribute those assets to the business’ owners and partners, if any. You should consider setting some money aside to repay any final debt claims.Make sure that you follow the company’s bylaws or other organizing documents when distributing funds.
 If you have not already done so, notify utility companies that you terminated your lease and want to stop services. Also, once final distributions have been made, you should close all business accounts, including bank accounts, credit cards and social media accounts., You are required to maintain your business records for several years after you close. This allows you to defend against any claims that may arise. The Small Business Association suggests you keep your records for at least 7 years.