 When you are really missing your significant other and can’t seem distract yourself from thinking about him or her, don’t try to anymore. Sometimes trying to not think about someone just reinforces the fact that you miss the person so much. Instead, ask yourself why you feel sad or angry at that moment. Once you know why you feel a certain way, you can do something about it.


When you feel longing, ask yourself: are you bored, did you have a bad day and wish they were there to talk about it, do you miss things they usually do for you? Go see a movie, call a friend to talk, or learn how to cook an exotic cuisine.
If you find yourself feeling angry or frustrated, try to figure out exactly what those feelings are about. Do you feel abandoned, forgotten, or insignificant? These are likely extreme responses to being separated that do not reflect your partner’s feelings or intentions.
 When you think, “I miss him so much! I can’t stand it anymore,” stop and correct your tendency to think in negative terms. Instead, adjust your thought patterns so that they reflect positive feelings about yourself. Remind yourself that you can stand it, and that being apart doesn’t have to be a bad thing.When you find yourself pining over all the time you are missing together, stop yourself and focus on the present moment. Replace “I wish we were together right now,” with something like “it’s nice to have the cat (or dog) all to myself today. Usually she goes to my partner first.” Change feeling lonely into feeling connected to someone or something else.
Use logic to overcome your negative feelings if you are stuck. Thinking, “I can’t be happy when he or she isn’t around,” will certainly make you feel unhappy. Instead, acknowledge you control your own feelings and decide to be happy doing something else right then.
Cognitive patterns are established through effort. Each time you perform an activity, or think a loaded thought, your brain is more likely to do it again.Learning to correct negativity by focusing on positive thought takes time and practice. Be patient with yourself and don’t make yourself feel worse through self-criticism.
 Instead of being sad, think about how grateful you are to have such a wonderful partner. Make a list of things you appreciate about him or her, or blessings your significant other has brought into your life.


Think about how you have changed for the better by being together: are you more patient, mature, or friendly? Have you expanded your horizons and overcome any old fears? Are you proud of yourself for learning to think of your loved ones before your own needs?
Deciding to focus on what you have instead of what you don’t does not mean that you can’t allow yourself to miss your significant other. It’s ok to miss someone you care about.
Try to develop a habit of noticing when you feel lonely and wish your significant other was with you, and deciding to focus instead on feeling grateful for the time you do have together. Start a gratitude journal and keep it with you at all times so you can immediately redirect your feelings when they arise.

