 Often, having a small garden or even a few potted plants can be a cheap way to get in the veggies you need. Try growing a tomato plant, for instance, or even just a few herbs on your window sill., You can buy pre-made snacks at the store that are a bit healthier than your average chips, such as veggie chips or fruit cups. However, they tend to be expensive, so making your own at home is a more affordable alternative.For example, try making kale chips. Wash and dry kale thoroughly. Chop or tear the leaves into large pieces. Toss them in olive oil, or spray them with cooking spray, and then spread them out on a large baking sheet in a single layer. Sprinkle salt and pepper on top and any other seasoning you want. Bake them at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 Celsius) until crispy (about 15 minutes).
You can also make yourself individual cups of fruits and veggies. For instance, cut up oranges, apples, and grapefruit, and toss them with a tiny bit of honey. Spoon them into small reusable containers so you can grab them any time. You can do the same with veggies. Cut them into bite-sized pieces, and put them in reusable bags. Spoon out (homemade) hummus into individual containers to go with them.
 Stocks and broths are a great way to start out soups, but buying them in cans or cartons can get expensive. Plus, they're often loaded with extra sodium. Making your own at home results in better quality, and it's cheaper, too.You can even make a stock with your scraps. Save the bits of vegetables you have leftover, such as onion skins, the ends of carrots, and the tops of celery. When you eat a chicken, save the bones and the bits of meat. Freeze them in a bag until you have enough. When you do, throw them in a pot and cover them with water. Boil them (covered on low heat) for six to eight hours or until you have a stock with a flavor you like. Strain it, and your stock is ready.
Once you have your stock, you can portion it out in small containers and freeze it.
 Lots of foods besides snacks and broths can be made cheaper at home. For instance, if you eat yogurt often, making your own yogurt might be a good option. For bread, consider investing in a bread machine, so you can make your own bread with the push of a button.