 Chiropractors work with the alignment of your musculoskeletal structure to encourage healing and pain relief. Chiropractic care generally is an alternative treatment for pain in your muscles, joints, bones, cartilage, ligaments, and tendons.Chiropractic care is used most often for back, leg and neck pain., Another common alternative therapy for chronic pain management is acupuncture. Acupuncture can be very beneficial for arthritic pain, migraines and other forms of chronic pain.Before getting acupuncture, take the time to learn about acupuncture, where to find a reputable, experienced practitioner, and think about whether it is a treatment for you.Talk to your pain management team to get recommendations for either an acupuncturist or a chiropractor.
 Getting a massage will not only help relieve tension, but also help relieve stress. These two things can lead to increased pain. Massages are good for all pain, especially back and neck.Find a massage therapist who specializes in chronic pain.
For patients with fibromyalgia, normal massage can be very painful so make sure to let the therapist know and to ask for light, gentle techniques.
 Other alternative treatments can include biofeedback techniques and other newer medical devices, including neurostimulators and drug pumps. You can talk to your physician about which might be right for you.


When using biofeedback, you wear sensors on your body that lets you track body functions. As you study the beeps or lines the sensors report to you, you can learn to control certain bodily functions and impulses.There are also newer “wearable” devices and patches that can provide pain relief for a variety of conditions.There are headbands for migraine, patches for muscular pain, devices for joint pain and electrostimulators (often known as TENS devices).
 Research is showing that inflammation may play a part in chronic diseases.Though research is ongoing, it may be that diet can help — by avoiding certain foods, and including those with anti-inflammatory properties, you may be able to reduce your pain.

An anti-inflammatory diet is similar to the Mediterranean Diet. Emphasize lots of fruits and vegetables, snack on nuts, eat fish packed with omega 3's, and healthy fats (monounsaturated and polyunsaturated).Include these anti-inflammatory spices in your cooking: turmeric, ginger, cinnamon, garlic, cayenne, black pepper, and clove.Foods to avoid or minimize include sugar, saturated fats, trans fats, excessive omega 6 fatty acids, gluten, casein, refined carbohydrates, mono-sodium glutamate (MSG), aspartame, and alcohol., If medical marijuana is available to you, that is an approach that has proven very effective for many people. Studies are indicating that medical marijuana is a safe and effective approach to pain relief.Discuss this option with your pain management team and find out if it is legal where you live.

