 A traditional MA is a deep, dark red colour with white on the belly, head, tail and hind legs. However, some of today's MAs are black and white, all black, or all red.White on the hind legs can be seen to begin from the flanks of the animal down to the hooves. The white on the front legs almost always runs from the top or middle of the canon bone down to the top of the hooves. Some may have no white on the front hooves at all. #*White coloring can also be found on the lower half of the tail, and sometimes as a diamond or half-moon on the top of the forehead.
Some animals can have white over other parts of the body, like over the loins and/or over the shoulders.;
, Maine Anjou cattle are large, tall cattle, with long legs in proportion to the rest of their body height.


They are not fine boned like Limousins, but are long in body like this breed.
MAs are beefy, robust and rugged cattle, though they are not as rugged as other breeds that were created in more adverse conditions, such as Herefords.
Mature bulls can weigh from 2,200 pounds to over 3,100 pounds. Cows can range from 1,500 to over 1,900 pounds.
 These cattle tend to have a narrower forehead and longer heads than others such as Angus cattle. MA cattle can also have horns or be polled, meaning they have no horns at all.
 In North America, MA cattle are primarily used as a terminal beef breed for producing calves for market, though they are notorious for extremely high birth weights and poor calving ease, more so than Charolais or Simmentals are known for.
 Maine Anjou can sometimes be confused with Pinzgauers. However, if you remember that a Pinzgauer has a white strip, which extends along their toplines (the very top of the animal, where the spine is) from their shoulders to their rears, you should be able to avoid this mistake.


Use the height, and large size of MA cattle to distinguish them from other breeds that also come in black.
 Maine Anjou cows are great at producing high quality milk, and are often able to wean calves when they are six to eight months of age.Additionally, the meat they produce is of great quality, and is sought after by many chefs.Because of their high quality meat, you are most likely to find MAs on cattle ranches that breed cattle for meat production.
 Maine Anjou cattle are known for their docility, which makes them a popular breed. However, if they are frightened or feel threatened, they can be aggressive. Anjou cows tend to be great mothers, and the calves grow well and quickly.Be aware that while they are great mothers, this means that they can become very aggressive if they feel that their offspring are in danger. If you encounter a mother cow and her offspring, it is best to keep your distance. Do not attempt to approach the cow or her baby, as she may charge.
Because bulls often have to fight one another to establish dominance, they can be particularly aggressive; however, this is not specific to MAs. If you encounter a bull, do what you can to stay away from it. If there is a fence, make sure it is between you and the bull.

Things such as loud noises and chasing animals, such as dogs are frightening to cattle, and can lead to a defensive reaction.
 The Maine Anjou breed originated in the northwestern part of France. The breed came into existence when, in 1839, a French farmer successfully crossed a Durham animal with a Mancelle animal.However, at the time, these cattle were known as Durham-Mancelle until 1909 when the breed was renamed Maine Anjou in reference to the river valleys in France., Traditionally, MA cattle were bred for draft work, meat and even milk, though more emphasis was put on milk production and meat production than draft work. In many herds, half the cows were used for milk and the other half for producing beef calves for the market, which is still practiced in Europe today.In North America, MA cattle are primarily used as a terminal beef breed for producing calves for market.
 If you want additional information about the history of the Maine Anjou, do a quick google search.


Try searching with the term: "Maine Anjou", or "information about Maine Anjou".
In the United States, there is an association dedicated to MAs known as the Maine-Anjou Association. If you cannot find answers to any questions you have about MAs, you can consider calling or emailing them to see if they can offer help.
 Visit your local library or bookstore to find books related to cattle breeds. This way, you can learn about the Maine Anjou and compare it with pictures of other breeds as well.
 The best way to learn to identify the Maine Anjou is to see them in person. If the rancher has time, ask them to explain to you how you can identify an MA in a herd of cattle. They may also be able to show you specific examples of the different markings described in part 1.


Try searching on Google for MA cattle ranches. Simply search for "Maine Anjou cattle ranch", and you will find several ranches who raise Maine Anjou cattle. Explore their websites for information about the Maine Anjou, as well as for any information about visiting the ranch.
If you wish to visit a ranch, be sure to contact the ranch owner first.

It may be best to contact them via email, if their website offers one. They could feel put on the spot if you call them and may refuse outright. Sending an email will give them an opportunity to consider your request carefully and may make it more likely that they can find time in their schedule.
When contacting the owner, be polite, and explain why you are interested in visiting. Help them understand what makes you interested in learning to identify this particular breed. They may be more willing to help if you can demonstrate why it is important for you to identify this breed correctly.
Understand that ranchers have tough and time consuming jobs, so be aware that they may not have time to accommodate your wishes. If they refuse, search for another ranch that may be able to help you.


If a Maine Anjou rancher does invite you to visit their ranch, consider bringing along a small gift to show your appreciation, such as home made cookies. They will be taking time out of their day to help you, so it is nice to demonstrate your appreciation.
 If you see a herd of cattle, and if you are allowed and it is safe to do so, snap a few pictures to look at later. You can then compare them with pictures of MAs on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.


By taking pictures of cattle you believe to be MAs and then comparing them with pictures of cattle you know to be MAs, you can begin to notice the subtle differences between MAs and other, similar breeds.

