 If you are representing a company, write the company’s address. If you are the sender, write your address. Write your street address on the second line. Write your city, state, and zip code on the line below that. Include your telephone under your address.In cases where you represent a business, you can put your logo and address right in the middle of the page. Make sure to center it so that it looks uniform.;
, It should be one line beneath the sender’s address (two hard returns on a keyboard). The date is important for two reasons: if you're trying to get the person or organization to complete a task in a timely manner (send a paycheck, fix an order, etc.), it will give them a time frame to work with or if you need to save a copy of the letter for legal reasons or posterity, the date is absolutely necessary.


If you are writing in a Modified Block style, everything is formatted to the left except for the date and closing. When writing the date, tab over to the center of the page and place the date in the center., Include his or her title (Mr., Mrs., Ms., Miss, Dr. etc). Follow the recipient’s name with his/her job title. Below the name, write the name of the company. One line below that, write the recipient’s street address. On the next line, write the recipient’s city, state, and zip code.If you do not know the recipient’s title, do some background research or call the company to find out. Always use a woman’s preference (Mrs. Ms., Miss or Dr.) If you do not know a woman’s preference, use Ms.
 "Dear Sir/Madam" works fine, or if you know the name of the person, address them directly; ensure, however, that you address them formally using "Rev.", "Dr.", "Mr.", "Mrs.", or "Ms.", and include their full name if known. Place a colon after the salutation and add a line (two hard returns) between the salutation and the body of the letter.


If you know the recipient and typically address them by his or her first name, it is fine to use only the first name. (ie. Dear Cody:)

, The body of the letter need not be more than three paragraphs. If you can't say it in three paragraphs or less then you're probably not being concise enough. Single space and left justify each paragraph within the body.


In the first paragraph, write a friendly opening and then state the reason or goal of the letter. Cut straight to the chase.
In the second paragraph, use examples to stress or underline your point, if possible. Concrete, real examples are always better than hypothetical examples.
In the final paragraph, briefly summarize your purpose in writing and suggest how you might want to proceed further.
 Leave space between your salutation and your printed name for a signature, if possible. "Yours sincerely," "Sincerely," and "Best," are all appropriate. Leave a space under your printed name for your signature. Finish with your title underneath your signature if applicable.


If you are writing in Modified Block style, everything is left justified (the same as Block Style) except for the date and the closing. Tab to the center of the page and then write your closing.
 Only do this if you enclosing other material, such as a resume or schedule, along with the letter. If there is more than one extra item, it would be a good idea to list the names of the enclosed items.
 Double check the spelling of names, addresses etc. Make sure your writing is clear and concise. Fix any grammar errors.

