 Are you just planning to paint and redecorate, or are you looking to do a big overhaul of the structure? Are you planning on changing walls, adding new furniture, installing new windows, or keeping it simple with a lick of paint?;
, You may need to prioritize what's possible, but start with a broad brainstorm of what you'd prefer to have.


If you are in school you might want a desk, or some built-in shelves.
If you are a fashionista, you might want a bigger closet. This is a much bigger construction job than just adding some new furniture to the room, but at this stage it's okay to "dream big".
 It's time to get more realistic and set your limits. The worst thing to do, is buy everything you like, then run out of money for the things you really want.
 Unless you're hiring a construction crew and doing a large remodel, you'll probably have to let some options go out of the window, based on your budget and DIY skills.


If you are planning a big remodel, you'll eventually need to get estimates from professionals so that you can find out whether your plans are do-able and financially feasible (see next section).
 Talk to the people you live with (if you live with roommates), or a landlord (apartment), or parents (if your a child and still lives with them), and make sure they are okay with your plan.


While this step isn't actually necessary for calculating costs, it's a good step to take, since you don't want to waste your time getting quotes for a job that isn't going to be allowed by the home-owner anyway.
 Go to stores, or go online shopping.


When you are at the stores record the prices of the things you want.  Then you can see how much things cost.
It is much easier to find items and shop in general online.
 If you want to make structural changes to your house contact multiple professionals.


Talk to a range of construction companies/professionals and get quotes from them.
Compare the work they do and their prices. Make sure they all meet local licensing and insurance requirements, and pick the best company for your requirements.
  Make a detailed list of everything you'd need: new furniture items, supplies, construction costs, etc. Add all the costs up and there is the cost for your bedroom remodel.

