 If you're using any kind of packaged formula, check the package for the expiration date or use by date. If the date has passed, discard the formula. Babies' immune systems are not as robust as adults', so they are more susceptible to food-borne illnesses that may be present in expired formula.If you have an unopened, expired can of baby formula at home, many stores will allow you to return it for a free replacement.
If you're feeding your baby breast milk, you should always label it with the date that you pumped the milk to ensure that it is not too old to be used. Breast milk can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 24 hours and in the freezer for up to six months.;
, As you're shopping for formula, check each container carefully to make sure it is not damaged in any way. Even small defects to the packing can allow harmful bacteria to grow in the formula.


Although a small dent may not seem like a big deal, it can cause the formula to spoil if the inner layer of the can is damaged.If your formula comes in pouches, do not purchase or use any pouch that is swelling or leaking., Your hands can carry lots of potentially harmful bacteria, so always wash them thoroughly before handling your baby's bottle. Household surfaces like counter tops can also harbor bacteria, so be sure to clean the surface on which you will be preparing the bottle before you begin., Before using a bottle or nipple for the first time, sterilize it in boiling water for at least five minutes. You should then thoroughly clean each component using soap and water or in the dishwasher before each subsequent use.You can also buy a special sterilizer for cleaning baby bottles. Some experts recommend that you sterilize feeding supplies before each use., If you are using a formula that you need to add water to, it's a good idea to sterilize the water before mixing the bottle. You can do this by boiling the water for five minutes. Then let the water cool for no more than 30 minutes before mixing the bottle.Don't use water that has previously been boiled and cooled.
Avoid artificially softened water, as it may contain too much sodium.
Bottled water is not always sterile, so you should boil it just as you would tap water.
If you use boiled water to make your baby bottles, be sure to let it cool down enough after mixing so that it will not scald your baby. You can check the temperature of the formula by squeezing a small amount on to the inside of your wrist.
If your bottled water indicates that it is sterile, you do not need to boil water prior to mixing., Start preparing your bottle by pouring the desired amount of sterilized water into a clean bottle. If you are unsure of how much water to add, consult the instructions on the packaging to determine a correct serving size.Always add the water before the powder. This will help ensure that you measure properly.
 Consult the formula packaging to determine how much powder you should add to the water. You should find a ratio of scoops of formula to ounces of water on the packaging. All formulas are different.Always use the scoop that was provided with the container of formula to measure out the powder. You do not need to pack the formula into the scoop; simply fill it loosely and level it off using a clean knife or a leveling tool (if one was provided with the formula).
It is very important that you add the correct amount of powdered formula to your baby's bottle. Adding too much can cause your baby to become dehydrated, and adding too little can cause your baby to become malnourished.
 Once you have added both the water and the powder to the bottle, place the nipple, ring, and cap on the bottle. Make sure it is closed securely, and then shake the bottle vigorously. Once the powder has fully dissolved, the bottle is ready to serve or store., There are two different kinds of liquid formula available: concentrated and ready-to-use. Read the packaging carefully in order to determine which type of liquid formula you have. This is very important, as you will need to add water if your formula is concentrated., Regardless of which type of liquid formula you are using, it's a good idea to shake the container before pouring the formula into the bottle. This will help ensure that the formula is fully mixed and not settled., After you have shaken the container thoroughly, open it and pour the desired amount of liquid formula into a clean bottle.Remember that if you are using concentrated formula, you will be adding water, so you will want to pour less formula into the bottle. The container should provide instructions regarding how much formula to use for various serving sizes.
If you do not use the entire container for your bottle, close the container and store it in the refrigerator. Follow the manufacturer's recommendations for storing time.
 If you are using concentrated formula, you will need to dilute it with sterilized water before serving it to your baby. All formulas are different, so read the packaging instructions carefully to determine how much water you should add.If the formula is labeled as ready to drink or ready-made, do not add water.
 Once you have added the formula and the water (for concentrated formula only) to the bottle, attach the nipple, ring, and cap to the bottle. Be sure that everything is securely fastened, and then shake the bottle to mix the contents together. The bottle is now ready to serve or store., If you will be feeding your baby breast milk, but will be unable to breastfeed, you will need to express your breast milk ahead of time and store it until feeding time. If you will only be doing this occasionally, you may wish to express your breast milk manually.Do this by placing your thumb just above your areola and two fingers slightly below the nipple. Then apply pressure towards your rib cage and roll your fingers towards the nipple.
You can capture the milk in the bottle you will be using for feeding, or in a separate container. If you will be storing the milk, be sure to keep it in a covered container in the refrigerator.
 If you will be using bottles often, you will probably want to use a breast pump to express your milk. This will make expressing your milk much faster.Breast pumps are available in both manual and electric varieties.
Most breast pumps come with bottles or other containers that can be attached directly to the pump for easy collection.Always read the instructions to ensure that you are using your breast pump correctly.
You may be able to rent a breast pump if you don't want to buy one.
Be sure to clean the breast pump before using it.
 If you used a different container to collect the milk than you will be using to feed your baby, pour the milk into the bottle. Then attach the nipple and screw the bottle closed. If you will be storing the bottle, put a cap on it and place it in the refrigerator.
 Heating bottles is not necessary, but some parents choose to do it because their babies prefer warm bottles. There is nothing wrong with serving your baby a bottle that is cool or room temperature, as long as the baby will drink it.Don't leave formula out of the refrigerator for more than two hours.Breast milk can be safely kept at room temperature for up to six hours, although it's best to refrigerate it within four hours., If you choose to warm the bottle, one easy way to do it is to place it in a bowl of warm water for several minutes. The water should be very warm, but not hot.Place the bottle in the center of the bowl, making sure the height of the water is about the same as the height of the milk or formula.
 If you want an even easier way to warm your baby's bottle, you can purchase an electric bottle warmer. To use a bottle warmer, simply place the bottle in the device and turn it on. It will take about four to six minutes to heat the bottle.You can also purchase small, battery-operated bottle warmers to use while traveling.
 Another way to warm a bottle is to hold it under the faucet for several minutes. Make sure the water is warm, but not hot enough to scald you., While it may seem tempting to simply heat your baby's bottle in the microwave, you should avoid doing this at all costs. Microwaves do not heat evenly, so they may create hot spots that can scald your baby's mouth., No matter how you decide to heat your bottle, it's always a good idea to confirm that the contents are an appropriate temperature before you give it to your baby. To do so, hold the bottle upside down and sprinkle a few drops of milk onto your wrist. The milk should feel neither cold nor hot.If the milk is a comfortable temperature, you can go ahead and give the bottle to your baby.
If it is too hot, allow it to cool before feeding the baby.
If the milk feels cold, continue warming the bottle until it is lukewarm.
 The best way to keep bottles free from contaminants is to prepare them on an as-needed basis. If possible, do not mix extra bottles ahead of time and store them for future use.If you must store a bottle, store it near the back of the refrigerator, where the temperature remains the coldest., If you need to store bottles of breast milk for future use, you can typically store them in the refrigerator for up to 24 hours. If you will not use the milk within 24 hours, you may freeze it in a plastic container with a lid or a breast milk bag.If your baby has been hospitalized, be sure to follow your doctor's recommendations regarding storing breast milk, as it may not be advised.
If you are using a regular freezer that is attached to a refrigerator, store breast milk frozen for no more than one month. If you are using a deep freezer, you may store it for three to six months. The longer you leave it frozen, the more likely the nutrients in the milk are to degrade, so use it as soon as possible.
Thaw frozen milk in the refrigerator, or place it in a bowl of warm water. Once it has thawed, do not refreeze it.
Labeling milk with the date is a good idea, as it will prevent you from accidentally using milk that has been stored for too long.
 Liquid formula, both concentrated and ready-to-use, can typically be stored in the container in the refrigerator for 24-48 hours. Storage instructions may vary for different brands of formula.Always read and follow the storage directions on the container. If the manufacturer recommends storing formula in the refrigerator for a maximum of 24 hours, don't store it for any longer.
 Extreme heat and cold can degrade baby formula, so try to store your containers of powered formula somewhere where the temperature will consistently be between 55 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit. Keep it away from direct sunlight and heating and cooling vents.Once a can of powdered formula has been opened, it's best to use the contents of the can within one month.
 If you will be out when your baby needs to be fed, you can make it easy to prepare a powdered formula bottle on the go. Simply boil and cool your water ahead of time and place it in a sealed bottle. Then measure out the appropriate amount of powdered formula and store this in a separate sterile container. When it's time to feed the baby, empty the powder into the bottle and shake.Make sure to wash your hands before mixing the bottle.
If you will be outside and the weather will be hot, then you may want to place both the bottle and the container of powdered formula in a cooler bag with a small, towel-wrapped ice pack. Remember that you do not want to make the water or formula cold, you just want to prevent it from becoming hot.
Storing the water and powder separately is preferable to storing pre-mixed powder formula because the powder may separate and clump during storage.
 If your baby doesn't finish a bottle within an hour, throw it out instead of saving it for a future feeding. This applies whether you are feeding breast milk or formula. The bacteria in your baby's mouth can get inside the bottle and grow while the bottle is stored in the refrigerator. This can sicken your baby later on.