 Have a reasonable idea of what diamond color and carat weight you are looking for. Colorless diamonds (D, E, and F) are more rare and thus will cost more. Near-colorless diamonds (G, H, I, and J) are more economical and offer the best of both worlds.

Did you know that most people cannot start to see color in a diamond until the H/I color range, with most people detecting color in J or below? Money Saving Tip: If you are setting your diamond in a white gold or platinum setting stick with G/H color. If you are setting your diamond in a yellow gold setting stick with J/K color.



 

;
, Since cut is the most important characteristic when it comes to a diamond's brilliance and sparkle, you do not want to compromise in this area. Cut is a somewhat complex characteristic to evaluate.

Even the most diamond dealers and jewelers underestimate the importance of a diamond's cut proportions. For round brilliant diamonds, look for the following dimensions: Table % = 52.4% to 57.5%, Depth % = 58.7% to 62.3%, Crown Angle = 33.7 to 35.8 degrees, Pavilion Angle = 40.5 to 41.0 degrees.
 Remember that natural diamonds are 1-3 billion years old and were formed originally deep within the Earth's mantle. Through extreme heat and pressure they gained their durability and hardness. Inclusions are a natural by-product of this natural process and shouldn't be unexpected.

Clarity does not equal brilliance. A diamond's ability to reflect light from within its facets is indicative of its cut - so be sure to focus on cut quality above anything else.
 Some natural diamond fluoresce and this is usually seen in special UV lighting situations such as black lights (nightclub). This can be a positive or negative aspect to your diamond's beauty so this is an important consideration.

For diamonds that are colorless (D-F), a strong blue fluorescence can sometimes make the diamond appear "milky" or even cloudy. However. this is in some cases and not all cases. In other situations, near-colorless (G-J) and tinted (K-M) diamonds can actually benefit from the strong blue fluorescence because the natural yellow tint that they have can be cancelled out by the blue hue.
In both cases, it is important to see actual pictures of the strong blue fluorescent diamond to ensure that it is not negatively affected by the fluorescence.







