 In order to preserve a snowflake, you will need a microscope slide with a coverslip, liquid superglue, a small paintbrush, a magnifying glass, and a dark cloth or piece of cardboard. You will also need a snowy day!Microscope slides and coverslips can be purchased online.
The superglue must the liquid type. Gel superglue will not work for this.
The small paintbrush is optional, but it does make it easier to manipulate the snowflakes without breaking them.
Go snowflake hunting during a light snowfall; you are more likely to find unbroken, larger specimens as opposed to snowflakes ravaged in a snowstorm.;
, In order to prevent the snowflake from melting on contact with the slide or glue, you must chill them in the freezer before use. You want both to be very cold to keep the snowflake intact.Chill in the freezer for 30 minutes.
Avoid chilling the superglue for more than 30 minutes as it will freeze and then you will have to wait for it to thaw again.
 Once supplies are readied, go outside and find a cold, smooth surface free of snow. You can wipe off part of a table or even a small patch of concrete on the ground. Place the cardboard on the surface and set the slides and super glue down nearby. Let snow collect on the cardboard and examine the flakes with the magnifying glass.Choose the snowflakes you would like preserve and use the paintbrush to sweep away the ones you don’t want.
Try to use larger snowflakes as specimens since the detail is more pronounced.
 Using the paintbrush, pick up the snowflake and brush it onto the microscope slide. Position it where you would like. You can add more than one snowflake to each slide.


Handle the glass slides near the edges and avoid touching the surfaces directly. Handling the face of the slides too much could cause the glass to warm up.
If the snowflakes are melting, the day may be too warm. Days that are well below freezing are better for preserving the snowflakes., After you have acquired enough snowflakes for your liking, add a small drop of superglue to the center of each snowflake and immediately place the cover slide on top of the snowflakes pushing down very, very, gently.


Handle the thin cover-slips carefully as they have sharp edges and are fragile.
 Keeping the slides in the freezer allows the super glue to dry around the snowflakes while they are still frozen. Place the slides in location where they won’t be bumped or broken.


Note that it can take up to a week for the superglue to dry in the freezer. To be safe, leave them in for the whole week.Tell your family to be careful when they open the freezer to not break your slides.
Once the glue has dried, you can remove the slides from the freezer and examine the snowflakes under a microscope!

