 Start with a rectangular piece of scrap lumber, with 1" x 2" dimensions or smaller (20 x 40 mm). It should be about 8–9 inches (20–23 cm) long. You'll also need five short screws, small enough to drill through a popsicle stick.
 Take three popsicle sticks, each one a standard 4½ inches (11.5 cm) long. Drill three holes in each popsicle stick, the size of your small screws.


One hole near one end.
One hole near the other end.
One hole in the exact middle.
 Drill two holes on the same surface of the lumber, without drilling through the wood. Place the holes ½ inch (2.5 cm) from the same short end, in line with each other.


These holes should match the size of the screws.
 Fasten a screw through the hole at the end of a popsicle stick, and into one of the holes in your stick. Repeat with a second popsicle stick on the other side. These are your crossbow arms.
 Cut your last popsicle stick into two pieces, exactly through the central hole. Use a small handsaw or a serrated knife, to make sure the cut is even.
 Place a half-stick over one of the crossbow arms. Line them up so the full hole on the half-stick is over the center hole on the arm. Screw them together. Repeat with the other half-stick on the other side.
 Add these in line with the screws holding the crossbow arms, so you have four holes in a square pattern. Place them ¾ in (1.9 cm) away from the other holes.
 Fasten a screw about halfway into one of the new holes. Move one of the crossbow arms, so the half-stick touches the screw. The half-hole in the half-stick should rest around the screw. Repeat with a screw on the other side.


Don't tighten these screws all the way. This lets you place the crossbow arms in a sturdy position for firing, then shift the arms and fold them against the lumber.
 Take a long rubber band. Fit one end through the hole in the tip of the right crossbow arm. Wrap it around the tip once or twice to fasten it. Stretch the other end of the band to the left crossbow arm and repeat on the other side.
 Pull the rubber band back so it's taut, as though you were going to shoot it. Don't pull it back as far as it will go, or it will break after a few uses. Mark this spot on the lumber. Use a handsaw to make a notch across the lumber at this spot. You can keep the rubber band in this notch to make it ready for firing.


You may still need to hold your thumb over this notch, especially if the notch isn't deep or the rubber band is very stretched.
 Use a round file to make a groove in the lumber. Run it back and forth along the wood, from the firing tip to the notch. Go slow at first to make sure it stays in the center. Repeat until it's worn down into a deep groove. You can now fire wooden dowels out of your crossbow.
