 It's a gray app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.


If you are trying to change iCloud accounts on an iPhone or iPad that you purchased secondhand, click here ↓.;
, It's the section at the top of the screen that contains your name and image if you've added one.


If you are running an older version of iOS, instead tap iCloud.
 It's the last selection on the menu.
 Type the password associated with your Apple ID into the dialog box.
 It's at the bottom of the dialog box. Doing so disables "Find My iPhone" on the device for the current iCloud account.
 To keep copies of any old iCloud data, such as contacts, on your device, slide the buttons next to the corresponding app names to the "On" (green) position.


To delete all iCloud data from your device, make sure all buttons are "Off" (white).
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 Doing so confirms that you want to sign out of the iCloud account currently associated with your device.
 It's a gray app that contains an image of gears (⚙️) and is on your home screen.
 It's at the top of the menu.If you want to create a new Apple ID, tap Don't have an Apple ID or forgot it? below the password field on the screen, and follow the on-screen prompts to set up your free Apple ID and iCloud account.
If you are running an older version of iOS, instead tap iCloud.
, It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.


The screen will intermittently display the message "Signing into iCloud" as it accesses your data during the sign-in process.
 This is the unlock code you established for your device when you set it up.
 If you'd like the calendars, reminders, contacts, notes, and other data stored on your device to be merged with your iCloud account, tap Merge; if not, tap Don't Merge.
 It's in the second section of the menu.
 In the "APPS USING ICLOUD" section, slide each desired type to the "On" (green) or "Off" (white) position.


The selected data will be available on iCloud and any devices signed in to your current iCloud account.
Scroll down to see the complete list of apps that may access iCloud.

