 The WWE has frequent events, and the official schedule is available online. Many of these events include panels and meet-and-greets where you can meet your favorite WWE stars, including John Cena.


There are two types of events: wrestling matches and superstar appearances. You can find both schedules on the official WWE website.

The schedule of superstar appearances can be accessed at: http://www.wwe.com/schedules/appearances

The schedule of current wrestling match events can be accessed at: http://www.wwe.com/events



Even though John Cena attends many of these events, he won't be at all of them. You will need to navigate through the current list to determine which ones he will be a part of.
There will be opportunities to ask for autographs and photographs at many of these events, but since they tend to be crowded, the amount of time you can spend speaking with John Cena will be limited.;
, You might be able to learn about special panel events not listed on the website by watching the commercials in between your favorite WWE shows.


Currently, the WWE has shows on WWE Network, USA Network, Syfy Network, and Hulu Plus. You can also watch some WWE shows on Pay-Per-View.Many of the events you'll see advertised will also be listed on the WWE website. Those that aren't will usually be "last minute" events or events sponsored by the television network airing the show.
 You can send official fan mail to John Cena through the WWE. He receives a large amount of fan mail on a daily basis, so you may not get a response, but it could still be worth the effort.


You can express your desire to meet John Cena in your letter. He may not agree to your wish, but if your note or circumstances stand out, there is a slight chance that you could receive free tickets to his next event.
You can send an e-mail through the WWE website using their contact form: http://www.wwe.com/main-help/contact-us/contact-superstar

Alternatively, you can send a letter through the USPS by writing to:

John Cena
C/O WWE
1241 East Main Street
Stamford, CT 06902



, If you don't want to contact him through the WWE, you could try contacting him through one of his social media pages.


You can leave him a comment on any of his social media pages, but like standard fan mail, you may not receive a response.
Stating that you would like to meet him may not result in any tickets or invitations, but he might at least tell you about the next event he will be at.
John Cena is on Facebook, Twitter, and Vine.Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/johncena

Twitter: https://twitter.com/JohnCena




, In addition to being a wrestling superstar, John Cena also has a rapping career. His albums are co-marketed by Columbia Records, so you can watch Columbia Records for news of any upcoming "meet the artist" events featuring John Cena.


Most of his albums are are co-marketed by the WWE Music Group and Columbia Records. Any WWE Music Group events will show up on the standard WWE website event page, but Columbia Records is a separate label that holds its own separate events.
You can sign up for the Columbia Records newsletter online for the latest events and news: http://columbiarecords.com/newsletter/

Alternatively, you can watch the record label's social media accounts.Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/columbiarecords

Instagram: https://instagram.com/columbiarecords/

Vine: https://vine.co/ColumbiaRecords

YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/columbiarecords

Pinterest: https://www.pinterest.com/columbiarecords/




, If you've heard any of John Cena's music on a local radio station, listen to the station for additional opportunities to meet him.


Radio stations will occasionally sponsor contests that allow the winner to meet superstars like Cena at autographing or panel events.
Only stations that play his music are likely to advertise such contests, so if you don't know of any radio stations that play his stuff, this option may not work for you.
Make sure that you listen to the contest rules and meet any requirements. For instance, most contests require contestants to be 18 years or older and do not accept entries from people who are connected to the radio station.
 Aside from being a wrestler and a rapper, John Cena is also an actor. Most of the movies he has been in thus far have been produced by WWE Studios and 20th Century Fox.


John Cena has acted in several movies, including The Marine (2006), 12 Rounds (2009), and The Reunion (2011).Check the 20th Century Fox social media pages for its latest movie trailers and news. If John Cena will star in an upcoming film, you'll likely hear about it in advance from the company itself. You may also learn about possible movie premieres and related events.Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/FoxMovies

Twitter: https://twitter.com/20thcenturyfox

Google Plus: https://plus.google.com/+foxmovies/videos

YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/foxmovies

Tumblr: http://foxmovies.tumblr.com/




, If you or someone you know are severely ill, and your biggest wish is to meet John Cena, you can make a formal request through the Make-a-Wish Foundation or the Kids Wish Network.


John Cena has already granted hundreds of similar requests through both organizations.Both organizations are dedicated to granting the wishes of children facing serious illness. To have a wish granted, though, you'll need a referral from yourself, a parent, or a medical professional. Also note that you will need to be between the ages of 3 and 18 years old at the time of the request.You can learn more about each organization through their official websites:

Make-a-Wish Foundation: http://wish.org/

Kids Wish Network: http://kidswishnetwork.org/




, When you meet John Cena, make sure that you show your excitement. Most celebrities like hearing how much fans appreciate them, so there's no need to hold back.


Show your excitement before you even speak him by wearing a fan shirt. You can purchase official merchandise though the WWE or make your own shirt with text and images that show your support.
If you get to meet him in person, use your words, tone of voice, and overall body language to convey your excitement.
Keep it brief. Everyone has something to say, and unfortunately, there won't be enough time for everyone to have an in-depth conversation with Cena. State your support in a few sentences and be prepared to move on after that so the next fan can have his or her turn.
 Depending on the circumstances, you may or may not be able to get an autograph or photograph with John Cena.When attending official events, the event details will usually be posted somewhere and may include information on whether or not this is appropriate. Since many of these events are crowded, autographs and photographs will usually be limited to one when they are allowed at all.
If you aren't sure, you can always ask for an autograph or photograph. Your request might be denied, but don't take it personally. Be polite and move on without being pushy or angry about it.
 Overall, the most important thing to do when meeting John Cena is to be polite. Creating a disturbance can actually have some very negative consequences, especially when you're dealing with superstars like John Cena.


On a similar note, if you see him in public while he's in the middle of a meal or other personal moment, it would be more polite to leave him alone. If you absolutely can't contain your excitement and do decide to approach him, keep the encounter as brief as possible unless he encourages you to talk with him longer.

