 If you want to do well in any class, you're going to need to go to class on a regular basis. Skipping class will cause you to miss a lot of valuable course material and in-class discussions, and may cause you to lose points for attendance.It's not enough to simply show up to class. Strong attendance means showing up prepared and on time, having done the homework and any assigned readings.
Plan on asking questions if you didn't understand any part of the assignment, and participating in any in-class discussions that take place.;
, You should take notes while completing your assigned readings at home, and take notes during in-class lectures. When you get home from class or finish a reading you were notating, it's important to review what you've written and recopy your notes. This will help reinforce what you've learned and consolidate the material that you've been introduced to.In addition to at-home study sessions, you should set aside approximately 10 minutes before each class to review your notes from the previous class session. This will help refresh your memory, reinforce the material, and prepare you to connect what you've already learned to any new material that is taught that day.Take notes on any at-home readings. Read through the material once, then go through it more slowly, taking notes on any relevant or important information. Then make an outline of the material, drawing on the main concepts and terms of the chapter.
Use mnemonic devices or other memory games to help you memorize words/terms or concepts that you struggle with. Try using the first letter of each word to form a new acronym or nonsensical sentence that will help you remember what you're studying. (For example, the sentence "Every Good Boy Deserves Fudge" is a common mnemonic device for remembering the musical scale EGBDF.), Whether you're struggling with AP Spanish or just want to deepen your understanding of the material, a tutoring session may help reinforce what you've learned.Tutoring services are offered through some schools, or you can look online or in a newspaper for private tutors in your area.
 Spanish vocabulary is a central part of AP Spanish. If you're going to do well in the class, you must learn and study vocabulary words from class and from your text book. One way to do this is to make and use flash cards. Simply buy a stack of blank index cards and write the term or phrase in Spanish on one side with the English translation on the back. Then quiz yourself, keeping a separate pile of words/terms that you tend to struggle with.Study active verbs like alquilar (to rent), ayudar (to help), cantar (to sing), and escuchar (to listen).You can strengthen your understanding of these terms by forming your own sentences as you practice.
Learn adjectives like comprensivo (understanding), considerado (considerate), vanidoso (vain), mimado (spoiled), and modesto (modest).Try studying adjectives in pairs so that you learn one adjective and its opposite, then try using both words in a sentence.
You should have a list of vocabulary terms from your class or from your text book. If you do not have such a list, ask your teacher for a comprehensive list of words and terms to help you study and prepare for the exam. You can also search online to find a compiled vocabulary list at many school district websites, such as Elma, Washington's AP Spanish website., Interpersonal communication is the basic use of language in day-to-day conversation. This includes class discussions, asking questions, exchanging information or points of view, and explaining your opinions. You'll need to work on interpersonal communication to form a better understanding of the use of Spanish. It is also considered a core learning objective of AP Spanish.Practice forming questions and responding to those questions completely in Spanish.Work on writing your observations of people, places, and things entirely in Spanish. Then try to explain or justify those observations in Spanish, pretending that someone asked you to clarify how you jumped to those conclusions. This is good practice for an actual conversation, where someone would respond to what you said by asking a question that you'd need to answer.
 Interpretive communication means being able to listen to and watch materials in the Spanish language in order to understand the main ideas of a piece of work, identify points of view, and recognize varying points of view. You can find Spanish media by listening to podcasts and music or watching videos in Spanish, all available online for free.Work on identifying the rhetorical audience of a text/speech/video, the genre of that form of media, and the point of view of each speaker. Then try to relate that work to the larger sociocultural issues it addresses.Practice relating a secondary piece of media to a primary piece of media. For example, if you listen to a political figure deliver a speech, and then watch a news correspondent discuss that speech, try to contextualize the news correspondent's discussion based on what the politician said. Identify what important issues both parties are talking about, and if they have conflicting opinions, try to figure out what informs those opinions based on what you've seen/heard.
 Presentational communication skills are the ability to deliver well-considered ideas to a variety of audiences, using details and supporting information to enrich your communication skills. This could involve delivering a narrative, explaining something to others, comparing two or more things to an audience, or persuading someone with a well-supported argument.In this form of communication, you may not have the opportunity to clarify or negotiate what you mean by what you say. Therefore, it's important to work on clarity and precision when you choose your words and formulate your sentences.Practice organizing information, concepts, and ideas into a coherent and logical format. As you get comfortable with this, try timing yourself. Work on pushing yourself to organize information/ideas within a set time frame to prepare you for an actual presentation.
 Being able to read and comprehend text written in Spanish is a key component of AP Spanish. The best way to strengthen your reading comprehension skills is by diving into Spanish texts, both those delivered in class as well as news and culture articles found online.You can find many Spanish publications online for free. Some instructors recommend reading about a variety of relevant topics in Spanish on a regular basis to strengthen skills, including articles about:


the economy
arts and entertainment
politics
technology
immigration
current events

, Cramming for a test simply won't work, and it will not help you retain any information long-term. Spacing out your study sessions is a much more efficient and low-stress way to prepare for an important examination. For example, rather than spending 12 consecutive hours cramming for a final exam, you're much better off breaking your study sessions up into three hour blocks, with about one week between each block (spread over the course of four weeks).Generally speaking, the more time you give yourself between study sessions, the more likely you are to retain the information you learn over the long run.
Take breaks intermittently. After an hour or so of studying, give yourself a five minute break. Try having a healthy snack during your break to reenergize your mind and body., Some people find they perform better when studying and doing homework at night. Others are morning people who prefer to hit the books first thing after waking up. Still others prefer something in between, like an afternoon session. It's important to determine when you are most productive in your studies, as well figuring out where you study best.Do you work best in the comfort of your room? Or are there too many distractions there that might pull you away from your studies? Is the library a productive place for you to study, or does it feel too overwhelming to be out of your element? Learning where you work most efficiently will help you build effective, productive study habits.
 Once you're adequately familiar with the course information and have spent enough time studying that you can answer practice questions, try doing a practice exam session while working under a time limit. You can find practice exams and other study materials on the AP website.Try using a stop watch, kitchen timer, or alarm clock to complete each section within the allotted time, and keep track of how long each session takes you. Work on cutting your time down without decreasing your score so that you can do well under time constraints when you take the actual test.
 The AP Spanish exam is approximately three hours long, divided into two sections: a 95 minute multiple-choice section and an 85 minute free-response component.As you work, it's important to pace yourself. Give yourself enough time to complete each section without rushing or skipping any necessary components.


Wear a watch or take note of the time on a wall clock when each section begins. That will give you a decent idea of how much time you've spent on a given section and how much time remains.
 Section one (multiple choice) is split into two parts: print texts (part A) and a mix of print and audio texts (part B). You will be allowed to take notes during this section, and will be provided with writing space to do so. Points are not deducted for incorrect or unanswered questions, and the total score is based on the number of questions you answer correctly.Part A will require you to read a text, draw out the main concepts and supporting details, then answer questions about the content of the text, the meaning of certain terms, the author's point of view, and the intended audience of that text.
Part B entails listening to audio materials, which may include interviews, podcasts, public service announcements, recorded conversations, or short professional presentations. The first portion of part B will pair these audio recordings with relevant printed texts, while the second portion will be all audio recordings. You will then answer questions on the recordings, similar to the way you did in part A.
Before your read the answer section, try covering it up and coming up with an answer on your own. That way you are less likely to rationalize an incorrect answer.Look for repetition of words. If a response in the answer section uses some of the same key words that are written in the question, there's a good chance that that answer is correct.
An answer that uses absolute words like "never," "always," or "necessarily" is often less likely to be correct than an answer that uses conditional words like "often" or "probably."
Remember that the correct answer will always be in a multiple choice question. If you cannot determine which answer is definitely correct, try eliminating answers that you know are wrong or only partially correct. If multiple answers are correct and one of the options is "all of the above," there's a good chance that that is the correct answer.
 Section two consists of free response assignments. In this section, you will be given four tasks, which you'll have a total of approximately 85 minutes to complete. There is no minimum length for written responses, and you can complete these sections in any order that you'd like. However, you will be working within a time limit for each part, and you are scored on your ability to analyze and contextualize a text, as well as your ability to use appropriate and varied vocabulary and syntax in each answer.The specific assignment for each task will vary somewhat, but will fall into the following categories:email reply (interpersonal writing) - you'll be given the text of an email in Spanish and write a response to that correspondence (also in Spanish). You must answer questions posed in the email and provide any requested information that the email asks for. You have 15 minutes to complete this task, which is worth 12.5% of your final exam grade.
persuasive essay (presentational writing) - you will be given an essay prompt and three sources to draw from, which represent different attitudes or points of view on the topic you're to write about. You must then prepare and compose a persuasive essay in Spanish which makes clear your point of view, and you must use information from the three provided sources to support your opinion. You have 55 minutes to complete this task, which is worth 12.5% of your final exam grade.
conversation (interpersonal speaking) - you'll be given the text outline of a conversation. You will then have to "participate" in the conversation by responding to five prompts. You'll be given 20 seconds to complete each response. This task is worth 12.5% of your final exam grade.
cultural comparison (presentational speaking) - you will be given a prompt about some relevant cultural topic. You must then prepare and present your own oral presentation on this topic in which you compare and contrast differing attitudes or perspectives on the topic, drawing from your own community and from a Spanish-speaking community you're familiar with. You'll have four minutes to read the prompt and prepare an answer, then two minutes to present and record your presentation. This task is worth 12.5% of your final exam grade.

