  Private money lending means lending your own money to another investor or to a professionally-managed real estate fund.  This might appeal to you if you have already made some money with your other real estate investments, and you are looking for a way to re-invest some of those funds.  As a private money lender, you act as an alternative to a bank or other financial institution.  The loans you make are secured by real estate.Investors like to work with private money lenders because they can get money quickly without the strict regulations imposed by banks.  Also, the process is generally very transparent.

 Private money lenders – often called hard-money lenders – charge higher rates than banks and expect to be repaid in less time, usually around 5 years. They’re meant for investors who tend to flip properties rather than rent, unless you sell before the mortgage is due. However, they often take on higher-risk loans that a bank wouldn’t authorize, such as loans for properties the person plans to rehab and then sell or rent. 


,  Private money lending is becoming a significant source of financing in the real estate industry.  As banks and other lending institutions impose more strict regulations, investors are turning more frequently to private money lenders to get money quickly.  Borrowers come from different sectors in the real estate industry.People looking to flip houses, for instance, often seek these types of loans because the current condition of the property is not relevant. In these cases, will need to know the current value of the property and the expected value after it is rehabbed. Make sure you get a valuation from a licensed Realtor or an appraiser.

 Builders, developers and commercial investors turn to private money lenders to fund their development projects.  Banks tend to shy away from these kinds of speculative investments.
  Evaluate potential loans to see whether they are going to be profitable investments.  Consider several factors when deciding whether or not to pursue an opportunity.  Failure to carefully weigh the risks against the potential profits can result in loss of capital.Most private money loans are between 60 and 70% of the market value of the property.  The ratio of the loan to the market value of the property is known as the loan-to-value ratio.

 In addition to evaluating the creditworthiness of the borrower, research their equity.  Find out if they have enough equity in other properties to cover emergencies or unforeseen expenses.  

 Wherever possible, structure the loan so that you are in the first lien position.  This means that you are the first creditor to receive remuneration in the event of a default.  You can secure this lien priority if you offer a higher loan-to-value ratio. 


,  The paperwork involved in a private money loan is similar to that of a typical loan from a bank.  The borrower must sign a promissory note, which is a promise to repay the loan.  In addition, the borrower must put up collateral for the loan in the form of a mortgage.  Private money loans for residential real estate often require third-party appraisals, an in-person property inspection, and a geology report, among other things. Check with your lender to determine their requirements. You might also need the following documents:A letter of intent (LOI) outlines the agreement.

 A purchase and sale agreement state the final price and the terms of the purchase.

 A preliminary title report lists the history of the property’s ownership; title insurance is also required.  

 Proof of funds is a bank statement or other document produced by the borrower to ensure they have the funds available to repay the loan.

 A personal guarantee from the borrower states which assets the borrower can liquidate if the loan can’t be repaid.

 A deed of trust or mortgage pledges property to secure the loan.  

 An environmental indemnity agreement is an agreement by which the borrower agrees to compensate you for any losses from environmental contamination of the property.  


