 Face washes and topical treatments containing benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, sulfur, or resorcinol acid are all effective acne-fighters and are available over-the-counter.You may find products targeted specifically at treating body acne, which may be more effective than products meant to be used on your face. Just make sure you don't forget and use the body product on the delicate skin of your face or the front of your neck.
 Retinoid creams can help to unclog your pores and eliminate acne on your neck, but you will need to get a prescription from your doctor or dermatologist. , Your doctor may prescribe a prescription-strength topical antibiotic, such as clindamycin, to apply to your neck, which kills acne-causing bacteria. It may also reduce redness. You will need to apply it twice daily and combine it with benzoyl peroxide, as this prevents the bacteria from becoming immune to the antibiotic., Oral contraceptives can help to reduce acne in some women, but only if the acne is related to shifts in your hormones.Keep in mind that oral contraceptives have side effects and they should not be used if you are planning to become pregnant.
 If your dermatologist determines that the acne on the back of your neck is a nodular or cystic lesion, your doctor may decide to inject the lesion directly with a steroid. This can quickly reduce swelling and heal the acne. It may also reduce scarring.Side effects of this treatment include thinning of the skin, increased sensitivity to light, and may temporarily case the fat under your skin to atrophy, giving the area a "sunken" appearance.
 Isotretinoin is a strong medicine that should only be used if other methods of controlling acne fail to work. Isotretinoin can clear up severe acne in a couple of months, but it also has some severe risks including:Ulcerative colitis
Liver damage
Inflammatory bowel disease
Depression
Bone changes
Severe birth defects

, Laser treatments can also help to get rid of acne by reducing the size of oil glands and making them less active as well. Some forms of laser therapy also use topical medicine to make the laser more effective.Keep in mind that you will need multiple treatments in order for laser therapy to work.

