 Why is this important to you? What are your beliefs about being politically correct? You may wish to write it down, or simply make a list in your head. Exploring your reason will help you commit to a decision and discover your priorities.


You won't automatically gain points for being "correct." This isn't a math test.
You are allowed to say whatever you want to say. Similarly, other people are allowed to voice disagreement, and free speech won't protect you from the consequences of your words. Your voice is your choice.
No one is an angel. You will slip up sometimes, and that's normal. What's most important is that you make an effort, apologize if you hurt someone, and listen to others.;
, Consider any conscious or unconscious prejudices you may hold. This can also include stereotypes you believe about groups of people. If you are aware of any negative feelings or stereotypes you hold towards individuals or groups, it will help you adjust your language and behavior towards your goal of being a respectful person.


There are a few ways to assess your own prejudices. What do you think when you hear an ethnic last name? What is your first instinct if you learn someone is gay or transgender? Being honest about your initial reactions can help you identify your prejudices.Besides acknowledging your prejudices, one excellent tool to identify any negative feelings you might need to work on is the Implicit Association Test (IAT). You can find this psychological test online to determine your prejudices., Understanding the prejudice in your society and around the world can help open your eyes. Learning about the struggles of others different than you can help you reevaluate your own preconceived notions. Education is an excellent way to overcome prejudices, understand those different than us, and become politically correct.


Individuals and groups are discriminated against for many different reasons including race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, culture, and socio-economic status. If you're unsure of these groups, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) has information on groups who experience discrimination.
Taking a course at a university or doing some research online can help you learn more about prejudice.
 Stepping outside of your comfort zone is an important step for gaining awareness. Being politically correct doesn't just mean being mindful of what you say. It also means learning about those different from you and respecting those differences. Reach out, interact, talk, and befriend those who have a different background than you.Find coworkers or classmates who are different from you. Ask those people from a different ethnicity, religion, sexuality, or country to go to lunch. If you're not that close, just start a conversation with them. You can talk about your differences, but you may be surprised how much you have in common.
Find culturally diverse events and experiences. Developing your thoughts and understanding that all people are equal through interactive learning will foster a respectful attitude.
 Especially if you are a member of a privileged group, you may not understand the lived experiences of oppressed groups. This can be counteracted by asking questions and listening closely to the answers.


Check a search engine to see if any writers have answered your question online.
Keep your questions respectful and not too personal. "What pronouns should I use when referring to you?" and "Do you know of any good online resources where I can learn more about transgender issues?" are both reasonable questions. "What do your genitals look like?" is a very private question that should only be asked if you want to have sex with them, or you are a doctor and you need to know for medical reasons.
 If you educate yourself and monitor your thoughts, this will help control and change your language and behaviors. People may interpret and draw inferences from the language you use. When you are interacting with people, you want to be an open, respectful, and informed individual instead of a careless, disrespectful person.


Avoid racist, sexist, homophobic, etc. jokes because they are always hurtful.
 Recognize racist roots of words, whether they are as inflammatory as the n-word or as subtle as referring to immigrants as illegals.


Many common expressions have roots in discrimination caused by cultural arrogance and a lack of exposure to cultural diversity. Terms such as "Chinese auction," "Indian giver," "Jew down" (negotiate), and "gyp" (a bad deal, from the derogatory term "Gypsy" for the Roma) are racist.
Many common words also have implicit discrimination in them and are thus considered harmful. For example, words such as "gypsy" and "oriental" are derogatory. Instead use "Roma" for "gypsy" or "Asian" for "oriental.Some common actions, including wearing Halloween costumes, involve cultural appropriation—cheaply borrowing cultural aspects that people of color often face discrimination for doing authentically, and turning it into a trend or game. This includes wearing headdresses or feathers like many Native Americans. "Black Face," which is using makeup to represent a black person, "Yellow Face" (mimicking Asian people), and other similar things are extreme versions.
 Some people are bisexual, transgender, asexual, genderfluid, etc. and they deserve respect and inclusion. Work on substituting gender-neutral language to include people of different sexual orientations and gender identities.


Ask "Do you have any partners?" rather than "Do you have a boyfriend/girlfriend?"Don't assume that people are heterosexual and monogamous.
Don't generalize about genitals. Some women have penises and some men have clitorises. Furthermore, intersex people exist.
Respect gender identities. There are more than two genders, and agender, genderfluid, etc. people exist. A person's real name is the name that they accept as the one that matches their gender.
If you're unsure how to be respectful towards someone's identity, just ask them. They'll appreciate your good intentions.
 Gender-specific language can be extremely harmful. Sexism, or discrimination against a person due to their marginalized gender identity, is used often (and frequently inadvertently). Try to avoid giving things genders in your mind, or out loud things, such as jobs; additionally, refrain from claiming actions, occupations, or items are "male" or "female."


Use gender-neutral job titles when you aren't referring to a specific person. For example, say "chairperson" instead of "chairman"; "firefighter" is preferable to "fireman"; a "police officer" includes all genders; and "flight attendant" replaces "steward" and "stewardess."The use of gender-specific titles is usually acceptable when addressing an individual. For example, if you are in a meeting and introducing Mr. Christopher Smith, the CEO of a company, then you may say, "Please welcome Mr. Smith, our Chairman of the Board."
Using terms and titles such as "woman's work" or "secretary" (instead of "administrative assistant") is demeaning and belittling.
Calling women "girls" (instead of "ladies" or "women") is infantilizing and discounts that the place of women in the world is equal to men.
 Violence is a serious issue that many people reference or joke about in casual conversation, alienating victims and making it difficult for them to speak up. You can help by respecting them and taking them seriously.


Recognize that most (but not all!) victims are female. Use gender-inclusive language when discussing these social issues.
Making comments like "she asked for it" about rape victims or statements about a woman's physical appearance are dismissive and cruel.
Avoid rape jokes, as these can be hurtful to survivors.
 The world has innumerable different religions and not everyone shares the same beliefs. When speaking to a group of people, you may be talking to people from many different religions, or speaking to people who are agnostic or atheist. Limit the amount of religious terms in your language, especially when speaking in groups of people.Save the religious discussions for when you're with people of your religion.


Avoid religious statements when talking to non-religious people, or people of an unknown religion. For example, instead of telling a sick atheist you'll pray for them, say that your thoughts are with them and their family.
It's also a good idea to avoid referencing "God/god." Every religious group has different names for and rules for saying the term. Jews do not say the name of god, Muslims refer to their god as Allah, and Hindus worship many different gods.Asking questions like "what would Jesus do?" to an individual or group that is not Christian is ill-advised.
There is an exception to using religious terms: to describe either academic or specific characteristics of a religious group. You may say "Evangelical Christians hold certain beliefs...", or "members of the Jewish faith celebrate Yom Kippur...".
 Some people prefer identity-first language ("disabled person") while others prefer person-first language ("person with a disability"), and it's best to respect their individual preference. Make sure not to use derogatory terms such as "ret*rd" and "midget," and avoid using words rooted in disability as insults.


Words such as "dumb," "crippled," "derp," and "psycho" are examples of disability-based insults/slurs.They imply that disability is demeaning, and that disabled people wouldn't agree with your opinion.
Treat disabled people like ordinary people, accommodating any needs without resistance, and treating the disability as natural. Offer help if they're struggling, and don't push it on them if they say they can handle it.
Use person-first language for most disabilities, such as "person with Down Syndrome" rather than "Down Syndrome person." The Autistic, Blind, and Deaf communities are a few notable exceptions (e.g. "autistic person").When unsure, ask an individual about their preferences.
 Heavier people, especially women, experience discrimination and hardship because of social attitudes about weight. Be conscious of hurtful stereotypes regarding fat people being lazy, unhealthy, greedy, et cetera.


Don't tell someone to gain or lose weight, or offer unsolicited advice or orders on how to do so. It's best not to mention their weight at all. Their body is not your business.
Watch your language closely. Some people, particularly fat acceptance advocates, self-identify as "fat" and encourage the destigmatization of the word. Other people could be very hurt by that adjective.
 Become familiar the terms that various communities view as acceptable, and which ones are hurtful. Then start using them in your own speech.The more you practice consideration and respect, the easier it will be and the less likely you are to offend someone.
 In conversations or discussions with groups or individuals, remember what you've learned while working on yourself. Your goal is not to knowingly hurt or offend any person or group of people with your language or actions.
 Are you in the workplace? A conference? A friend's party? Or maybe a family dinner? Each of these situations has different social rules for polite behavior. If you are aware of your surroundings, it will guide you to what words and actions are appropriate in any situation.


Formal situations such as the workplace or professional events have the highest standards and largest consequences.Informal and private situations are more relaxed, but sensitivity still matters. You may be talking to someone of an oppressed group, and even if not, private attitudes shape how people respond to minorities.
Consider the individual or persons in the group. As you speak, think about their relatives, friends, and acquaintances. This will help you avoid making any politically incorrect statements or actions.
 Don't lump people together based on religion, sexual orientation, gender, and ethnicity. Not everyone in a group is the same, acts the same, or believes the same things. This kind of language reduces a person to that one category, when people are so much more.


For example, don't refer to groups by saying things like: the deaf, the gays, the Jews, or the Blacks. If you are referring to a social group, acknowledge differences. "Many blind people feel that..."
Use language that makes a person or group feel like they are equal and included in any situation.
 When speaking to or about other groups, refrain from unnecessarily using the words "we" or "they." This suggests a separation instead of equality and inclusion.
 Every individual and group has the right to choose the language that best describes their race, class, sex, gender, sexual orientation, culture, religion, or physical ability.


If you're not sure of someone's preference, you can ask them. For example, "I don't want to offend you and was wondering if you call yourself Black or African American?" If they are neither, show interest and ask how they'd like to be referred to. If you make your good intentions clear, they will most likely take it well.
Don't use controversial terms if you aren't a group member. For example, many Roma self-identify as gypsies. Unless you are a member of the Roma community, avoid using "gypsy" and always use Roma. It isn't your word to reclaim.
Skip the trendy terms. Most of these terms are used by members not part of the group. For example, don't call a person with disabilities "handi-capable" or "differently abled" or a short person "vertically challenged." Many people find these terms to be weird. This also means taking the words of those directly affected over those of "allies" in psychology or sociology who may stress the use of certain terms.
 It's not personal, so don't get defensive. Accept any individual or group's choice to reject language that offends them. If you accidentally use the wrong language or offend someone or a group, apologize for your mistake and use the term they have chosen for themselves.
 If you run into someone who is acting hurtful or being degrading about someone, take a deep breath and try to stay calm. You want to avoid fighting with someone, being superior, or criticizing them. Instead, talk to the person about the term. Open the lines of communication and engage in dialogue instead of humiliating them or telling them they are horrible.


When in doubt, assume that they meant well.
Bear in mind the possibility that the person in question may not match your expectations. Some people choose to "pass" as the status quo in order to avoid harassment, and others may not fit neatly into a stereotype or your assumptions of what an oppressed or privileged person would look like or how they would act.
Criticize the actions, not the person. "Please stop making fun of Hispanic immigrants. As a person who has Hispanic friends, I feel that those jokes really hurtful and demeaning to them."
Protect their ego while critiquing their actions. "I'm surprised to hear a considerate person like you say something so hurtful about people with Down Syndrome."
Try leading and ending with a compliment when you correct someone. Start with a compliment, like how you think the person made a good point or wrote a good article. Then, follow that with your correction or critique. Remember, do it in a nice way, not a rude way. Then finish it up with a compliment, like how you pointed it out because they seem like a thoughtful person., If you want to talk about touchy subjects, such as religion or politics, make sure that you are open to other opinions. People form their opinions based on backgrounds and experiences. If you are going to share your opinion, be open to listening to others. You may learn information or a perspective that helps inform your own opinion.Everyone has something to teach you.


Share the spotlight. Let other people be heard too.
Opinions focused on degrading others, e.g. "Black women are disgusting welfare queens" or "Autistic people should be eliminated from the gene pool" do not need to be treated as valid. This is hate speech.
 Your first reaction to someone who is different may be confusion or fear—so take a deep breath, remember that the other person matters, and let your second reaction be one of acceptance and respect. Work on viewing individual differences as important and meaningful.

