 Standard cylindrical water bottles work best for the ammunition. You want bottles made with thinner plastic that you can easily crush when they’re empty. However, don’t crush them.


Bottles in the twelve-ounce size are the most common and work very well for this purpose.;
, With the caps on, twist each empty bottle just below the label. You want to twist until you feel the pressure in the bottle bulge the upper half. It may take several twists.


You will have to keep a grip on both ends to keep the twisted portion from righting itself.
When the upper portion doesn’t squish but feels firm from the pressure, the bottle is ready.
 Use a wide strip of tape the holds firmly to go around the twisted part of the bottle and stop it from unwinding. Duct tape works well.
 If you simply want to shoot the cap like this without the launcher, loosen the cap until it starts to turn easily but without depressurizing the bottle. Then aim away from people, pets, and fragile items and use the palm of your hand to spin the cap quickly. The pressure in the bottle will carry the cap several yards.
 The two tubes you have should be the same size, roughly 16” to 24” long, and with a diameter that allows your water bottle ammo to slide easily down them with gravity alone.


Wide mailing tubes that people use for posters or blueprints work well, and you can easily find them at a post office or other mail supply store. Ensuring they are wide enough for the bottles is the most important part.
 With a pair of scissors, cut the first tube in a straight line from end to end. Uncurl it enough so that you can measure 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) in and make another cut parallel to the first.


The removed strip will be 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) wide and as long at the original tube.
 Fold the tube back into a cylinder and tape it well with duct tape so that the seam down the length of the tube can’t reopen. The finished product will look like the same tube, but it will have a 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) smaller circumference than the original.


Test that this tube now fits snugly inside the second tube. It should slide in but without being able to easily fall out.
If, when you gather your tubes, you can find one that fits inside the larger barrel tube snugly, then you can skip this part, but most mailing tubes have too much size difference, and you just need to trim one.
 Using duct tape, close off the hole at one end of the smaller tube. You will essentially be using this end of the smaller tube as a ramrod to push the water bottles down the barrel of the larger tube, so make sure it’s sturdy tape.
 Take the larger tube and draw a rectangle just a bit larger than your chosen water bottles on one end. However, make the rectangle 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the actual end of the tube.


Since you’re leaving 1 inch (2.5 cm) instead of cutting from the end of the tube, you’ll have to poke a hole into the drawn rectangle and cut it out from there.
In the finished product, this hole will be where the water bottle ammo falls into the barrel from a magazine.
 Hold the tube in front of you with the hole from the first rectangle pointing up. Rotate the tube 90 degrees clockwise (counter-clockwise if you’re left-handed) and draw a second rectangle (of the same size) at the opposite end of the tube. Make this rectangle 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the end as well, but only cut three of the four sides out.


Leave one of the long sides intact. This will create a flap at the end. In the finished product, this flap will act as the cartridge ejector for a bottle after you have launched the cap.
 Take a larger bottle such as a two-liter bottle and cut off the neck. From there, cut the spout off the bottle as well. Use your duct tape to secure the piece over the end of the larger tube at the same end as the cartridge ejector flap.


You basically want to make a funnel where the tapered end is large enough so that the mouth of a water bottle will fit through but not the entire bottle. The piece may have a slight dome shape like the lid of a Slurpee cup after you’ve made the cuts.
In the finished product, this piece will stop each water bottle from being able to fall out of the tube entirely while still leaving a big enough hole for the cap to emerge before being fired.
 Use scissors to cut the tops off both of the tissue boxes, but only cut the bottom out of one of them. Stack the box with both removed onto the one with just the top removed and tape them together. The finished product will look like one extra-deep tissue box.
 Just as you did with the flap on the larger tube, cut three sides of the bottom of the now-larger tissue box to create a flap. Leave one of the two longer sides intact.


This is where you will feed additional ammo into the magazine.
 Secure the fully removed opening (not the flap part) in the tissues boxes over the fully removed rectangle (again, not the flap one) of the larger tube. You can use either glue or more duct tape for this.
 With the water bottle ammo you made earlier, load the launcher magazine by opening the flap and putting one or more bottles inside with the caps all facing toward the funnel barrel tip.


Notice how only one round (bottle) actually falls through the hole into the tube.
 Use the sealed end of the smaller tube as a ramrod to push the round down the barrel. You want to push the smaller tube until it’s holding the round in place with the cap sticking out of the funnel barrel.


Don’t shove too hard since you will likely end up separating the funnel barrel from the larger tube where you attached it.
 Hold the launcher under one arm with that hand on the barrel, which leaves your other arm free to loosen and spin the cap to fire the round in the same steps mentioned in Part 1.
 By lifting the cartridge ejector flap you cut into the front side of the barrel, you can simply tilt the launcher slightly, and the spent cartridge will easily fall out.
 Pull the ramrod tube back from the end of the barrel tube just far enough to clear the magazine feed, and your next round in the magazine will fall into place. Push the ramrod tube forward again until the new round is set against the funnel barrel tip, and you are locked and loaded to shoot again.

