 You do not have to use all of the steps in this method. Choose the ones that appeal to you the most. You can also try some of the tasty variations at the end of this method at well if you are having troubles coming up with combinations of your own.
 Unless you don't mind raw vegetables, sauté or cook the vegetables before adding them to the omelet. Vegetables that go well in omelets include:Bell peppers (red or green)
Mushrooms
Scallions
Spinach
Tomatoes
Onions (especially yellow)

, Any meat that you add should already be cooked; it won't continue to cook once you add it in. Meats that go well in omelets include:Bacon
Ham
Sausage

, You can use fresh or dried herbs. Most recipes will call for about 1 tablespoon of fresh herbs. If you are using dried herbs, reduce the amount to 1 teaspoon. This is because dried herbs are much more potent.


Basil
Chervil
Chives
Cilantro or parsley
Tarragon
Thyme

, You will need 1 to 2 tablespoons of shredded cheese. Cheddar cheese is the most popular, but you can also use other types as well, including mozzarella and parmesan. You can even try crumbled goat cheese or feta cheese!

, You will need 2 to 3 tablespoons of shredded Cheddar cheese, 2 tablespoons of cooked, diced ham, and 1 tablespoon of diced, fresh bell pepper., Add ½ cup (100 grams) of diced, fresh tomatoes to your omelet, along with 1 tablespoon of chopped basil and 1 tablespoon of parmesan cheese., Fill the omelet with 2 tablespoons of shredded Mexican cheese blend. If you are folding it in half, you can top it off with another 2 tablespoons of shredded cheese. Serve the omelet with 2 to 4 tablespoons of chunky salsa., Fill your omelet with 1 tablespoon of diced, roasted red peppers, ¼ cup (55 grams) of spinach, 1 tablespoon of feta cheese, and 1 tablespoon of sliced green onions., When preparing the omelet, omit the pepper and use sugar instead of salt. Fill the omelet with some fresh fruit (such as sliced strawberries) or preserves. Dust the finish omelet with confectioners' sugar.,