 While many people believe the fatty substance that blocks arteries is caused by an excess of cholesterol, this explanation is much simpler than the complexities of the different sizes of cholesterol molecules. Cholesterol is required by the body to make vitamins, hormones and other chemical transmitters. Researchers have discovered that while certain cholesterol molecules are dangerous to your heart and developing clogged arteries, it is sugar and carbohydrates which set up an inflammatory response in the body that is a significant precursor to atherosclerosis.While you might be steering clear of saturated fats to reduce your cholesterol level and risk of atherosclerosis and clogged arteries, you will have been making a significant mistake. Eating healthy saturated fats has not been scientifically linked with heart disease and clogged arteries. However, diets high in fructose, sugar-filled low-fat food options, and whole grain wheat have been linked to dyslipidemia creating clogged arteries. Fructose can be found in beverages, fruits, jelly, jams and other pre-sweetened food., Carbohydrates are metabolized into sugars in the body and will also increase the inflammatory response. Large amounts of sugar, fructose, and carbohydrates will increase your risk of developing diabetes. Diabetes increases your risk of clogged arteries.


This includes only drinking a moderate amount of alcohol.
 The exact toxic components in tobacco which trigger atherosclerosis and clogged arteries is not known, but researchers do know that smoking is a primary risk for inflammation, thrombosis and the oxidation of low-density lipoproteins, all of which contribute to clogged arteries., Increased weight increases your risk of diabetes. Diabetes, in turn, increases your risk of clogged arteries.
 A lack of physical exercise is one of the factors that predict 90% of the risk of heart attacks in men and 94% of the risk in women.Heart disease and heart attacks are just two of the results of clogged arteries.
 Another contributing factor may be your levels of stress. Just remember to relax and take breaks that will help you to unwind. While taking your blood pressure won't tell you how bad you cholesterol is, it can most definitely be an indicator in whether or not you should be concerned.
 Your doctor may prescribe a drug called a statin to reduce the buildup of plaque in your arteries.They cause your body to stop producing cholesterol in the hope that it will instead absorb the existing cholesterol that is built up in you arteries.Statins are not for everyone, but if you have diabetes, already have heart disease, have high levels of cholesterol (190 mg/dL or higher LDL cholesterol), or a high 10-year risk of heart attack, your doctor may recommend you try it.Statins include atorvastatin (Lipitor), fluvastatin (Lescol), lovastatin (Altoprev), pitavastatin (Livalo), pravastatin (Pravachol), rosuvastatin (Crestor) and simvastatin (Zocor).