 It costs a one-time payment of USD $19.95, and it's worth it. You get more features, including access to ArchKnight and Zardwars, two potions instead of one, Guardian blade, Guardian armor, play Guardian-only quests, and the Blade of Awe (it will replace the guardian blade)!.;
, Your weapons will not matter much compared to stats, especially if you decide to become a spellcasting class.
 Try out a bunch of quests and see what fits you best. Random Adventure is not very effective due to the new exp and gold reward updates.
 For example, warrior (STR,DEX,LUK and melee weapons), mage (INT,DEX,LUK and spells/magic weapons), ranger (DEX,STR,LUK and ranged weapons), or hybrid (mixture of stats, good at all forms of combat).
 You should level all tier 1 classes (fighter, mage, rogue, and scholar) to level 10 because many tier 2 classes require you to level in them and some of them are good for levelling at higher levels. After this you should pick classes suited to your role. Warriors can learn Beserker and Knight, Mages can learn Wizard and Rogues should learn ninja. Other classes can be learned such as martial artist and Beastmaster. Tier 3 classes (Paladin, Necromancer and Assassin) are very effective and you should try to learn all 3 of them and pick your the one that benefits you most.
 Important for Warriors and Hybrids.)
Dexterity (Raises damage for ranged attacks and accuracy for all attack types besides pets and guests. Also increases chance for blocking. Important for every role.)
Intellect (Raises MP and damage/accuracy for spells and magic attacks and improves mana potion healing. Important for Mages and Hybrids)
Endurance (Raises HP. Important for all roles, especially Warriors and Hybrids.)
Charisma (Raises damage and accuracy of pets and the rate at which they attack. Important for beastmaster sub-builds).
Luck (Grants a 10% chance at lucky strikes which can be a number of times more powerful than a normal attack with sufficient Luck, significantly improves accuracy for all attacks besides pets and guests, significantly raises the chance to block or dodge though relatively useless at the highest levels, greatly improves your chance to go first in battle, causes you to find larger treasure chests, makes health and mana potions heal more, and even helps to resist negative status ailments.)

, Try to obtain the Blade of Awe (Guardian. Choose one weapon for each element and make sure they are all correct for your role (melee, ranged or magic). Weapons are less important for Mage classes because they should be casting spells the majority of the time.
 While not necessary in the beginning, you will eventually require an armor and shield of every element. Get a good no-drop armour if you are guardian, which is a choice between Armor of Awe (Semi-defensive, so effective for spellcasters because they will not use it to attack.), or Ultra-guardian Armor (Semi-offensive, so effective for warriors because spamming your normal attack is your main form of damage.) Also get decent armours such as effective class armours (Wizard robes provides very powerful spellcasting, Paladin armour provides good abilities for Hybrids.)

, Like weapons, pick one for each element.
 Non beastmasters should usually just stick to healing pets and guests, as the accuracy of attacking pets and guests usually doesn't cut it. Pick one for each element and make sure you have a high enough Charisma for them.

