 Using visual markers, like sticky notes, will help you read faster because you will be visually reminding yourself of what you have read.


You can use these visual cues to mark chapters already read, passages you struggled with, or inspiring quotes.
 Making notes of what you read and how you felt about it is an excellent way to become a faster reader.It forces you to write down your reactions and emotions as you read. You will be more likely to remember what you have read and also make connections to further reading. Some ways to annotate include:


Highlighting passages you find interesting, intriguing, or important.
Summarizing chapters/paragraphs to capture main ideas, findings, or arguments.
Noting reactions/emotions/questions you have in the margins of the book.
Underlining important words or phrases.
Writing the definition of unknown or confusing words/concepts.
 Subvocalization is applying silent speech to reading. It may help you read faster because you are not only reading the words with your mind, but also forming the words with your mouth. To practice subvocalization, form each word silently as you read.You can do this without moving your lips by pretending to read out loud the text in your mind in a conversational tone, as if you were talking to someone.
This activity is disputed by scientists. Some say that this is a great way to learn to speed reading, while others argue that it actually slows down the reading process. Give this technique a try to see if it works for you., While your first instinct may be to read as fast you can to finish the book, you probably will not retain a lot of what you have read this way. Instead, when you come to an interesting or important part of the text, slow down your reading. Try to internalize what you are learning. This will help your reading speed in the long run as it helps with comprehension.


The more you read, the more you will learn to recognize "important" parts of the text. For example, you may want to slow down when reading the introduction in order to really comprehend the material.
 Just like anything in life, reading quickly takes practice! If you want to try to increase your read speed, try to calculate how many pages you read per minutes. Then, try and beat your personal record. Just make sure you are understanding what you read!


Try and read more for pleasure to naturally increase your reading speed.
Time yourself when reading when you aren't under a deadline. Push yourself to read a set number of pages faster. Set goals for yourself.
Avoid getting frustrated when reading. If you think you read too slow, the worst thing you can do is get frustrated and quit. Instead, keep at it! You will improve over time.

