 The first step in becoming a travel writer is to read as much as possible. Reading other travel blogs will help you get a grasp on what travel writing should look like. It will also help you figure out what kind of travel writing you want to do.


Try regularly reading one or two famous travel writing blogs for a month or so. Pay close attention to how they’re writing their stories. What do they focus on? What’s their tone? How do people respond to their articles?
Every travel writer is different, but you’ll find they all aim to be informative, personable, and accessible to readers. They convey their personality and their likes and dislikes in what they choose to write about.
If you aren’t sure what sites to visit, some popular travel blogs like Nomadic Matt, View From the Wing, Expert Vagabond, or The Planet D are some great places to start.Don’t be afraid to take notes. The more information you have, the better prepared you will be when you start writing yourself.;
, Since there is currently a plethora of travel writers both online and in print, it's good to have your own point of view. This can be anything from writing specifically about food when traveling, to writing about a specific activity like deep sea diving, or simply going different places for different cultural events like festivals.


Having a niche will also help you be specific and clear in the point you are trying to convey to your reader. Do you want to give them tips? Immerse them in the sights and sounds of a particular city? Describe a food so well they can taste it?

, Once you have an idea for what you want to write on and how it's best to build a site as an online base. You should keep all of your writings, photographs, and links to social media on your blog. You should also have a mini-bio about yourself, a small itinerary about past and future travels, and maybe a picture of you. This site will act as a portfolio for you when you want to get published, so the more content you have on it, the better.


There are a multitude of online sites you can use for blogging. If you’re just starting out, try a free website like Weekly, Wix, WordPress, or Blogger. If you have a bit more experience and want more options, try a paying website like Squarespace.
 Being a travel writer doesn't just mean going abroad to exotic or foreign places. It's unlikely you will have either the time or money to constantly be on the move. Instead, you need to learn to write about all places. Write on areas you've previously traveled to, or even areas within your local community. Not everyone has lived where you have and it’s your job to make these places accessible to them through your writing. Try going to local festivals, locally owned restaurants, parks, bookstores, anywhere that seems interesting to you.
 Knowing what to write on isn't always going to be obvious, especially if you're just writing about your hometown. You need to try and see things from a different perspective. Picture yourself as someone who has never visited and imagine what questions they might have. What would they be interested in or want to see? Chances are there's a lot going on in your local area that even you aren't aware of - find it.Try going to local festivals, concerts, plays, restaurants, or parks. Learning to describe even the ordinary in a way that someone will want to read is a great way to get comfortable in travel writing and find your voice.
You can join mailing lists for events in many cities, you can also join local forums, or get local newsletters that will let you know what’s going on around you.
 Whether you’re writing on an area you know well or somewhere completely new, speaking to other people is a great way to find new stories. It can be hard to find things outside of your interests, so speaking to different people within the area can help open up new doors for you. They can tell you about events, introduce you to new people, or even take you places on their own.


You could ask, "What's the best food around town?" or "is there a local myth or legend?"

, Think about what moves you and why. When you go to a new place, take note of how you feel and react to things. Did you go somewhere and hate everything? What particular events set you off and why? Sometimes it’s difficult to figure out what about an event or place is affecting you, so writing down in the moment and reviewing later will help you keep track of these things. For example, if you taste a new food and have a negative reaction, write down what it was and why. If you're watching a festival and a moment stands out to you, write it down.You can write these things down anywhere. Keep a little notebook, a diary, or even type notes into your phone. You aren’t likely to remember everything perfect after a day or trip has ended, so taking frequent notes will help you out.
 The best travel writing is usually down-to-earth. People want to feel what it’s like to live in a place as a local. They don't want the tourist experience, or for you to be giving them a sales pitch about why a place is wonderful. You want to be objective, but you also want to be true to your experience. Writing is a personal experience, and travel writing should be no different.Be careful not to be cliche, though. There are plenty of articles on “hidden gems,” or secret spots in cities. These read like advertisements.
 No one wants to read an in-depth account of how you spent every minute of your day. You need to focus on small moments and be descriptive. Use anecdotes, tell stories, make it personal. For example, if you are visiting a small bakery in Monterosso, Italy and have a moment of nostalgia because it smells like your grandmother’s kitchen, tell the reader this.
 If you have a local community paper of magazine in your area, try getting some of your writings published there first. Or, if there's a particular website you really like, try to see if you can submit an article. You want to focus small at first and try to develop a relationship with an editor to regularly get your work out there. This will help you build up your travel writing resume and portfolio to get more opportunities later.You can usually find submission information directly in the paper/magazine, or on their website. If you can’t find it, try emailing the editor. You can write something like, “Ms. Scott, My name is Ron Conway, I am currently working as a travel writer and was looking for some information about possibly submitting an article.”

, As difficult or awkward as it can be, you need to build an online presence. Make sure you tweet and regularly update your social media like Instagram, Facebook, or Snapchat. Even if you feel no one's paying attention, it's best to stay consistent. The more things you use the more people you can access, and in turn get to come to your blog.


Also, try tweeting at people who are travel writers or have blogs related to travel writing. Don't self-promote, but contribute to conversations. Make yourself known for being knowledgeable.
These people may then come to your blog and later promote you, which will get you more traffic.
 A big part of making connections is talking to everyone you can. You never know when a random encounter could connect you to something or someone great. Making friends with people in the travel industry, hotel workers, concert bookers, or other workers in the areas you’re interested in will help you get to new places. These people will help you get inside information and be where you need to be to get the best story.
 Like any other creative job, being a travel writer takes a long time. You are likely to meet a lot of rejection along the way. Publishing is not only skill, but time, luck, and opportunity. So don't take it personally if you get rejected, just keep building your website and submitting your work when you can.