 Before assembling the cake, tint the fondant and frosting to the desired colors.

Consider using all white for a wedding cake. For a “true” wedding cake appeal, omit any colors and use all-white frosting and fondant.



 


Divide the fondant in half and tint each half a different color. The idea is to alternate colored Twinkies on the cake. For example, if you choose light pink and dark pink, you’ll want to wrap one Twinkie in dark pink fondant, followed by a Twinkie in light pink fondant.






Divide the frosting in half and put 1/2 aside. Split the other half in 2 and tint each half a different color (using the same color pallet as used in the fondant color).





;
, Create an interesting cake by wrapping each Twinkie in a different fondant color. Alternate colors on the cake to create a pattern so that, for example, you might have a light pink covered Twinkie next to a dark pink covered Twinkie.

Roll fondant to 1/8 inch thickness to accommodate each Twinkie. You don’t want to overpower the Twinkie with fondant––a light covering will do the trick.






Cut the fondant to accommodate each Twinkie. The fondant should be cut 4 ½ to 5 inches (11cm to 12.5cm) long by 2 to 2/12 inches (5cm to 6.5cm) wide. The average Twinkie is approximately 4 inches (10cm) long and 1 ½ inches wide. Cut the fondant larger than the Twinkie’s size so that it wraps around the entire Twinkie.






Frost the Twinkie with the corresponding fondant color.






Lightly wrap each Twinkie. Smooth any bubbles or bumps along the way.






To maintain symmetry, place the fondant seam underneath each Twinkie. The Twinkies will stand up against the Styrofoam rounds so that the bottom of the Twinkie will not be on display.
 Construct the top layer using the Styrofoam and cardboard round, then build with Twinkies.

Place the 4 inch (10cm) Styrofoam round in the center of the 7 inch (17.5cm) cardboard round. Use a piece of fondant or frosting on the bottom of the Styrofoam to hold it in place. The Styrofoam round will act as the “middle” section of your wedding cake and provide a “wall” for Twinkies to stand against.






Frost the Styrofoam round with white frosting. The frosting will act as the glue to hold each Twinkie in place. Be extra careful when frosting the top to create a smooth surface, as this portion will hold your cake topper or any other decorative touches.






Arrange approximately 10 fondant wrapped Twinkies, standing upright, around the 4 inch (10cm) Styrofoam. You can either alternate fondant colored Twinkies or go with one color––your choice.
 Perform the same steps required for assembling the top portion by gathering Twinkies, Styrofoam and cardboard round.

Stack the 8 inch (20cm) Styrofoam round in the center of the 11 inch (28cm) cardboard. Use frosting “glue” to adhere the round to the cardboard cake bottom.






Cover Styrofoam round with frosting. Consider frosting the bottom round with a different color frosting than what is on the top layer or stick with white again.
Arrange approximately 20 fondant wrapped Twinkies, standing upright, around the 8 inch (20cm) Styrofoam round.
 Gingerly place the top layer on top of the bottom layer to create a delicate wedding cake, inspired by Twinkies.

Stack the top layer on top of the bottom layer. The top layer should fit so the tops of your bottom layer Twinkies are visible (so the top layer is not sitting completely on top of the Twinkies).






Now is the time to get creative with your cake. Add decorative touches such as round dots, small flowers or leaves using a small cookie cutter or decorator piping tip. Fondant flowers and other flourishes add personality and charm to your cake.
 Select a unique cake topper in order to make the cake extra special.

Top with a cherished family heirloom. A wonderful way to top any wedding cake is to use a family heirloom such as the cake topper from the bride or groom’s parents or grandparents.






Purchase an amusing cake topper. If you're creating your wedding cake from Twinkies, you probably have a pretty good sense of humor. Some novelty and wedding stores carry fun bride and groom cake toppers to add a bit of whimsy to your Twinkie cake.






Top with fresh flowers. Match the cake topping to your wedding flowers and request that the florist create a cake topper of fresh flowers. You could also inquire about cake decorating services as well as some florists provide specialty cake decorating services with flowers.







