 Ticks like moist and shady environments, so dark, wooded locations are ideal places for them to live. Avoiding these spaces will reduce your risk of exposure.Ticks can easily dry out, so the woods provide them with protection from sun and wind.
Ticks do not drop on you from trees, but they often attach at ground level and crawl upwards.;
, Ticks like to hide in piles of decomposing or rotting leaves, because these environments are humid and dark. As a result, it’s a good idea to avoid standing or sitting in these places.Don’t pitch your tent or set up camp in a location with leaf litter.
Make sure you bring camp chairs so you can avoid sitting on the ground.
 Try not to walk in areas with high grass or vegetation, because ticks often rest on grasses, waiting for a host (an animal or human) to walk past or brush against the grass so they can attach.Ticks hang on to the grass with their hind legs while holding front legs out so they can more easily attach to a new host.
Experts call this behavior “questing.”

, Ticks prefer shade and moisture, so remaining in sunny areas will reduce the risk of tick exposure.Ticks, especially the younger nymphs, can’t survive long in areas with low humidity because they dry out.
To decrease the risk of tick bites, choose a camping spot in a dry, sunny location.
 Staying on the path and in cleared areas will help keep you away from ticks.Cleared areas do not have the shade, humidity, and vegetation that ticks prefer.
Parks and other campgrounds are also more likely to spray in these areas to eliminate ticks.
Going off trails and outside of designated areas increases the risk of tick bites.
 If you are camping in a state park or official recreation area, check in with staff to ask about the best place to camp to avoid ticks.


It’s easier to call in advance so you can plan accordingly.
Park websites often post announcements and alerts about ticks, so do some research before you arrive.
 Animals are very susceptible to tick bites and tick-borne illnesses. Ticks can also attach themselves to your pets before moving on to human hosts. If you take your pets with you camping, make sure to keep them on a leash and away from areas where ticks are likely to be found.
Ticks can be difficult to detect on pets, so check regularly and thoroughly when outdoors.
Talk with your veterinarian about tick prevention for your pet before going on a camping trip.
There are many different tick-prevention options for pets such as creams, collars, and pills.

