 A typical veil would come down to your fingertips, but perhaps you'd prefer a floor-length veil instead. Get a helper, and have him or her measure down from the top of your head down to where you want the veil to end., You need to buy twice as much tulle as what you measured. This will give you enough fabric to create a second tier. Look for something that is between 72 and 108 inches (182.88 and 274.32 centimeters) wide. The wider the tulle, the fuller your veil will be., When you purchase your tulle, it will come folded in half lengthwise. Spread the tulle down on the table or floor, with the original folded edge facing you. Grab the right narrow edge, and bring it towards the left narrow edge. Smooth the fabric down and make sure that everything is even.If the tulle is too long, you can cut it down at this point.
 Place something large and round, such as a serving platter, on the top-left corner of your fabric (the corner without any folds). Trace an arc using a marker, then cut it out.Make sure that the arc is going towards the bottom-right corner (the one with all the folds). This way, when you unfold the fabric, you'll get a rounded rectangle.
 Unfold the tulle first so that you have a rounded rectangle. Bring one of the narrow edges towards the other end. This is your second tier, so how far you fold it is up to you. You can fold it all the way over to the other edge, or leave a small gap.Double-check the length again. If the veil is too long, cut it shorter, and adjust the layers as needed.
Your veil may look much wider than it is long at this point. Don't worry, this is how it's supposed to be! The next few steps will fix this.
 You can sew it by hand using a running stitch, or you can sew it on a machine using a straight stitch. If you choose to sew it on a machine, sew two rows, about ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) apart. Do not knot off the end of the thread just yet.For a full veil, sew all the way across the edge.
For a less-full veil, sew across the center part, leaving a gap to either side.
 Gently tug on the end of your stitch until the tulle gathers. Keep tugging until the gathered area is the same width as your hair comb, about 2 to 4 inches (5.08 to 10.16 centimeters) wide. Tie the end of the thread off into a secure knot, then snip off the excess.If you used a sewing machine, tug on the bobbin threads.
 Align the top edge of the veil with the top edge of the comb. Sew the tulle to the comb, looping the thread around the comb and between the prongs. Tie the thread off in a tight knot when you are done, then snip off the excess.Some people like to wrap ribbon around the comb first.
 You can always tuck the comb behind a tiara on your special day, or you can decorate the comb itself. Using a needle and thread, sew on some pearls, beads, or rhinestones that match your wedding dress.
 Choose some thin, satin ribbon, and pin it to the bottom tier, 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) away from the edge. Sew the ribbon on using the straight stitch on your sewing machine, then trim the excess tulle away. Repeat this step for the other tier.Alternatively, you can hand-sew a beaded trim instead.

