 You will need to toggle the WLAN switch on your PSP in order to enable Wi-Fi connections.


On the PSP-1000 and PSPgo, the switch is on the left side, next to the analog nub. Slide the switch up.
On the PSP-2000 and 3000, the WLAN switch is on the top of the PSP, to the left of the UMD drive. Slide the switch right.;
, You must have at least version 2.0 of the PSP's operating system in order to connect to the Internet.


The most current PSP operating system is 6.61., It's the suitcase icon on the far-left side of the main menu.
 This option is at the bottom of the Settings column of options.
 This allows your PSP to connect to a wireless access point, such as your home network's router.
 This will allow you to create a new connection to be saved on your PSP.


If you already have a working connection saved, select it and press X. Doing so should connect you to the Internet.
You can save up to ten different connections.
 Your PSP will look for any available wireless networks.


If your PSP can't find any networks, move closer to your router.
You can also select "Wireless Hotspot" if you have the PSP plan with T-Mobile, which is the only way to connect to a mobile hotspot.
 After scanning, a list of available networks will be displayed; select the one that you want to connect to.


The signal strength for each network will be listed next to the network name. Opt for a signal strength of more than 50%.
 This will select your current network's name.


Changing the name here may cause issues with your Internet connection on other devices.
 This will set your network's security type as WPA, which is supported by the PSP., Press X on the "WPA Key" screen, enter your network's password and press X, and then press the "Right" arrow.


Wireless passwords are case-sensitive, so make sure to enter the password exactly.
 Doing so lets the PSP use the router's default settings.
 This will confirm your network's name.
 You will be shown a list of all of your settings. Make sure everything looks correct, then press the "Right" button on the directional pad to continue and press X to save your settings.
 This will test your PSP's connection to the Internet. If you see "Successful" on the Results page, then your connection was properly configured., This will be used to access the configuration page:


Windows - Open Start, click the Settings gear, click Network & Internet, click View your network properties, and view the address next to "Default gateway".

Mac - Open the Apple menu, click System Preferences, click Network, click Advanced, click the TCP/IP tab, and look for the number to the right of "Router:".
 Do so on your computer.
 This will open your router's page, which allows you to make changes to your router settings.
 You will need to enter your username and password to be able to access your router's settings.


If you cannot figure out the login information, you can manually reset the router by pressing and holding the "Reset" button on the back for at least 30 seconds.
 The exact wording here will vary on different routers.
 Select either WPA-PSK + WPA2-PSK or WPA2 Personal TKIP+AES.


If you choose "WPA2 " only, you will not be able to connect.
 You may first have to open the Advanced Wireless Settings. Again, the wording may vary.
 If it is turned on and you can't disable it, add your PSP's MAC address to the list of allowed devices. You can find your PSP's MAC address in the "System Information" section of the PSP's Settings menu.
 If you still can't get the connection to work, you'll have to take the PSP into a tech department for further evaluation.