 This is a free, open-source program made to download tracks you're playing in Spotify. You can use it with both free and premium Spotify accounts. You can download Spotify Web Recorder from spotifywebrecorder.codeplex.com/.
 Double-click the ZIP file and extract the contents to an easy-to-access folder. You won't be installing the program, and you'll run it directly from the folder.
 You'll need the standalone Flash Player software in order to load the Spotify Web Player in the Recorder program. Visit get.adobe.com/flashplayer/ and download the version for Firefox.


Make sure to uncheck the McAfee box before downloading to avoid having your browser homepage changed and an unnecessary toolbar added.
 In order for the recorder to work, you'll need to enable the stereo mix as a recording option, as this is usually disabled in Windows by default. You can do this from the Control Panel.Windows 10 and 8 - Right-click the Windows button and select Control Panel.
Windows 7 and earlier - Open the Start menu and select Control Panel.
 This will open a new window with your playback devices.
 All of your recording devices will be listed here.
 You should see "Stereo Mix" appear.
 This will allow the Spotify Web Recorder to record directly from your sound card.
 now that your recording devices are configured correctly and Flash is installed, you can start the Web Recorder program. You should see the Spotify Web Player load in the main window.


If the main window stays blank, click the Refresh button at the top of the program.
 You can log in with a free or a premium account. Once you're logged in, the web player interface will load in the Spotify Web Recorder window.
 This will tell the recorder to start listening for music.
 The recorder will detect the song automatically and begin recording it. You'll have to listen to the whole song to record the entire thing. The recorder program will automatically detect the start and end of a song, and label it with the artist and title.


The web recorder will record all sounds coming from your computer, so avoid using any programs tat create more sounds while you're recording.
If nothing is recording, check the "Settings" tab and ensure that "Stereo Mix" is selected as the recording device.
 By default, your saved songs will be located in your Music folder. You can change the location in the "Settings" tab of Spotify Web Recorder.
 You may find the the music you record is very quiet. There are several different volumes you can adjust as your music is recorded. Play around with the following levels to find the right volume for your recordings:


Sound Mixer → Main volume and Application volumes
Recording Devices → Stereo Mix → Properties → Recording levels
Spotify Web Player volume

