 You will need a variety of materials, most of which you can get at your local hardware store. Bending copper tubing is involved, so if you really want to make your life easier, you can get a tool which helps you bend tubes (found in the plumbing department of your local hardware store). The materials you'll really need are:


You'll need a kettle or a pressure cooker (preferably copper,or stainless steel, absolutely never aluminum or lead)
A cork or rubber stopper which will fit the opening of your kettle or pressure cooker
~8mm copper tubing (amount will depend on set up, 10-20 ft is a good amount)
A very large thermos/small watercooler or a plastic bucket (if you're cheap)
Tube couplings (maybe)
A thermometer
A good drill
Some silicon or Sugru;
, Drill two holes in your rubber or cork, one for the copper tube and one for the thermometer. These holes should be very slightly smaller than the tube and thermometer, to create a tight fit. Make sure the stopper you use is generally cut to tightly fit the opening of your kettle or pressure cooker.
 You will need a copper coil to condense the vapor coming from the pot. Take your 8mm copper tubing and shape it into a coil towards one end. You will need a long straight section and a short (at least 6") straight section on each side of the coil. To bend the coil, you can simply bend it around an object or you can use tools designed for bending tube. The coil should be small enough to fit in the thermos or watercooler, with about 1" of space on either side.


These copper coils tend to kink very easily. To avoid this, you can block the tube at one end and fill the tube with salt or sugar (never use sand). Use a funnel and make sure to shake the tube as you fill it to make sure that it fills evenly.
 The watercooler will be your condenser. Drill a hole on the side at the bottom, where the short section of copper tube will come out and deposit your distilled product. Then, drill a hole at the top on the lid. This is where the long section of tube will come out.
 Put the copper tubing in the condenser, threading the short end through the hole at the bottom. Once enough of the short end is coming out of the condenser, seal the edges of the hole with silicon or other material, like Sugru or caulk. Then, thread the long straight section of the tube through the hole at the top.


If you want it to be easier to get the lid on and off, cut the tube a few inches after it comes out the hole on the top. Have a separate section which spans the distance and goes into the kettle. Connect the two with couplings, which can be undone as necessary.
Make sure you unplug the tube if you did so to fill it with salt. You will also want to empty the tube and rinse out the salt before doing this step, although, it can also be done afterwards, with a greater amount of difficulty.
 Connect the long portion of the tube to the kettle or pressure cooker, by inserting the other end of the tube into the kettle. It should be inserted only enough to reach inside the kettle, not be submerged in the liquid.
 Insert the thermometer into the appropriate hole. Make sure it is place deep enough that the end will be submerged but that it will not touch the bottom or the sides of the pot.
 Fill the condenser with ice, water, and rock salt. Make sure you use this still on an electric stove, as open flames can cause problems. Do not heat the pot once everything has boiled away, and generally be careful as pressure can build up if you have done something incorrectly. If distilling alcohol, don't drink anything which comes out when the temperature reads below 173 F or you will be treated to the best in beverages that make you blind.

