 Make sure to pick your cooling rack according to the size of the cake you are baking. 10-inches seems to be the largest standard pan size (for bundt cakes and round cakes), so a rack that is at least 10-inches across should serve just about all of your needs.Cooling racks are an essential tool for any baker as they help your cake cool evenly and quickly. Here are a few things to consider:


Pick a wire rack that is easy to fit in your dishwasher and in the area you plan to store it.
Cooling racks work by allowing air to circulate under your cake, which helps prevent condensation which could make the bottom soggy.
 Once your cake is fully cooked, use oven mitts to carefully take it out of the oven and place the pan directly on your cooling rack.


If you are cooling a cheesecake, you can simply turn off the oven and leave your cake inside to cool for about an hour. This allows the delicate cake to cool slowly, which will help prevent it from cracking.
 At this point, it is a good idea to check your cooking instructions for cooling time guidelines. Cooling time can vary considerably depending on the type of cake you are baking. As a rule of thumb, expect to cool your cake on the rack for 10-15 minutes.


The cake pan should be resting on the rack to ensure that the bottom of the cake pan has airflow.
 Remove your cake pan from the cooling rack and place it on the counter. Use a sharp knife or butter knife and run it along the edges of the pan between the rim of the pan and the cake.


Be sure to keep your knife vertical so you don't accidentally cut into the sides of your cake. Run the knife around the edges a couple times to loosen your cake from the pan.
 Before transferring your cake directly to the cooling rack, you will need to lightly spray your rack with cooking spray.Since your cake will still be slightly warm, placing it on a rack with cooking spray will prevent it from sticking to the wire rack.
 Hold the cooling rack over the top of the pan and slowly turn the pan upside down. Gently tap the bottom of the pan until the cake releases. Slowly lift the pan away to transfer your cake to the cooling rack. Before removing your cake from the pan, consider this:If you are cooling a cheesecake, you won't want to attempt to transfer your cake to the wire rack. Cheesecakes are very delicate and this could ruin your cake.
If you are cooling a pound cake, removing your cake from the pan sooner will help keep it from getting too soggy.
If you are cooling an angel food cake, you may want to skip the wire rack and place it upside down on the counter instead. To cool your cake upside down, turn the pan upside down and set the tube part over the neck of a stable bottle. Turning it upside down for cooling helps prevent it from collapsing as it cools.
Remember to use oven mitts when handling the pan. Since the pan hasn't been out of the oven for very long, it may still be hot enough to burn you.
 After letting your cake fully cool for 1-2 hours, you can transfer it to a plate or platter and frost and decorate however you wish.

