 The most important thing you can do to keep a positive focus when you have bipolar disorder is to maintain your established treatment plan.All efficient and effective treatment plans should involve medication management, psychotherapy, sleep management, good nutrition, and exercise. Sticking to your treatment plan will give you a sense of confidence and promote your positive outlook.


Continue therapy because it can offer you strategies for handling your bipolar disorder as well as encouragement and other support.
If you are using medication management as part of your treatment plan, make sure you take your medication as prescribed.
If you feel your treatment plan isn’t working, contact your health care professional and let them know.
Dedicate yourself to balancing your treatment plan to ensure you stay as healthy as possible.;
, Spending time with other people who have bipolar disorder can help you keep a positive focus in several ways. A support group can provide you with encouragement, as well as coping strategies to try. In addition, expressing yourself with people that can understand what you are going through will help you relieve stress and tension.


Ask your healthcare provider for recommendations for support groups in your area. You could say, “Could you give me a list of bipolar disorder support groups?”
Consider joining a virtual support group or online forum if you can’t attend an in-person support group.
 The people that care about you can do a lot to help you maintain a positive focus.They can help you manage your bipolar disorder, encourage you, and put a smile on your face. Turn to them when you need a smile or a positive boost to your mood.


Spend time with people that make you smile and laugh. For example, take your little sister to the park and let her good mood infect you.
Remember that it’s okay to ask a friend to just come hang out if you’re feeling a little down. You might say, “Would you come over and just chill with me? It may help improve my outlook.”
Ask people close to you to help you maintain your positive focus. You might tell your support group members, “Would you help encourage me if it seems like I’m letting my bipolar get me down?”

, You can help yourself as well as others when you start speaking or writing openly and honestly about your personal experiences with bipolar disorder. By speaking up to help yourself and others, you can help reduce the stigma regarding mental health issues. It will also give you a sense of empowerment and improve your overall sense of well-being., One of the best things that you can do to manage your bipolar disorder and to keep a positive focus in general is to make sure you’re maintaining your overall health.It’s hard to have a good attitude when you’re tired, feel ill, or can’t focus. Do things like eat balanced meals and snacks, get enough sleep, and participate in physical activity.


Go to bed at a regular time each evening so that you can get 6-8 hours of sleep each night. Create a bedtime routine to help you relax like reading, a bath, and then bed.
Eat foods that are high in nutrition like whole grains, fresh fruits, unprocessed foods, water, and juices.
Do something active like yoga, walking, boxing, or swimming on a regular basis.
 Although you want to keep a positive focus, you do need to be aware of signs that your positivity may be a manic episode.While you don’t have to question every positive thought or feeling that you have, you should be aware of triggers and signs that you may be leaning toward a manic episode.


Signs are thoughts, emotions, or actions that indicate an episode may be coming. Pay attention to signs of a manic episode like feeling jumpy, irritable, or overly excited and energetic.
Triggers are events, people, or situations that may make it likely that you will have an episode. For example, very stressful situations like starting or ending a relationship may trigger an episode.
If you feel you are experiencing a manic episode, seek treatment as soon as possible. Don’t be afraid to ask for help. Speak to your doctor or therapist.
Utilize your support system and call on a friend or family member if you feel you are experiencing increased symptoms

, Just as you can maintain a positive focus by being aware of manic episodes, recognizing the signs or triggers of depressive episodes can help you cope with them. You can maintain your positive focus if you don’t let the depression side of your bipolar disorder overwhelm you.


Signs of a depressive episode include: losing interests in things and people you usually enjoy, feeling tired, irritability, and problems sleeping.
If you feel you are having a depressive episode, you should seek help, just as you would with a manic episode.
Take extra care to do things like use positive self-talk, journal, and use your support system so that the negative feelings of depression don’t control you.
 Every day there are new advances made in medicine that make managing and even curing some disorders possible. You can keep a positive focus about your disorder if you make sure that you are aware of current advances in treating bipolar disorder.


Take the time every now and then to find out what the current best practices are for treating bipolar disorder. For example, you might visit the NIMH website at https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/bipolar-disorder/index.shtml every few months.
Find out what treatments may be available in the near future by visiting the NIMH site https://www.nimh.nih.gov/news/science-news/science-news-about-bipolar-disorder.shtml.
Consult your primary care physician and your mental health care provider before you begin any new treatment.

