 Doing an internship in a foreign country adds the opportunity to learn or improve a second language and take in a different culture.;
, Make sure you fully research what are your rights as a foreign worker. Make sure you have all proper visas and documentation in place before leaving your country. An immigration lawyer may be useful in helping with any problems that arise.
 The ability to work alone as well as with a team of your peers is a must; a positive attitude will serve you well.
 The goal should be to end up with a great reference from your employer. To make the most of your time put forward your best effort on every project you're assigned.
 During your internship, fully understanding of what's expected is essential for your performance of creative tasks and the quality of the work you do. Make sure you can comprehend the language that will be spoken most. Often your acceptance into the program is dependent on your language level.
 You will learn more skills during the internship.
 To do so:


Mind your body language. Your posture, facial expressions, and eye contact give away subtle clues to how you feel. You want to project confidence, sit up straight, relax and be engaged with the interviewer. Eye contact and nodding in agreement to important statements shows you are actively listening.






Dress for the position you want. Every company has their standard of professionalism, to get a sense of it, look at their website and note what the employees are wearing in the pictures. When in doubt, dress business professional. This means a business suit and ties for men and trousers or knee length skirts with stockings for women, pair with a conservative top and blazer.

Watch you don't reveal too much skin (shoulders and cleavage).
Remember, outfits that you would wear to a nightclub should not be worn in the workplace.
 This is what is referred to as “register.” Factors like tone and use of jargon or slang are things to take note of. Always try to speak in the language in which you are spoken to. This statement goes both literally and figuratively; if they talk to you in French, reply in French, if they greet you formally, answer formally.
 Be aware of any differences before your interview to avoid any embarrassing faux pas.
 Do background research on the business before the interview and have a list of questions prepared to ask the interviewer. It will show that you are interested and serious about the position.
 Ask about current goals and targets, be engaged and relate to why those targets are necessary for the business. Reaffirm your commitment to working hard to accomplish those goals and be a part of the team.
 There is a big difference between being on vacation and living and working in a new city. You may not be able to sight-see and explore for quite some time while you get established. Juggling a social life in a city like Madrid or Brussels, while upholding your commitment to work can be quite overwhelming. Many people overestimate their stamina and wear themselves out fast. If your focus is more on nightlife, then work life, the quality of you work can suffer, leading to discipline from your employer. It's important to find a balance between work and play.

