


Per Amazon's TOS, you should have the product at least 48 hours before writing a review.
For supplements or similar products, you should wait until they've had long enough to take effect before reviewing.;
, Instead, try to get a replacement before writing a review.


If the seller refuses, you can leave honest seller feedback describing your experience.



Amazon is picky about products being in your possession when reviewing.
If you're getting a replacement though, wait on that before reviewing.
,


Sometimes the 'write a review' button may not show up in the order details.



If going through the products page, scroll down until you see the section on the page "Customer Reviews". Click "Write a customer review".
 With this, you can scan things you bough elsewhere and review them on Amazon.


You can also simply search for the item.
 Keep in mind the positives and flaws of the product when rating it. Once you click a star rating, a box will show up for you to type your review text.


If it's perfect and has no flaws, give it 5 stars.
If it's good, but has any design flaws, give it 4 stars.
If it's okay, but had some design flaws or a lack of features, give it 3 stars.
If it works as described, but has flaws and isn't very satisfactory, give it 2 stars.
If it is just not a good product and doesn't do what it's supposed to, give it 1 star.
 Make sure it is at least 75 words long, and without spelling or grammar errors.
 Reviews are for potential customers to make a fully informed purchase.
,, It will help potential customers and you'll most likely get helpful votes for it.


Keep your video under 5 minutes, and don't show yourself unboxing it. If you're unboxing it, you've had no time to test it thoroughly.
Be sure to submit your written review first, then add your video/pictures once it's live. This will help it process faster.

If you're submitting both a video and pictures, submit written first, then add the video, then add pictures once the video is live.


If you're having trouble getting your video to show up correctly, try sending it to yourself via email or Facebook, then saving it to your laptop and submitting it.
If your pictures are showing up sideways, try cropping them before adding them to your review.
 You should get a email confirmation when it is approved.


It may take up to 48 hours for the review to get approved.
If it doesn't get approved after about 3 days, you can email review-appeals@amazon.com with your profile link and order number and ask them to approve or deny it.
 If anything happens and you need to change your review, simply add an update to the top of it.

