 Eye contact is very important. You can look above the people's head because it looks like you're looking right at them, but you're really not! Don't overdo it or you'll risk looking like you're nodding your head or you can appear stiff. It is also a good idea to make eye contact with different people. Do not stare that the same person throughout your speech, this would make them feel uncomfortable. You could try looking to the left, the center of the room, and the right of the room.;
, In some settings you must speak on a certain subject. Even in casual conversation, though, it is important to focus on a limited set of related ideas. If you drift from one tangentially related idea to the next your speech becomes a sort of bad poetry or misplaced filibuster that may quickly bore the listener.
 It may be tempting to say, "El whooziwhatsit fonctionne bien in thinger teh other day." It may also not be worth the listener's time to try to figure out what you mean.
 A technical audience will appreciate your use of jargon and acronyms. If your audience has trouble grasping the concepts you are relating, it may be necessary to speak slowly and offer generally familiar examples. Still, make sure not to sound as if you are explaining the concepts to a class of kindergarteners.
 It makes you sound very dry, dull, and boring as a speaker and personality wise. It makes you a much better speaker when you raise your voice a bit here and there. Make it sort of like a debate almost, and it's on something you really care for that's really important! Study Martin Luther King. He is one of the most well-known speakers in history. His tone goes up and down.
 When people are treated like they're idiots or little children, they may become hostile and ignore what you're saying. You sound patronizing when you use sing-song tones in your speech or sigh loudly, or if you belittle the listeners in any way.
, People have to hear what you are saying even if they are sitting in the back row or there is a lot of noise.
 Remember the story of the boy who cried, "Wolf!"

, If possible, introduce the topic at the beginning of the paragraph-but make sure it's an original beginning each time!. If there are several ideas or details related to your main point, speak about each one in a deliberate fashion. If you are trying to convey large amounts of information, you may need to outline what you will say at the outset and then summarize what you've said at the conclusion.
 Obviously there are many speakers that do not follow this step and yet have large and doting audiences. You probably aren't one of those speakers.
 Nothing is worse than a speaker with his hands in his pocket or his hands just sitting by his side.
