 To make caramel using the wet method, you will need two cups of white, granulated sugar, half a cup of water and a quarter teaspoon of lemon juice or cream of tartar.


If you only require a small amount of caramel, you can halve the quantities provided above: one cup of sugar, a quarter cup of water and 1/8 teaspoon of lemon juice or cream of tartar.
Depending on the desired thinness or thickness, your ratio of sugar to water will vary. The thinner you want the sauce, the more water you should add.;
, Use a quality metal saucepan with high sides and a thick bottom.









Cheap, thin-bottomed saucepans will often have hot spots that can burn the sugar and ruin your caramel.
It is also better to use a saucepan made from a light colored metal, such as stainless steel, as this will allow you to see whether the caramel is browning properly.
 Stir the mixture constantly with a wooden spoon or silicone spatula until the sugar begins to dissolve.









To turn sugar into caramel, it must first dissolve or melt, which occurs at approximately 320 degrees Fahrenheit (160 degrees Celsius).
At this point, the sugar syrup should be clear in color.
 Add the the lemon juice or cream of tartar (which you should dissolve in a little water first) to the sugar syrup. This will help to prevent the sugar from recrystallizing.
 As soon as the sugar has completely dissolved and the mixture begins to boil, you should stop stirring.
 You want the sugar syrup to be simmering, rather than boiling.









Cooking times will vary according to proportions of water to sugar, different stove tops and other factors.
Therefore, when you caramelize sugar it's best to use the color of the mixture as your guide.
 It's important that you avoid stirring the mixture as the water evaporates and the sugar begins to caramelize.









Stirring will only incorporate air into the mixture and reduce the temperature of the syrup. This can prevent the sugar from browning properly.
In addition, the hot caramel will simply stick to the spoon or spatula, and this can be very hard to clean off., The best way to gauge the progress of your caramel is to watch the color very closely. The mixture will turn from white to a light golden color to dark amber. This can happen very quickly so avoid leaving your pot unattended! Burnt caramel is inedible and have to be thrown away.









Don't worry if the dark amber color only seems to be developing in patches. All you need to do is gently lift the pot by the handle and swirl the contents to distribute the color.
It is also important to refrain from touching or tasting the caramel as it cooks. The caramel has usually reached a temperature of around 340°F at this point, and will burn the skin.
 Watch the mixture closely until it reaches a uniform rich, brown color. When the entire contents of the pot reach this even tone and are slightly thickened, you know the caramelizing process is done.


As soon as the caramel reaches the desired color, remove it from the heat immediately.
If you leave the caramel too long it will turn almost black in color and have a burnt, bitter smell. If this happens, you will need to begin again.
 If you want to ensure the cooking process stops and the sugar doesn't burn from the residual heat in the pot, place the bottom of the pot in ice water for approximately 10 seconds.









However, if you have taken the pot from the stove too early, you can just leave the caramel to sit for a minute and it will continue cooking.
 Use your caramel to top a flan, to make caramel candies or spun sugar, or simply drizzle it over ice cream!


Caramel hardens very quickly after it cools down. If you wait too long to use it on your dessert, it could be too stiff to pour or spread.
If this happens, simply place the saucepan back over a low heat and wait for the caramel to liquefy again. Swirl the pan rather than stir.

