 Define your fitness or weight loss goals and go from there. Defining your goals will help you to find out what types of equipment do you need. If your main goal is to build or pump your muscles, then you will need some strength training equipment. If you want to lose some weight, then you will need to look for cardio training equipment. If you want to build a fully functional home gym, then you will need both types of equipment. Whatever you decide, please do not forget to check the size of the equipment, as it has to fit in your home gym room.





;
, Vinyl or rubber tiles are best in a home gym. These tiles cushion the impact on the joints during high intensity workouts. If vinyl or rubber tiles are not an option, carpet or laminate flooring works also. However, home gym equipment is heavy, so if you decide to put carpet or laminate, be aware that it can be damaged. Also, some equipment can slide on laminate floors during high intensity workouts, and you have to prevent that. Be sure to either protect the floor, or find something to put underneath the equipment. Home gym mats are a good option for this.
 Colors in a home gym should be energizing, bright and colorful. And think about the size of your home gym. If your home gym is in a small space, dark colors are not recommended. Putting dark colors here makes that space seem like more of a dungeon than a fun home gym. Also, take into consideration what type of exercises are being done in that certain space. For example, if this room is going to mainly be used for weightlifting, consider a blue hue. Tranquil blues send a chemical from the brain to the rest of the body calming or soothing it. Weight Lifters lift more in a blue room. Blue is also known to increase productivity and suppress an appetite.
 Putting up pictures of your family may be something to keep you going. Family can be one of the most inspiring things to a person. Anything that is considered inspiring should be in your home gym. This is to be a place of inspiration and hard work. Find something that inspires you to work harder.
 Write inspirational sayings and put them up on a wall or mirror; somewhere where they will be seen and inspire. Make it personal as well, adding goals on a whiteboard or a piece of paper taped up on a wall. Perhaps add a stereo or television to your home gym. If there is something distracting enough to take one’s mind off a workout, that workout might become easier or might pass by faster causing them to continue. Hydration is another important part of working out, so perhaps adding a small refrigerator stocked with bottled water or sports drinks would be a good idea. Also, adding clock to your home gym can help keep track of workout times.






Do not create a home gym alone. Bringing in family is a great way to get everyone involved and may encourage the rest of the family to get fit, stay active and spend more time together. If small children are part of the equation, then add a set, specifically made space just for them, so then they can work out alongside their family. Friends are another great group to get involved. Working out with friends is a great motivation tool for workouts. Friends encourage each other to push one’s limits. Perhaps even get everyone to join as a team for a competition, such as, an obstacle course, triathlon, or group running. The most important thing to remember is to have fun creating this home gym. It should not be a grueling process; it should be fun and exciting.
