 There are three talent trees for each class.


For rogues there are assassination, combat, and subtlety. Though there are some mainstream specs that you can choose from I will not cover these as this article would be incredibly long. The main question you have to ask yourself when choosing a spec is, Which will be the funnest and most helpful?
If you prefer swords/maces/fist weapons you will want either a shadowstep (sub tree) spec or a combat spec.
If you prefer daggers then you will most likely want to go mutilate (assassin tree), though regardless of debate, shadowstep daggers are quite viable.;
, In the current state of WOW (World of Warcraft), resilience is the most sought after and useful attribute. Resilience is used for damage mitigation.


If you wish to do well in pvp at 70 in arena or battlegrounds you will need a lot of resilience. 150 is a decent area to start, and achievable with the reputation gear released in the latest patch.
While you need resilience you also need to have a lot of health, attack power, and crit. These are not as hard to achieve as they are on most of the pvp gear that supplies resilience.
You will need to consider your spec and what weapons work best for it. Once you have made this decision you will need to acquire the best weapons you can. Weapons can be bought with honor, arena points, gold (from the auction house), and instances.
It is suggested that you try to get the weapons from honor or arena points as they will include resilience.
 Stuns are the single most important part of playing a rogue. All good rogues know that keeping their enemy stunlocking is the key to winning.


As a rogue you have many moves to assist you with stunlock. When attempting to stunlock your opponent timing is very essential.
Cheap shot is the preferred opening move that requires you be in stealth to use it.
You also have Kidney shot which is a move that stuns your opponents for x amount of seconds. The more combo points you have on your opponent the longer kidney shot will last.
You also have gouge, which is an effective stun but will break if you damage them. There are many ways to line up your stuns as a rogue and I will not cover all them as some depend on spec makeup and such but I will cover a brief overview.
Many rogues prefer to use cheap shot over garrote (silence and bleed effect) and ambush (pure damage opener). When cheap shot is about to end many rogues will follow up with a kidney shot to keep their opponent in stunlock.
When necessary you will want to use gouge to keep your opponent from hitting you and allowing for a bit of energy regeneration as well as adding a combo point.
With the release of the burning crusade, rogues have gained a new and very powerful spell called cloak of shadows. This spell allows you to negate all magical spell effects for a small amount of time as well as removing those already placed on you.
You may wish to add this to your stun lock line up if you are fighting a caster as they will not be able to hurt you with magical damage or fear you.
 Cooldowns are also a very important part of being a rogue.


Cooldowns include moves such as vanish, blind, sprint, evasion, and cloak of shadows.
These moves are called cooldowns because you can only use them once every x minutes depending on which move you are talking about.
These cooldowns can help to mitigate damage or give you downtime to heal or re-stealth.



One thing you have to keep in mind about vanish is that it does not remove bleed or magical effects on you.
So if you vanish and you have those effects on you, you will be knocked back out of stealth.



This is very helpful if you need to re-stealth or heal up.
Blind is no longer called as a disease.
Your opponent may decide to use their insignia trinket to get out of blind so be wary when you use it of this.



If you are slowed by your opponent or they are far away you will want to use sprint to reach them.



You may want to use this if you have used all your stuns and need to mitigate damage.
You should be cautious about using this against warriors as they have overpower, a move that will not be dodged.
There is much discussion about whether a rogue should use evasion against a warrior.
It is suggested that you still use evasion as the warrior will

Have to switch to battle stance to use overpower and
Overpower has a cooldown of x amount of seconds. So in the long run you will avert the majority of the damage you would have received by not using evasion.



This article would be much too long to go into great detail about arena teams, partners, etc.. so I will just include some helpful information for it.
When you arena as a rogue you must keep in mind that your job is to control the situation and opposing team.
Your main task is to stunlock and kill their healer if they have one.
You want to try to time your cooldowns to be as effective as possible.
You also want to assist your partner(s) in the most effective way i.e. slowing his/their attacker, controlling the healer, and attempting to kill someone as fast as possible.
If your partner(s) die your chances of winning will decrease greatly unless your opponents are almost dead.
For arena you will want to use the most effective poisons to control your opponents.
To slow your opponents you want want crippling poison, to reduce healing effects you would want wound poison, to increase their casting time you would want mind numbing poison, and to do damage you would want deadly or instant poison.
Though keep in mind you can only have one type per weapon, which is two types total.
Many rogues prefer wound poison and crippling poison so that killing a healer is easier.
, an example of a stunlock - stealth-(tell partner not to accidentally break gouge)-cheap shot enemy- wait whole duration(or use hemoglobin because it adds an extra point (you'll probably need a faster energy regeneration))- as soon as he/she/IT turns use gouge (but be careful!)- use kidney shot and the you can start zapping damage into your target. best to use when in line of sight is only 1 target (other is distracted). also good to do by two rouges. first rouge finishes stunlock. starts damaging. after kidney shot ends second rouge starts doing the same BUT BE CAREFUL on the gouge part! after finishing first opponent try vanishing and then doing same to the other.

