 This isn’t just a word, it’s a mental barrier. It conveys that you really don’t care or want to care about the opinions of others – and taking and accepting constructive criticism is precisely about caring.Hold your tongue if you have the urge to say “but,” at least until you have heard the other person out.
Instead of “but,” consider asking questions that force you to think about and express what others are saying to you, i.e. “Just so I understand, you think that my report’s analysis is incorrect?” or “Do I have this right, you want me to run the numbers again?”

, Rather than getting mad, ask questions. Ask others to be more specific about their opinions and their criticisms. This will help you to digest what they’re saying and also show that you aren’t dismissing their perspectives.You might say something along the lines of, “Edwin, can you give me an example of a time you thought I was condescending?” or “What is it specifically that makes you feel I’m not affectionate enough?”
Ask to understand the criticism. Don’t nitpick. Asking a question just so you can poke holes in the answer is another form of defensiveness.Getting specifics will also help you to decide whether to accept the feedback or not. Constructive criticism (e.g. “Your work has analytical weaknesses” or “You don’t express your emotions well”) will have valid reasons behind it, while destructive criticism (e.g. “Your work is trash” or “You’re an awful person”) will not.
 Learning to take criticism takes reflection and openness. It can also take self-control. Avoid the urge to lob your own criticisms, as this will only make it seem like you are lashing out. Instead, withhold your objections for a later time when you can have a legitimate conversation about them.Fight the urge to attack the person who’s criticizing you or their opinions, i.e. “Now you’re just being a jerk, Mom” or “Look who’s talking about being sarcastic!”
Also resist the urge to point out flaws about someone else’s work or behavior, i.e. “Well I don’t know what you’re complaining about. Bill does the same thing!” or “What was wrong with my report? Alex’s report was awful!”

, Giving and receiving feedback is an important skill in the workplace and in families and, ideally, it should create dialogue with a goal of improvement. Try to give others the benefit of the doubt and don’t interpret criticism as a personal attack. Their feedback is probably meant to serve a bigger aim or done with love.


If you feel under attack, ask yourself why. Do you feel offended? Insecure? Do you fear the loss of face, your personal reputation, or your position?Consider who is giving you the criticism. A family member or friend is less likely to attack you personally. In fact, they are probably trying to help you out of love and concern.
Lastly, consider what others are trying to achieve with their feedback – is it to improve a product, good, or service at work? Do they want to improve relationships or communication at home? In these cases, the feedback isn’t just about you as a person.

