 Don't act like a "wannabe" gangster. If you want to talk slang learn from other people. Don't make up slang yourself. If you do, you will get laughed at. It's better to stay quiet and see how people around you act than to be a huge poser. Real ballers will be on to your act in seconds and they will kick you out of their social circle faster than you can try to imitate the Crip Walk.;
, Real ballers know they're lucky to have what they've got and don't spend all of their time bragging, counting their money, or talking about all the money they spent. They know better than that. They let their products and lifestyle speak for themselves and don't have the need of making other people feel jealous or tired of their games. Be grateful for what you've got and spend your money wisely instead of buying a bunch of flashy, ugly clothes just so you can look rich.


Real ballers never mention their money. Their wealth is understood.
 Fake ballers are always trying to get drunk, talking about how drunk they were, or just ordering way too much liquor for one -- or ten -- humans to consume. You may think that this act will make you look like a true baller, but really, you'll just look like you're trying a little too hard. Real ballers like to knock one back now and then, but when they do, they don't make a big deal out of it. Ordering one expensive bottle of vodka or rosé is much more classy and impressive than ordering five and then trying to drink them all.


Real ballers know that they don't have to get drunk to have a good time.
 Fake ballers talk about how many women they got with or how many ladies they're going to hit up at the club later that night. Real ballers are confident enough that the ladies just come to them -- they don't have to talk about it. They have a natural confidence that makes the ladies see that they are worth spending time with, and they don't need to talk about all their girls because they're too busy partying with them and treating them right.


Be a gentleman. Hold doors open for girls, hang up their coats, and let them walk in front of you. It's not classy or cool to disrespect women.
 Real ballers are so cool that they don't need to brag about how they spent their weekends or who is on their speed dial. Fake ballers feel the need to mention the pseudo-celebrity they saw once in the bathroom at the club, even if they never actually spoke. If you're a true baller then you can have sick connections that you never have to mention, because people just know that you hang with the right people.


Name dropping shows a lack of confidence. If you're cool with yourself, then you don't need to let the people you hang with up your status.
 Real ballers don't have to fake cool because they just are. They don't talk louder than everyone, strut more than everyone, and to try have two girls chasing after them every five minutes because they know they already have what everyone wants. So sit back, relax, and enjoy your life. If you're trying to prove yourself to everybody, then you're not a real baller, no matter how sick your lifestyle is or how fat your wallet be.


Let other people talk. Talk when you have something to say, but don't kill yourself trying to outdo everybody.
 Real ballers are proud of who they are and everyone knows it. They make eye contact when they talk. They smile. They keep things chill and positive and make people want to be around them. They take care of their health so they feel good inside. They love what they do, where they are, and who they surround themselves with. If you want to be a real baller, then you've gotta remember all that.


You can't become confident overnight, even if you become an overnight success. It takes time to build up to it.
 You don't earn respect by shelling out cash to everyone in sight. You earn respect by earning that cash, working hard, and showing results. It doesn't matter what you do, from playing ball to running your own business. The important thing is that you've done something worthy of respect and that you stay humble throughout the process. Don't talk down to people because you think they are unworthy. Instead, make an extra effort to help the people below you, and you'll be even more respected for it.


Everyone makes mistakes. If you screwed up big time, then apologize and start over again. You don't have to be perfect to be respected. Just work for it all over again.
 Real ballers don't make a big deal about being at the top of the food chain. They recognize when others are in need and they help them out, either financially, morally, or spiritually. They do what they can to make other people happy because they know they are blessed and that not everyone has the luck that they do. They help out family, friends, or even people on the street because they know they can, and they are not selfish with their money.


True ballers are generous. And that doesn't mean paying for bottle service for your thirty closest friends. It means helping out people who really need it.
 Your pants can be baggy basketball or warm up pants, and they'll look good as long as they aren't sweatpants. Keep your pants looking casual and baggy, but make sure to keep 'em clean too. Don't wear them so baggy that you drown in them, either. Just baggy enough to make you look good.


You can decide whether you want to sag your pants or not. Some ballers think this look is overdone. Instead, you can keep your pants up with a nice-looking belt.
 Put on one, two, or three shirts, preferably white tees under another label brand shirt. Make sure the shirt fits well. If you get a pack of 3 shirts, you can just throw them out after a few uses so your look stays fresh. You don't have to show off the labels of your shirts, though. The quality of the shirts will speak for itself.


You can also wear a tank top as one of your layers.
 Wear jewelry like long chains, watches, earrings, or grillz. If you can afford it, you can wear a designer belt, such as Gucci, Fendi, Hermes, or Louis Vuitton. You can also wear some dog tags or chains, but don't overdo it. The right gold watch makes a stronger statement than a million chains.


Any gold or silver jewelry will look good if it's high quality.
 Keep your hair short, or wear it in cornrows braids or a 'fro. Blowouts usually work very good. Fauxhawks are now becoming very popular too. You can also consider a fade. Find a look that makes you look good and don't be afraid to mix it up if you get bored with it. Ballers are always surprising people with their ability to do something completely new and different.
 Wear anything name brand that looks good, preferably basketball shoes. Any of these brands will do: Jordans, Penny Hardaways, Scottie Pippins, Kevin Garnettes, Nike Foamposites and Flightposites. Wearing black socks with these shoes will do the trick.


You can take out the laces from your sneakers, reverse lace them, or find new laces of a loud color.
 Wear a New Era baseball Team Hat and keep the sticker on without keeping the end straight. You can also wear any snapbacks made by Mitchell and Ness, American Needle, and Last Kings.


You can also wear a hat that reps your favorite teams, like a Lakers or a Raiders cap.
 Walk slowly, like you know where you're going but you don't have to rush to get there. Keep your head up, your arms at your sides, and look around you instead of down at the floor or at your phone. Make people notice you, and walk like you own the place and like there's a seat waiting for you at every party. Have decent posture instead of slouching so you look taller and more with it.
 If you have the money, put some nice wheels on it as well. Get a good stereo system for your car too. Don't go on bragging about your car. Let people see it for themselves.
 Ballers are in no rush to get anywhere. A real baller may even drive five miles under the speed limit just because he can. Put your seatbelt on and don't be reckless or risk your life because your life is too important for that.
 When wearing shorts, make sure they go past knee level. Wear Nike elite socks to show off some athleticism. Just don't get socks that match the shoes too much or you'll look like a poser.
 If you want to be a baller, you don't have to go around flaunting all of the labels on your clothes. You should get a nice suit that fits you well and that's from a brand like Hickey Freeman, Brioni, or Robert Talbott. For a more casual suit you can wear Louis, Prada, YSL, and Dior Homme.


Don't pick something too flashy like D&G or Sean John, or you'll look like a label whore.
Remember that your shirt and tie shouldn't match, either.

