 If you have additional lamps to add to your rental property, or if the property came partially furnished, spacing out lighting can go a long way to brightening the place up. If you have all your lighting concentrated in a single room, this can make the rest of the home dim.Keep lamps on opposite sides of the room so everything is brightened.
Avoid keeping all your lamps in one room. Make sure there are lamps in the living room, kitchen, and hallways.;
, Oftentimes, the lightbulbs in place in a rental are not that bright. Simply switching out all the lightbulbs can do wonders to keep your living space bright. Stop by a local department or grocery store and purchase lightbulbs with higher wattage. Replace all the lightbulbs in your rental unit with brighter ones when you get home. You will see a noticeable difference in brightness.For the brightest bulbs, go for LED bulbs. They tend to be the brightest and longest lasting bulbs. They range in wattage, so opt for higher wattage over lower wattage.There is no precise wattage that is recommended, and it depends on personal preference, but in general a higher wattage will produce a brighter light. Lightbulbs generally range from 15 to 150 watts.
 Drapes can block out natural light. Dark colored drapes can also make rooms look darker. Swapping out dark drapes for brightly colored ones can make a huge difference in your home's brightness.You can get cheap, light colored blinds at a store like Ikea.
Use these blinds to cover up dull beige or off-white blinds.
You can also ask your landlord if you can temporarily uninstall blinds in your unit. This way, you can replace dull blinds altogether.
 You can install small lamps or lights that you can attach to your walls. These lights are usually battery operated, and some come with adhesives that allow you to simply attach them to the wall.You can add these lamps to corners that get dark easily. They work great in kitchens, as you can put them near the stove or in pantries.
You can also place battery operated lights on your walls, so you can have a light hanging over a dark room.
 Lamps are a great addition to a darker apartment. You can buy lamps fairly cheap if you go to a store like Ikea or search for lamps in a thrift store. You can buy standing lamps, or lamps you can place on counters and night stands.A lamp on, say, a nightstand in the bedroom or a end table on the sofa can make for a great reading space.
 If you want as much floor space as possible, buy string lighting. Christmas lights can be strung up on your walls, allowing you to brighten your home without adding extra clutter.It may be particularly cheap to look for string lighting just after the holiday season.

