 After you have reviewed your pre-existing beliefs and explored alternatives, it can help to try to define your personal values. An important part of developing a belief system is figuring out what you stand for, and your values are basically the causes you consider important.


You can pinpoint your personal values by reflecting on times when you felt the happiest, most proud or satisfied. What was happening during these times? Try to label the factors that contributed to these feelings.In addition to reflection exercises, you can also complete a values inventory like the Personal Values Assessment., A big part of establishing your own belief system is making your ideas known to others. Each time you share your beliefs with someone else, you affirm them. Also, you can make your position clear with others who try to influence your beliefs.For instance, if your belief system has changed from that of family or friends, you might inform them. Say something like, “Well, actually my views on that have changed…” Then, briefly share your new position.
When you share your beliefs with others, avoid doing so defensively. Simply speak with polite confidence.
 If your new belief system is drastically different than that of your family members or friends, your disclosure may be met unfavorably. Prepare yourself for negative reactions, but don't allow their disapproval to make you doubt your decisions. Remember that everyone is entitled to their own beliefs, even if those closest to you don't agree.A good way to respond is with open-mindedness and honesty. You might say, "I know this may come as a shock to you. But I'm happy to answer any questions you have."
Give them, and yourself, time to come to terms with a change in beliefs. Over time, your loved ones may come to support your beliefs, or at least not actively oppose them.
 Once you have confirmed your new belief system, regularly audit your everyday actions to be sure they are in line with your beliefs. You are happiest when your daily actions and choices support your core values and beliefs. Plus, when you live by your beliefs, you are able to be your most authentic self., Even after you have developed your own belief system, expect it to morph over time. As you travel, learn new things, meet new people, and have new life experiences, your perspective on various beliefs will likely change. This is completely normal, and okay.