 If you want a dog to go jogging or hiking with, you may want a dog that's bred to run. These dogs should have strong legs and a high stamina, as well as a respiratory system that can accommodate a high-intensity workout.


Choose dogs with lean, long bodies.
Avoid short-nosed breeds like pugs and bullmastiffs. These dogs are called brachycephalic  and they tend to have breathing problems that can make running dangerous.
Border collies, Weimaraners, large poodles (including standard poodles and Goldendoodles), dalmatians, and Australian cattle dogs are all excellent breeds that can run medium to long distances.;
, If you're looking for a dog that you can take hunting with you, you're in luck. There are many breeds that have been selected over many generations to produce a high-quality hunting dog equipped for any terrain.Physical attributes of a given breed are often just as important as that breed's energy level. Consider what type of hunting you'll be primarily engaging in and what type of environment that will entail.Waterfowl dogs should have a thick double coat and webbed feet to improve their ability to travel through water.
If you're seeking a dog that can run long distances in a hot climate, opt for a breed with a thinner coat to help it stay cool in the field.
For deer hunting dogs, choose a breed with a lot of energy and stamina, a strong sense of smell, and good vocal abilities.
Setters, pointers, beagles, hounds, and retrievers are all excellent hunting dog breeds. Talk to a breeder to find out which breeds would best match your hunting needs.
 Herding dogs, like hunting breeds, have been carefully bred over many generations. Specific attributes that make a given dog a good hunter have been selected for, yielding a tireless dog that can assert its authority over other animals.Choose a breed that makes consistent eye contact with herd animals, barks aggressively, and has a lot of energy and stamina.
Australian cattle dogs, shepherds, collies, and sheepdogs all make excellent herding dogs.
 Your energy level should be compatible with the energy level of your dog's breed. High-energy dogs need a lot of physical activity, and that extends beyond just having access to a yard. You'll need to give your dog long walks, and some breeds may need an owner who can take them jogging as well.Be honest with yourself as you assess your energy level.
If you can't provide a high-energy breed with a high-energy lifestyle, consider choosing a breed with lower energy levels.
 Living space is a frequently discussed factor when choosing a dog. While some smaller, low-energy dogs can exist in a smaller living environment, a high-energy breed will typically do better when it has a lot of room to move around your home and surrounding property.A fenced-in yard can provide dogs with plenty of room to run and explore.
If you do not have a fenced-in yard, you should have adequate space inside the house for your dog to roam.
If you live in an apartment, you may still be able to get a high-energy breed. However, you will need to provide that dog with a lot of daily exercise.
 High-energy dogs do not do well when left alone for long periods of time. They may become restless or even destructive. Even an average work day of 8 to 10 hours may be too long for some high-energy dog breeds to be left alone.It's best if you have a roommate, significant other, or a family member who can walk your dog and spend time with it while you're at work.
Never leave your dog alone in the yard while you're gone. A high-energy breed can easily dig under or jump over a fence if they feel restless and under-worked.
If you must leave a high-energy dog home alone, make sure you have a spacious dog-proof area for your dog and plenty of toys, including chewable objects.
 All dogs need plenty of exercise, but high-energy breeds will need even more time spent walking, running, or swimming each day. Without adequate exercise, your dog could develop behavioral problems, including destroying your home or harming itself.High-energy dogs need at least three walks each day lasting 10 to 30 minutes. Some dogs may need even more time spent exercising.
If you must leave your dog at home during the workday, give your dog a long walk before you leave and another long walk when you return home.Spend some time playing fetch with your dog throughout the week. This can help burn off energy and establish a good rapport between you and your pet.
Try taking your dog hiking on weekends if you're able to do so. This can help burn off a lot of energy and it allows your dog to feel like it's on the hunt.
 Nutrition is important for dogs. For high-energy dogs, the right kind of food is crucial. Your dog needs food that will help fuel its energy without causing dietary problems.Avoid high-protein dog food, as this can cause an already high-energy dog to have even more energy.
Feeding your dog the wrong type of food can also cause weight problems.
Opt for a good quality dog food that's low in protein. Ask your veterinarian for recommendations on brands or ingredients that would work best for your dog.
 Some high-energy dogs have a hard time following commands, particularly if they have not built a good rapport with their owners. Obedience lessons can help a high-energy dog bend to your will. With time and training, however, your dog will see you as the leader of the pack and defer to your commands.There are many different types of obedience classes available, so be sure to choose one that's right for your needs.Trainers may have certification, but many do not. There are no clear criteria for what education and experience a trainer must have.
Certified Professional Dog Trainers (CPDTs) are independently certified. They must reach a minimum number of hours working with dogs and must pass a standardized test.
Associate Certified Applied Animal Behaviorists (ACAABs) must hold a master's degree in animal behavior, while Certified Applied Animal Behaviorists (CAABs) must hold a doctoral degree.
Choose an obedience provider that works best for your dog. Ask your veterinarian for recommendations and be sure to ask about a given provider's credentials.
 Sometimes, despite your best efforts, your dog may get restless or frustrated with its environment and/or activity level. All dogs need daily exercise, but high-energy breeds need even more physical activity on a daily basis. They also need a clear sense of guidance from their owners. If any of those needs are not being met, your dog may act out or develop behavioral problems over time.Chasing its own tail, running in circles, biting (itself or the air), escaping, destroying the home, and excessive barking or whining are all signs that your dog is not getting its needs met.