 Locate the app on your iOS device. It has an icon with a blue background with a big letter A on it. Tap on it to launch it.;
, From the main screen, tap the “Add” button from the middle menu. You will be brought to a Setting screen.
 Input your email and password for your ADrive account on the appropriate fields.
 On the next field, identify the local directory to be used by ADrive to store your local copies of your files. Tap the “Browse” button beside the field, and select the local folder you want to use.
 On the last field, identify the remote directory to be used by ADrive to link with your ADrive app. Tap the “Browse” button beside the field, and select the remote folder you want to use.
 Tap the “Save” button from the upper-right corner of the screen. Input a name for this new setting.
 Back on the main screen, tap the “Connect” button on the upper-right corner of the screen. The app will connect to ADrive using the settings you’ve created from Part 1.
 Once the connection has been established, the folders and files from your ADrive account will be displayed. All these folders and files are still being mirrored from the remote folder of your ADrive account.
 Tap on the folders to open them, so you can view the files inside. Tap the “Go up a folder” link to go back to the higher folder.
 From the file directory, whether from the Local browser or Remote browser, tap the files you’d like to share. The selected files will have a check mark on the file icons.
 Tap the “Share link” button from the bottom menu to create the share links for the selected files.
 If you’d like to set an expiration date for the share links, tap the “Enable link expiration date” option to enable it. Set the date on the calendar below when the links will expire. After the set date, the links will fail to work.


The default option here is disabled.
 If you’d just like to see the generated share links, tap the “View link” button on the lower left corner of the screen. The links will be displayed on a new screen.
 To send the links via email, tap the “Send link” button on the lower-right corner of the screen. A “New Message” window of your default email client on your iOS mobile device will be launched. The generated share links will be pasted on the body of your message.


Compose the rest of your email and indicate the recipients’ email addresses on the To field.
Tap the “Send” button on the upper-right corner of the window to send your email with your share links.
 From the file directory, whether from the Local browser or Remote browser, tap the files you’d like to unshare. The selected files will have a check mark on the file icons.
 Tap the “Unshare” button from the bottom menu to unshare the selected files.
 Tap the “OK” button on the confirmation box to complete the unsharing. All the share links generated for these selected files will be made invalid, regardless if their expiration dates haven’t come yet.