 Classic style is timeless. People who dress in classic pieces are never chasing trends and are always in style. The key for this style is neutrals: black, gray, navy, and beige. Clean lines are also a staple in your wardrobe.


Blazers look great with this style for work or play. Pair that blazer with a pencil or flowing pleated skirt, jeans or khakis, or even a long dress.Nautical striped tops look great with this style. White and plaid button ups are also staples. Pair the shirts with v-neck pullover sweaters or cardigans.
Riding boots and simple ballet flats look great with this style. They'll go with just about any outfit you put together.
Accessorize this style with oversized sunglasses, pearl necklaces, gold or silver jewelry, and totes., If you have dramatic style, you like to make a statement with what you wear, and you have the confidence to pull it off. You can rock the latest crazy fashions, and your look exudes authority. The key for this style is bold pieces, and most importantly, confidence.


Wear tops and jackets with large shoulders and pieces with non-traditional and linear lines.
Bold prints are a must have for this style. Wear dresses in animal prints, or crazy bright colors. Art Deco patterns work well with this style.
Red is your color. Red one-sleeved dress, red lipstick, red shoes, red accessories - it doesn't matter. Just remember red looks great in one tasteful piece paired with other accent colors, like black. Don't make your entire outfit red.
Statement jewelry completes any dramatic outfit. Cuff bracelets, stacked bangles, gemstone statement necklaces and earrings, and large cocktail rings are perfect accessories to your outfits.
Balance is the key to being tasteful here. Pair crazy pieces with softer basics. Balance short hemlines with high necklines or low cut tops with longer hemlines., If you're a trendy dresser, you keep up with all the fashion blogs and magazines. You know what's in and not. Most importantly, you have an innate sense of style. You take inspiration from around you and create your own style. The key to your style is confidence and attitude.


Skinny jeans are perfect for this style. Ripped jeans also give you an edgy look. Leggings are another staple for your wardrobe. Pair these things with a graphic tee.
Flannel shirts and comfy striped long-sleeve shirts compliment leggings and skinny jeans in this style.Jumpsuits and rompers are style choices that look great with your style.
Platform sandals, high heels, gladiator sandals, and Converse shoes are perfect for your clothes.Accessories are almost as important as the clothes for this style. Wide belts, patterned scarves, fedoras, and beanies complete the trendy look.
Make sure when dressing trendy you feel comfortable in your clothes. Otherwise, you could end up looking bad and awkward in your clothes. If you don't feel confident in the clothes, don't wear them.
 Being sporty and preferring comfort over fashion doesn't mean you wear sweat pants and sneakers everywhere. You can take your style and look great walking down the street. The key for this style is relaxed clothes. Nothing too tight, too fussy, or too intricate.


For this style, try loose but structured pieces. Go for basic tees and tanks. For cooler months, go for loose but structured jersey knit sweatshirts.
Tunic tops are perfect for date nights or for nicer occasions.
Boyfriend jeans are essential for this look. Roll them up and pair them with a pair of sandals or flats. Cargo pants also look great for this style.
Jewelry should be simple. Stud earrings, silver rings, necklaces with small pendants, or natural jewelry.
Go for canvas sneakers or other sporty shoes.
To keep yourself from looking sloppy, make sure your clothes aren't overly baggy. Loose and comfortable doesn't mean baggy without shape. To keep yourself from looking boring, wrap a scarf around your neck, add a cute bag, or pick an article of clothing or accessory with a pop of color., People who wear creative style don't worry about what other people think - they wear what they want. Sometimes, they might even wear clashing patterns, but they have the confidence to pull it off.


Go vintage with a creative style. Browse consignment and thrift stores for unique finds for your wardrobe.
Wear prints! Printed shoes, printed bags, printed clothing - everything. The more unique and interesting, the better.Wear bold colors in your shoes. Have fun with them - try bold blue sandals or leopard print heels. Oxford shoes go perfect with almost any creative outfit.
Accessories are also very important for this style. Hats, sunglasses, patterned bags, scarves - they all complete these outfits. Go for chunky, vintage, or quirky jewelry.
Try balancing your outfit with a few basic solids. You don't want to overdo it. Make sure your patterns don't clash too badly.
Confidence is the key to this style. If you don't wear the piece with confidence, you could end up looking awkward.