 Most dermatologists agree that it's not needed, as long as you washed it the night before.If you must wash your face, use a face cleanser made without soap:the harsh chemicals soap contains contribute to dry skin.;
, You can choose between a moisturizer or, if you want more coverage, a BB cream (which stands for “beauty balm”) or light coverage foundation. BB creams are a good choice for your everyday makeup because they are moisturizing and light, but still provide some coverage.Use a small dab of product, about the size of a pea.With your fingers, gently spread the product onto the skin using upward strokes. Be sure to also smooth it over your jawbone, temples, and down your neck. Make sure that there are no streaks.









Choose a shade of BB cream or foundation that is right for your skin tone. When purchasing a BB cream or foundation, bring a friend along or ask a salesperson to help you choose the shade that most closely matches the skin on your face.
 Even if your foundation or BB cream contains SPF, it is unlikely you are using enough of the product to actually get the benefits of sun protection. Apply a nickel- to quarter-sized amount on sunscreen (at least SPF 30) over your face and neck before applying any makeup.
 Concealer is a highly pigmented product that you can use to cover up dark circles and blemishes. It will also help even out your skin tone. Apply this over your BB cream or foundation, or it will just be wiped away. If you want to cover up acne spots, use a green-tinted concealer first, then apply your normal concealer on top of it. The green will help hide redness.









Use a very small dab of concealer to start with. You can always dab on more if you need to.
Blend your concealer well. If you use your fingers to apply your concealer, gently dab it instead of smearing it. This is better for your skin and will keep the concealer where you want it.
If you have dark circles under your eyes, apply a peach corrector right on top the dark areas, followed by a concealer that matches you skin tone and blend. To highlight, apply the concealer in a triangle shape. The triangle should point at your cheek, with the base beneath your eye.Apply a dab of concealer to your upper eyelid. This will form a base for eyeshadow and eyeliner. It helps prevent them from bleeding and smudging later on in the day.
 For school, it is best to choose neutral tones. While tones like purple, blue, green, and black seem like fun, it is best to save them for something like a party. You can layer your eyeshadow to make it more intense, if you wish.








Avoid using too much eyeshadow. You just want to accentuate your eyes.
 Choose a shade that is dark, but not too dark for your hair and skin tone. If you have dark hair and eyes, black or dark brown are good choices. If you have very light skin, blonde hair, and/or blue eyes, it is better to choose a lighter shade of brown. When applying tilt your chin up and point your gaze downward so that you can see your entire eyelid.









There are three main types of eyeliner. Each comes with its own benefits.Pencils are quick and easy to use, and are less easy to smear. Gel liners are applied with a brush, and give you better control over the thickness of your eyeliner. Liquid liners are the most precise, but also the most difficult to use. If you are just starting out with makeup, it might be best to start with a pencil. As you become more experienced and comfortable with your makeup, you can try gel or liquid.
Avoid pulling your lids tight, as this can result in crooked lines.
For a simple and clean look, draw a thin line on your top lid, as close to the lash line as possible.
For added emphasis on the eyes: On the lower lash line, draw a line from the outer corner to the middle of your eyelid. Do not completely circle the eyelid — this will make your eyes appear smaller.
Save more dramatic looks, such as winged eyeliner for parties.
 Use an eyelash curler, press the curler gently against the base of your eyelashes and squeeze it gently shut for a few seconds. Move the curler to the middle of your eyelashes and repeat. This will help your eyelashes stand out.
 Like with eyeliner, you should choose your color based on your natural hair and skin tone. For dark hair and skin, black or dark brown. For lighter hair and skin, choose lighter brown tones.









Always begin by placing the brush at the base of your eyelashes. Gently wiggle the brush back and forth while drawing it through the tips of your lashes. If you want more control you can bend the wand so that the brush is perpendicular to the rest of the wand. To do this, simply bend the tip as you remove the wand from the vial.Apply one or two coats. Depending on how dramatic you want your lashes to look, apply one or two coats. However, be aware that the more your apply, the more likely you are to end up with clumpy looking eyelashes.
Use a brow brush, which has a brush on one side and comb on the other to brush any clumps out. Use the comb side to tease apart any clumped lashes.
 If you have eyelashes that tend to point in every direction, use the brush side of your brow brush to smooth them out. You can also spray a bit of hair spray on your finger, and then smooth it along your brows to help keep them in place, or use a clear brow gel.









Don't overdo it with the hairspray! Just a small dab will do.
 You should choose a color that will complement your face without looking clownish. Generally, rosy and peachy tones work best for light skin, while darker skin looks better in richer tones. Use your fingers to blend it into the rest of your face, smoothing it toward the temples to accent your cheekbones.If you can, go to a department store where makeup is sold. There, the makeup artists can help you choose a color that is suitable for you.









Apply blush lightly. You want to add a bit of color to your cheeks, so don't use too much. In natural light, check to make sure that you haven’t overdone it.
 When choosing between lipstick and lip gloss, know that lipstick lasts longer than lip gloss, but that lip gloss is more moisturizing.Lip gloss is also usually easier to apply.









Again, for school, avoid very dramatic colors such as bright red. Try to go for softer shades such as peach.
When applying lip gloss, apply just a dab or two to your lips and then spread it around with your finger or by pressing your lips together. If you apply too much your lips will look sticky.
, You don’t have to carry around your whole makeup bag, but do include a few essentials.


For example, keep your lip gloss in your purse or in your pocket as it is likely to come off when you eat or drink.
 Have a pack of tissues or makeup wipes with you in case of smudges. Sometimes, on hot days you may find that your eyeliner ends up underneath your eyelids. You can use the tissue to gently wipe the smudges away.
 Especially on hot days, having a small setting spray to mist your face with can help your makeup last longer and look fresh.


Setting sprays come in many varieties. For example, some are designed to prevent oiliness, while others keep your face moisturized. Choose the spray based on your skin type.
You can save money on this by purchasing a large bottle, and then pouring a small amount into a travel bottle. Not only will it save you money, it will also save space in your bag.
 At the end of each day, before you go to bed, remove your makeup using remover wipes or fluid. Wash your face using a gentle cleanser. This will keep your skin healthy and radiant.









If you choose to use wipes, save money by cutting the wipes in half. Make sure you are cleansing after removing with makeup. Wipes alone don't cleanse the skin, just remove the makeup.
Use only a dab of cleanser and rinse well.
 This is very important for healthy skin, and can help prevent wrinkles later on. Establishing a good skin care routine early on will have many benefits later in life.








