 Technology, clothes, culture, many different kinds of things can change in an instant. Coolness is a moving target. try to stay as up-to-date as you can on the newest, the freshest, and the coolest stuff available.


Smart-cool people are always plugged in, have always seen that meme three days before it showed up on your newsfeed, and always have opinions about the newer, the more efficient, and the most innovative dispatches from the tech world. The newest Facebook privacy updates? Smart-cool people read about that three days ago, thank you very much.
Always try to update your hardware as soon as possible. The newest start-up apps, devices, games, and trends are usually cooler than slightly dated varieties. The new iPhone is cooler than the old iPhone. Why are you reading a paperback? Get an e-reader, already. You want to be the guy with the newest roll-out, drawing envious stares on the train during your commute.
 Shopping, eating, and traveling in the old ways? Boring. A smart-cool person doesn't waste time going to mall, instead opting to shop online at retailers like Frank & Oak or Warby Parker. A smart-cool person doesn't go to hotels, but researches cheap options on AirBnB, and gets there by hitching an Uber ride. Stay abreast of the coolest new start-ups and innovations in the consumer culture.


You don't necessarily have to be super-plugged-in to stay on top of innovative consumer trends. Even within your own neighborhood, you can seek out new restaurants, always going somewhere else, finding the next best thing. Be restless and keep moving.
 Smart-cool people pride themselves on their Twitter followers and take their online presence seriously. From your social networking to your personal websites to your World of Warcraft account, your online presence should be tricked out and fully developed. Have a blank avatar on your wikiHow account? Get serious.


Online friends are real friends. Forge relationships and friendships with people online, who'll get your particular brand of humor, your interests, and your personality. If you spend a considerable amount of time in your own head, online communities can be very welcoming. It might feel like home.
 Being smart-cool means you've got to be, well, smart. Get excited about how you can translate your smarts into a career by learning about innovative fields and developments in culture. See school as a means to an end, and keep moving forward into your bright future.


Develop a thirst for knowledge of all sorts, not just what you're interested in or consider your speciality. If you want to be a hacker, be the hacker who can quote Macbeth at length. If you want to be a novelist, learn how to do things with your hands, in addition to all that brain-work.
You know there's nothing cool about blowing off your homework, even when the supposedly "cool" kids at your school seem to blow it off all the time. Find confidence in the knowledge that you'll be in college, surrounded by awesome, intelligent, and beautiful people, while these fake cool kids go nowhere.
 In the world of smart-cool, looking as if you pay excessive attention to brands, styles, or other trends would be conspicuously uncool. A smart person wants to look as if dressing is the last possible item on a long list of items. Dress for utility and comfort, not for "coolness." Walking around with a corporate logo emblazoned on your chest, like a billboard? Please.


Novelty t-shirts are the calling card of the smart-cool. Shop online for funny shirts with inside jokes you and your friends will get, that will leave the lame jocks scratching their heads. Found a Monty Python tee you dig? Cool.

