 Acne-prone skin might be extra sensitive and can be further irritated by cosmetics. Some cosmetics even cause acne at the same time that they cover up other pimples. Be aware that using makeup might not be the best choice for you and your skin. Talk to your dermatologist about whether or not you can use cosmetics. Discontinue use of any makeup that appears to increase the frequency of your acne flare-ups.


If you wear make-up, to always remove it before going to bed.
 Only use makeup that is water- and mineral-based.Look for ingredients such as silica, zinc oxide, and dimethicone. These ingredients help minimize redness.Another option for foundation is using a tinted moisturizer that is also oil-free and noncomedogenic.
 Press the concealer into the pimple with a brush, giving it a slight twist. Work your way around the pimple until fully covered. Apply the concealer in an X-pattern to get the most effective coverage once you blend it in.Try to find a shade that matches your skin color as closely as possible.
Using a concealer brush with pointed, flat bristles allows you to lay a thin layer of makeup onto the skin.
Concealers with yellow and green undertones are especially good at hiding acne redness. Look for makeup with yellow or green hues that you can use during breakouts., Begin working from the center of the pimple, radiating outwards. Use a pressing or tapping motion instead of a rubbing motion to avoid a streaked look.Make sure that the concealer is applied to the entire perimeter of your zit.
 As with the concealer, try to match the makeup to your skin color as closely as possible for the most natural look. Ensure that your coverage looks even. Apply the foundation all the way up to the edge of your pimple so that your whole face is the same tone.You can apply an extra layer of yellow or green concealer on top of your foundation if you need extra coverage., Consider using cornstarch or talcum powder to make your concealer more durable, especially on a hot and sweaty day. Translucent powders are a good option because they set your makeup without adding yet another layer of color., This method probably will not hold up for an entire day of work, school, or fun. Be sure that you have travel-sized containers of your products so that you can reapply as necessary throughout the day.