 Irish dance is an incredibly complicated style unique unto its own in the dancing world. Because of its complexities, it is nearly impossible to teach it to yourself. You can begin to learn basic footwork on your own, but to become a successful Irish dancer it is imperative that you find your own dance instructor.


Most dance studios won’t offer Irish dance as a style, because it is so different from most other popular styles of dance. Try looking for Irish dance studios in your area that specialize only in this unique form. You can google it for nearby dance schools.
There are many private dance instructors/choreographers who can give private Irish dance lessons, so try looking for one in your area. Though it will offer a much different experience to joining a dance school.;
, As with most types of dance, certain shoes must be worn in order to perform a traditional Irish dance. Unfortunately, Irish dance shoes are not available in most dance or shoe stores, they are usually bought pre-used from your teacher or as a competition/feis, or even custom ordered online. Only do this once you have started dance lessons and are 100% sure that you want to continue.


Ghillies/Soft shoes are a type of soft-soled shoes used for dancing jigs and reels. They are similar to ballet slippers in appearance, but have more structure and only lace to the ankle.






Hardshoes are a special type of shoe with a heavy heel attached to the bottom to make sound during a dance. These are similar to tap shoes, but instead of a metal heel hardshoes are made with a wood or fiberglass heel.






If you are interested in eventually entering competitions with your Irish dance, it is good to have a special pair of performance shoes which you keep solely for the times you are in competition. This way, they won’t get scuffed and will always look neat and clean., Only do this once you have started competing. Your dance school should have a school dress/vest but before that you will probably compete in a beginners outfit (white blouse, and a skirt that's your school colors knee-length skirt for girls and white button down shirt, and blue/black pants for boys). Irish dance emphasizes having traditional dance costumes during performances. Although to start you may not want to invest in some of the pricier outfits, eventually it will become necessary to purchase a classic dance costume.


Solo costumes are the most elaborate and are incredibly expensive. You won’t need to buy one of these fancy costumes at the beginning of your dance career, but when you begin to perform in shows having your own solo costume may be necessary.






Beginner, novice, and prizewinner dancers often dance in groups, so you will most likely have to buy a matching dance costume for this purpose.
Irish dancers put a lot of time and effort into their hair as a part of their costume. Typically, long hair is worn in incredibly tight ringlets. If you aren’t able or willing to achieve this style with your hair, you can purchase a wig to be worn for competitions.







