 Verizon, Sprint, AT&T, and T-Mobile have different criteria--though in most cases, you must own the phone. Specific carrier criteria include the following:


Verizon doesn't place a lock on most of their devices. If for some reason there is a lock, you can usually request an unlock as early as six months into the contract.Sprint will unlock your device for you if it has both been on the Sprint network for at least 50 days and been purchased in full.AT&T requires you to submit your device's information for review. If your device is eligible for an unlock, AT&T will let you know within five business days.

T-Mobile will unlock your phone for you if you've paid the phone off and the phone has been on a T-Mobile network for at least 40 days.;
, Even if your contract looks like it specifies that they must unlock your phone, calling ahead will ensure that you don't waste a trip.

Your carrier has a legal obligation to unlock your phone for you if you have entirely paid off your phone.
Some carrier branches won't have the means to unlock your phone, in which case you'll have to visit a corporate branch.
 You can do so from online or from the network's carrier store. Having the SIM card on hand will allow you to install it directly after unlocking your phone.

Skip this step if you aren't planning on switching to a new network immediately after unlocking.
You'll need to make sure that your selected network is compatible with your phone's data network (CDMA, GSM, or LTE) before purchasing the SIM card. Your carrier can verify this information for you.
 In order to make your carrier's job easier, make sure that you know the following information before going into the store:


IMEI number - Your Android's ID number. You can find this by dialing *#06#.

Account holder information - This includes the account holder's first and last name and the last four digits of their social security number.

Device phone number - Your phone's official phone number and area code.
 While it's possible to perform the unlocking process over the phone, the process will be much less frustrating if performed in-person.

If you must call your carrier, make sure you write down any information with which they provide you.
 If they refuse or you don't want to install your SIM card right now, you can install it later by opening the SIM tray with a paperclip, removing the old SIM card (if there was one) and sliding the new one in.

If you're simply unlocking the phone for now, proceed to the next step.
 You'll do this after installing a different SIM card and rebooting your device. Your carrier may also just enter this for you if they've agreed to install the SIM.

Asking your carrier to install your SIM card and complete the unlock process for you may result in extra fees.
Until you replace the SIM card, you won't be able to enter the unlock code.

