 You should not eat more than 18 ounces of red meat each week. This means you can eat three ounces each day for six days out of the week or six ounces each day for three days out of the week.These amounts are considered a healthy portion of red meat for the average person. If you have any health conditions or issues, your portions may be lower based on your doctor’s recommendations.
 Rather than view red meat as the star of your meals, make vegetables the star instead. Build your meals around vegetables and whole grains. Then, add a small amount of red meat as a garnish or a condiment. This way, you still get the flavor of meat in your meals without eating a lot of red meat.For example, you may prepare a salad with a garnish of cooked beef or pork. Or you may make a stir fry made with vegetables and serve it over brown rice, with sliced red meat as a garnish.
 To control your servings of red meat, try including other protein sources like beans, tofu, chicken, and fish in your meals. Cut the amount of red meat required for a recipe in half and substitute beans or tofu instead. Add fish, turkey, and chicken to your diet so you still get protein in your meals.For example, you may prepare a beef stew by putting in half the amount of beef called for and substitute the other half with pinto or black beans. Or you may prepare a curry with half tofu and half beef so you still get some red meat in the dish.
 Try to include more vegetarian dishes in your meals at home. Make one night “meatless” and serve meatless meals on that night for dinner, once a week. Or try to have two or three vegetarian meals at home as part of your diet. Add vegetarian side dishes to your meals or make a vegetarian dish the main focus of a meal, with red meat served on the side.There are many vegetarian and vegan meals you can prepare at home using simple recipes. Look online for recipe ideas and buy vegetarian or vegan cookbooks to get ideas.
There is a movement for "Meatless Mondays." Online groups and websites can help you find recipes and support for going meatless on Monday.
 When eating out, try to opt for lean red meats as part of a healthy diet. Look for cuts of red meat on the menu that are leaner, such as the round or the sirloin cut of beef. Go for a smaller portion of red meat in your meals out so you still get some meat but other healthy ingredients as well, such as a salad with meat as a garnish.


You may also try going to vegetarian or vegan restaurants more often, especially if you tend to eat a lot of red meat at home. Having professionally prepared vegetarian meals can expose you to new dishes and new ways of eating vegetable based protein in a healthy way.

