 There are many types of language teachers. Decide if you want to teach at school, an institute, or do private lessons. Teaching jobs are competitive, so consider applying to several jobs. Contracts can last from a couple of months to a couple of years.There are many agencies that can put you in contact with German schools or language institutes. These organizations require that you apply to the program as opposed to contacting schools or institutes directly.
Alternatively, you can try applying to schools, institutes, or individual contractors directly. This may be challenging especially if you do not have contacts in Germany or German language fluency. This is, however, another way to secure work in Germany.
Application requirements vary. Some organizations ask that you have a valid teaching license in your country or that you have some kind of English language teaching certificate.
 If you have contacts in Germany, they may help able to arrange private lessons with potential students of all ages. These students may need help with school work, or they may work for international companies and need help with conversational English. If you establish yourself well, this can become a permanent gig. Private lessons require constant attention and focus on one person. Most private language lessons last from one to two hours. Decide if this is the right teaching arrangement for you.
Cancellations and no-shows are more common with private lessons. It’s possible that you won’t have a steady income.
Prepare to do the necessary paperwork as a freelancer in Germany. You will need to register with tax authorities and the relevant professional authority. You may also need to set up your own health insurance and pension plan. , Rather than relying on degrees alone, show your potential employer that you have the skills it takes to keep students engaged and learning.


If you don't have much experience, provide information on how you would handle English-language curriculum.
 No matter where or how you choose to work, teachers are in high demand around August, right before the school year begins. Jobs tend to open up again in December. Keep these months in mind and apply in advance. , Your expenses may be higher at the beginning of your stay. Some teaching jobs in schools provide accommodations, but most do not. Apartments in metropolitan areas can be quite expensive.Bring about two to three months of savings for your first few months. You may need extra money as you set up bank accounts and get settled.
Plan for taxes and other costs of living in Germany. Fit all expenses into a monthly budget to successfully live on your income as an English teacher.

