 Consider what abilities and existing skills you can apply to a job. Think about what kind of jobs you would or would not enjoy.


Take career and/or personality self-assessment tests as a way to help you find what jobs or careers would suit you. Find them in job searching books at your school's career resources center, your local library, bookstore or online.;
, The websites for the U.S. Army and the British Army, for example, have sections focusing on the jobs they have.


Read through job descriptions that interest you. Use your interests, skills or personal information such as gender to narrow down your job choices if possible.
Consider a specialized Army career. Choosing 1 of these options, which can be in music, law, or other areas, can affect the path you take while training in the Army.
, They may want to talk about your options with you and your parents or guardians.


Write down any questions or topics you would like to discuss before the meeting. Consider finding out more about the Army job(s) you like from the recruiter or advisor.
Ask your recruiter or advisor about the next steps you should take to get the Army job you want.
 If you choose to enlist full-time, you will be an active soldier. You may also be a reserve member of your country's Army, which will allow you to retain a civilian job while doing Army training and spending time with your unit on the side.
 You may need to take additional steps or fulfill more rigorous requirements, such as have certain school grades, to become an officer in the Army.
 Make sure you fulfill your country's specific requirements for joining. These may include being a certain minimum age, obtaining parental consent if underage, filling out an application, and doing an interview.
 This multiple-choice test will help determine what Army jobs you are best suited for. It measures your knowledge and abilities in different areas, such as mathematics, vocabulary, and comprehension of mechanics.


Talk to an advisor at your school or your Army recruiter to find out when and where the ASVAB will be held. The test is usually taken at a school.

