 Pheromones can relax cats and prevent them from urinating outside the litterbox. However, urinating out of the box can also be a symptom of other issues, including serious medical problems that require intervention from a professional veterinarian.Cats rarely defecate outside of their box, but evidence suggests that pheromones can help prevent this behavior as well, if it arises.
If your cat does not respond in a few days to pheromones, take it to the veterinarian for an examination. Peeing outside of the box, especially in male cats, can be a sign of urinary tract obstructions that can be deadly.;
, Scratching, like urinating, can be a way for cats to mark territory. Pheromones will help stop this behavior. However, the problem could also be that you haven’t provided enough scratching posts.Cats need to scratch and if you don’t provide scratching posts they will scratch your furniture instead. Be sure to have at least one scratching post per cat in the house.
Do not spray scratching posts. This will discourage your cat from scratching the post. This, in turn, might encourage your cat to scratch furniture and other household items you would prefer it not scratch., Cats often fight each other because of stress. Spray pheromones to help prevent fights between your cats., Cats are extremely uncomfortable in new environments. Visits to the veterinarian or moving to a new home cause anxiety and can cause bad behavior, including urinating out of the litter box. Spray pheromones in your cat’s carrier whenever it leaves the home., Spraying pheromones on new additions to your home, like furniture, will make your cat more comfortable with them. This can help eliminating scratching., If you are bringing home a new, crying baby or doing repairs on your house, these noises are likely to upset your cat. Spraying pheromones in advance can help head off bad behavior., If you don’t clean the urine first, it will continue to draw the cat to mark the territory. Blot the surface with paper towels or cloth towels that you don’t mind throwing away. Then apply a store-bought cleaner specifically designed for picking up cat urine and let it sit for a couple of hours before vacuuming it up. Never use ammonia cleaners; they will only make the pee smell worse.For a homemade solution, try mixing 1 ½ cups of warm water with ½ cup of vinegar. Put it on the stain, and then, after 3-5 minutes, add baking soda. Allow it to sit for approximately eight hours and then vacuum it up. Repeat if it necessary., Standing a couple inches away from the spot, press down to spray the pheromones. Spray eight to ten pumps of the pheromones. Target spots that your cat likes to scratch or urinate on.The spray is the preferred method for delivering pheromones when your cat is scratching one object in particular or when you are prepping a carrier for a trip. In all other cases, the diffuser is preferred because it is longer lasting and spread out more widely., After a few hours, the pheromones will begin to fade. Respray target spots ever few hours for best results Continue respraying until cat’s behavior improves or until the cause of its stress is eliminated., Pheromone sprays are largely composed of alcohol, which can be dangerous if sprayed on your cat. Also, do not spray it on something that the cat is wearing, because this poses similar risks.Some companies now sell collars that purport to safely distribute pheromones wherever the cat goes. These have not been as thoroughly tested as sprays or diffusers.
 If your cat is peeing in a particular room, you can place the diffuser in there to discourage bad behavior. If the cat’s problems aren’t isolated to a single room, place the diffuser where the cat spends most of its time, so it will have as much exposure as possible.

If your cat is scratching up furniture in one room, you can also place the diffuser there.The diffuser will fill an entire room, of up to 700 sq. feet, but is unlikely to affect areas outside of a confined room., If you know that some changes will be occurring in the household that are likely to bother the cat, install the diffuser in advance. This way your cat will already be calm before the change.

Examples of changes that could provoke a reaction include: getting a new cat, rearranging furniture, bringing a baby home, or having a lot of company., Be sure that there is nothing in the top outlet that will obstruct pheromones from being released. Do not place it behind a couch, in a cabinet, or by an open window., The diffuser will have a removable chamber filled with liquid. When this gets low, which should be after approximately 30 days, purchase a refill. Remove the chamber and replace it with a similar one., It often takes at least a month for a cat to adapt to changes in its environment. If it does not seem to have adapted to changes after a month, continue to use the diffuser to help calm your cat.Your cat might not have adapted yet if it is still hiding, fighting, or marking territory.
A good sign that your cat is comfortable is that it rubs something with its head. Particularly, if you see that your cat has begun rubbing an area that it used to mark with its cheek, this means that it now feels comfortable with it. If you don’t see your cat performing this act, consider extending the use of pheromones.
 The part of the diffuser that plugs into the outlet is also subject to wear and tear. After about 6 months, purchase a new diffuser and replace it.