 If you want to pick up your food or have it delivered, ordering over the phone is the way to go—whether you have social anxiety or not. But ordering over the phone can induce similar levels of anxiety to ordering in person. Just remember that the more you practice ordering this way, the less anxious you will feel.


You might want to rehearse your order before you call. Rehearsing in front of a mirror or with a friend will help you to feel more comfortable during the real thing. , If you have trouble with face-to-face interactions, a drive-thru might be a good way to get around facing your anxiety. But keep in mind that many drive-thrus are in disrepair and you might have trouble communicating through shoddy speaker systems.


Remember that ordering this way will not help to very much to overcome your anxiety.
 If you are going to be eating with other people, this can be a good way to get around your anxiety. Make sure that you communicate exactly what you want to your friend so that they don’t order the wrong thing.


Write down your order if it’s complicated.
Keep in mind that ordering this way will not be very helpful to you in overcoming your anxiety.
 Many restaurants have online ordering services these days, either through the restaurant’s website, downloadable apps, or third-party services like Zifty and GrubHub. These services can cut down on person-to-person interaction a great deal, although you will still have to interact with someone when you receive your food. Remember that using these services will not help you to overcome your anxiety in the long run.


Online ordering generally takes longer than in-person or over-the phone ordering.
Most online ordering services require a credit or debit card, and they often charge an extra fee.
Restaurant apps allow you to place your order and pay for it ahead of time. They will also notify you when your food is ready. Make sure you have your phone with the app on it with you when you pick up your food. , Don’t let your nerves get the best of you—always smile and thank the person who brought your food. Check over the food to make sure it’s right and if it’s not, make sure you let the person who brought it know. Don’t let your anxiety stop you from enjoying your meal!


If you have to pick up your food at a restaurant, there is a chance that the food may not be ready yet, so make sure you have something to occupy your time, like a book or magazine, in case you have to wait. This will help to keep from getting anxious while you wait.
If you have to meet a delivery person at the door, don't be nervous. Keep your thoughts realistic—this person has many deliveries to make and is just as interested in keeping the conversation short as you are. Having your money and tip ready ahead of time will make this more seamless.

