 Warm milk can be used as an additive to standard saline solutions, but you can also use it as a stand-alone nasal rinse if your nose is dry or otherwise irritated.Use pasteurized whole milk. Raw milk is more likely to contain bacteria and other impurities that could cause or worsen a sinus infection. Reduced percentage milks are usually safe, but the decreased amount of milk fat can reduce the soothing properties of the milk, making it less effective as a nasal rinse.
Carefully warm 1 cup (250 ml) of milk in a small saucepan on the stove, stirring frequently. Do not allow it to boil since it may start breaking down, thereby becoming less effective. Bring the milk up in temperature until it roughly matches average human body temperature, 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit (37 degrees Celsius).
 Triphala is a natural compound valued for its astringent and anti-inflammatory properties, and it's commonly used in traditional Ayurvedic medicinal practices.


As an astringent, the supplement should help reduce bleeding of the nasal passages. Its anti-inflammatory properties may also help reduce stuffiness and nasal swelling.
Combine 1 tsp (5 ml) of triphala powder with 1 cup (239 ml) of warm, distilled/purified water. Steep for five minutes before straining the solids out. Use only the liquid tea for your nasal rinse.
 Goldenseal is another herb commonly used in natural medicines. It's believed to have astringent and antimicrobial properties.


Goldenseal may help prevent or fight certain nasal infections due to its antimicrobial properties, and its astringent properties can reduce nasal bleeding.
Mix 1 tsp (5 ml) goldenseal powder with 1 cup (239 ml) of warm, distilled/purified water. Steep the powder for five minutes, strain, and use the liquid tea as a nasal rinse.
 Choose and prepare one of these nasal rinse remedies. Draw the rinse into a clean bulb syringe, then insert the tip of the syringe into your nostrils and carefully spray the solution directly into your nose.


Keep your head tilted forward over a sink or shower as you use the rinse.
Insert the tip of the filled syringe into one nostril and tilt your head in the opposite direction. Once you squeeze the rinse into your nose, it should drip out of the other nostril or out of your mouth.
Repeat the same procedure for both nostrils.
 If necessary, repeat the procedure twice a day for up to seven days. Stop sooner if your symptoms subside before the week ends.


Keep the syringe clean in between each use.
Discard any warm milk you do not use during the first rinse. Triphala or goldenseal decoction can be saved at room temperature for 24 hours if kept in a sealed container.

