 Before skipping a grade, you might have felt like the work in your classes was too easy and you knew every answer. Now, you're probably in more advanced classes, and you should not expect to find everything as simple as you did previously.Don’t be uncomfortable with the fact that you don’t know it all. Part of the reason you skipped a grade was to be intellectually challenged, and if you already knew everything the classes would be pretty boring.
There’s also no shame in being wrong if you struggle with an assignment or answer a question incorrectly. Instead of feeling bad about being wrong or doing poorly on a test, try to understand how you can improve.
 Although the fact that you are skipping a grade definitely indicates you are smart, it does not necessarily mean you are smarter than the students in your new class. This sort of behavior won’t earn you any friends.Someone who is smart does not have to tell people how gifted they are. Instead of bragging about your abilities, let your work and efforts speak for themselves.
Think about how you would feel if someone told you that they were smarter or intellectually superior.
 Acting emotionally immature or juvenile will not help you fit in better with the students around you, and could make it difficult to adjust to your new situation. Treat others with respect so that they will also treat you with respect., Although you might be skipping a grade, it’s important to maintain connections with your old friends. It might take some time to make friends in your new grade level, and having a support network of friends will make things easier.


If you no longer see your friends during school, set up after-school or weekend activities.
Your old classmates will probably be excited to have a friend in a higher grade level.
 While you might not have needed to ask teachers, guidance counselors, classmates, or your parents for help before you skipped a grade, asking for help when you need it will help you stay on track.It might be hard to admit that you need help, but it’s better than feeling stressed out, behind, or like you don’t understand something.
 Participating in activities outside of school will help you feel more comfortable and self confident. You’ll also meet and connect with people who share similar interests.If you took dance classes or music lessons before skipping a grade and enjoy these activities, keep participating in them even when you switch classes. If you find that you don’t have time for these activities anymore, talk with your parents about how you might be able to adjust your schedule or find new things to do.
If you are worried about being bullied because of your size when you switch a grade, consider taking a self-defense class or participating in a gym class or sports activity. You’ll feel more confident and powerful.

