 Some companies establish business relationships with financial institutions.To go through one of these institutions, you will essentially need to put your salary on the line as collateral.


This is a more common practice among larger companies than small businesses, so keep that in mind if you work for a small company with limited resources.
The financial institution the company has a relationship with could be a bank or credit union, or an entirely different lending institution altogether.
These relationships will work one of two ways.

In the first, most common method, you will set up the terms of the loan with the financial institution and monthly payments will be deducted directly from your paycheck.
With the second method, you will set up the terms of the loan with the financial institution and make monthly payments as you would if you had secured the loan without going through your employer. If you fail to make your payments, however, your wages will be garnished and the money will be taken from them, plus additional interest.



Credit unions are owned, in essence, by their members. These members must have something in common, like an industry, religion, employer, or a geographic location. These institutions are nonprofit organizations, so the earnings are passed along to their members in some form (usually lower fees or improved services).
You can locate a credit union in your area by searching through your phone book or by doing an Internet search. There are even websites set up to help you with this search, including:

The National Credit Union Administration’s Credit Union Locator (http://www.ncua.gov/NCUAMapping/Pages/NCUAGOVMapping.aspx)
My Credit Union's Credit Union Locator (http://www.mycreditunion.gov/pages/mcu-map.aspx)
A Smarter Choice's Credit Union Locator (http://www.asmarterchoice.org/)


If possible, compare loans and terms of service from multiple credit unions to determine which has the lowest interest rates and best payment conditions.
 There are various programs in existence that allow you to obtain a personal loan directly from another individual instead of from an institution. You might find it difficult to secure a peer to peer loan if without first proving that you can be responsible with your money, though, so you should still be prepared to plead your case.


This is strictly done via an online platform. The process is streamlined, but you need to make sure that you go through a reliable peer to peer lending website or service to avoid getting cheated.
With most peer to peer services, borrowers sign up and post a loan listing. This listing describes the sort of loan they are looking for, including the reason for the loan and the amount of money needed.
From that point, investors can view the borrower's listing and determine whether or not it meets their criteria. The lenders can screen applicants and check your credit, and if you do not have credit, that information will be noted on your listing. This method allows you to explain more of your circumstances, though, and an individual investor may be more willing to take a chance on you than a large institution will.
A few noteworthy peer to peer lending websites include:

Prosper (http://www.prosper.com/)
Lending Club (https://www.lendingclub.com/)
GreenNote (https://www.greennote.com)



