 Men younger than 40 have a rare incidence of prostate cancer, but the chances increase rapidly after 50 years of age. Statistics show that 6 out of 10 cases of prostate cancer are found in men 65 and older.It has been hypothesized that the increase risk with age may be due do DNA and anti-cancer protective mechanisms becoming weaker with age and thus more susceptible to cellular and genetic mutations. Mutations often lead to abnormal cells, such as cancer.;
, According to the National Cancer Institute and the American Cancer Society, prostate cancer is more common in men of African descent than in white or Hispanic men.Additionally, the age of the onset of prostate cancer is also earlier in black men. A study of 12,000 men showed that 8.3% of blacks and only 3.3% of white men were diagnosed when they were less than 50 years of age. Studies have also shown that black men also have higher PSA levels (prostate-specific antigen levels, which is one test used to determine a diagnosis) and more advanced stages of disease at the time of diagnosis.This may reflect a combination of dietary and genetic factors; however the exact cause is unknown., A positive family history plays a role in the development of prostate cancer. Having a father or brother with prostate cancer doubles a man’s risk for developing the disease. The risk is higher in men with several affected relatives.


For example, men who have the BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutations have a higher incidence of prostate cancer. The BRCA2 gene mutations seem to be associated with more aggressive and advanced stage of prostate cancer at time of diagnosis.Studies have shown that certain mutations in inherited genes may potentially raise the risk for prostate cancer but accounts for a small fraction of cases.
 Men with diets high in animal fat may be at slightly higher risk of developing prostate cancer. Studies have shown that excess animal fat, especially from red meat and high-fat dairy, can stimulate the growth of prostate cancer.A diet low in fruits and vegetables may also increase risk for developing prostate cancer.