 A large part of attaining (and keeping) political office is communicating with people. Make sure you are comfortable with talking to anyone, anywhere, and be ready to network like crazy. An easy way to start doing this is going to meetings (from community to your party's national convention). Be as a public a figure within your party as possible.


Getting ahead in almost any career is often about who you know, and politics may be the best example of this. Having connections with those in office who could endorse you, big potential campaign donors, possible campaign staff, and even just everyday voters is key to being successful in politics. Any chance you have, make connections and develop friendships.
 If your Facebook is littered with photos of you dominating beer pong (as useful a skill as that may be), you may not be in the right place to represent a large number of people. Buy a suit and make sure you "fit into it" -- literally, yes, but metaphorically even more so.


Develop an affinity for public speaking. Sadly, even if you're super qualified for the job and your opinions do align with the majority of voters, if you can't sway them to believe in you, all bets are off.
Be energetic and passionate, regardless of the level you're at. If you're begrudgingly making phone calls or running for city council when your head is constantly in DC, it'll be recognized and you'll be written off. Be in the moment and care about the difference you're trying to make.
Look the part. At least when it comes to the president, the better-looking candidate almost always wins.The more presidential you seem, the more you'll be trusted. The more you're trusted, the more votes you'll get. So invest in a good suit, a pair of khakis, and maybe a good trucker hat to widen your appeal.
 From day one of this career path, your time will be consumed. This will become a large part of your life -- are you ready? Whether it's hours spent knocking on doors or late nights going over stats, there will be days (weeks even) when you're near running on empty. In addition, ask yourself the following questions:


Are you okay with your entire life being displayed to the public, including your flaws? Remember that many politicians are subjected to very public scandals in their careers.
Can you state your opinions honestly, and hold true to them even if a large portion of the population hates you for them?
Can you be committed to having a professional demeanor under any circumstances, even trivial ones?
Are you passionate about making decisions that will benefit the populace you are serving?
Are you and your family prepared for a very unstable employment path, one which may see multiple years of unemployment as well as months on the road?

If your answers are "yes," "quite easily," "obviously," "most definitely," and "why not?" then you're good to go.



