 Evaluate your skill set, experience and interests. This will help you determine which position and sector of government (County, City, State.) your skill set will best serve the community;
, Running for political office can be very expensive. Alternatively, you can pursue your candidacy in a more grass roots effort as a way to keep your campaign cost low.
,  It is very important that you look beyond just what you believe needs changing.  Other people have ideas too.  Actively engage your community on what they fell needs improvement.
 Visit with these people to seek advice, counsel, and ask them for a possible endorsement of your run for political office.
 Then create your "stump" speech, this is the speech that defines why you are a good candidate, how you intend to improve the community, and most importantly, ask for their support.
 A good campaign manager will be smart, motivated, organized, and willing to work just as hard as you. They handle your calendar, appointments, and minor details.
 Running for political office can be an exhausting enterprise, no matter what sector of government you are targeting. A political campaign is a 24 hour operation, it does not end until the polls close on election day. Good advice is to think of it as a marathon, not a sprint, meaning find a comfortable pace that you can maintain for the duration of your campaign.
 It is up to you to motivate the volunteers, it is your campaign managers (if you have one) to managing them. Organization is crucial to ensuring these volunteers are utilized in an effective way. Make sure to properly take care of volunteers, after all they are working long hours right along with you for no pay.
 Yard signs are a great way for people to see a visual representation of the support you have in the community. People really appreciate seeing the candidate in person, and feel good that you personally asked for their vote. Especially when they visit the polls on election day!

, Consider a mass mailing of your campaign literature to targeting frequent voters. Note: it is important all local laws concerning campaign literature be respected.
 These events do not have to be large or fancy. They are to provide you with a venue to share your plan, and why you are the best person to serve their community. Again, the most important part of your talks, must be to ask for their vote. These events are also a great way to get the press to write about your bid for office. In many cities it is difficult, not impossible, to get press coverage for local elections, but that doesn't mean you should not try.
 It can be to your strategic advantage to purchase ads in the local newspapers or run commercials on your local radio station, but there is a cost involved. Consult with your campaign manager, or if you are running your campaign, consider the effectiveness of the effort. You should know if your community reads the papers or which station is the most popular. If you can't answer these questions, you need to be working harder. Period. If you do not know what your community likes, how can you expect them to elect you to serve their best interest?

, Depending upon the office being sought or how you, the candidate, determined to run your campaign early on will influence fundraising. Did you decide to spend, spend, spend or did you choose the grass roots approach. Both styles have won elections, it is a decision you must make as a candidate. Consider your communities views when determining your campaign budget. You must know if they believe a large flashy campaign is impressive or is your community more impressed by the candidate working hard at the grass roots level. In a local election more often then not, it is the amount of people you engage, rather then amount of dollars in the campaign war chest. Note: Campaign finance laws are very strict, and it is important that you have a person that is capable of proper accounting.
 You may have noticed that above there is no mention of opposition, because as a candidate, the only candidacy you should be concerned with is your own. Do not waste your time discussing your opponent, that time could have been better used to prove you are the best candidate.
 There are lots of people today, that will have you believe that you need to craft a persona, or spend lots of money to impress potential voters. Wrong! Time and time again, the candidate who walks the most miles, shakes the most hands, and rings the most doorbells almost always wins. In a local election, you make your race about the people, and you do your best to meet every frequent voter in area.

