 Tailing someone takes time and resources, and most local authorities won't waste time trying to tail average citizens. Private investigators and angry exes are a different matter. Before you start getting paranoid, ask yourself if you actually have anything to fear.;
, The main key to identifying tails is to stay aware of your surroundings at all time. Don't keep your nose stuck in your phone; keep your eyes up and monitoring the world around you. If you're not paying attention, you'll never know if you're being followed., When you start acting suspicious, your tail will notice and either drop back or stop in order to try again later. If you feel like you're being followed, keep acting like you don't know.
 This applies to both walking and driving. If you're walking, slow down and look in some store windows or at your phone. Make sure to keep one eye on your surroundings while doing so. If you're driving, move over to the slow lane and drive the speed limit.
 If you think you are legitimately being followed and that you are in danger, you should call the police immediately. Try to stay in crowded, public areas while you wait for local law enforcement to respond


Large crowds can help you identify the person tailing you so that you can give the description to the police.
If you call the police and a local undercover is following you, it will usually back off. If it is a state or federal officer tailing you, then they will likely get pulled over by the local police. If it is a private investigator, they may get ticketed and you may be informed as to what was happening.
 If you think you're being followed, the worst thing you can do is start running or driving erratically. Not only does this alert the people that are following you, but it can put you in danger of an accident.
 Get off at an exit and then get immediately back on the freeway. If you're walking, walk around the block once or twice. This will usually throw off the person tailing you, or at least make them aware that you're aware.
 Some people suggest that you tail the person that is tailing you in order to get a better idea of who they are, but this is generally not a good idea and can be very dangerous.

