 Federal law requires that products labeled as "organic" must pass USDA organic standards, but untrustworthy sellers may attempt to pass off non-organic compost as organic, especially if they are a small seller. To avoid this, look for bags of compost that are marked with the USDA Organic seal. These products will be labeled either "100% organic" or "organic." Products labeled as simply "organic" contain less than 100 percent organic materials but at least 95 percent.;
, Even though composts are made from decaying materials, a finished compost should smell decent. It should not smell like garbage or like ammonia. If it does, there is a good chance that the composting process has not been completed and that it will not do your plants sufficient good.
 Another simple yet important means of determining a compost's quality is by physically examining it. Compost should appear dark, and when felt with your hands, it should be light and fluffy. The material should also be consistent the entire way through. If you can still determine what the raw materials are simply by looking at it, the composting process is not complete.
 If, upon examination, you see non-biodegradable materials littered in the compost like plastic or glass, do not use it. These materials do not offer any nutritional benefit to your plants, and oftentimes, they may have been produced using various chemicals.
 For the most part, though, this sludge is also full of pharmaceuticals, heavy metals, industrial waste, and chemicals that disrupt hormones. Compost containing biosolids should generally be avoided.
 Avoid composts that only contain one type of organic matter. Instead, gravitate toward composts made from many organic sources, including leaves, grass clippings, food scraps, plant scraps, and manure. The greater the variety, the bigger the range of nutritional benefits.


You should not, however, buy composts made from a variety of wood-based products, like sawdust or bark chips. These composts are not nutritious at all and may contain toxins from the wood.
 While you do not want composts crawling with damaging pests like aphids, composts that contain earthworms or other waste-consuming insects can actually be beneficial. By selecting a compost with insects in it, you can be assured that the compost is nutritious enough to support life.

