 These days, many self-tanning products that you buy at stores won’t give you an orange look and instead mimic the look of a natural tan.


The best part about self tanners is that you won’t damage your skin like you will in a tanning bed or by tanning in the sun. And you won't risk inhaling chemicals as you might in a spray tan. Choose a self tanner in a bottle.These come in many forms and different products work better for different people. Experiment on a small patch of skin first to work out what works best for you.
Use tingle creams. Tingle creams can have a temporary reddening effect on the skin, but help to create maximum natural color in a short time. Bronzing lotions can also help to accelerate the creation of a natural tan, and include self-tanning agents to give a light artificial color while your real tan is building.You can buy products that you put in your tanning lotion to create a darker look. There are many of these products on the market., You can find many tanning products that promise to accelerate a tan you're trying to achieve in the sun or a tanning bed. Look for products that specifically promise a darker tan or label themselves tanning accelerators.


These products will also perfect the shade of your tan, such as giving the tan a more golden hue.
Lotions are designed to hydrate your skin. This makes it easier for the skin to absorb UV light. Some tanning accelerators also contain cosmetic bronzers., Spray tans are becoming less expensive, and many tanning salons offer them for monthly fees, reducing the cost. A spray tan will give you a dark tan without damaging your skin.


Some tanning salons have people who will actually spray the tan on you. In others, you will stand in a machine that will spray your body with the spray. Do be aware, though, that some researchers have raised safety concerns about spray tan, especially when the spray is inhaled or ingested.Spray tans can last between three and seven days. You can ask for different depths of color. If you want a dark tan, ask for the darkest hue possible. If you do spray tan, it's extremely important that you wear appropriate safety filters and protective gear over eyes, lips, mouth and other recommended areas of the body., If you want a dark tan fast, it’s quicker to use a tanning bed to get one than to sit in the sun.That’s because five minutes in a tanning bed is the equivalent to sitting in the sun for two hours.You will get a fast tan if you spend a couple minutes in a tanning bed each day. The key to tanning is getting the body to produce melanin, and usually it takes five to seven days to create a tan in people whose skin tone allows them to tan.
A daily tanning bed session can speed this up (but as with all tanning, it can cause skin damage or skin cancer). Once you have built up a base color, you can increase the darkness with small bursts of sunbathing or sunbed use every few days. Overdoing it and trying to achieve a very dark tan straight away can end up leaving you dry and peeling, which is not a pretty effect!
It can be dangerous to use a tanning bed because you could be at greater risk for skin cancer as well as premature aging. If you are determined to go this route, do it under the guidance of a tanning industry professional. Don’t exceed their recommended tanning times or you could end up with a burn. The best way to get a tan from a tanning bed is to do it gradually.

