 People who exercise feel better about their appearance even if they don’t lose weight.Take baby steps. If you can’t bring yourself to turn off the TV and to go outside for a walk, at least stand up and walk in place for a few minutes in front of the TV. Any exercise is better than none at all. And once you develop the habit (which can take about two months), you can build on your success.
Do aerobic and strength training exercises. Both kinds of exercise can help burn fat and improve muscle tone., Don’t go on a crash diet with the intention to lose weight fast. Instead, modify your eating habits. The latter approach will help you avoid feeling like you've failed (if you don’t lose weight as quickly as you would like). Cycles of losing and then gaining back weight have also been found to be unhealthy


When evaluating a weight loss plan, make sure it includes foods from all major food groups so you don’t miss out on essential nutrients.Make sure your weight loss plan fits your lifestyle and budget. If you can’t afford or find the foods you plan to eat in your local store, or if the plan requires a lot of cooking (and you don’t like to cook), you are less likely to reach your weight loss goal., Maintain your appearance and feel more comfortable naked by taking care of your body. This includes bathing, trimming or removing body hair, and taking care of your skin, nails, and teeth.


Many cosmetic procedures are available to change your appearance, from spray tans to waxing to cosmetic surgery. Some of these procedures can have negative effects on your health (e.g. long term use of tanning booths), so make sure to learn about and weigh the potential risks if you choose to undergo one or more of these procedures.
 You can modify your appearance by altering the way you stand and how you carry yourself.


Stand up straight. This is the most effective way to communicate confidence, and it can also affect how you body looks.
Although it may feel natural, especially if you’re naked, don’t cross your arms - others will perceive this as protecting yourself or being nervous. 