 You don't have to lose someone to death in order to grieve. The ending of a significant relationship is another common reason to experience grief. If you are going through a divorce, for example, you should expect to go through a similar type of grieving process.Understand that it is normal to feel a wide range of emotions. Typical emotions at the end of a relationship include anger, sadness, denial, and loneliness.
If you are going through a break-up, give yourself permission to feel. Be aware that it can take a while to process your emotions.
Know that you will have good days and less pleasant ones. If you suddenly come across a shirt that your ex left behind, it's fine to feel thrown off course.
 While you process your emotions, you can begin to move on. Spend some time thinking about the future. You can use the end of relationship as a starting point for a new phase of your life.Think about your priorities. Have you always wanted to travel more? This could be a good opportunity to do that.
Focus on the positive parts of being independent. Now that you no longer have to spend the holidays with your in laws, you could finally take that trip to Europe with your best friend.
Spend some time writing down your goals. Where do you want to be in a year? In five years? Use some of your new found free time to make some plans.
 When a relationship ends, you might feel very lonely. Make sure to spend plenty of quality time with your friends and family. Everyone needs a support system to make the grieving process bearable.Be open about your needs. Tell your friend that you are going through a rough time. that you may not be a lot of fun right now, but you like to spend some time with him.
Schedule plans in advance. Having something on the calendar will give you something to look forward to. Maybe you could schedule a regular Sunday brunch.
Talk to your family. Sometimes just talking about your feelings can help you feel better. Ask your sister if she minds being a shoulder to lean on.
 It can be easy to feel down on yourself after a relationship ends. You might wonder what you could have done differently, or have bad thoughts about yourself. To help yourself move on, spend some time working on increasing your confidence.Make positive affirmations. Look at yourself in the mirror and say something nice, it could be that you are a kindhearted person.
Try a new activity. Learning a new skill is a great way to feel more confident. Have you always wanted to run a 5k? Now is the time to do it.
Change your look. A new hairstyle or shirt can brighten your mood and make you feel great about yourself.
 When you are grieving, it might be a while before you feel like your normal self. It can be difficult to look on the bright side of the situation. But if you can take small pleasure in aspects of everyday life, you will eventually feel better.Take time to smell the coffee--literally. Use your senses to help you find enjoyment in small things. Smell your coffee and enjoy the way it tastes.
Learn to appreciate your surroundings. Maybe you notice a beautiful sunset on the way home from work. Take a minute to enjoy it.
Don't forget to laugh. You're going through a hard time, but try not to let that ruin your whole day. If you see something funny on the internet, it's fine to giggle at the sneezing panda bear.

