 Do not allow other people's opinions to prevent you from doing what you want to do. Giving into peer pressure will only cause you to feel unhappy.


This also applies to your friends. If they really do respect you and your choices, they will not try to talk you out of this if you really want to paint your nails.





;
, Although it's not popular, it's not unheard of. Also, painting your nails doesn't mean you can't be cool.


This could also attract girls because it shows that you care for your nails.
 Make sure you choose a color that you like so you'll feel confident. If you prefer to not have a noticeable color, choose light shades that are close to your nail color (ex: princess pink). If you don't mind having a noticeable color, try dark shades, such as black.
 Not only will you be able to immediately remove the nail polish if you dislike the color, but it's also good for fixing your mistakes if this is your first time painting your nails. Sometimes the nail polish can be a little messy for beginners.
 Make sure your nails are trimmed at the length you want them. Also, clean out any dirt from underneath your nails so it won't stick to the nail polish once you apply it. For a more clean manicure, use a cuticle tool to push back your cuticles.
 This will ensure that the color will stay on for as long as possible, and it also stops your nails from fading due to stains being left behind by dark shades of nail polish. Wait a few minutes for the base coat to dry.
 Make sure you don't get any nail polish on the skin around your nail. If that does happen, immediately wipe it with a cotton ball soaked in nail polish remover. Once you've painted your nails, wait for them to dry.


It's suggested that you paint the nails of one hand and wait for them to dry before continuing onto the other hand.






If you are inexperienced and don't feel comfortable painting your own nails, ask for the assistance of a friend or relative who is familiar with painting nails. If you're kind to them, they'll be delighted to help you.
, Although it's uncommon, it only means that you care for your nails and you aren't afraid to show it. People may look up to you for this.
 While you may feel a little uncertain and insecure, know that if you're happy with your choice it will show. You may receive some stares for a while, but people will eventually get used to it and perhaps even admire your nails.


Just because it's common for girls to paint their nails doesn't mean boys can't paint their nails either. Painting your nails shows your personality, not how girly or manly you are.
 Refrain from using violence or crude insults to put them down because they'll only bully you even more. If you have confidence in yourself even though you may feel like you have none, you'll gradually gain it and rise above those bullies.


If the situation grows worse, tell a teacher or a trusted adult and ask them for advice. They'll help you stop the bullies. Until the problem is solved, do not stop painting your nails just because of what someone says.






While they might not admit it, there are boys that may envy you because of your courage and confidence to paint your nails. Remember that there might be boys in your class that secretly want to paint their nails!

