 Were there things you said that would have upset this person or undermined their faith in you? If so, accept that you provoked things and move on. There are plenty other whales in the Internet ocean.;
, If you think that life online life is really a representative of clear-cut human one-to-one relations that validate your worth, this is reality check time. It's a messaging service. It is not a measure of your personal worth, goodness, or ability to wow a crowd. It is simply a communications tool that sometimes causes people to think more about life online than life for real.
 They're still following you, they haven't checked out. Some will eventually, but others won't. It's not about you; it's about them whenever this happens.
 What would compel you to block someone (besides the spam and porn follows)? Perhaps if you think about how hard it can be to make a block decision if you are hamstrung by having to worry about how people might react, then you would feel constricted and not be able to manage your online account as effectively as you'd like to. It's a tool for organizing as much as for stopping some people from adding you and such; try to see it more that way rather than as anything personal.
 You won't ever know why the person blocked you unless they're someone you know personally and can ask by other means. And even if you could find out, why care so much? There are so many possible reasons and a major one happens to be there that people get moody and make rash decisions and press buttons in those rash moments. That's not admirable... Or, it could be they just felt like cleaning out most of their buddies/friends; this has become more common in recent times and it's not directed personally at anyone because it's directed at everyone. They might have made a mistake and blocked you when they meant to block someone else. There are many reasons. But life is too short and too important for you to sit around feeling blue about something as fickle as the vagaries of behavior online.
 Put on your walking shoes. Go outside and get lots of fresh air. Look at the real birds in the trees instead of the computer screen. Work out that you're still alive, happy, and very much valued by those in the living community around you. More power to you!

