 Before you give any herbs or herbal teas to your child, check with your child's doctor. Some herbs are not recommended for young children, so it is best to ask if an herbal medicine or tea is safe for your child before you administer anything.
 Echinacea can help with early cold symptoms. Echinacea may be able to reduce the symptoms and the duration of the flu.To make Echinacea tea, put one to two grams of dried root or 15 to 20 drops of pure extract in your child’s tea. You can let your child drink this up to three times a day.
In one study, Echinacea was as effective as oseltamivir in the early stages of the flu.Echinacea rarely causes any adverse effects, such as nausea and headaches. Allergic reactions are rare.
 Garlic has antibacterial and antiviral properties and has been used for thousands of years to reduce the severity of colds and the flu by boosting the immune system. You can put garlic in all your cooking. For example, take one to two cloves of garlic and add it to the chicken soup you make your child.You can give your child a garlic supplement. You can talk to your doctor about his option. Make sure to read the manufacturer’s instructions before giving a garlic supplement to your child.
One recent study indicated that garlic could reduce the severity of symptoms., Elderberry tea is a long-standing folk remedy for colds and the flu. Elderberry is an effective immune modulating herb as well as having antiviral properties.It’s supposed to help lessen congestion and help you sweat out fevers. Elderberry also has the distinct advantage of having a flavor lots of kids love.


To make elderberry tea, place two tablespoons of elderberry syrup or two tablespoons of dried berries in two cups of water. Bring to a boil, then let simmer for 15 minutes. Strain the tea and pour into a mug. If your child is over one year old, then you can sweeten the tea with honey for extra healing properties., Ginger has antiviral and antibacterial properties and may also help reduce the production of mucus. You can add it to recipes or put it in tea.However, make sure you get no more than four grams of ginger per day from all different sources.
Doses for children vary, so ask your pediatrician.
To make ginger tea, put one tablespoon of freshly grated ginger into two cups of water. Bring the water to a boil, then let simmer for 10 minutes., You can add a few drops of eucalyptus oil to a humidifier to help relieve congestion and sinus issues. You can also use dried leaves or fresh leaves in a topical rub.Do not give eucalyptus oil orally or allow a child to drink eucalyptus tea. Eucalyptus tea can be toxic to children.
If your child is under the age of six, then do not give him or her cough drops that contain eucalyptus.
Do not use eucalyptus on your child's skin unless he or she is over the age of two.

