 Age, gender, marital status, driving record, vehicle type and model, previous claims, where you live, how often and how far you drive, and sometimes your credit score can all have an effect on how much you pay for car insurance.Talk to different agents and research how these variables will influence your premium.


For instance, a car with a high safety rating can lower your your premium, while a car with a low safety rating or a car that is a known target for theft may raise your premium.Drivers under 25 are more inexperienced and more prone to accidents, and therefore will have higher premiums., Research the different insurance companies to make sure they are reliable and effective. Even if a company offers the lowest premium, don’t purchase that policy if you think they are untrustworthy. If you ever need your auto insurance company, you want to be able to trust that the coverage you purchased is there for you.Your state’s Department of Insurance (DOI) website compiles customer complaint ratios for all auto insurance companies that operate in that state. You can use this information to evaluate a company’s customer service record.
Evaluate how easily you can contact your company. Consider their hours of operation, whether they offer the convenience of a mobile site, and how you can contact them during off hours.
Read the company’s Facebook page and Twitter feeds to see how customers interact with the company and what they have to say.
 You can shop for car insurance online or in person. Many insurance companies offer free rate quotes online. But if you want to be able to speak to someone who can answer your questions, go to an agent or broker. An agent works for a specific company and can give you detailed information about coverage and rates from that company. A broker, or independent agent, works with different companies and can help you to compare quotes.Brokers may charge you a fee for their services.
Get at least three quotes so you can compare rates and coverages to find the best policy.
Be prepared to provide your Social Security number, the VIN number of your car, your car’s make and model and your daily mileage.
 Don’t focus solely on the bottom line expense. Compare the amount of coverage the companies are offering you. The least expensive policy may not provide you with adequate coverage. Also, evaluate how the deductibles are affecting the premiums quoted by different companies. You may be able to afford a higher deductible with a company who charges you a lower premium. In addition, compare coverage limits. In general, you pay more for higher limits. Compare quotes to see which company offers you the highest coverage limits for the best price. Finally compare discounts. Some companies offer discounts which expire after a certain amount of time.