 You may be able to defend your action on the basis that the plaintiff wasn't qualified for the position, regardless of his or her ethnicity.


If you have written job descriptions or qualifications, these documents can be used as evidence of a non-discriminatory reason for your actions, particularly if the employee is claiming you didn't hire or promote him or her because of ethnic discrimination.The bona fide occupational qualification defense is one employers frequently use. Under this defense, you can argue that although you did discriminate against the person, it was because that particular quality was a legitimate requirement to perform the job.While this defense may be helpful with other claims such as age discrimination, it isn't typically useful in cases of ethnic discrimination, because a person's ethnicity seldom has anything to do with his or her job.
 If the plaintiff previously worked for you, records of disciplinary infractions or other performance problems can be used to justify your actions.


Detailed records of violations of established policies, including any instances of insubordination, can provide proof that the reason you disciplined or terminated the employee was unrelated to his or her ethnicity.Even if the plaintiff never worked for you, and is filing a lawsuit arguing you didn't hire him or her due to ethnic discrimination, personnel files and records from previous employers may help your case. Talk to your attorney about getting these records.The plaintiff's educational or medical records also may be relevant under certain circumstances. For example, if the plaintiff is claiming mental or emotional damages, his or her medical records will indicate the degree of emotional pain and suffering., The court may disregard your defense if you made exceptions for some employees.


General payroll and employment records may serve as proof of consistent enforcement. For example, if an employee alleges you are paying her a lower salary because she is of Middle Eastern descent, you can defend against this claim by showing that other employees at her level of experience and with her educational background are paid the same salary as she is., If one of your policies adversely affects employees of a certain ethnicity, you must prove that you have a legitimate business reason for it.


For example, you may have been sued for ethnic or religious discrimination by an employee who alleges that your dress code discriminates against her by not allowing her to wear a hijab or head-scarf. You could successfully defend against this claim by proving that the particular dress code was required by safety standards for the job she was expected to perform.Requiring sales associates to be fluent in English is another example of a neutral practice or policy. If language fluency is necessary for sales associates to do their job, you won't be liable for ethnic discrimination if you declined to hire someone because he or she cannot speak enough English to perform the job.