 Emotions are not a bad thing. In fact, emotions are necessary because they motivate us to try new things, set interesting goals, and explore the world. Our emotions help us interpret the world around us and communicate with others.There have been many psychological theories of emotion developed, but most psychologists agree that emotions are a combination of physical arousal and cognition.One theory, developed by psychologist Stanley Schachter, is the two-factor theory of emotion. This theory argues that when we perceive a stimulus there is a physiological reaction, such as an adrenaline rush, sweating, or elevated heart rate. This is called arousal. We then use cognition (thinking) to label this arousal as a certain emotion. How we label this arousal depends on what we know about the situation, as well as our prior learning.
For example, if you hear a dog barking, your reaction will depend on several factors. You may experience arousal, such as a faster heart rate. How you interpret that arousal depends on what you know about the situation. If you can see that the dog is snarling, you will probably interpret the arousal as fear. If you can see the dog is barking and wagging its tail, you may interpret the arousal as excitement.
Your past learning will also color your interpretation: if you love dogs, you are more likely to interpret your feeling as positive. If you were bitten by a dog once, you will remember that and probably interpret your feeling as fear -- even if the dog is really just happy to see you and be petted., You may find yourself becoming unexpectedly upset over something that seems trivial. It can be difficult to understand why you’re reacting the way you are. Remember that your past experiences, especially traumatic experiences, can affect how you interpret new experiences. This is particularly true if you haven’t worked through those experiences.For example, imagine that someone has a death in the family. At the wake, the parlor is filled with roses as tokens of respect and condolence. Years later, this person might become overly emotional at the smell of roses, because s/he developed an association between the roses and the loved one’s death.
It’s a common misconception that if you have been “triggered” by a past experience then you could have PTSD (Post Traumatic Stress Disorder). You can have emotional reactions similar to what a person with PTSD might experience without meeting all the criteria for a clinical diagnosis.If you find yourself consistently experiencing triggering situations or feelings, seek a trained professional to help you work through your questions. Mental health professionals can help you get the treatment that will improve your ability to control your emotions and feel like a strong, happy, healthy person.
 Instead, it refers to the fact that humans are very susceptible to influence. How the people around us feel affects how we feel. We take cues from them on how we should be feeling. (This may explain why you’ve ever felt teary-eyed at a wedding, even if you didn’t know the couple well.) Surround yourself with friends and loved ones who are happy and healthy, and you’re likely to feel the same way.Similarly, if you surround yourself with people who feel emotionally chaotic or don’t handle their feelings well, you may experience more trouble regulating your own emotions.
 Being labeled as “needy” is something we all probably want to avoid. However, all humans have needs and for us to be happy, they need to be met. It’s healthy to understand what you need! Psychologists usually categorize needs into different “stages,” following a pyramid model invented by Abraham Maslow in the 1940s. Think about which needs of your own might not be met, and how you can change that.Biological and physiological needs. Basic necessities for life, such as air, food, drink, shelter, sleep, etc., fall into this stage. Without these, you will have a hard time achieving any of the other needs.

Safety and security. This is the next stage up from biological needs. We must feel safe and secure in our environment. We need to know that society is ordered and law-abiding, and that our lives will be generally stable from one day to the next. We need to feel that we have at least some control over our own lives.

Love and belonging. We need to feel we have our own territory to give us a sense of belonging. We also need friendship, intimacy, affection, and love. We need to give and receive a variety of quality, positive attention, such as romantic love, workplace camaraderie, and intimate friendship. We want to feel like part of a community.

Esteem. This stage involves esteem from others and from ourselves. We need to feel as though we are independent, capable of accomplishing things and attaining mastery. A need for status or prestige may also be present. We need to know that others appreciate us and see us as competent.

Cognitive needs. These needs are even higher up on the pyramid. We need to feel challenged (but not overwhelmed) to avoid stagnation and boredom. We need to learn new things, seek for meaning in our environment and relationships, find new experiences.

Self Actualization needs. This one of the highest levels on the pyramid, meaning all the other stages need to be at at least a basic level of fulfillment before you’re able to focus on meeting these needs. Self Actualization refers to the idea of fulfillment. What makes you you? How do you seek out personal growth experiences? Humans need to understand their values and take action to realize their potential. This stage is always changing, because these needs are not static.

Transcendence. We want to make connections with others. Most people want to help others achieve self actualization for themselves, too.
 The STOPP method can help you remember to practice everything you have learned in this article.Stop. Don’t take action immediately. To put it another way, don’t “fly off the handle.”

Take a deep breath. This will help clear your head and re-center you in the present.

Pull back. Try to look at the bigger picture. Ask yourself questions about what you are experiencing and feeling.

Practice your skills. Use all the techniques you’ve learned to help you keep your calm.

