 Curling irons range from 3/8" to 2" widths, and each of these barrels produces a different kind of curl. For tight curls, go for a smaller width; if you want looser curls, go for a larger barrel.


Thin, flat hair works better with smaller barrels. Even if these tight curls lose shape throughout the day, the hair still looks styled. Large barrels that create loose curls won't provide lasting curls for this hair type.
Thick hair that retains shape easily will hold looser curls from larger barrels much better.;
, Barrels that are 3/8", 1/2", and 5/8" are great for producing tight curls.


These small barrels work better on hair that is short to just past the shoulders.
These tiny curling irons are great for long or short hair that is naturally very curly. The size of the barrel can provide touch ups if a few strands aren't curled properly.Girls with straight hair can get the tight, kinky curls with these sized barrels. The process is time-consuming, but the look is completely obtainable.
These barrels work great on thinner hair.
This barrel is great for coiled, spiral locks and a perm look., This barrel produces slightly looser curls that work great for vintage styles or updos. You also can get corkscrew curls with this barrel.Gently brush out these curls for softer locks.


This barrel works with short or medium hair.
 The 1" barrel is considered by most to the be the overall go-to styling tool for any curl for any length of hair. If you want to buy one curling iron, or are buying your first one, consider starting with a 1".


This barrel works for short bobs, medium lengths, and long layered curls.
This width can create natural tight curls, and when brushed out, the curls can appear natural and flowing on longer hair., This is considered the most popular barrel size for women with longer hair. This size creates a uniform curl.This barrel gives you looping curls or defined natural, soft waves. It can also be used on short hair to give volume and produce softer, looser curls.
 The larger the barrel, the looser the curls. This 1-1/2" barrel gives loose, voluminous curls. This is a good barrel to use if you want those messy beach curls or "Victoria's Secret" curls.


This size barrel works best on longer hair. Some medium lengths can use it, but the barrel is too big for short hair., This large barrel only works for long hair. The 2" barrel isn't really designed to create curls, but to give rounded texture to the ends of your hair.


This is good for girls with straight hair who want a little shape but not defined curls., Different hair types need different heat settings. Thick hair can stand higher heat while thin hair needs much lower temperatures to prevent damage. Higher temperatures are also needed if you are curling large amounts of hair at one time.Many curling irons have adjustable heat settings. This is ideal because you can change the temperature depending on your specific hair type.
You should never use temperatures up to 400 degrees. Those are temperatures better left to stylists and professionals.Try staying between 300-340 degrees when styling hair.If you have fine, thin hair, go as low as 175 degrees.
 A curling iron has a spring-loaded clamp that holds your hair in place as you curl. These are the most common and found in most major retailers. A curling wand is clipless, and you have to manually curl your hair around the wand.The benefits of a curling iron are that they have a clamp to hold the hair in place. They also come in a wide variety of barrel sizes, and are found easily in stores.
The benefits of a curling wand are that you wrap the ends last so it reduces split ends, it can get closer to the roots to give you more volume, and it doesn't leave a crease or kink in the hair like the clamp on a curling iron.Curling wands can give better beach curls and most people serious about curls prefer them, but they do take some skill to learn to use.
 Curling irons don't just come in one shape - there are many different shapes that produce different effects. If you'd like a specific look, try one of these:


Cone shaped wands. These wands usually have a smaller end and widen to a thicker base. They also come in the reverse, with a thicker point and smaller base. These give precise curls, and allow for you to make thicker and thinner curls with the different sizes on one tool.You can get beach waves with these types of tools. These can create romantic curls that widen at the bottom.
Straight barrels. This is what is found on typical curling irons. This gives a uniformed shape to your curls, allowing you to have ringlets and coils.
Spiral barrels. These barrels have raised spiral or ribbon ridges to guide the hair into shape.Pearl barrels. These have small pearls or balls along the barrel. This is used for curls that look more like natural curly hair without a defined perfect shape. It's good for wild, natural curls on any length.Double or tripe barrels. These are also known as wavers. They have two or three barrels made together that resembles fingers. Wavers give the hair figure 8 shaped waves instead of curls. These are best for longer hair.Flat irons. Another way to curl your hair is to use a flat iron. This works with long or short hair, and can be a way to curl your hair if you already own a straightener.
 Not all curling irons are made the same. When choosing a curling iron, it is important to pay attention to what material it is made of. Some of these materials are better on your hair than others.


Ceramic and Tourmaline curling irons are popular and one of the safest. If you curl your hair often, this is the material you want. They maintain a consistent temperature throughout the barrel. They release negative ions that smoothes the hair's cuticle, eliminates frizz, and makes it appear smooth and shiny.Titanium barrels are good for hair that is coarse, hard to heat, doesn't hold heat, or unmanageable. They also contain the same negative ions that help reduce frizz and protect hair like ceramic or tourmaline.Chrome and gold barrels heat well, but they won't fight frizz. While cheaper, chrome curling irons can have hot spots and damage your hair.
Metal steam barrels can be good for thin hair that won't hold curl. They release steam, which helps replace the moisture the metal removes. The steam helps the hair hold curl.