 Select the photos that you took earlier. Hit "OK", and wait.
 If you shot this on digital, and intervening software did not strip the EXIF data from your pictures, it should determine this automatically, so don't worry about it too much (in our example, it was shot on a Canon camera fitted with a 29mm manual-focus M42 lens, so it had to be entered manually).
Remember to enter your real focal length and the crop factor of your sensor, not the 35mm equivalent focal length (you can find these out easily enough by a web search). If you shot on 35mm film, then just enter your focal length, and set the multiplier to 1. Divide 35 by the width of your film in millimeters to get the focal length multiplier for other formats.
 The window which comes up is a keypoint generator; it's attempting to find common points between your photos in order to skew them and join them properly. After this, a window will pop up showing you a crudely stitched version of your picture. (Don't worry about the rough edges in this window; the stitching engine will smooth it all out later on.), In the main Hugin window, it will say something like "Mean error after optimization...". Look immediately below that. If it says "very good fit", or perhaps merely "good fit", then you're ready to stitch your photos, and can ignore the next three steps.
 One cause of poorly aligned images is Hugin finding common points between images where none exist. Find these spurious control points and delete them. The control points will be marked with circles. Click once in the center of one, then hit the "Delete" button in the lower pane (by default, on Linux at least, this bottom pane is made too small, so you might want to make it larger)., Go to the "Control Points" tab. You'll notice that there are two pairs of tabs, numbered. These are the numbers of your photos. Make sure that on both the left and right, you have two different images selected, with some shared point between them. Click on one on the left, then in the identical place on one on the right (see the picture to the right for an example).
Hugin will, by default, automatically fine tune them, so don't worry about being too precise (though it's best to zoom in to 100%, from the drop-down menu on the bottom pane, so that Hugin doesn't need to guess quite so much). Click the "Add" button in the lower pane. Add as many as you wish, and repeat this process for each common area between all images.
 If you don't get the desired effect ("very good fit" or perhaps "good fit"), repeat the above two steps, and this one, until you get it right. Try more control points, further apart. Once the alignment is right, you might want to hit the "Straighten" button in the "Panorama preview" window., There is a button on the toolbar to do this; see picture at right. Press it. You can also do this by going to the "Optimizer" tab; this will give you finer-grained control over what will be optimized.
 Go to the "Stitcher" tab and hit "Calculate Optimal Size"; this will make your resulting file as big as it should be. Set "Stitching engine" to "nona"; this usually has great results, though doesn't permit outputting PSD files (which may or may not be useful to you), or anything but TIFF files. Set "image format" to "TIFF".
You may want to use "multilayer TIFF" if you ignored the white balance and exposure-locking advice above; this will allow you to correct exposure and white balance individually if your software handles them well (GIMP, at least, does). Alas, this means you'll have to blend each photo into the others, manually, with layer masks. Good luck.
 button. Enter a filename for it to save to. Hit "Save", and sit back, and.
 Stitching may take some time, and watching it happen is not particularly exciting.