 There are various traps that you might like to try using, all of which allow you to set the mouse free. The most common traps catch the mouse in a box that it can get in but not out of. This is a humane way to catch mice.Once you catch them, you will need to release them at least 1 mile (1.6 km) from your home, perhaps in a heavily wooded area to give them somewhere else to go.
Killing or removing rodents alone will not typically solve the problem, nor keep mice gone for long. When animals are killed or removed, more will move in to use available resources. In fact, killing or removing mice can actually result in a temporary spike in the food supply, causing remaining rodents to breed. Still, it is better to reduce the population rather than give up.
 Use a glass bowl and a coin. Invert a large glass bowl with some chocolate stuck to the inside of the bowl. Balance the bowl at an angle with the large coin on the edge, edge to edge. Leave it in an area where you know the mouse roams.


The mouse will enter under the bowl and reach up for the chocolate, upsetting the balance. The bowl will fall and trap the mouse underneath.
Remove the mouse and place it well away from the house.
 You can set up a 10 gallon (37.9 L) aquarium with food in it. Put the aquarium in a spot that the mouse has been seen in, ideally in a place that blocks the mouse's usual path. Place something next to the aquarium that the mouse can crawl up, like a stack of books.

The mouse should try to get the food and jump in to the aquarium. Once inside, the mouse should be trapped by the high walls.
Check the trap frequently.
Put a top on the aquarium if you find a mouse in there. Release the mouse well away from the house.
 It will stay under the towel for only a short time, so you need to act quickly. Put an inverted waste-paper basket over the towel. Tuck the exposed bits of towel under the basket so it is in contact with the ground. Slide an LP record or large piece of cardboard under the basket and towel. Carefully turn the basket over the right way, with the cardboard tight against the lip of the basket.


Take the whole thing outside and walk (or run!) the basket, mouse, and towel as far from your home as possible.
Once you're far from your home, release the mouse.

