 Sounds horrible, right? Do your bit, even in the smallest way possible to save the wild animals. Let's try not to make Simba's clan extinct!;
, Spend a day helping out at the old age home or the orphanage; the glowing smiles on their faces will give you the most amazing feeling you've ever experienced!

, Do you feel the growing heat? It's already a little too late to stop global warming, but we have to grit our teeth and try, if we don't want the Earth erupting into a fire. Even the smallest things like switching the lights off when you leave a room helps.
 It's a mantra to follow for everything- old paper, cans, glass, etc. Wet garbage is also used for biogas, so that's a double benefit! If we let heaps of garbage and scrap pile up, even Wall.E won't be able to clean up the Earth!

, With changing fads and rapidly growing technology, we rarely think twice before jumping from one gadget model from another. STOP! Buy brands that recycle parts, reuse parts that can be salvaged and dispose wisely.
 Do you look right, left and right again before crossing the street? People seem to be in such a hurry these days; traffic rules all forgotten. Put the brakes on road accidents, reminding people of the traffic safety rules they learned and why they need to follow them.
 Energy Conservation should be the red task on our to-do list for Earth. Please conserve energy!!

, Imagine not having trees to climb on, no beautiful gardens, and just brown, barren land. No place for birds to live, no fruits or vegetables to eat. We've taken our trees for granted for too long. Step up, stop cutting down trees and plant new ones. It's worth it for a green planet.
 What's the use of learning something, if you don't share it? Everyone deserves a right to education, and you can help that happen. If you think you're too small, you should know that the smallest things can make a big impact; even teaching an underprivileged child the alphabet is valuable.
 The world is getting smokier and noisier and dirtier. It may sound cool, but wearing gas masks to step out of your house will leave you gasping for clean air. It doesn't require hours or money or strength to stop pollution, it just takes a little determination.

