 Don't just go straight to getting a name because, of course, your name will probably have something to do with your powers. Flight is a good one to do. You may want to base your powers off an animal such as a fox or a bird. So if you did maybe a monkey, you could be flexible and smart.;
, It's quite difficult to think of one. Do you have a nickname? A favourite colour or animal? Many superheroes in books have their name or nickname with a "Captain", "Super", or "Miss" or "Mister". I would personally go for a nickname because if you want to hide your identity, your real name could spoil it.
 This may be the only time a superhero creates a scheme instead of destroying, but it is still important. This will be used for your costume and car and whatever else you want.
 Make sure it doesn't limit your mobility or flexibility. A good superhero costume would tie together the traditional aspects (such as tights or a cape) along with a new innovation or change (like instead of a tied mask, its glasses or something). You can sew some of it and buy some if you want. Ask your Mum to help you, if you aren't the greatest at sewing.
 A teddy bear dressed in your colours (yeah, a teddy bear. They can stare down evil) or you could have one of your VERY VERY VERY BEST friends to help. You must trust your life with them. Your identity. And the password to one of your favourite websites or forums. This is so you can make sure trust is fully there. If you get in a fight, CHANGE YOUR PASSWORD! Also, make them a costume.
 Of course, you should be fit in all ways, but make sure you excel in your "power sport". For flying, long jump or high jump would be good. Super strength people should try shot-put. Merheroes should swim like they were born in the water. And of course, super speeders should win the cross country every time.
 If it is on in your country, do the 40 hour famine (20 hours only if your under 14, it's the rules, at least in NZ)or volunteer at the local soup kitchen. Every week you should do something like donate a dollar to charity, every month you should donate ten, and then every year donate to some yearly telethon. Aim to go to Africa and help the needy there when you are old enough.
 Ask your Uncle or Dad to take you to a shooting range that is safe for young people, and they might even say yes! If you can't, head down to your local fair or carnival, and play that game where you shoot a water pistol at a target. Wrestle with your siblings. Make sure you can defend yourself!

, Basic first aid is important, so you can help people in need. If you can't find one, research on the internet about how to do CPR, how to dress a wound, etc.
 Make sure you don't spill the beans about your identity though! HAVE FUN SAVING THE WORLD!

