 Contact your doctor or your child’s pediatrician for a list of recommended speech and language therapists. Your healthcare professional will be able to provide a referral based on the needs of the patient, which allows for a more targeted approach to care. Also, if your doctor provides a referral it is more likely that the professionals will coordinate care to ensure a complete and effective approach to treatment.Most referrals provided by healthcare professionals will be to private clinics. While they tend to have more targeted approaches to care, they also tend to be more costly.;
, If you are looking for a speech therapist for a child who is older than 3, contact the child’s school or school district. School districts are responsible for all special education programs (including speech therapy) until the child graduates from high school.Contact the special education department at your child’s school to schedule an evaluation or to speak to someone regarding referrals.
 Early intervention programs service children under 4 years of age, or who are not of school age yet. Every state has a special education department that manages early childhood intervention. Contact your state department directly to receive a list of programs available in your county and area.


The Early Childhood Technical Assistance Center has a list of contact information for each state’s special education department.You do not need a medical diagnosis or professional judgement to make a referral. As soon as a delay is suspected, families are invited to make a referral for services., Local colleges or universities who have audiology or speech therapy programs may offer assessments and treatment provided by college students or interns. The interns are shadowed by fully licensed professionals and are usually under the direction of a fully licensed clinical director.A few benefits of this option are the ability to help students in their professional endeavors and a lower cost than private providers.
One disadvantage of this option includes less continuity of care because students may rotate in and out of the program or trade shifts.