 Sometimes just thinking about a problem can be overwhelming and increase anxiety. Doing things like taking a deep breath can calm you and reduce your stress so that you can think clearly about the problem and keep it in perspective.Once you have the problem in perspective you can begin to focus on solutions to ease anxiety.


Slowly and deeply inhale through your nose. Hold it for a few seconds. Release the breath slowly through your mouth.
Repeat this 3 – 4 times or as many times as you need to in order to calm yourself down.;
, A moment or two away from the problem, thinking about and doing something else, can help clear your mind of the anxiety-producing thoughts you are having.This can make it easier for you to focus on solutions for the problem. Whether it is actually walking away or just taking a mental break, do something to separate yourself from your problem.


For example, if you are sitting at your desk feeling anxious about speaking at the meeting, then go take a walk outside.
Think about something else while you are taking your break. Imagine yourself calm and peaceful while you continue your deep breathing.
If you are in a situation where you can’t physically leave, then take a mental break. For instance, if you just dropped your mom’s tablet in the pool, you shouldn’t take a walk. You could turn down any noise, close your eyes, and image yourself somewhere else for a few seconds.
 Avoid dwelling on what might happen as a result of the problem or letting your anxiety make the problem seem bigger than it is.Instead, you can begin to focus on solutions if you determine exactly what the problem is that you are facing and remind yourself that you can overcome it.


For instance, don’t say to yourself, “I broke Mom’s tablet. She’ll lose all her work on it. Without her work, she’ll lose her job. It’s my fault Mom’s going to lose her job. How do I help her keep her job? I can’t handle this!”
Instead, think to yourself, “I got Mom’s tablet wet. That’s my problem. That’s what I need to find a solution to. I can handle that.”

