 Spray pesticides in places where sand fleas may be lurking, such as floors, carpets and furniture. To avoid exposing yourself or your pet to harmful chemicals, choose an organic pesticide product that’s been approved for home use. Pesticides will essentially shut down the sand fleas’ nervous systems, killing them within a matter of hours.There is evidence to suggest that natural compounds like diatomaceous earth and salt are effective for eliminating sand fleas. Sprinkle the compound around problem areas, let it sit for up to 24 hours, then suction it and any dead pests up with a vacuum.Do not use pesticides containing toxic chemicals in areas frequently occupied by you, your family or your pet.
 Go over spots that may harbor hidden sand fleas. Pay particular attention to the rooms and routes you tend to use the most, as there’s a better chance that sand fleas will be found there. Repeat this process once a day until the infestation is under control.Use your vacuum’s brush head attachment to dislodge sand fleas stuck down deep in carpet fibers.
Empty or dispose of vacuum bags after vacuuming.
Vacuuming helps to remove pests and their eggs that are too small to be detected., Sand fleas can easily be concealed in the folds of clothing and bedding and may not stand out on light-colored fabrics. After discovering signs of a sand flea infestation, these items should be cleaned immediately. Wash each load of laundry with hot water and strong detergent.Always wash clothing, towels and other beach accessories as soon as you get home. You should never reuse dirty items, as there’s a chance they could contain sand fleas.
Be sure to check your partner’s clothing and bedding items as well if you happen to share a room.
 Take a quick look at your legs and the tops and bottoms of your shoes before reentering your home. This is especially important if you’ve recently been to the beach or anywhere else where you might encounter sand fleas. It’s possible for undetected sand fleas to hitch a ride into your living space, making the problem worse.


Start leaving your dirty shoes outside until you’ve had a chance to clean them.

