 Passports can be obtained at post offices around the country. If staying for longer than 90 days or visiting Peru for work, study or research one needs to acquire a travel visa via the Peruvian consulate.;
, Malaria prevention is recommended before traveling. Additionally, yellow fever vaccinations are required if you plan on visiting jungle cities.
 Spanish is the national language of Peru, so be sure to brush up on your Spanish before travelling. Bring an English to Spanish dictionary on your trip to make communication easier.
 You may want to hire an authorized tourist agent, as they will plan your trip and make sure you see popular attractions. Do not hire agents found outside the airport or in shopping plazas, as they are not accredited and are conducting business illegally.
 Before you travel, make your presence known at the Peruvian consulate or via the State Department website.
 The Sol is the national currency, but many hotels, restaurants and even restaurants accept the US dollar at the current exchange rate. It is always a good idea to have local currency on hand, which can be acquired at most hotels or banks.
 There are also thousands of festivals a year celebrating both Christian, pagan and magical forms. Research what festivals are being celebrated when you are visiting.
 Peru has a wide variety of geography, with everything from Pacific beaches to the Peruvian Andes within its borders. Visitors can see one of the most famous Incan ruins, the city of Machu Piccu, the ancient ruins of Chan Chan, or visit the diverse geography of Peru. This includes Lake Titicaca and may national parks.


Pack for varying temperatures if visiting the Andean highlands. The temperature can drop quickly in the highlands, so be prepared with heavy clothing and coats, especially is visiting some of the highest elevations.






Bring cool clothing and rain gear if visiting the Eastern lowlands. Temperatures can reach 97ʡF (36ʡC) or 36 Celsius, and much of the year is hot with intermittent rain. Occasional temperature drops occur during the summer months, and a light jacket will be necessary during these times.






Pack for warmth if visiting the Pacific Coast. Bring lighter jackets for the winter, but shorts and short sleeves or cooler clothing should be packed year round.






Dress for mild weather and rain if visiting the central or southern coast.
 Regardless of what season you visit in, be sure to have sunblock, hats and sunglasses on hand.
 Many of the attractions in Peru require some walking and physical exertion, so be sure to bring hiking boots or other sturdy, comfortable shoes.

