 Your boyfriend’s face is an important part of what makes him who he is. By complimenting his eyes, smile, or overall handsomeness, you can let him know how attractive you find him. For the most effective compliment, try to focus on something unique about his appearance.You could say, “I love the freckle next to your smile,” or “Your eyes are the most incredible shade of green.”;
, Pay your boyfriend a compliment on his body to stroke his ego. You can compliment him on his shoulders, abs, arms, or whatever body part you like best to show him how attractive you find him. Your boyfriend doesn’t have to be a body builder for you to compliment his body.You could say, “Your shoulders look so strong today,” or “Wow. Your abs look amazing.”
If your boyfriend is less fit, you might say, “I love how soft your hands feel when you rub my shoulders.”

, Many men work hard to chisel their bodies at the gym. Pay your boyfriend compliments on his fitness progress to let him know you appreciate his strength and health.You could say, “Your body looks amazing. Those suicide sprints are really paying off,” or “You looked really strong climbing that rock wall.”
If your boyfriend has lost a lot of weight through a fitness regimen, don’t be afraid to appreciate his progress. You could say, “Wow, that shirt fits you so well. I can really see your hard work.”

, Whether your boyfriend prefers skinny jeans or flannel (or both!), he probably puts a lot of effort into the way he looks. You can show him how attracted you are to his look by complimenting him on pieces of his wardrobe. You can also show appreciation for the way he styles his clothes.You could say, “That jacket looks amazing with those pants. Are you an off-duty model?” or “The color of that scarf really brings out your eyes. It looks great on you.”

, Some men spend a lot of time styling their hair and facial hair. If this is something you like about your boyfriend, you can let him know by paying him a compliment. You can compliment a new hair cut, part, or color to let him know you notice the little details about him.

You could say, “I really like your new beard. It’s hot!” or “Your new buzz cut is sexy. It makes you look like Brad Pitt.”

, Whatever physical attributes of your boyfriend’s attract you, many guys just want to know they turn you on. Enhance your compliments on your boyfriend’s physical appearance by telling him how sexy you find him. Be sure that compliments about him turning you on are sincere, or they may come off as awkward and forced.You could say, “Your eyes are so gorgeous. I want you to kiss me right now,” or “Your smile is such a turn on.”

