 The first step towards a cool room is a color scheme. Decide what your tastes are. Do you like bright colors or darker ones? Do you like solids or patterns? This will help you as you try to decorate the rest of the room.


For boys, black, blue, and brown are popular colors. Red, orange, yellow, and green can also make a cool room.For girls, shades of pink are always a great choice. Brightly colored patterns also liven up a girl's room.Lime, turquoise, and other bright colors make great accents for any room.;
, If you're gonna have the cool room that all your friends want to hang out in, you need the proper seating. If you don't, you won't have anywhere for your friends to sit. Seating options can range from a futon to a sofa to butterfly chairs.


Place a swing chair in the corner of the room. If you can, mount the swing chair in the ceiling.Set out ottomans or poufs. These seats are small so they don't take up much space, and they can be used as tables, chairs, or footstools. You can even make your own poufs and ottomans.Get a beanbag chair and place it in front of your television.
If your room is large enough, get a sofa or love seat. Place it along a far wall and make a separate sitting area in your room. Or place it in front of the television for watching movies and playing video games.
 Instead of having a boring nightstand that matches your bed, repurpose something you already own or that you find at a thrift store. All that a nightstand has to do is hold your alarm clock, cell phone, maybe a lamp, and a glass of water. Think outside the box to get a cool nightstand for your room.If you're into music, stack two drums on top of one another to make a nightstand. You can even paint and decorate them to make them even cooler.
If you're short on space, use a chair as a nightstand. When friends come over, you have a chair for them to sit on. When you're alone, the chair can hold your cell phone while you sleep.
If you own a lot of books or magazines, use those as a nightstand. Stack them against the wall so they are tall enough to be reached. This is a good way to get clutter out of the way and make a unique nightstand!
Make your nightstand double as storage space. If your bed is along the wall, try mounting a shelf and using it. Place a trunk beside your bed to use as a nightstand while using the inside for storage. Plus, a trunk just looks cool., Another way to make your room cool and reflect your personality is to get throw pillows. Throw pillows can be solid bold colors, geometric patterns, or have printed pictures on them. Match them to your hobbies and interests for some fun self-expression.


Try throw pillows with flowers, trees, feathers, or animals on them. You can also get them with sports team logos or sports-related art. Go for a pillow with the British flag on it, or go for one that is video game related.Sites like Society6 allow you to print custom art from artists on throw pillows. You can buy a pillow printed with a skeleton, mushroom, or guitar. You can also buy pillows with fanart of TV shows, movies, video games, and other pop culture references.
 Drawers are boring. To add a unique, funky twist to the drawers in your dresser or desk, paint the inside with bright colors. If you can, paint your dresser or desk a bright color that complements the color inside the drawer.


If you don't want to mess with paint, line them with patterned contact paper., Shelves don't have to be boring anymore. Many furniture stores and major retailers carry funky shelves in modern designs. You can set them on the floor, stack them, or mount them above your bed.Display all your cool stuff on these shelves. Put out books, records, CDs, action figures, photos with friends, knickknacks - anything you want.
 No cool room is complete without a TV to watch movies on. This will be the center of your room when your friends come over. You also want speakers so you can listen to music from the TV, laptop, or stereo. A gaming system (or several) is the finishing touch for your cool room.
 Your room is your space, so it should reflect what you like. If you like baseball, mount a bat, a glove, and a team hat. Put up posters, pennants, or flags from your favorite team. If you like surfing and the beach, put up mirrors lined with shells, make your name out of seashells, mount a surfboard, and stick decals of orchids around the room. It's up to your interests and what you think is cool.Decide if you like music, stars and the moon, or dogs. Maybe choose to decorate plainly and have a few pillows that say "cool" and "awesome."

, A great way to decorate your room is to add wall decals. Decals come in just about every style, shape, and image imaginable. You can get sports players who look like they're in the middle of a play. You can get bands, actors, and movie characters. You can also get bicycles, balloons, words, and animals.


These wall decals are removable, so it's easy to change them out without messing up your walls., If you have a lot of photos or postcards you want to display in your room, try hanging them from rows of string. This lets you place a lot of photos side by side without taping or pinning them to the wall. You can change out the photos for a bit of variety.


Use pushpins to place the string along the wall. Use binder clips to connect the photos to the string.
Place 2, 3, or even 10 strings around your room for photos. You can stack them on top of one another, or spread them around on different walls.To add even more pizzazz to the photos, hang twinkle lights along the strings to illuminate the photos., Japanese Washi tape is masking tape made out of washi paper that is used for crafts and décor. The tape is transparent, plus it is removable and reusable. It comes in different colors and styles, such as floral patterns, geometric shapes, graffiti, and bold colors. Since it's removable, you can change the tape if you get tired of it.Use Washi tape to put frames around your photos, posters, and artwork.Make shapes on your walls using Washi tape. Create a group of hexagons, hearts, stars, or diamonds.Use Washi tape to spell out words or letters. Put your initials on the wall, or put words like "Dream" or "Live" over your desk.
 If you can't paint the wall, or want to liven up blank walls with something fun, try hanging a rug, flag, or sheet on the wall. The great thing about hanging these is that you don't have to paint intricate designs on the wall, and you can change the design whenever you tire of it.You can also take a white sheet and paint it to make your very own tapestry., If you want to change a wall, but hanging cloth isn't your thing, try putting up removable wallpaper instead. Chasing Paper sells removable wallpaper that you can use to decorate your room.Choose a design that compliments your interests and the room's color palette. You have many options for designs: geometric, basic patterns, graphics, and even flora and fauna.
You can also buy headboard decals to stick on the wall behind your bed.Put the wallpaper on the ceiling for a cool way to tie the room together., Chalkboard wallpaper panels let you create your own art and to-do lists, in addition to letting you and your friends write messages on your wall. Cover a small section or an entire wall and buy some colored chalk for a cool addition to your room.You can also get chalkboard paint and chalkboard stickers.
 Use marker pens to draw shapes and colors on your light bulbs. When you turn on your lights, the shapes you drew will cast those same shapes on the walls and around the room.


If you don't want to draw with markers, try painting the light bulbs instead., Are you into music? Paris? Sports? Fishing? The beach? Whatever you are into, find cool wall hangings that go along with your interests. Find a metal sign that looks like a sign from a beach front surf shop. Buy a wooden sign that talks about fishing. Hang a metal sign with a picture of the Eiffel Tower.You can also make your own wall hangings. Get some cardboard, paint, foam paint brushes, and stencils, and have fun.

