


Roasting is a cooking method whereby cuts of meat are cooked in an oven in a dry environment, meaning there is little or no liquid added to the cooking vessel. This results in a juicy and moist cut of meat, provided you select the right cut of beef to roast. The best cuts are those with little or no connective tissue and plenty of fat or marbling. Some good candidates for roasting are: rib roasts, sirloin tip roasts, tri-tip roast and the tenderloin.;
,


Searing the roast is the first step in creating flavor in the gravy. Pat the roast dry with paper towels, season it with salt and pepper, then add 2 tbsp. (30 ml) of oil to a heavy bottomed steel pan or pot. Let the oil become very hot. Using tongs, add the meat to the pan and let it sear until dark brown but not burned. Turn the meat and continue this process until all sides have been seared.



Aromatic vegetables such as garlic, onion, celery and carrots are needed to build a flavor base for roast beef gravy. While your pan is still hot, add peeled and coarsely cut vegetables to the pan and stir them until lightly browned and aromatic.



Using a 1/2 cup (120 ml) of red or white wine or chicken or beef stock to the pan and stir it around to loosen any bits stuck to the bottom. Let this reduce until only a few spoonfuls remain, then pour this into your roasting pan.



Spread the vegetables out on the bottom of the roasting pan. Set the beef on top of the pan and cook the beef until it has reached your level of desired doneness.



When cooked, remove the beef from the roasting pan and set it aside to rest. This will allow the juices to redistribute and it won't make a mess when cutting. Add any accumulated juices to the roasting pan.
, (30 ml) of all purpose flour to the vegetable mash and stir it around.



Add 2 cups (480 ml) of beef stock, water that you cooked vegetables or potatoes in, or even plain water, to the vegetable mash. Stir it to combine. Set the roasting pan on the stove over a medium high heat. Stir constantly until the mixture boils and begins to thicken.



Once the gravy has thickened and boiled for 1 to 2 minutes, turn the heat off and set a sieve over a bowl. Pour the mash into the sieve and gently press down to extract as much gravy from the mashed vegetables as possible. Discard the mashed vegetables. Adjust the gravy for salt and pepper and serve with your roast beef.

