 A great way to socialize your new dog is to set up a meet and greet with one of your neighbors. If you live near someone with a friendly, well-socialized dog, it is okay to ask them if they are interested in setting up a time and place for the dogs to meet. Make sure to ask your neighbor about any antisocial or aggressive behavior their dog may have exhibited in the past., It’s important that you are 100% attentive to your dog and yourself when meeting other dogs in the neighborhood. While it might seem natural to engage in an in-depth conversation with your neighbor as your dogs play, it’s critical that you keep your attention on the dogs. This will allow you to respond quickly and effectively should any trouble arise.
 Dogs are, by nature, territorial animals. It is important that you do introduce your new dog to other dogs in a neutral space. You should not, under any circumstance, introduce the dogs in one another’s territory. For example, you shouldn’t allow your dog to run into your neighbor’s yard to meet their dog. This could set up a situation where your neighbor’s dog becomes territorial, and even aggressive. Instead, introduce the dogs in a neutral space, like a neighborhood park or local trail., Pay attention to how each dog is responding to the interaction. For example, you should look out for wary, defensive, or aggressive body language including growling, lunging, teeth baring, and hair standing up on the dogs’ backs. If you notice any of these signs, calmly call your dog to you and leave the situation.
 Not all dogs are going to be excited about meeting each other, or want to immediately engage in a playful or positive interaction. Be patient. Do not expect instant friendship between the dogs and do not force the dogs to interact., If your dog responds well throughout the meet and greet, reward them. For example, you can give your dog a treat if they remain calm and display confident behavior. At the end of the meet and greet, and after you have left the company of the other dog, positively reinforce your dog’s good behavior with a treat or a favorite toy.