 Depression affects your desire to communicate effectively, as well as your ability to carry on conversations.When you're giving your lines, say them quietly, with difficulty. Make it seem that it is hard for you to talk loudly enough to keep a conversation going. Take a long pause before you answer or respond to a question, then sigh deeply and say something along the lines of the following:


"Oh...I just don't know."
"I don't really care."
"Whatever."
"I guess..."

, Respond to questions and conversational prompts as if you've got nothing but contempt for the conversation that's happening. Sneer at simple questions and make everything think that they've done something to raise your ire, even if they're just asking you what you want for lunch.


Sarcasm is sometimes more of a tone than a specific thing to say, but you can always just repeat what someone says to you in a snide tone of voice. "I don't know, what do you want for lunch?" is a good option.Roll your eyes a lot when others speak. One of the easiest ways to communicate sarcasm is to act like responding would be beneath you. Stay quiet and roll those eyes.
Don't be mean. It's possible to take your act too far and start to seem like you're angry, which could get you into trouble. Use sarcasm gently and as a last resort.
 When we're feeling up and happy, it feels good to communicate and to carry on conversations. When we're depressed, talking is sometimes the last thing you want to do. If you want to seem depressed, don't say anything at all.


If you're asked a question directly, instead of responding, just shrug your shoulders and look at the ground.
 If there's a light conversation happening, turn it dark, as if you can't help but find the negative in every positive thing. Be a downer on every conversation, even if you have to turn the conversation completely away from where it was going.


If your friends are talking about how much fun they had over the weekend, try saying something like, "I guess they found a few new cases of Ebola this weekend."
If your mom asks what you want to eat for dinner, say something like, "I just read about that guy in Alaska who lived in the bus and starved to death."

