 There are a number of great resources to help you better understand depression. These resources can often help with a self-diagnosis, but seeing a doctor is better because even the most intelligent people can easily misdiagnose themselves and a medical professional would look for other possible causes first. You can use a variety of tools you can use to understand more about this disorder.


Online surveys can help identify if you are depressed. They ask questions about your lifestyle, and often include multiple-choice questions to determine how you are feeling. Some surveys include a scale survey that allows you to place yourself on a scale of feelings.
Brochures or pamphlets can provide statistics, references, and resources. Many public places like libraries, clinics, and universities have brochures and pamphlets on common illnesses. They often include short informational material like brochures that can give you a quick look at the disease.
Non-profits or other recognized organization sometimes specialize in health disorders. Their websites will often provide helpful frequently asked questions. Organization like the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Center for Disease Control (CDC) provide information on their websites about depression and other mental disorders. These websites can provide research and scholarly information.
 If you think you may be depressed, you may want to visit your doctor. Even specialty doctors such as OBGYNs, Endocrinologists, and Pediatricians have the resources and know-how to diagnose mental disorders like depression.
 In the end, you can be your own best research advocate. Take the time to research depression on your own using reliable materials. You can visit a library or an online research database to help you in your search.


You can review the Diagnostic Statistic Manual (DSM), which is the leading book on mental health. It is the standard on classifying mental disorders and can be accessed by the public. JSTOR.org is an open database that allows you to review journals, newspapers, and books. This is a great scholarly resource that you can use to research depression symptoms and treatments. 