 They are the raw materials of history. For instance, you might read the Pentagon Papers – a collection of documents produced by the U.S. Department of Defense – to learn what the American government was thinking during the Vietnam War. You could also investigate the Central Intelligence Agency’s Vietnam action histories.


Links to these and other sources are available online at http://shsulibraryguides.org/c.php?g=86715&p=559000.
Don’t neglect photographic sources. The image of Kim Phuc running down the street after her village was napalmed is one of the most powerful images in modern history.
Similarly, Eddie Adams’ 1968 photo of the summary execution of a suspected communist demonstrates the lawlessness that came to characterize the war., There are several museums and monuments dedicated to the Vietnam War, both in the U.S. and in Vietnam. Visiting these museums or monuments, especially on a guided tour with a subject expert, can provide greater insight into the war. These museums offer a mixture of artifacts, displays, videos, and placards to explore the war and its effects. You might visit:


The National Vietnam War Museum in Texas.The War Remnants Museum in Ho Chi Minh City. This museum, like the National Vietnam War Museum in the U.S., has many tanks and vehicles used in the war.
The Vietnam War Memorial, designed by Maya Lin, in Washington, D.C. The monument can improve understanding of the war’s meaning. It has the name of every soldier who was killed during the war etched onto it.
 Prepare a list of questions you want to ask before beginning your conversation. Use care when talking to people who survived war, especially veterans.Do not assume vets are proud of their service. For many veterans, their military experience was traumatic and remains difficult to talk about.
For instance, do not ask, “How many people did you kill?” or say “I would have killed many enemy soldiers.” These statements might make veterans uncomfortable or even angry.
For similar reasons, do not say to a vet, “I’m glad you made it home okay.” Even if veterans are physically unharmed, they might feel a great deal of psychic pain and emotional frustration about what they did or saw in Vietnam.
Start with easy questions like, “When did you serve in Vietnam?” and work your way up through more difficult questions like, “Did you see many battles?”
Arrange a meeting with a Vietnam vet in your area by contacting Vietnam Veterans against the War or the Wounded Warriors Project to learn more about the military experience of the war.
 During the Vietnam War, civilians suffered terribly.Their experiences can help you understand how people who lived through the war talked and thought about it. Prepare a list of questions you want to ask before beginning your conversation.


Find out where the civilian lived during the war. People who lived in North Vietnam will likely remember the conflict differently than people who lived in South Vietnam.
You might want to ask about the attitude toward the war and how it changed over time.

