 Snowboarding is not something you can just run out the door and start practicing. You'll need a fair amount of gear to stay safe, warm, and stylish. While the style part is entirely up to you, there is some essential gear you need to have on hand to board. Remember that when getting dressed you can always remove a layer if you get hot. But a day at the mountain is going to get unpleasant quickly if you're cold and underdressed. The basics you need include:


Snow pants or a snow bib.

A snow jacket, waterproof and well-fit but not tight. It should go past your waist to keep snow out.

A crash helmet for protection and warmth. On extra cold days you could put a hat underneath as well.

Thermal layers, such as long johns, sports wear, or thick sweaters, underneath the jacket and pants.

Thick, warm socks. Many people like a thin pair of moisture-wicking athletic socks under a thicker pair of warm socks.

Snow gloves that can be tightened around your wrist to prevent snow from entering (gauntlet cuffs).

Skiing or snowboarding goggles, to reduce glare and protect your eyes from particulate matter.

Boots and a board, though these can be rented at the mountain if you're new to boarding.;
, Nearly all mountains have a rental center as well, and they will fit you to the right board and boots. Snowboarding is not difficult, but it is expensive, so it is best to rent a few boards and try them out as you learn before spending money on a board.


There are many different boards and styles on the market, so picking out one now, before you know what you want out of a board, may end up in wasted money.
Let the rental center know that you are brand-new to the sport. They will take the time to measure you up, ensuring your first board fits you well.
 If you're right footed, usually your left foot goes into the front binding of the board so that your toes are pointing to the right. Make sure your heel is all the way back in the binding, then tightly clasp the bindings. Your dominant foot will be used to push you around, much like you were skateboarding, but you will lock it in before you start really snowboarding.


If you're confused about what foot to put forward, put on a pair of socks and slide on a wood floor. Or jog up to a set of stairs and see what foot you step up with first. The foot you put forward here should be forward foot on your board.There are a variety of binding styles, but most of them use clasps or buckles and are easy to figure out. For beginners, try and get the bindings angled slightly forward.
 Unless you're taking a break, you will rarely need to unbuckle your front foot. Simple push off your free foot to "skate" around the mountain, getting you to the lifts so that you can head down the mountain.


If you have a stomp pad, which is a grip-y, small rubber patch in the middle of your board, you can rest your free foot on this if you need to glide down small hills without buckling it.
 Getting on the lift is a bit intimidating at first, but all you're really doing is letting the lift scoop you up. Once you're in line, just bend your knees slightly, transferring your weight towards your butt like you're about to sit down. Once you feel the lift hit the back of your knees, just drop down like you're about to sit.


Many beginner slopes have a "Magic Carpet" instead of a lift. This looks like a flattened escalator, and all you do is step on it so that it drags you up the mountain with ease.
 While riding up buckle your free foot in, even if it is only lightly. As you approach the top, angle the board so that it faces forward, then simply stand up once the lift reaches the top. The momentum of the lift will push you forward and out of the way, then you can just let yourself glide down the slope at the top of the lift towards the top of the mountain.


If you have a stomp pad you can use that instead of buckling the back foot.
You might unbuckle again after you've gotten off the lift, then "skate" your way to the top of the slope.