 Before attempting to measure the TDS of your sample, make sure to prepare a clean, clear space with the appropriate instruments and tools for the task. If you do not have access to the materials necessary for this procedure, they can all be purchased easily online. You will need the following:


A clean, properly sterilized beaker that is free of dust or other particles
A sample of the water you want to analyze, collected into the sterilized beaker. Ideally, the sample should be at 25° C (or 77° F) at the time of analysis.
An electrical conductivity meter — a device used to measure a solution's ability to conduct electricity. It works by releasing a current into a liquid, then measuring the resistance.;
, Make sure your beaker with the water sample in it is placed on a flat, stable surface. Turn on the electrical conductivity meter, then insert the measuring lead into the sample. Wait for the reading on the conductivity meter to become stable before noting the result.


You may have to wait a few seconds before the reading stabilizes, but it's important that you wait until the number on the display stops changing.
The measurement displayed on the electrical conductivity meter is the purity of the water, measured in µS (micro-Siemens). The lower the µS value, the purer the water, with 0 µS being pure, unpolluted H20.
 The basic formula for calculating total dissolved solids looks like the above illustration. In the formula, TDS is measured in mg/L, EC is the conductivity of your sample (the reading from your electrical conductivity meter), and ke is the correlation factor. The correlation factor depends on the liquid being used as the sample, and it may also vary according to atmospheric conditions. It varies between 0.55 and 0.8.


In the example above, say the correlation factor at the current temperature and in the current pressure conditions is 0.67. Plug your values into the formula. The TDS for your sample is therefore 288.1 mg/L.
Water with a TDS of less than 500 mg/L meets the Environmental Protection Agency's standards for drinking water. A high TDS does not necessarily mean that water is unsafe for consumption; it may just suggest that the water will have unpleasant aesthetic qualities in terms of color, taste, smell, etc. If you are concerned about the safety of your drinking water, you should have your water professionally tested.

