 Defensive drivers concentrate on the road, keeping their hands at the 10 o'clock-2 o'clock position. They don't do other tasks while driving, some of which are illegal. These include:


Eating
Applying makeup
Holding a dog
Tending to a child
Operating a hand-held cell phone
Texting;
, Continuously look in your mirrors and scan the road ahead, checking for hazards and slowing traffic so you can anticipate problems before they develop.
 Don't drive if you're tired or upset.
 Most drivers know that speeding is a major cause of accidents, but driving too slow can be dangerous, too. Drive at speeds that most other vehicles are going.



Choose a fixed object on the road ahead of you.
Count "1 independence, 2 independence" when the car in front of you goes by the object. If you pass the same object before you're done counting, slow down a bit. The 2 second rule helps reduce the chance of a rear-end collision when cars in front make sudden stops.
 Many accidents occur because drivers didn't see the other car. There are a few simple ways to make your presence known, making the road safer for everyone. They include:


Turn signals: Use your turn signals to let other drivers know where you're going. By using your blinkers, other drivers will be able to anticipate your actions and slow down safely.
Headlights: Turn on your headlights at dusk or anytime it is raining. This is more for other drivers to see you than for you to see the road. In some states it is illegal to drive without your headlights on while the windshield wipers are in operation.
Brake lights: Operational brake lights are a safety must. They warn cars behind you that you're slowing down, signaling them to reduce speed, too.
Avoid blind spots: Don't linger in areas where the driver in front of you can't see you. Many people will only check their mirrors before making a lane change. If you're lurking slightly behind and a lane away from another vehicle, assume that the driver of that car can't see you. Either safely speed up or slow down to avoid this scenario, which often results in an accident. This is an important defensive-driving technique.
 Aggressive drivers may infuriate you, but retaliating with similar tactics is dangerous. Take a passive approach in dealing with road rage. Use these strategies in specific road-rage scenarios:


Tailgaters: If the driver behind you is right on your bumper, tap the brakes a few times to let the driver know that he's not maintaining a safe distance. If he stays on your tail, slow down gradually. Chances are the tailgater will eventually pass you.
Speeders: If you see a car speeding or aggressively changing lanes behind you, stay in your lane while maintaining your speed.
 Even light rain can produce dangerous conditions, particularly early in the season when the water picks up oil from the road surface, making it slippery. Tires lose their grip at higher speeds, so slowing down in inclement weather is a fundamental defensive-driving technique.
 Refresh your memory by browsing a Department of Motor Vehicles pamphlet detailing the rules of the road. It provides guidelines on rights of way, road signs, traffic law, and contains tips on safe driving.
 Sometimes an intersection gets backed up with traffic.

If you're the first car to go at green, make sure traffic on the other side of the intersection that you are moving into has cleared before you decide to go. This can prevent you from getting in a situation where you might get T-boned if you get stuck or stalled in an intersection.
Turning into an intersection: a lot of rear-end collisions happen when the driver behind you assumes you are going to complete the turn, even if traffic is backed up.
Give yourself enough room: if you must stop in an intersection, slow down carefully and keep distance from any other cars that have yet to complete the intersection. If the person behind you 'flip-flops' and rear-ends your car, you'll save yourself the trouble the car in front of you is not involved.

