;
, Creating a family of ghost Sims this way doesn't require you to use any cheats, but assuming you want to get to playing with your ghost Sim family, it will make the process quicker.
 If you are using the cheat: hold down Shift, not letting off while you click on the mailbox. There will be a variety of things to choose from, click "Set Career" or something of that sort. Choose the Science career. If you're not using the cheat: Join the Science career via computer,newspaper,or the science lab.This is not necessary,but it is rumored to make the opportunity show up faster(though this is not proven).
 If you're using the cheat: You can speed this process up some. Start socializing and enter the relationship tab under the Sim panels. Drag the relationship bar all the way to best friends. Then, use the "Confess Attraction" social on the Sim, they should be romantic interests, then keep using romantic socials until they're lovers- which won't take long since they are best friends.Skip this step if you already married them in CAS.
 You will then have their tombstone/urn which you can choose to put in your living Sims inventory now or later. If you're not using the cheat: Lock the Sim you want to die in a room with no refrigerator or phone and wait for them to die.
 (It shouldn't take long for this opportunity to appear if you are in the Science career. Approximately 1 day or less).
 Click on the Science lab and select the option to restore the remains and head to the Science lab.
 Make both Sims go home. *Note: Do not kill the Sim that is still living and that STILL has the opportunity to restore remains later, you will need him/her.


, If you're using the cheat: If the baby is a human and you don't want to have to keep up with it while waiting for a ghost baby, hold down Shift, not letting off Shift click on the baby and select "Object..." and then "Delete It" and the baby will disappear. If you're not using the cheat: If the baby is a human and you don't want to take care of it while waiting for a ghost baby, you can either A) take care of it, or B) ignore it until a social worker comes and takes it.
 It will likely be a ghost this time.
 If you're using the cheat: Now that you have a ghost baby, you can hold Shift, and not letting off of shift, click on the baby. Select "Trigger Age Transition." You can repeat this until they are a young adult. If you're not using the cheat: raise the baby until he/she is a young adult.
 If you're using the cheat: Choose any Sim of the opposite sex for your new ghost Sim. Holding shift, click on the Sim and select "Add to Family" or it will say something like that. If they aren't of age, trigger age transition on that Sim. You can build a relationship with that Sim now or later between them and the ghost Sim you raised. If you're not using the cheat: Choose a Sim of the opposite sex of your new ghost Sim. Build a relationship with the Sim and marry them so they will be added to your family. *Note: Do not move the ghost Sim you raised out of the house before completing step 15.
, Put the remains of the Town Sim you've just killed in their inventory. Take them to be restored at the Science lab.This,however may not work and end up reviving them alive and not as a ghost,so if it doesn't work the first time put the Sim you raised in the science career and repeat the opportunity with them.



Steps 1-8 must be completed. After that step, you can choose to skip having the ghost baby and do steps 13-16 for the 1st ghost you created. Either way, you will have a ghost family! Good luck!

