 Primary explosives are broadly defined as explosives that will detonate without an explosion to start the reaction. This basically means that primary explosives are the most easily detonated class. This class of explosives is highly sensitive to temperature changes, electrical current, or changes in force or pressure acting on the compound. They are used for making things like fireworks and blasting caps.For example, nitroglycerine can be set off just by shaking or dropping a bottle of it. This makes it very dangerous to handle.
Blasting caps are explosive devices that are utilized to set off another explosive device.;
, Secondary explosives consist of compounds that are much more stable than primary explosives. This means that they will not be ignited easily if jarred, heated, or shocked. Instead, secondary explosives are detonated using a primary explosive (e.g. a blasting cap) to start the reaction.Dynamite is an example of a secondary explosive.
Another tier of explosives, tertiary explosives, require the detonation of a primary explosive, followed by a secondary explosive to ignite. These are typically used in industries like mining and have the benefit of being very stable and safe to transport (e.g. ammonium nitrate/fuel oil mixture, ANFO).
 High and low refer to the velocity of the combustion. Low explosives burn only the surface layer of compound, though they burn very quickly (gunpowder is a low explosive). When dealing with compounds classified as high explosives, the entire mass will detonate practically simultaneously (within a few milliseconds). Low explosives are ideal for use as propellants, while high explosives are used in construction, mining, and for military purposes.There may be other uses for either type of explosive.
Another differentiation between high and low explosives is the need for pressure. Low explosives will only explode when the combustion reaction is contained and builds pressure. High explosives will explode regardless of their container (or lack of).
 While many low explosive and high explosive chemicals have weaved their way in and out of human history being refined and repurposed, the twentieth century gave birth a new class of explosive device. Nuclear explosions are created when the nucleus of an atom is split by high speed particles. The fragments of that atom then hit the nucleus of other atoms creating a chain reaction that releases a tremendous amount of atomic energy. This technology has been used to generate electricity and create the deadliest class of weapons known to mankind.