 These specialized preformed splints are used in trigger finger cases when the joint that is closest to the tip of the finger (called the distal interphalangeal joint ) is damaged or cannot straighten by itself.Stack splints (one common brand is known as Stax splints) come in various sizes. They are designed to fit over the DIP joint in order to prevent it from bending, while still allowing bending of the joint at the midpoint of the finger (the proximal interphalangeal joint ).
Stack splints are usually made from plastic with holes for ventilation. They can be found in pharmacies or grocery stores and you can try to fit them there before purchase.
Please note (once more): Despite their availability and relative convenience, it is always best to consult your physician before using stack splints to address trigger finger or another condition (such as mallet finger).
 To do so, straighten the affected finger while supporting it with the other hand. Slowly slide the stack splint onto the affected finger until it completely fits.Make sure to check that the stack splint fits completely and the finger is really straight. If the finger is slightly bent either forward or backwards, it can lead to the development of sores at the knuckle. If the stack splint has a built in adjustable strap, you can use that to secure it in place without taping.
 Using scissors, cut a ten inch (25 cm) length of medical tape. Wrap it firmly around the finger and splint beyond the first knuckle.Some stack splints have built-in adjustable straps, so taping is not necessary.
 For just a couple of seconds, pinch the nail of your trigger finger. This will cut off the blood flow and turn it white. Then let go. If the nail becomes pink within one to two seconds, then it has good blood circulation and your splint is on correctly.


If it takes more than two seconds for the blood to return to the area, your splint is on too tight. Your finger needs adequate blood flow to heal. Remove and reapply the splint, adjusting for tightness.
 Unfortunately, the average trigger finger takes this long to heal. In mild cases, it may heal in only two to three weeks time; however, it greatly depends on the injury and the extent and severity of the inflammation in the affected trigger finger.Because they only immobilize the top of your finger, stack splints are somewhat less obtrusive than other splints. It may therefore be more possible to keep them on at all times without major inconvenience. This is likely the best option for proper healing, but consult with your doctor.
Immobilization is imperative. In order for your finger to heal, try to keep from using it as much as possible.
Replace/re-position the splint (and tape) when they become dirty, the tape starts to peel up, or if it becomes too loose to be effective.
Visit your doctor after four to six weeks (or as previously advised) if your finger hasn't healed. He or she will be able to give you the proper management skills to take care of your injured trigger finger.

