 Decide on one of the three most common meats to roast: ham, prime rib, or turkey. Or, break away from the norm and choose either beef, lamb, poultry, pork, or veal. Available cuts of meat include:Beef: bottom round; brisket; eye round; rib eye roast (with or without bone); round tip; rump; tenderloin; tri-tip.

Lamb: leg (with or without bone); shank leg; shoulder.

Pork: crown; ham; loin; ribs; shoulder/butt; tenderloin.

Poultry: chicken breast; rock cornish game hen; turkey breast; whole chicken; whole duck; whole goose; whole pheasant; whole turkey.

Veal: loin; rib.
 Once you have chosen which type of meat to roast, decide which grade of meat to purchase. Choose “prime” for the highest quality, which includes more fat marbling within the meat and thus more flavor. Go with “choice” for a less expensive cut that still has a fair amount of fat throughout the meat. Pick “select” to save money and/or reduce your fat intake., Keep it simple and rub your roast evenly with salt and pepper. Or, create a more diverse seasoning mix for more complex flavors. To season the inside as well as the outside, marinate your meat for two days before roasting. Flip the meat over at regular intervals to make sure it is evenly marinated. Choose one of the following recipes or pick one of the many, many others to be found online:



Beef seasonings: 1 teaspoon salt, ¼ teaspoon pepper, ⅛ teaspoon garlic powder for each pound of meat.Chicken seasonings: 1 ounce melted butter, ⅓ teaspoon minced garlic, 1 teaspoon salt, ¼ teaspoon pepper, ⅛ teaspoon garlic powder, rosemary and/or thyme to taste, for each pound of meat.Lamb marinade: ¼ cup fresh rosemary, 2 tablespoons dijon mustard, 2 tablespoons olive oil, 1 teaspoon soy sauce, 1 cup beef broth, 1 chopped garlic head, 1 chopped onion for 6 to 10 pounds of meat.Pork seasonings: 1 teaspoon garlic salt and ¼ teaspoon of black pepper for each pound of meat., After you remove the meat from the oven, let it rest before carving. Give the meat time to reabsorb the juices inside so they don’t spill out when you carve it open. Allow thinner cuts at least 10 minutes to cool. Give thicker cuts a minimum of 20 minutes, since their core may still be hot enough to continue cooking the meat from the inside out. After that, transfer the meat to a carving board to slice it up. , Refrigerate or freeze your leftovers no more than two hours after it has finished roasting. Halve that time to one hour if the room temperature exceeds 90 degrees Fahrenheit. If you have a lot of meat left, distribute it into multiple small, airtight containers so that the contents cool off more quickly.Roasted meat will last three to four days in the refrigerator and two to six months in the freezer.

