 Blushing is generally caused by stressful situations and a perceived threat to your body or mind. Therefore, helping yourself relax through agitation can reduce or even alleviate blushing.


If you perceive blushing to be unacceptable in social situations, you will probably try to curb it at all costs, which will give the blushing more power over you. Therefore, when you do blush, try to keep your composure and don’t change your social reactions. Practicing this over time will help in accepting your blushing.Monitor your reactions to your blushing. If someone brings up your blushing, rather than getting flustered, respond with something like: “Yeah, that happens to me sometimes.” A nonchalant response will avoid giving more power to the blushing., The more you tense your body, the more prone you will be to blushing. When you notice yourself starting to become stressed, embarrassed, angry, or frustrated, take a moment to notice the reaction of your body. Drop your shoulders back rather than hunching forward, relax tense muscle areas, and push your stomach out. These adjustments will help you start to feel more relaxed., Mindfulness is a technique used to notice physical reactions and emotional responses without judgment. Rather than judging or fighting the reaction and subsequent blushing, try to accept it. Mindfulness also involves staying in the current moment rather than letting your mind wander.


You can practice by saying: “Right now I am embarrassed, and I know I am going to blush. This is just what my body does.” By letting go of the control, your body and mind will start to relax.Another way of being mindful is to focus on the conversation at hand, rather than letting your mind wander to your blushing. When you start to notice yourself tuning out of a conversation because you are self-conscious of your blushing, actively stop that thought and turn your attention back to the person to whom you are talking., Drink a cold glass of water or use a cold compress to relax your body and lower your body temperature. Blushing is usually accompanied by an increase in body temperature, so infusing some cold into your body will help to relax you., Deep breathing helps you focus on only one thing while forgetting about other reactions and feelings in your body. This technique can be used in both stressful situations and as a daily ritual in an effort to lower negative emotions. A simple breathing technique involves breathing in for a slow count of five, holding your breath for a slow count of five, and exhaling your breath for a slow count of five., Physical activity can lower energy caused by anxiety and be a natural way to reduce any stress that may lead to blushing., Talk directly to your close friends or family members about your blushing and the accompanying anxiety. Holding in your shame or embarrassment about blushing will probably only aggravate the situation since you will be internalizing your feelings.


Try being honest with your loved ones by saying: “I feel really nervous and self-conscious in social situations and I often react by blushing, which makes me feel even more anxious. I’m trying to work through this but could use your support if I start blushing in a situation with you.”Ask your friends for concrete assistance before social situations. For example, ask your friends to not overtly react to your blushing, if that would help you feel less anxious. On the other hand, you may want to draw attention to your blushing during social situations, so it may be helpful to ask your friends to respond positively when you talk about it.
Approach your friends or loved ones for feedback about your social interactions, and ask them whether there is anything you can do to improve your communication techniques. It might even be helpful to ask your really close friends to help you role play social situations that elicit your blushing.

