 You can shape your eyebrows before you make them darker. You can do this by using tweezers, wax, or threading. You can shape your eyebrows on your own or at a professional salon.
 If you want darker eyebrows, you can use eyebrow makeup such as powder, gel, pomade, or pencils. There are many color options for eyebrow makeup so it is important to choose a color that best matches your hair.

For red hair, choose a color similar to your hair, but slightly ashier if you have pink tones in your skin.
Brunettes should stay within a one or two shade range of your hair color. Match more to your highlight rather than your base.
Black hair looks best with cool medium-brown eyebrow makeup.
For blonde hair, match the makeup to the tone of your hair not to the highlight., Brushing your eyebrows will make the shape clearer before you fill them in with makeup. This will allow you fill them in better and be more true to your shape., Put eyebrow primer on your eyebrows before you apply makeup. This will help make the makeup stay on your eyebrows longer., Very lightly do short and quick strokes on your eyebrows. Mimic the natural stroke of your hairs to match your eyebrows so the makeup blends in. Pay extra attention to the extra sparse areas on your eyebrows. Fill in your eyebrows shape, not outside of it. , Use an angle brush to apply a powder all over your eyebrows. Powder is great because you can use various shades to create dimension. Use a lighter shade all over your brows and a darker shade for bare areas., Pomades last all day and don’t smudge easily. Use an angle brush to outline the entire shape and blend throughout your eyebrows with a spoolie brush., You can use an eyebrow pencil to darken your brows and give them shape and definition. This option is faster than other options and is easiest if you want to give your eyebrows a natural appearance. Keep the strokes light and don’t press too hard on the pencil for a natural appearance., There is clear gel and there is tinted gel. You can use clear gel after you use pomade, powder, or pencil or you can just use tinted gel on its own. Gels keep your eyebrows locked in all day so it is great for eyebrows that don’t stay in place. Apply using upward strokes on each section of the brow and let dry. Use a clean spoolie brush to blend tinted gel into your brows.