 This can be easily done by booking well in advance. You can choose to drive there by yourself or get their by a taxi, train, bus or even by airplane. This will depend on your finances and on how much money you are prepared to spend. For a person with kids and a family, work around homework times and your spouses work schedules. Remember you are not running away from the world, but making quality time for yourself and family.;
, Leave a contact number of the hotel you will be in, if any emergencies arise and you may need to be contacted. Define your idea of an emergency to whomsoever you leave any contact numbers with.
 This is your moment and your choice. You have not lost sight of the important things in life but you are creating "bonding time" for yourself and your family. Take your swimming gear, favorite novels, fun stuff and games to keep yourself and family occupied during this get away.
 Accomplish all work-related deadlines before leaving or attend to them when you get back. Remember work will always be there. Now you will need to learn to relax and enjoy the moment.
 Many of us "chase time", and make life some sort of emergency, whereby a hundred different things need to be done at once. Effective time management also involves making time for yourself. The secret lies in having the ability of having to learn to relax or letting your hair down once in a while.
 Alternatively, if getting away becomes too expensive, find cheaper and more workable ways to create your private space. This can be easily achieved by getting yourself a Wendy house or an enclosed gazebo in your back garden. Make this as comfortable as possible and simply move in over the weekends.
 This is by far the most cost effective way to travel economically and also comfortably, particularly with people who have families. At the same time you can still enjoy the comforts of being at home in your miniature home., This will also take your mind off work and other pressing issues that may spoil your fun time away from the crowds. Oldies and romantic melodies have a miraculous way of invigorating your spirits and overall well being.
 Having found ultimate inner peace and harmony, with a balance in personal life and work, is precious and hard to acquire for many. Strive to achieve this. Our short existence on this planet will also make for a significant and worthwhile moment, that was well spent.

