 One of the main reasons your body suffers from sunstroke is because it runs out of ways to cool itself. This happens when your body stops producing sweat, which is the way it naturally cools. In order to keep yourself hydrated so you can sweat properly and normalize your body temperature, you need to drink plenty of nourishing fluids. This includes while you are outside and when you come back in. Replenishing what you lost is very important.Water is the best thing to drink while you are outside or preparing to go outside. Also try sports drinks with added electrolytes if you are undergoing vigorous exercise outside.Make sure you start off the day with plenty of water when you know you are going to be outside. You want to already be hydrated when you go outside so you don't start off with less water than you need.
Do not drink alcoholic or caffeinated beverages because they cause dehydration.
Aim to drink at least a quart of fluids an hour, or a cup every 15 minutes., When you know you are going to be outside in the heat, make sure you wear clothes that are not constrictive. They should be lightweight and in a breathable material, such as cotton or linen. This will help keep your body cool and allow you to sweat properly.Make sure you do not wear too much clothing either. An overabundance of clothes can raise your body temperature unnecessarily.
Wear long sleeve shirts to protect your skin if you are going to be out in the direct sunlight for extended periods of time, but make sure any shirt or pants you wear are loose and allow your skin to breathe., Another way that you can develop sunstroke is through sunburn. This is because sunburn limits your body's ability to cool itself. To protect yourself from sunburn, wear sunscreen whenever you are going to be out in direct sunlight. Wear broad spectrum sunscreen that is at least SPF 30. Reapply throughout the day because the sunscreen will come off through sweat, water, and activity. This is especially true at the beach, even if you are under an umbrella. You can get sunburn from the sun's reflection off the sand.


Also wear hats and sunglasses if you are particularly sensitive or you want an extra layer of protection.