 This will allow you to develop your pages so they look professional and appealing. Check out items similar to yours so that you know how to market your antiques appropriately on the site.;
, RubyLane calls this your nickname. It is how you will be known both on RubyLane and anywhere else you decide to advertise. It's one of the most important parts of selling online. Your name should be easy to remember and be associated with what you are selling.
 They are very particular about what can be sold on their site, and it's curated, so be very careful about what you are selling.
 They should be clear, show all aspects of the item and any relevant markings. If you are selling antique or vintage jewelry, you must have clear pictures of the front and back of the pieces.


Make sure your photos show your items to their best advantage. Also, be sure to show any repairs, flaws or other things that your buyer would want to know before purchasing. There should be no surprises.
 If you know the providence, add that as well. People like to know the history of the antiques they've purchased. It adds to the cache and can raise your selling price considerably. Better descriptions of your items will help them sell faster and be more compelling to customers.
 Do your research. Look at similar or exact items both on RubyLane and on other sites online. See how much others have sold their antiques for and price close to their prices, leaving yourself a little bit of room for negotiation.
 This is paramount. RubyLane will not let you open without this. It should be filled out as soon as you're ready to open your store. A representative from RubyLane will go over the checklist along with your store and either approve your opening, or tell you what must be changed before you can open. Do not be discouraged if you have to make changes, most people do.
 There are fees involved with selling, the same way other sites charge. However, since you're charging more for your items it will all balance out.
 Once your checklist is complete and approved and your store looks professional, you will be able to open your store. Once you do so you can start selling right away. Put ads on social media, tell your friends and family and start making sales.

