 When you convert your presentation into an MP4, it will preserve all of the transitions, timings, and narrations. Feel free to use all of the tools available when creating your presentation.;
, For some versions of PowerPoint 2010, this will be an Office icon instead.
 This will allow you to convert the slideshow into a variety of different formats.
 This will open the video creation options.
 The quality of the video will affect the clarity of the image and the size of the file. Lower-quality videos will be blurrier, but the file sizes will be much smaller. There are three different options you can pick from, and they are labeled slightly different for 2010 and 2013:Presentation (2013)/High (2010) - This will result in the highest-quality video, and is best suited for actual presentations on a big screen. If you are planning on using the video to project the presentation, select this option. It will produce the largest file out of the three options.
Internet (2013)/Medium (2010) - If you're planning on uploading the video to YouTube, or want to share it with others who will be watching from a computer, select this option. The file size can be significantly smaller, and the quality will only be slightly worse than the high quality option.
Low/Low - This will result in a very small file, but will also result in a smaller, blurrier video. This option is best suited for aging smart phones and tablets, though recent devices can easily play higher-quality versions.
 The drop-down menu beneath the quality settings will allow you to set your timing options. You can use timings created for the presentation, or you can have the slides to advance after a set amount of time.


You are given the option to record timing and narration from this menu as well. You can preview your timings before proceeding.
 This will open the familiar Save As window.
 Give your movie a name and select a location to save it. PowerPoint will begin creating the movie file, which may take a while for longer presentations. You can monitor the progress in the bar at the bottom of the PowerPoint window.
 You can now find and play your newly-created MP4 file. Since it is in MP4 format, it should play on virtually any computer or recent smart device.

