 Gradually set your alarm clock earlier, and your body will get used to the hours it has to sleep. Make sure you get at least 8-10 hours of sleep each night so you can focus and won't be tired all day.


Sleeping earlier will help you go to school with a better attitude.
;
, Did you have summer homework? Maybe a book to read, or some algebra? Is it done? If not, get started! You don't want to start the year already behind on your work.
 If you have a list of supplies, or even if you don't, go get them. Get the basics first, then go for everything else. Remember that better quality supplies towards the top of your price range are better in the long run than cheaper ones that fall apart. Also, if your previous bag got worn out, pick up a new one. Get a good quality one that will hold all your books in a way that won't hurt your back.


While you're out getting supplies is a good time for some new clothes. Make sure they are school appropriate and are comfortable. They don't have to be the latest fashion, just something that suits you.
 Think about your classes. Are you doing AP History? Check some books up out of the library that are relevant to the time period you'll be doing. What about gym? Try jogging around the block every day to get in shape. If you're doing an art class, work on your drawing skills. It's never too soon to be prepared.
 Inner beauty matters, but people won't see it if they aren't impressed by your outer beauty. Chances are, you're a teenager and probably have some form of acne or another. Try some over-the-counter or homemade remedies first, and if that doesn't work, try Proactiv or Murad or another effective acne treatment.


Change up your hair, too. There are so many things you can do to change your hair, like dying it or getting it cut. Even something as simple as straightening or curling it can make a big difference. If you want to dye it, but don't want it to be permanent, try dying it with henna.
 It is school, true, but that doesn't mean it has to be boring. You can meet new friends and join a club, like the speech and debate team or a robotics team. Play your strengths. If you are anaspiring writer, join a creative writing team or the school newspaper staff. With a little creativity, you can make school, dare I say it, fun.

