 Think about exactly what was done to betray your trust.


If you were a victim of a crime or traumatic event, seek professional support before you replay the scene so that you can process it effectively without emotionally hurting yourself more.
If you have long-term issues with trusting others, you may have several instances come to mind. This long phase may be because of the number of people that have deceived you.
Think about your role in the scene. Be honest with yourself about what part you played in the situation. Did you ignore signs of betrayal or were you completely blindsided?
Think about the situation from the other person's perspective. What were they feeling? Why would they deceive you? Do you think they really had bad intentions or was there something else going on?;
, You probably feel a sense of hurt, confusion, and anger.Just the fact that you are going through this phase of not trusting people lets you know that you were greatly impacted in a negative way.


Even if your reason for mistrust is something that happened a long time ago, you may still have negative feelings related to it.
You may feel as though you can’t trust yourself. For example, you may wonder, "If I was so wrong to trust this person, how can I be sure I'm a good judge of anything else".You might also feel denial (you can't believe it happened) or depression, and even a sense of loss over the broken relationship., Release your feelings in a positive, constructive way. Keeping your feelings bottled up inside will not allow you to move past this.


Write about it. Whether it's on your journal, a letter to yourself, a song, a text you don't send, whatever. Just write it out.
Do something active. Physical activity (especially on a regular basis) can help you release tension and negative energy. So take a jog or go to the gym.
Talk to someone you do trust. Share what happened and how you are feeling about it. If you need to, just talk to yourself in the mirror.
 When we have been deceived, we can have the tendency to see everyone as deceptive. We see innocent acts as intentional efforts to hurt us. Make a conscious effort to stop looking for the negative.


This keeps you from rebuilding trust in people. If all you are looking for is the worst in people, then you will both overlook some of the good things they do and perceive the other good things they do with suspicion.
Try to focus more on the positive aspects of people. For example, you might focus on a coworker’s talent for public speaking or your significant other’s kindness.
 This happens to everybody at some point or another.Because people aren’t perfect, there will come a time again that someone lies to you, disappoints you, betrays or abandons you.Understand that it is a mistake that they are probably very sorry for.
Focus on moving past betrayal rather than continuing to blame. Especially in the relationships that are important to you, don’t get stuck thinking about what happened or even what could happen. Accept that a mistake was made and focus on getting past it.



Especially if the person has sincerely apologized, try to acknowledge the things they are doing now to restore your trust.
Even if the person has not apologized, accept what they did and forgive them so that you can move past the situation.
If the betrayal was especially bad, you may need to distance yourself from the person for a while to work up to forgiveness.
 You may be deceived again, but you can use your past experiences to help you identify when someone is deceiving you. Reflect on your past experiences with people and think about the behaviors of people who were trustworthy and people who were not trustworthy.


For example, you might reflect on a trustworthy friend who always told you the truth, even if it meant it would upset you.
Then, you could compare this behavior to an untrustworthy boyfriend who always told you what he thought you wanted to hear.
You can then use these behavior patterns to help you determine if someone is trustworthy or not.
 Before you can begin to trust others, you’ve got to trust your instincts and intuition as well as your ability to get over betrayal.Trust that you can pick up on deception. Usually, when recalling an instance of mistrust, people realize they had a feeling of misgiving that they ultimately ignored.Trust that you can identify the good in people. Believe that just like you can probably tell when someone isn’t being honest, you can also tell when people are being sincere and heartfelt.
Trust yourself to let your guard down a little bit. You may not feel completely emotionally comfortable around people for a while, but the only way to begin trusting again is to risk letting someone get close to you.
 Reflect on the situation and think about whether it was a single betrayal or if you were betrayed multiple times over a long period of time. If you were betrayed one time by someone close to you, then this knowledge may help you to see that the incident was isolated and that it does not mean that other people will betray you.


If you have been betrayed many times over the course of your life, then learning to trust again may be more difficult. For example, if you have been experiencing betrayal since childhood, then you might have learned that it is dangerous to trust people and you will likely need the help of a therapist to start trusting again.
 This may mean telling the person that betrayed you that you don’t trust them any longer. You might say, for example, “It’s hard to admit this, but I don’t trust you because of the lie you told me last week”.


If possible, determine why your trust was broken. Ask why they weren’t honest with you and openly listen to the answer.It may mean explaining to someone that is getting to know you that you have a hard time trusting people right now. If the person means a lot to you, and you want a successful relationship with them, then you should share this with them.
Talk about how you feel. Explain exactly how you feel and felt when you lost trust in people. For example, try saying, ”When I found out you told my secret, it made me feel confused, hurt, angry, and lost.”

, Trusting people again will be a long process. Don't rush it and share all of yourself at one, but do make an effort to let people in. Slowly let people get close to you and rebuild your trust in them.


If you need to, set clear boundaries and expectations for what is okay and what is not.Let people know, in a respectful way, what you are and aren't alright with talking about.
Let down your guard a little bit at a time and give people the opportunity to get to know you. Share a little more about you each time you interact. It can be a little scary, but, most likely, worth it as you get to know each other better and build a trusting relationship.
 Most people have good intentions and deserve some level of trust. Instead of looking for reasons not to trust, look for reasons why you should trust people and allow yourself to open up a bit more.


Keep in mind that sometimes when we look for or expect the worse in people, that is all we find. Take the time and effort to look for the good and positive in people.
If you need to, keep a list or make tally marks each time someone does something to rebuild trust. Give people credit for their effort; whether it’s something as small as being on time, to something as large as being honest in a difficult situation.
 Learning to trust again can be a difficult process, especially if you have experienced a major or ongoing betrayal. Finding a therapist to help you regain your trust in people is an excellent way to help yourself. Try to find a therapist who has experience working with people who have experienced the type of betrayal that you have.


For example, you might need to find a marriage counselor if your lack of trust stems from being cheated on by your spouse.

