 To be accepted at a law school approved by the American Bar Association ("ABA"), you will need to earn a Bachelor's degree before you apply to law school.The ABA does not require any particular undergraduate major for law school, but traditional majors that prepare a student for law school include: history, English, philosophy, political science, economics, or business.Whatever major you choose, you should make sure to take courses that allow you to develop your research, writing, and analytical skills, as mastering these is important to being a successful lawyer.;
, Prior to applying to law school, you will need to take the LSAT, which is a standardized test that law schools will use to evaluate your suitability for the study of law. It tests your reading comprehension, analytical reasoning, and logical reasoning capabilities.The test is administered on several dates in June, October, December, and February and costs $175.The test consists of five 35-minute sections of multiple-choice questions, along with a 35-minute writing section., After you take and pass the LSAT, you will need to gain admission to a law school approved by the ABA.To apply, you will complete and fill out an application to the law school(s) of your choice, and submit along with your application your LSAT score, resume, undergraduate transcript(s), letters of recommendation, and a personal statement (along with an application fee).You do not need to attend a law school located in New York state in order to practice law there.
 After being accepted at a law school, you will need to attend, complete the course of study, and graduate with a J.D. (Juris Doctor) degree.A J.D. program usually requires three years to complete, and is quite expensive.


The New York State Bar requires that, after you begin law school, you complete your studies in 24 to 60 months.You also must complete at least 83 semester hours of study prior to graduation, 64 of which must come from classroom study and two of which must come from a course in professional responsibility., After you graduate from law school, you will need to take two tests to become an attorney: (1) the MPRE and (2) the New York State Bar Exam. The first of these—the MPRE—measures your knowledge of the rules relating to a lawyer's professional conduct and consists of a two-hour, 60-question multiple-choice test.The test is administered three times a year and costs $84.You must achieve a score of at least 85 in order to practice law in New York., The second test you will have to pass in order to become an attorney in New York is the New York State Bar Exam. This test is offered on the last Tuesday and Wednesday of every February and July, and you must apply in November for the February exam and in April for the July exam.The application fee is $250.


The bar application is quite lengthy, and requires you to provide a lot of information. Make sure you leave yourself adequate time to complete it and assemble required documentation.
You can apply online to take the bar exam., The test is administered over two days. On Tuesday (the first day), you will be tested on New York law, which consists of five essay questions, 50 multiple-choice questions, and a written multistate performance test that measures your practical legal ability. On Wednesday (the second day), you will take the Multistate Bar Exam, which consists of 200 multiple-choice questions and is part of every state's bar exam.You will need a final total weighted scaled score of 665 in order to pass the bar exam.Otherwise, you will have to retake the test.
 Before you can apply for admission to the New York Bar, you must perform 50 hours of law-related services aimed at improving access to justice for low-income or otherwise-disadvantaged individuals.Some examples of this type of service include:Helping a low-income individual fill out legal forms.
Helping disadvantaged litigants prepare to appear in court.
Assisting an attorney with trial preparation for a low-income or disadvantaged individual.
 After you take and pass both the MPRE and the New York State Bar Exam, you will be officially certified for admission in one of the four judicial departments in New York, based on your address.The State Board of Bar Examiners sends your name and address to the judicial department (there are four in total) that corresponds with your address.You will need to complete and fill out the application package for your particular judicial department and submit it along with any required documentation.Part of the application is a character & fitness evaluation, in which you will be required to provide extensive information regarding your personal background, including employment and criminal history., After you have been certified for admission following a successful bar exam, completed the application package for your judicial department, and passed the character & fitness review, you must register with the New York Unified Court System and pay a fee of $375.You will need to renew your registration (and pay an additional $375) every two years, within 30 days of your birthday, in order to continue to be properly licensed to practice law in New York., After you have completed all of the above requirements, the final step to becoming an attorney in New York is to take the oath of office, which is administered in public court, and sign a public record for newly admitted attorneys.In taking this oath, you are agreeing to uphold both state/federal law and state/federal constitutions in addition to maintaining the professional standards of a public officer of the courts of the State of New York.After taking this oath, you will be licensed to practice law in New York.
 Newly licensed attorneys in New York are required to complete a minimum of 32 hours of of CLE courses by the second anniversary of their admission to the New York Bar (16 during the first year, 16 during the second).Each 16-hour period must contain: 3 hours in ethics/professionalism, 6 hours in skills, and 7 hours in law-practice management or areas of professional practice.Following this, all attorneys are required to complete 24 hours of CLE courses every two years (coinciding with the biennial registration-renewal requirement), at least four of which devoted to professionalism/ethics., Throughout your career in law school you will have various opportunities to partake in on campus interviews (OCIs). During OCIs, your law school will invite employers from New York, the rest of the country, and the rest of the world to your school to interview students.These opportunities are often open to second and third year students, but some first year students may be able to apply.


To take part in these interviews, you will generally submit resumes, transcripts, cover letters, recommendations, and writing samples to your school's administration so they can review them. Once they have been approved, your materials will be available for you to use when you apply. You will choose the jobs you want to apply for and submit your materials to those employers. If you are chosen for an interview the employer will contact you or the school directly.
 An informational interview is an informal conversation with someone in the field you are looking to break in to. These interviews are great networking opportunities and can lead to job offers you did not even know were available. To conduct a successful informational interview:


Research possible career fields. Before you begin, think about what you want to do. If you are interested in corporate law, look up some corporate firms in New York as well as businesses with in-house counsel. If you are interested in government law, look up a government agency you think would be a good fit.
identify people to interview. Once you know what you want to do, research possible interviewees and log their contact information. You can pursue your own contacts, ask your friends and family for possible contacts, or you can call organizations directly and ask for their staff attorney.
Prepare for the interview. Before you contact the people you have found, you will want to develop a short introduction about yourself and why you are calling. Prepare as if the individual will want to conduct the informational interview on the spot.
Make contact. Make a phone call or send a formal email and introduce yourself. Mention how you found their name and why you are calling. Be sure you tell them you are looking for a conversation only and you are not expecting a job. Ask if the person has any time available to meet in person for about 30 minutes. Be prepared to conduct the interview if the person says they are available at that moment.
Conduct the interview. When your time comes, sit don with the person and begin the interview. Be sure you introduce yourself again and reiterate your reason for meeting. Give the person a brief idea of who you are, your educational background, and your career goals. Ask open-ended questions about the person's career and how they got where they are. Importantly, ask if they have any other contacts or people they could refer you to. Be sure you listen and take notes if you need to.
Follow-up. A day or two after your interview, follow-up with the person and thank them for their time. Keep in touch with the person and let them know how you utilized the information they gave you., A lot of job opportunities are posted online and you should utilize this resource whenever possible. Do a search online for "legal jobs in New York" or something related to that. Visit New York state, city, and county websites as well to look for jobs. When you find a job posting, read it carefully and submit all required documents on time. Be sure you follow-up with the employer and let them know you are interested.
 If you are having trouble finding a job, try to work alongside experienced attorneys in New York. Oftentimes attorneys who have their own practice will be happy to share space and costs with you. If you are willing to pay rent in order to share an office, other attorneys may be happy to let you in. If you find an attorney willing to take you in, ask if they have any overflow cases you can work on. This can be a great way to gain experience and to network with other lawyers. Look for small boutique firms online and give them a call.
 When you are really desperate to get started in the legal field, you may have to offer your legal services for free. A lot of jobs are looking for attorneys with years of experience, and one way to get great experience is to volunteer. If you find a firm you really want to work for, or an attorney you would really like to work with, call them and see if they need any extra help. Let them know you are willing to work for free if you need to. If you find a volunteer opportunity, treat it as if you are getting paid. These opportunities may lead to paying jobs so you want to show off your skills and abilities.

