 The largest box needs to have a top and bottom, but the smaller boxes only need a top. They don't need a bottom as they will be stacked on top of each other. The smallest box needs to be large enough for your cat to curl up inside.


For a standard-sized cat, start with18 inches (45.72 centimeters) as your largest box. The other three boxes are as follows: 16 inches (40.64 centimeters), 14 inches (35.56 centimeters), and 12 inches (30.48 centimeters). If you have a large cat, such as a Maine Coon, you will need bigger boxes.
The boxes can be made out of wood or cardboard. Wooden boxes, however, will be more durable.
You can buy the boxes, or build them yourself using cheap wood or particle board. Use nails or wood glue to put the boxes together.
 Each box needs to have at least one doorway. Use the width of your cat's whiskers as a guideline for cutting the doors. Cats will not crawl through anything that is narrower than their whiskers.


You can make the windows and doors any shape you want, but circles and paw prints are the most popular.
If you are adding windows, make them smaller than the doorways.
 Use a small plate to trace the hole, and a saw to cut it out. Make sure that the hole fits inside the smaller box on top of it. Also, make sure that the craw holes are not in the same spot; you want them to be staggered.


Keep in mind that you will be stacking these boxes. You don't want the holes to be peeking out from under the upper box.
 You can paint them using acrylic paint or spray paint. If you are using spray paint, wood outdoors or in a well-ventilated area. If you are using acrylic paint, apply the paint using a paintbrush or a foam brush. Apply the acrylic paint using many, thin layers rather than one thick layer. This will prevent any brush strokes.


You can paint the boxes all the same color, or contrasting colors.
You can paint the inside of the boxes the same color as the outside. You can also paint the inside a different color.
Consider painting the inside rims of the doors and windows using a contrasting color. This will help them stand out more.
 Place the largest box down on the floor. Cover the bottom edges of the second largest box with wood glue. Place the box down on top of the largest box, making sure that one of the corners and two of the sides are aligned. You will end up with a thick ledge around the smaller box. Repeat this process of the other boxes. Make sure that all of the boxes are aligned on the same corner.


Make sure that the doorways are facing the ledges.
 This can make your cat condo cozier and more comfy for your cat. You can glue carpet down to just the inside floor of each box, or just the ledges. You can also glue carpet down to both the inside floor and the ledges. #* Consider gluing carpet down to the top of the smallest box. Your cat will likely perch on top of this box at some point. You might as well make it a comfortable perch., To encourage your cat to use the condo, scatter some catnip or cat treats inside it.

