 A 65-litre rucksack is usually recommended. Make sure it is durable and has cushioning on the straps. It should also have an appropriate place to store your drinks, such as side netting, and plenty of small pockets.;
, Include anything you might need throughout the Duke of Edinburgh Silver expedition. Go through your daily routine in your head and think about what you normally use, for example you need a toothbrush and toothpaste to brush your teeth. Don't forget any personal medication you might need and group equipment you are supposed to be bringing.
 Remove anything you are unlikely to use or can do without, such as make-up. You could also try bringing less of some items, for example bring travel-size items instead of full-size.
 If anything looks too bulky try to find a way to downsize it, you can use a smaller container, use a lighter or smaller alternative, or for things like tea towels and sponges/Brillo pads consider cutting them up. Sleeping bags that can be kept rolled up very small are very useful.
 Pack your rucksack a few days in advance. This way if you realise you are missing an important piece of equipment you still have time to go out and buy it.
 They may spot something you don't really need or notice an item missing from the list.
 Use sandwich bags to group your items and protect them from water. For example, food could be grouped into days and you could put your washing-up equipment together.
 This way you can keep track of what you've packed and it is easier to see if you are missing any items.
 These are very useful for keeping smaller items safe and organised. They can be used for cutlery, first aid kits, snacks, etc.
 This includes your snacks, meal and drinks for the day, as well as your first aid kit.
 This will save space and keep your kit dry. If you're really struggling for space you can attach your tent or sleeping bag (in a waterproof bag) to the outside of your bag.
 You don't want things sticking into your back when you're walking.
 Don't pack all your heavy items on one side of your rucksack or you'll be pulled to one side constantly.

