 Before you can cancel a credit card account, for any reason, you must make sure that you do not owe anything. If you try to cancel an account that has an outstanding balance, you are likely to affect your credit rating or set off some collection effort on behalf of the company. The best way to reach a $0 balance is to stop using your card.If you cannot afford to pay off the balance in the first month, you may need to pay it over two months. Do not use the card at all while you are paying down the balance.;
, After you have made what you believe to be your final payment, check your next monthly credit card statement. If the balance is not $0, then you will need to continue to pay down the balance.Even after the balance reaches $0, you need to check the monthly statement carefully. You need to check the purchases that are recorded, to make sure that everything you have used the card for is reported.
 When you believe that your account is fully resolved, call the credit card company’s customer service number. Ask to verify the amount due on your card. If the representative verifies that there is no balance, you can then proceed to cancel the account.You should be able to find the customer service number for your account either on the back of your credit card or on the monthly statement.
 When you have verified that you owe nothing on the account, tell the customer service representative that you wish to cancel the account.Credit cards are a sales business, so be prepared for the representative to try to change your mind. You may be offered a lower interest rate or even some sort of incentive gift to keep the account open. If you wish to accept one of these offers, be sure that you understand the terms of your new account. Otherwise, proceed with the cancellation.
For example, when the sales representative offers you a lower interest rate or a trip to Las Vegas, you might reply with, "Thank you very much for the kind offer. However, I have really decided that I don't need this card, and I wish to cancel it." You need to sound decided, or the sales representative is likely to keep pushing. Eventually, you may just have to say, "I am trying not to be rude, but I really do not want to keep this account. Please cancel it for me."

, The customer service representative will probably tell you that you can cancel your account over the telephone. Even so, you should ask for the name and address of someone to whom you can send a letter, so that you can confirm the cancellation in writing.After the customer service representative has verified that the account will be canceled, you should still send a letter of your own to confirm the conversation. Ask the representative, "What is the name and address I should use to send a confirmation letter for this cancellation? Do you have any particular format or information that I should include?"

, The letter should have your name, home telephone number, cell number, mailing address, email address and account number. Reference all of this information at the top of the letter, before the body of the letter., In your letter, make reference to the recent telephone conversation that you had regarding your account. This will help put your letter into context and explain why you are writing.For example, your letter may begin, “Dear Sir or Madam, I am writing to confirm a telephone conversation that I had with Agent #34567 on July 15, 2016.”

, You do not need to apologize or give any explanation for choosing to cancel your credit card account. You are entirely within your right to do so, as long as you no longer owe any money.A simple sentence should suffice: “I understand that my account has been closed as of our telephone conversation on July 15, 2016.”

, In your letter, you should verify that your credit report is to show that you voluntarily canceled your credit card account. This is important for your credit rating. Your rating will be affected quite differently if you voluntarily cancel an account than if the company closes it without your involvement.You may ask, “Please ensure that my credit report correctly reflects that this account has been ‘closed at the consumer’s request.’ Please provide me with written confirmation that the account has been closed.”

, Finish the letter with a signature. You should use your formal, full name signature, as you would if you were signing a legal document or contract., When your letter is ready to go, take it to the post office and send it by certified mail, return receipt requested. This will require someone at the company to sign for the letter, and you will receive a card with the signature. You may want this in the future to prove that the letter was received., You should maintain a file consisting of your closing credit card statement, any notes from your telephone conversations, and a copy of the letter you sent and the post office signature card. In case any problem arises from this account after you believe it has been closed, you will want to refer to these documents., The company may need 30 days or more to finalize the cancellation and for notice to reach the credit reporting agencies. After waiting for about a month, you should check to make sure the cancellation is on the report, with the note that the account was closed at your request.
 Credit cards are convenient. But having too many cards available may provide just too much convenience, which can result in overspending. If you find that you have difficulty controlling your spending habits because the credit is just too easy, then cancelling one or more cards may help., Your credit score is optimized when you carry a few open credit cards and manage them well. If you are carrying excess cards and not using them, this could be reflected in a lower credit score. You may find that cancelling some of the excess cards may have a positive effect on your credit score.A review of your credit report will list "risk factors" that account for a low score. One of these risk factors may be "too many credit cards."

, Some credit cards require the payment of an annual fee in order to use -- or even just to have -- the card. If you have cards that require an annual fee, you may be better off by cancelling those accounts and focusing on the cards that are cheaper to use.On the other hand, some cards that charge a fee may also give you incentives for using the card. These incentives could be cash-back awards, free airline miles, gasoline discounts, or some other valuable awards. If the incentives outweigh the fee, you might be ahead by keeping the card and paying the fee.
 In today's world, identity theft is a growing concern, and credit cards are a key focal point. The more cards you have open, and use, the higher your risk will be that one of those cards could get "hacked" and open you to identity theft. Limiting your number of credit card accounts should help keep this in a manageable state.