 When the hand is over (if you're not alone at the table), whip out your stack of money and tell the dealer what denomination of chips you'd like. (S)He will take your money and exchange it for a pile of chips. Then, you place your bet in the betting box and away you go!









If you're a newbie to the blackjack game, you may want to avoid the seat on the far left of the table (third base.) Since this is the spot that comes right before the dealer, you're likely to get a lot of heat if you're the reason the dealer turns up a 5, or any good card for themselves, though you may be congratulated if you make the dealer bust. Though obviously not logical, no one said humans, and gamblers especially, ever were., At a casino's blackjack table, being mute would go entirely unnoticed. You don't need a single word to play the game. In fact, you'd blend into the crowd more if you never opened your mouth.









For hitting, either tap the table with a finger or two or scrape the table with the edge of your cards. For standing, place your chips on top of your cards, face down or wave your hand palm down horizontally over your cards. For splitting, add another bet and point 2 fingers. For doubling down, add another bet to your betting box and point 1 finger., When it comes down to it, that card facing down has better odds of being a ten (or worth 10) than any other value. If he or she is showing a 6 or lower, the idea is they'll bust. That's the basic strategy.









You should take into account both your cards and their cards. If you have sixteen and the dealer is showing a six, stand. They have to take a card unless the have an A. But if you have sixteen and the dealer is showing a 7...well, that decision is up to you. If you're alone at a table or with a friendly group, people and/or the dealer will probably be happy to give you advice if you ask.
 Just like in poker, blackjack has hot and cold tables. It doesn't take a pro to be able to recognize this -- you'll know when you're running out of chips! If you're observant, you'll probably be able to tell which table is running hot just by watching.









A good rule of thumb is to up your bet in increments. If you win two $5 bets and then lose a $10 bet, you're still even! When your winning streak stops, resume your initial minimum bet until the table goes hot again.
