 If your acne does not respond to over-the-counter medications, see a dermatologist about prescription creams. The ingredients are generally stronger and may help clear up your acne faster than drugstore brands.


Retinoids come in the form of gels, powders, and creams. They are derived from vitamin A and add nutrients to the skin that can eliminate acne. Retinoids are applied three times a week in the evening. If you need to use retinoids for an extended period, you'll eventually move up to using them once at night.Note that there is a retinoid cream called Differin gel (adapalene gel) that is now available over-the-counter. It is a little more gentle than other retinoids.
Antibiotic creams kill bacteria and reduce redness in skin. Usually, antibiotic creams are used in conjunction with retinoids or benzoyl peroxide. You would apply antibiotics in the morning and retinoids at night. The combination may clear up mild acne faster, so ask your dermatologist about using both if you're interested in fast cures.Dapsone is a gel that is sometimes prescribed with retinoids. It may cause redness and dryness, however. If you're trying to clear up acne fast for a big event, you may want to consider other methods.Dapsone gel is not recommended to be used with benzoyl peroxide, due to the possibility of causing a yellow or orange discoloration of the skin.
 If you're female and frequently break out with mild acne, you might want to talk to a doctor about oral contraceptives. The hormones found in most oral birth controls can help prevent acne.


Combined oral contraceptives contain estrogen and progesterone, and these hormones combined can prevent acne. While this might not help clear up acne fast, it's worth looking into if you're looking for a long-term solution.Such products may cause headaches, breast tenderness, mood swings, and spotting between periods. For most women, side effects taper off within the first three months.If oral contraceptives do not work, consider an antiandrogen agent as a possibility. This is a drug that works by blocking the effect of certain hormones on the glands, eliminating acne from developing., A dermatologist can perform chemical peels and other skin therapies that should remove acne fairly quickly. Ask your dermatologist about skin therapies if you're interested in swift removal.


A chemical peel is usually done in one treatment, but some people need several treatments for the full effect. Your dermatologist will apply a solution to your skin designed to designed to exfoliate it. The solution may be left on or washed off before the end of the session. The procedure is non-invasive and usually takes less than an hour. They are fairly effective at quickly removing acne or acne scars. While your skin may sting, the procedure is not painful. The downside is, however, the chemical peels are generally not covered by insurance and may be somewhat expensive depending on your dermatologist's rates.You may experience some redness and flaking or peeling of the skin for several days after having the peel.
A microdermabrasion is a non-surgical means to rejuvenate the skin. Skin is gently sanded to remove the thicker, outer layer. It can lessen the appearance of acne and acne scars and make skin look younger and lighter overall. Like chemical peels, however, the procedure can be expensive and is generally not covered by insurance.Ask about light and laser therapy for acne. You will likely need multiple treatments for this to work, and it must usually be done in combination with a topical treatment. Blue, red, and blue and red light devices can be used to reduce pimples. There are even some at-home light treatments you can use. Other options include treatment with infrared light, photodynamic therapy (PDT), and photopneumatic therapy.