 Basically, take out your clothes drawer by drawer, folding them into neat piles according to them (shirts, tank tops, shorts etc). When your closet is completely empty, allocate clothes to each drawer/section and put them in accordingly.;
, For this, so something pretty similar to cleaning your cupboard, the most efficient way (in my opinion) is to completely empty your desk, put all your stuff in piles on your bed. In your mind make a little plan for where you'll put everything, then carefully refill your desk neatly.
 It's not that hard, and it'll make you feel better about your room. It won't look right if you have a perfect room except for a bed that resembles Hiroshima.
 Yep, no undies scattered randomly like hundreds and thousands on that half finished cupcake on the floor. Clean it, if you feel like you're cleaning a chicken pen with bare hands, we may have a slight problem. But hey, gloves are your friend.
 If you have a bit of stuff that you don't use that much, but too precious to you that you can't throw it away, allocate a box for all this stuff and guess what you do now? Fill it. When done, label your box and put it subtly in a corner.
 When you take your textbooks home, it's better if you have a nice little box or magazine holder thing so you can keep your books organized, neat and easy to reach.
 Empty your pencil-case onto your desk or a table. Sort out your things, chuck out not-working pens or other items and if you have an unnecessarily large amount of something, use only a few for school. Use elastic bands or spare hair-ties to organize if you need it.
 A good one should be about to fit in all of your books and laptop (if you need/have one), don't let it be so small you need to carry something else to occupy your hands.
 Prepare your school bag every night before you go to sleep, if you take a packed lunch, you could prepare it the night before and put it in the fridge overnight to put in the next morning.
 Each night lay out some fresh clothes/your uniform for the next day and other things you need.

