 Mr. Strindberg will ask you to pick up some goods from his warehouse. Move your ship north towards his dock warehouse. At the top right-hand corner of your screen, a pop-up will appear asking if you would like to accept the tools and building modules. Accept the request so the materials will be loaded onto your ship.;
, After picking up materials from Mr. Strindberg’s warehouse, head southwest to an undeveloped island where you will begin to settle your new city. Bring your ship close to the island’s shore so you can begin to build a warehouse.
 Once you are beside the shoreline of your new island, a pop-up will appear allowing you to select a warehouse to be built (costs 300 Credits, 3 Building Modules, and 2 Tools). The warehouse will have an influence radius, displaying how far the warehouse can go to pick up goods.


If the position you chose is a problem, you can easily move it by hitting Escape, moving your ship, and then placing it again in a new spot.
 Once you place your new warehouse, EVE (Extended Virtual Entity) will contact you mentioning the need to build a city on your island. Start by building a City Center somewhere on your island. The Center will cost you 300 Credits, 5 Building Modules, and 3 Tools. It is best to place it where there is a lot of space to build houses around the City Center.


Next you will need to build 8 Worker Barracks. Each will cost you 2 Building Modules.
Make sure the Worker Barracks and the City Center are all connected by roads. If they are not connected by roads, the Worker Barracks will not have anyone moving into them.
 The Building Module is one of the most important goods for an early city. It is used in building practically everything! To start the production of these modules, start by building 1 Basalt Crusher and 1 Smelter. Make sure these buildings are connected to a Storage Depot or a Warehouse by road. Once the buildings are in place, Building Modules will begin to be built and end up in your island’s storage.


The Basalt Crusher will cost you 50 Credits and 1 Tool while the Smelter will cost you 50 Credits and 2 Tools.
 You will be asked by EVE to build a Fishery on your island. Place it near your dock warehouse and connect it by a road. This will complete the basic needs that you will require to continue expanding your city.


The Fishery costs 125 Credits, 1 Building Module, and 2 Tools.
 Mr. Strindberg will contact you, giving you Turbine parts and asking for them to be improved. Click on the ship to receive the items. They will be added to your island’s warehouse.
 In order for your island to run properly, you will need a sufficient amount of power. EVE informs you that you need to build 1 Rotary Excavator and 1 Coal Power Station. Build these two buildings close to a warehouse or depot, and connect them by a road.


The Rotary Excavator will cost you 50 Credits, 1 Building Module, and 3 Tools while the Coal Power Station will cost you 350 Credits, 1 Building Module, and 4 Tools.
 You will receive a new piece of mail to show you how to view mail in the game. All you have to do is click on the message at the bottom of your screen to read it.


You can also read your mail by pressing Escape and clicking on your mailbox to view past mail.
 Mr. Strindberg will message you telling you to pick up Steel from his warehouse in the northeast. Pick up the Steel and return it to your warehouse so the construction of the new Turbine can begin.
 You require more room for workers in your city! Make another 7 Worker Barracks connecting them to your City Center. Remember to use roads to connect these two buildings or else no one will move into the new Worker Barracks.
 After building the new houses, Mr. Strindberg will ask for the optimized Turbine. All you need to do is click the “OK” button from the message to hand over the new Turbine. This will complete the mission and play a cutscene showing the dam bursting and flooding the city below, promptly starting the next mission.

