 Staying solvent is simple: you need to keep your expenses below your income. Accordingly, sit down and identify all sources of income, including the following:wages and tips
bonuses
commissions
disability insurance benefits
Social Security benefits
retirement income
child support;
, For a couple months, document everything you buy. You can pay for everything with a credit or debit card and then look at your monthly statement. Alternately, you can create a spreadsheet or use an online service such as mint.com., Some things you can’t live without. For this reason, you’ll need to pay for them one way or another. Calculate the amount you spend each month on the following:rent or mortgage
groceries
utilities
medical care
health insurance premiums
transportation

, Anything that isn’t a necessity is discretionary. However, financial experts recommend that you don’t cut out all discretionary spending. If you do, then it’s harder to stick with a budget. Instead, divide discretionary spending into three categories:High priority. These are the luxuries that you want the most, such as your morning coffee. Estimate the cost.
Medium priority. You want these luxuries a little less. For example, you might enjoy your gym membership but not want it as badly as your coffee. If money is tight, you will prioritize the coffee.
Low priority. These are the luxuries you can happily give up. For example, you might have a subscription to a magazine you no longer read.
 It might be difficult to lower your expenses. Some expenses you can’t cut. However, this is where you can get creative. Consider the following expenses and ways you can save:


Daycare. If you’re a single parent, then you’ll need someone to watch your child after school. Instead of paying for day care, you could start a babysitting group where each member promises to watch the other children on a given day. Also ask friends or family to watch your child.Transportation. Instead of paying for a car, ride a bike to work. Alternately, you can car pool to save on gas and repairs.
Shelter. You may have to downsize. If you can no longer afford your mortgage, consider selling your home and moving into a smaller place.
 You’ll need money saved in case your car breaks down or you become ill. You’ll need about six months of expenses saved up in case of emergencies.If possible, save up to 12 months.
 Medical expenses can quickly spiral out of control and drive you into bankruptcy. Single-income households should shop smartly for health insurance. If you can’t get insurance through your job, then consider the following:


You might qualify for Medicaid. In some states, people can go on Medicaid if they are low income. In all states, you might qualify if you are low income and have children. Visit the Health and Human Services (HHS) website for more information.You might also qualify for subsidies if you buy your health insurance on the government exchanges at healthcare.gov. For example, you might qualify for a premium tax credit, which will lower your monthly premium. If your income is low enough, you might also qualify for help with out-of-pocket expenses.
Your children can also get health insurance through your state’s CHIP/Children’s Medicaid program. You might qualify if you don’t qualify for Medicaid. Each state sets its own rules., Good credit will help you in many ways. You’ll find it easier to get loans, and your interest rate will be lower. Also, many employers check credit scores before making a hiring decision.Accordingly, you should pull a free copy of your credit report and clean up any mistakes.


Common errors include incorrect balances, accounts you don’t own, and accounts listed inaccurately as closed or in default.

Dispute errors with the credit reporting bureau that has the inaccurate information.
 Credit card debt pulls money out of your household by charging interest for money you spend. For example, if you put a $1,000 purchase on a credit card with an APR of 19.99%, then you’ll probably pay over a hundred dollars in interest before you pay off the balance. To save money, you should pay down debt as quickly as possible.


Consider consolidating debts. With debt consolidation, you essentially take out a loan and pay off your high-interest debts. The loan should have a much lower interest rate than the debts you pay off, thereby saving you money. You can also consolidate debts by using a balance transfer credit card.
If you have debts on multiple cards, then funnel all available money onto the card with the highest APR.Once you pay that card off, focus on the card with the next highest APR.
 You might be overwhelmed with debts right now and not know where to start. Find a reputable, non-profit credit counselor and schedule a session. They can analyze your finances and come up with a plan.You can find credit counseling at many credit unions, universities, military bases, and branches of the Cooperative Extension.
Research the credit counseling agency first and avoid meeting with anyone who tries to sell you on a debt management plan before analyzing your financial situation.
 If you need a small loan, then try to get it from someone who won’t charge you interest. Ask people that you know, such as your family. You can still sign a promissory note to give them protection in case you default.
 When a person doesn’t work, their credit score may suffer.You will want any non-working spouse to build up their credit profile even if they aren’t in the labor force. Have them get a credit card, even with a low limit, and make purchases every month. Make sure to pay off the balance in full before the grace period ends.


If your spouse doesn’t qualify for a credit card, then they can get a secured credit card. You deposit money onto the card and may borrow up to the amount deposited. Using a secured credit card is a good way to start building credit when you have none.
 Every little bit of money coming in helps. If possible, you should try to find a part-time job. If you have a spouse who is disabled or otherwise unable to leave the home, try to find at-home positions.


If you have young children, it’s probably not practicable to get a part-time job outside the home. However, you should consider freelancing from home. For example, you can write articles for online publications in the evening hours when your children are asleep.
 Investigate how you can lower your overall tax burden once tax season rolls around. For example, consider the following options:Contribute to an employer-sponsored retirement plan, such as a 401(k). The money will be taken out on a pre-tax basis, thus lowering your overall tax burden. Furthermore, you’ll begin to build a nest egg for your retirement.
Open a traditional IRA. You can write off contributions in the tax year they are made.
Get a Health Savings Account. You can get an HSA if you have a high-deductible health insurance plan. In 2017, you can contribute up to $3,400 if you are single ($6,750 as a family) on a pre-tax basis.You can use the money for qualified medical expenses and carry over unspent money into the next year.
Claim a home office deduction. If you own a business and work from home, you can claim a home office deduction for any space you use exclusively and regularly as your business office.Claim the earned income tax credit. You can receive money back if your income is sufficiently low. For example, a single person making less than $14,880 will qualify. Also someone with a qualifying child can qualify with an income of $39,296., Even single-income households sometimes qualify for government assistance programs. For example, you might qualify for SNAP food stamp benefits if your income is low enough.Contact your state’s office to check.
 Did the other parent skip out on your life? If so, they still need to pay for their children. Contact your local child support office, which is usually your state’s Attorney General’s Office. They can help find the missing parent, establish paternity, and also sue for child support.