 Flip a bike upside down and attach your phone to the inside of one of the wheel's spokes. Pedal the bike with your hands and the Pokémon GO app will register movement, allowing an Egg in your possession to hatch as if you were walking., With duct tape, secure your phone very carefully to the blade of a standing fan or to the top of a ceiling fan. With the fan on, Pokémon GO will register movement and make it possible to hatch your Egg.

If you are using a standing fan, make sure that its base is secure and can handle the weight of the phone without falling over.
The farther from the center of the fan you tape the phone, the more quickly it will cover distance.
 With the record player turned on, your phone will spin around the perimeter and cover distance on the Pokémon app as if you were walking., As you may have gathered, you can hatch your Pokémon Eggs faster by putting your phone on essentially anything stable that makes detectable movements in the same direction. If you happen to have a flat-surfaced cleaning robot like a Roomba and you put your phone on top of it while it's in use, you've got an easy way to catalyze your Eggs' hatching - all while getting the dirt out of your carpet., Adjust the speed to a slower pace if necessary and simply let it run its course. This hack was discovered by a Japanese Twitter user, Who knew traffic could be enjoyable before self-driving cars? If you're going under 20mph, the app will record your mileage for your egg incubation. Note: we do not encourage nor suggest actively playing Pokémon GO while driving; just let the meter run to hatch your egg., Presumably yours, the dog should be medium to large sized. Let your dog do what he/she does best - wander. Be sure to keep your dog in sight to keep your phone from being stolen., Extend your egg incubation to the stars above., Doing this can cause the game's location function to glitch, making your trainer avatar "walk" erratically near your location without you ever moving around.