 What are the popular games? What are the current trends in new games? What ideas and concepts have been used before? Exploring the market of existing games will help you become familiar with the style codes your game should conform to, and it can also help you identify holes in the market - holes that your game can fill.;
, Be open to new experiences and ideas. Be original and creative, and avoid making your game too much like any existing ones. You can use ideas from other games, but make sure to introduce new concepts and ideas into your own.
 To come up with an idea, think about what you want in an adventure, what kind of adventure you would like to have. It could be under the sea with marine animals, or up in the space with aliens - the possibilities are endless. Come up with a storyline for the game, have a few goals the player is trying to accomplish. Add details that will help develop your fantasy world, like currency, language, and other characters.
 Puzzle games depend mainly on logic and strategies. The player solves a puzzle to finish a level. These games should start pretty easy to let the player get the hang of the puzzle, but it should become harder and harder as they progress to win. Still, every level should be solvable. If the game is either too easy or too hard, people will get bored with it. Remember, different players use different strategies to solve a puzzle, so make a puzzle with some possibilities. For the player, the fun in a puzzle game is in finding the best strategy; for the designer, the challenge is in finding the sweet spot for that strategy, somewhere between trivial and merciless.
 An action game requires players to use speed, accuracy, and timing to overcome obstacles. Action games need to be full of life and energy, and they should require the player's full attention. The game should depend on speed, navigation, and avoiding obstacles, all of which become more difficult as the game gets faster and faster, bringing more excitement to the player. In that way you take gamers attention. Also add achievements and a ranking system to attract more people and encourage them to play your game for longer.
 These include taking care of virtual people or pets, developing cities of societies, and building amusement parks or zoos. Some of these games take hours to play, and maybe incredibly complex. Some simulation games aren’t even played to be won. In stimulation games you can use things from real life. Anything from daily life that you find interesting can become a simulation game, and you can use simulation games to explore areas of life - different jobs, parts of the world, people and animals - that you normally don't get to participate in. For this reason these games can be attractive and endlessly interesting.
 Racing games involve speed and challenge. You'll need to choose a vehicle - car, motorcycle, pterodactyl, anything that moves. Design different tracks or race courses where the races will take place. Also include different weapons, power-ups, or anything else you can think of to change the flow of the game and keep it from getting boring.
 Assemble a group of people with complementary skills and ideas. Having a team will help you come up with and develop more creative ideas, and it will make the process of building the game much less stressful and more fun. Find friends to help you or find teams online, or else find an existing team to join.
 After you finish the game with your teammates, review it, test every part of it in every situation you can think of to try to find bugs, and fix every bug you find. Then before publishing, find an awesome name and description for your game, one that will attract people and make them play.

