 Putting your puppy in a crate may not seem like a way to show her you love her; however, when done properly, crate training will help your puppy see her crate as a place of comfort and security, not punishment.In addition, crate training will teach your puppy not to urinate inside the house, since she will not want to urinate where she sleeps.A good sized crate is not so small that your puppy feels cramped, and is not so large that she is able to soil one area and sleep in another.Keep in mind, though, that puppies grow quickly — if you have a large breed puppy, she may soon outgrow her crate.
Unless it is overnight, do not keep your puppy in the crate for more than a few hours at a time, especially when your puppy is less than six months old.Make the crate comfortable by placing blankets and a few toys inside of it.
Give your puppy a verbal command ("In," "Kennel Up") to enter the crate. Immediately reward her with a treat when she does so.Eventually, she’ll learn to enter her crate with only your verbal command.;
, If you have just brought your puppy home, it will be very important to help him feel safe in his new environment. This will probably be the first time he has been away from his siblings and mother, so he may begin to experience separation anxiety.To relieve this anxiety, you should arrange his sleeping area near or inside your bedroom.Place his dog bed, crate, or blanket on the floor near your bed.Your puppy will likely need to be let out in the night to go to the bathroom, so it may be easier for him to alert you that he needs to go out if he is close by.
It is your personal choice whether you want your puppy to sleep in the bed with you. Keep in mind, though, that you may create behavioral problems in the future if you decide you no longer want your dog in the bed with you.You can also set his crate just outside your bedroom door. Keep your bedroom door open., Your puppy will feel safer in your home if you give her items that have scents of her new family.For example, you could give her a pillow case or old item of clothing that smells like you or another member of your family.The more familiar she becomes with your scent, the more relaxed and secure she will feel in her new environment and with her new "pack."


Setting these items in your puppy’s crate or on her dog bed/blanket will help relax her before she goes to sleep.
Consider giving your puppy a "beating heart" toy that mimics the sound of a canine mother’s heartbeat.Placing this toy in your puppy’s sleeping area will help her feel more at ease when she sleeps.
Be mindful that puppies can be very destructive. Do not be surprised if she tears apart or chews through items with your scent on them.
 Your puppy’s separation anxiety may cause him to howl, whine, or bark.To get a better night’s sleep, you may be tempted to place your puppy in the basement or garage where his howls will be muffled or not heard at all. This is not a good idea, however — this would only increase your dog’s anxiety, thus increasing the howling.Placing your puppy in the basement or garage could also lead to him developing behavioral problems as he gets older.If your puppy cries at night and you want to check he is OK, wait for a gap between the barks to do so. Avoid going in whilst he is barking, or he will believe he called and you came.
Also avoid yelling or telling your dog off for barking, as it gives him attention and he believes you are joining in, which encourages him to bark more. You should aim to calm him/her down not rally them up.

