 If the author or authors are provided, the last names must be included in the citation. One way to cite the author is to introduce him or her in the sentence prior to the quotation or paraphrase.


According to Jones, this premise is false (25).
A study by Smith, Doe and Rowell indicates that this is only a misconception (98-100).
 If you do not introduce the authors of the work in the sentence itself, you must state the last name or names in parentheses. For works with multiple authors, separate the final two authors with the word “and.”


This premise is false (Jones, 25).
Even though it was previously accepted as fact, this is only a misconception (Smith, Doe, and Rowell, 98-100).
 List the page number or numbers the cited information can be found on in parentheses. If using a page range, separate the page numbers with a hyphen. If using page numbers that are not part of a range, separate the numbers with a comma. Do not separate the author's name and the page number with a comma.


Erikson claims otherwise (27).
Some experts claim otherwise (Erikson 27).
Research shows that this long-held belief is “nothing more than an old wives' tale, at best” (Johnson and Smith 28-31).
New information clarifies this situation (Doe 18, 23).
 If you need to cite two works written by two different authors with the same last name, indicate the two different authors by including a first initial as well as the last name.


Current lingual theory supports this concept (L. Hoffman 87), but some linguists disagree (M. Hoffman 14).
L. Hoffman supports this concept (87), but M. Hoffman disagrees (14).
 If the author of a source is unavailable, use a shortened form of the title, instead. Put articles and short works in quotation marks and books or other long works in italics. Provide a page number as usual.


Recent research on the brain supports these claims (“New News” 4-5).
The study of psychology continues to expand in this area (Psychological Discoveries 58).
 If you are citing information from multiple works written by the same author, include the title of the work in parentheses, followed by the page number. Use quotation marks for short works and italics for long works. You can introduce the name of the author in the sentence or you can specify the author in parentheses before listing the title, separating the author and the title with a comma.


Doe holds to this belief ("Theories on Literature" 92-4), but he has been known to stray from it on occasion (Analysis of Popular Poems 100).
This theory is “too new to hold much ground” (Analysis of Popular Poems 100), but it does show considerable promise (Doe, "Theories on Literature" 92-4).
 If borrowed information comes from more than one source, cite each source in parentheses as usual and separate the individual sources with semicolons.


Many wonder if the facts have been exaggerated (Doe and Simmons 204; Williams 17-21).
 Non-print sources do not have standard page numbers. Instead of providing a page number or paragraph number, indicate the source by specifying the author's name and the name of the article or website. Both the author and website name can be included either in parentheses or in the sentence. You should have at least one of the two pieces of information in parentheses, but you can also include both pieces of information in parentheses, separated with a comma.


Williams firmly states his support for this new artistic movement (“Film Trends”).
This new artistic movement has professional support (Williams, “Film Trends”).

