 Choose colors you like, and make sure that they are alcohol-based inks. Keep in mind that with this method you can always add more or less color depending on your desired vibrancy.


This method works well if you want to create buttons that are multi-colored or two-toned.
 Start with a very small amount of ink. It is easier to build up color than it is to take it away.


After you drop the ink onto your button, use a q-tip to spread it around evenly across the surface of the button.
Let this layer of ink dry completely before you continue with the process.
 If you want a very light shade, you may only need a single layer of color.


Continue to use a dropper, and then a q-tip to spread the color evenly. You can also use a small paint brush instead of a q-tip.
Wait until each layer of color dries to judge its shade, as wet ink tends to be darker than dried ink.
 With ink, you can make your buttons multi-colored. If you want, you can make each of the button’s sides a different color, or split the colors down the middle of the button.


For clean lines on your button, you can use painter’s tape to tape off one side while the other dries. For two-toned buttons, start with the lighter color first.
For extra embellishment after you dye your buttons, draw on designs with nail polish or colored sharpie.Use a toothpick to create designs with nail polish.
 This will keep the color in place, and add a protective finish to each of your buttons. Mod Podge works well.You can buy Mod Podge at most craft stores. Choose whether you want to have a glossy or matte finish.
In a pinch, you can use glue that dries clear as a sealer instead.
Simply take a clean, small paintbrush or q-tip, and dip it into your sealer. Spread a thin, even layer on one side of your button. Make sure to get the sides of the button covered.
Once the first side dries, turn the button over, and apply the sealer again.
If you get your sealer into the holes of the buttons, just use something sharp like a toothpick or needle to poke back through the holes.

