 Breaking the egg apart also breaks the first step in hard-boiling, but if you're using a microwave, this is highly recommended. Cooking the egg yolk and white separately ensures that each part is cooked just as "hard" as you want it, and removes the risk of a scalding explosion.


This method of microwaving eggs is sometimes called "hard-cooking," since it doesn't involve any water, but results in an egg with a hard-boiled texture.
 Rub the inside of two small, microwave-safe bowls with butter or butter substitute, using a paper towel. Custard ramekins work well if you are only cooking one egg, but you can use any size container.
 Crack the egg open carefully, then separate the two halves of shell, with the egg still inside one of them. Pour the egg yolk from one half of the shell to the other repeatedly, until all of the egg white has separated from the yolk. Put the yolk into one bowl, and the egg white into the other. If you are cooking more than one egg, repeat this step, keeping all yolks in one bowl and all whites in another.


If this is too tedious, you can just drop the entire egg into one bowl. This can lead to a runny white or an overcooked, rubbery yolk, since the two parts cook at different rates in the microwave., Even the thin membrane holding the yolk together will build up pressure as the moisture inside heats up, eventually exploding messily. Prevent this by piercing each yolk with the tip of a knife, skewer, or fork to let the steam escape., Contrary to rumor, plastic wrap can be safely used for this purpose, as long as it does not touch the food itself. Parchment paper or wax paper can be used instead.
 If your microwave oven has a medium or low power setting, use it whenever cooking eggs or egg dishes, since eggs are easily overcooked to a rubbery, superheated mess. Because it's difficult to control the temperature of microwaved food, it's best to cook in short bursts, checking frequently. Follow these guidelines for typical, large chicken eggs:


Most importantly, take the egg white out while it is still slightly underdone, before it is completely hard. The egg will continue to cook from its own heat after removal.
Cook 1 egg white (or 1 whole egg) for about 30 to 60 seconds.Cook 2 egg whites for about 45 to 75 seconds.Cook 4 egg whites for about 2 minutes 30 seconds to 3 minutes 15 seconds., Remove the bowl containing white and put in the yolk. Still on medium or low power if the option is available, cook the bowl of egg yolk for about 20 to 30 seconds per yolk.If cooking more than one yolk, stop every 30 seconds to check on progress. Remove the yolk once it's slightly softer than you prefer.
 Microwaves heat up the fat in the egg much hotter than a pot of boiling water does. This heat will continue to cook the egg after it is removed. If part of the egg isn't hard enough after three minutes, cook it for another 10 to 20 seconds.


There is no way to make an overcooked egg softer, so it's usually better to aim for a slightly soft "hard-cooked" egg.

