 Typically, these acne lesions are found on a cat's chin. The spots (blackheads or pimples) are small, firm and black. If you stroke him just under the chin, you'll notice that the skin feels gritty.While acne is usually found on the chin, your cat may also have acne lesions above his lip.;
, While the exact cause of feline acne is unknown, there are several things that may trigger acne outbreaks. These include decreased grooming, food accumulating on the chin, and a weakened immune system as a result of age. The acne is usually mild and harmless, but can become sore if bacteria causes infection in the spots.The acne spots are made up of a waxy (sebaceous) material that's trapped in the hair follicles. This causes the follicle to swell and bulge, appearing on the skin's surface.
 If there's infection, the area may look more swollen, which can make the chin more prominent than usual. It might seem like your cat is jutting his chin out. You'll also see blood-stained discharge, which can either be watery or smelly and pus-like, coming from each spot.Infection is caused by the spots bursting or the waxy material in the spot becoming contaminated with bacteria. This requires prompt treatment since it can make your cat's chin sore. Your cat may rub it more, irritating the skin. This irritation will cause further trauma and make the infection worse.
 If your cat has had repeated acne breakouts, the hair follicles can become severely damaged. This will create scar tissue and fur won't grow on the chin anymore. This gives the chin a leather appearance.


If you notice leathery or tough skin anywhere on your cat, have it checked by the veterinarian. Other conditions may cause leather skin and require treatments, such as food allergies or tumors., If the cat has black spots, but is otherwise well, the vet may suggest keeping the area clean with a disinfectant wash. You might be instructed to wash the area with something like dilute chlorhexidine and told to monitor the acne. But, if the area is sore, swollen, or infection is present, the vet may need to run tests to diagnose the condition and check your cat's general health.A weakened immune system could be causing regular and severe lesions. The vet may do blood screening tests to check for anemia in your cat. This will determine the balance of white blood cells and check the condition of the organs.
 The veterinarian may want to see if parasites, like the demodex mite, are colonizing your cat's hair follicles. This can create problems similar to feline acne.To test, the vet will squeeze an unruptured spot and capture the contents on a microscope slide. The slide will be examined to look for any parasites.


If parasites are found, the vet may recommend topical treatments, like medicated shampoos, dips, or sprays.
 The vet may check for the presence of other infections, such as ringworm, which cause skin inflammation and soreness. This is done by rubbing a sterile swab or brush over the skin to collect a sample of fauna from the skin surface. The sample is put into a transport medium, which is then checked for the growth of the fungal organism which causes ringworm.Swabbing will not only tell the vet which bacteria are present, but will help determine which antibiotics will kill the infection.
 A definitive diagnosis of feline acne is made with a biopsy. This involves surgically removing a small wedge of tissue from the affected area. The sample is then sent to a pathologist for examination and diagnosis.This also helps to rule out predisposing factors such as mites (which burrow into the skin and can mimic acne infections), cancer, or a type of immune related inflammation called eosinophilic granuloma complex.
 Not all cases of feline acne need treatment. If your cat has only one or two comedones (black spots) and they do not irritate him, then they can be simply managed at home. You may just gently wash the area and keep it clean after your cat eats.If your cat has a history of spots that become infected, then it is best to get treatment.
 If your cat has spots, but they're not infected, simply clean the spots. To clean with a surgical spirit, moisten a cotton ball with the spirit and wipe the chin twice a day until the spots have disappeared. Or, you can use a topical cleansing agent like chlorhexidine, which comes as a concentrated pink, soapy liquid. Dilute the chlorhexidine in water, with a ratio of around 5ml chlorhexidine to 100 ml of water. Moisten a cotton wool ball with the solution and wipe it over the cat's chin twice a day. Monitor the area and if the lesions worsen, check in with your vet.Chlorhexidine is suitable for use in cats because it is not toxic to them and does not sting. It cleanses the skin of bacteria and makes it less likely that bacteria will colonize the hair follicles.
 To wash the chin, wet it with damp cotton wool and add a drop of benzyl peroxide shampoo to the wool. Rub this on the chin and leave it in to dry for 5 minutes. Rinse the area well using a clean flannel cloth soaked in water. If you want to treat the whole cat, dilute the shampoo, rub it into your cat's wet fur, and rinse well with warm water. Wash the affected area in the morning and evening. If redness or soreness develops, stop the treatment until the skin heals. Then start again, but dilute the shampoo more.


Pet shampoos containing benzyl peroxide are useful to treat feline acne, because the benzyl peroxide penetrates into the follicles. This will deep clean the follicle, destroy the bacteria, and remove excess waxy grease that might contribute to feline acne., Soak a ball of cotton wool in moderately warm salt water. To prepare the water, boil water and stir in a teaspoon of salt. Let this mixture cool to just above body temperature. Once you've soaked the ball in the solution, squeeze out the excess moisture and hold the damp cotton wool against your cat's chin. Try to keep it there for 5 minutes. Repeat this two or three times a day until the spots burst or get smaller.


A hot compress can help reduce the size of the spots or cause them to burst. Either way, this will relieve pressure on the follicles, which would otherwise irritate your cat's skin.
 The vet may prescribe oral antibiotics that you'll need to give your cat to kill bacteria on the surface of the skin. These are given by mouth at the recommended dose until the spots have cleared and then the course is extended for at least another week. Some of the most commonly prescribed antibiotics for feline acne include:


Cephalexin: This is a first generation antibiotic from the beta-lactam group, which targets and destroys bacteria. Usually, the dose is 30 to 50mg twice a day. So, a typical 5kg cat is given a 50mg dose of Cephalexin twice a day. This is best given with food if the cat has a sensitive stomach and is likely to vomit.Clindamycin: This belongs to the lincosamide group of antibiotics which stop bacteria from reproducing. The dose is usually 5 to 10mg/kg twice a day, or the dose can be combined and given once a day. So, a 5kg cat will take a 25mg capsule twice a day. This antibiotic is more effective if given on an empty stomach.
Clavulanate-potentiated amoxycillin: This antibiotic works by interfering with bacterial metabolism and damaging the bacteria's cell wall. The dose in the cat is 50mg per 5kg, so a 5kg cat is given 50mg dose twice daily, either with or without food.
 While older cats are more likely to get acne (possibly because their arthritis makes it harder to groom and remove food debris from their chins), there are things you can do to make feline acne less likely. If your cat has a history of acne, wipe his chin after he eats and pat the area dry. This can prevent oil buildup and bacterial infection from food that's become trapped in the hair follicles.You should also wash out your cat's food bowls every few days. This prevents bacteria from accumulating, which could contribute to feline acne.

