 Barbie has pretty flawless skin so make sure you take care of yours, using the following tips:


Wash your face twice a day and remember to moisturize once in the morning and once at night with a product suited to your skin type.
Wear sunscreen outdoors (even when it's not hot) to prevent dark spots, freckles and sunburn.
Using a medicated spot cream to get rid of any pimples and avoid touching your face without washing your hands first.
Always take your make up off before bed.;
, Create a perfect canvas for the rest of your make up by applying your foundation.


Spray an airbrush spray foundation (that perfectly matches your skin tone) onto the back of your hand, then use a stippling brush to dab it onto your face, creating an even flawless finish.
Use your favorite, high-coverage concealer to cover up any dark circles around your eyes or any other imperfections.
Use a powder puff to dab some loose powder onto your face -- this sets your foundation without smudging the flawless finish you've already created.
 Barbie has a tiny nose, so you'll need to make your own nose appear smaller using contouring.


Take a matte (non-shimmering), brown eye shadow and a thin make up brush and start contouring along the sides of your nose, in a straight line from the inside edge of your eyebrows down.
Take a fan brush and use it to lightly feather out the lines, to blend them in and make them appear more natural.
 The next step is the eyes. First take a light baby blue eye shadow and apply it all over your lids.


Next, take a matte white eye shadow and apply it to the inner corners of your eyes. This will help to open up your eyes. Also apply the white powder to your brow bone, as highlighter.
Now take a bright pink eye shadow and apply it above the crease of your eyelid, so it makes a semi-circular line from one edge of your eyelid to the other.
Lastly, take a dark blue color and use it to line the crease of your eyelid, so it forms a distinct line between the light blue and pink shadows. Then use this same dark blue color to line your upper and lower lashes, creating a cartoon look.
 Take a white eyeliner and use it on your waterline (the inside of your lower eyelash). This will make the whites of your eyes appear larger and wider.


Take your false eyelashes (whichever style you think is most Barbie-ish) and measure them against your natural eyelashes. Cut them to length (from the inside) if necessary.
Apply a line of the eyelash glue and wait a minute or two for it to become tacky. Then carefully apply the false eyelashes to your real lashes.
For a real Barbie effect, apply half-length strips of false lashes to your lower lash line, running from the outside corner to the center of your eye.
 Take a rosy pink powder blush and use a brush to apply it to the apples of your cheeks and along your cheek bones.


Take a shimmering pink lipstick and apply it to your lips. Use a lip brush to define the edges of your lips and achieve a more precise shape.
To create a doll-like effect, take a concealer and apply it around the outside of your lips to create a sharply defined effect. Use a brush to blend the concealer in well and apply some loose powder on top.
Take a pink lip gloss and apply it on top of the lipstick to add some shine. 