 This is one of the most important steps to getting great eyebrows.It will be much easier to see which areas need plucking and filling in when your brows are neatly brushed.;
, Stray hairs tend to grow just outside the main brow area. Look for stray hairs that might be growing just below your eyebrows and around the ends. Check for strays in the area between both eyebrows, as well.


You are just cleaning up the brow area right now and will begin shaping your eyebrows next.
If you don’t have tweezers or dislike plucking, an alternative option is waxing. However, whereas plucking pull a single hair at a time, waxing pulls out several hairs at once. With waxing, it’s easy to accidentally pull out too many hairs so use caution.
 Consider what shape you would like your eyebrows to be, as well as where you would like the arch. Carefully pluck hairs until you achieve your desired look. Take your time and constantly check your results in the mirror to make sure you eyebrows are symmetrical and look even with one another.


Avoid plucking too much, which can leave your eyebrows looking too sparse.
Instead of trying to completely change the shape of your eyebrows, it is usually best to work with their natural growth pattern., Aloe vera gel is helpful for soothing skin after tweezing. If you don’t have anything like that on hand, you can use some ice to reduce redness and calm the skin.


A dab of 1% hydrocortisone cream can also help soothe redness and irritation from plucking. Be sure to avoid getting it in the eyes, though.To prevent redness, try tweezing immediately after showering when your pores are open and skin is softer. Your hairs will come out easier., The color should be slightly lighter than your actual eyebrow color in order to create a more natural look.Select a pencil with a fine tip, if possible. A smaller tip allows you to draw in tiny strokes that look like actual hairs.A matte eyeshadow can also be used to fill in the brows if you do not have an eye pencil. , Avoid adding too much color. You can always fill in more, as needed, but it is difficult to remove excess product.


If you accidentally fill in too much color, use a tissue or a clean fingertip to gently press on the brow and soften up the color.If using a matte eyeshadow rather than a pencil to fill in your brows, just use a fine tipped brush to apply the shadow.
 This will help blend in the color better, as well as smooth out any hairs that might have gotten out of place.
 Using a brow gel helps set your finished eyebrow look. You’ll want one that’s clear so it doesn’t alter your finished brow color.Brow gel can help thin brows appear thicker by adding texture and volume to the eyebrows.Some brow gels to try are NYX Control Freak clear brow gel, Essence Lash & Brow Gel Mascara in clear, Stiles clear eyebrow gel, and Benefit Read, Set, Brow 24-hour setting gel.
 You now know how to get great eyebrows without having to go to the salon.


The more you practice plucking, shaping, and filling in your eyebrows, the easier it will get and the more you’ll develop and refine your skills at it.



The average person need 1,000 International Units (IU) of vitamin D each day.
Spending 15-20 minutes outside in the sun each day provides the required 1,000 IU.
Vitamin D supplements are an option for those who do not get enough daily sun exposure.
 Eating healthy foods and drinking 8-10 glasses of water daily (water helps flush toxins out of your body)s will keep you healthy on the inside. When you are healthier on the inside, it will show on the outside. Your skin will look more vibrant and hair growth can improve, including the brow area., Massaging the eyebrow area with olive oil for five minutes each day can help stimulate hair growth by increasing blood circulation in that area. , Egg yolk is believed to improve the condition of hair follicles.Healthier hair follicles can help improve eyebrow hair growth.


Crack open an egg and separate out the yolk.
Gently beat the yolk for a minute with a fork to break it up.
Use your finger or a cotton swab to smooth a bit of yolk over each eyebrow.
Rinse off the yolk with cold water after 20 minutes.
Repeat twice a week for best results.
 You might have heard the expression, “milk does a body good.” Some people believe milk also does your eyebrows good. Try pouring a bit of milk on a cotton ball and dabbing it on your eyebrows before bed. Leave the milk on your brows all night. The milk is believed to nourish the brow area and promote hair growth. You can use any type of dairy milk you have on hand.
 Coconut oil is good for your skin, in general. It is both nourishing and moisturizing. When applied to the brow area, it helps condition the hair follicles there, which can lead to improved growth during the eyebrow hairs’ growth phase., Vaseline, or any brand of petroleum jelly, helps to moisturize and condition the skin. When applied to the brow area 3-4 times daily for at least three months, you can see improved eyebrow growth. 