 Having empathy means being able to put yourself in another person’s shoes and to understand her state of mind and how she feels. To do this, though, you have to be able to listen. Follow the advice above, but also use active listening techniques.Focus your attention on what the other person is saying. There is no need to say anything at first. In fact, it’s better to just let her talk.
Don’t interrupt to give your opinion. At the same time, though, signal that you’re paying attention by nodding, acknowledging points, or with verbal cues like, “Yes” or “I see.” Do these things without breaking into the flow of conversation.
 To empathize, you’ll need to temporarily push your own opinions and judgments to the side until you hear your peer out. This can be hard. However, the point is to try to understand what the other person is feeling and not to insert your own perspective. This means you should focus on her experience.You don’t ultimately need to accept the other person’s perspective. But you have to let go of your own opinions, value scale, and perspective to gain access to her mental state.
Do not dismiss the other person’s perspective, for one thing. Insisting that the topic isn’t important or telling your peer to “Just get over it” is completely dismissive and defensive.
Avoid comparisons, too. Your experiences may be totally different and miss or minimize what your peer is feeling. For instance, it’s best not to say something like “You know, I used to feel the same way when X happened…”
Don’t try to offer solutions, either. The point of empathy isn’t necessarily to solve a problem, but to hear a person out.
 If you want to really listen to another person and what they have to say, engage them actively but respectfully. Restate points to make sure that you’ve understood – without interrupting. You can also consider asking questions.When your peer has expressed a point, repeat the main point back to her in slightly different words, i.e. “If I understand you, you’re upset because you don’t feel we communicate well.” This not only shows that you’re paying attention, but helps you to grasp the other person’s feelings, whatever they may be.
Ask open-ended questions to draw out further details, too. “You’re pretty frustrated with me, no?” doesn’t add much. However, you can elicit more helpful conversation with a question like, “What is it about our relationship that frustrates you so much?”

, Last, affirm what your peer has said. Let her know that you’ve listened, understood, and appreciated the importance of the conversation, even if you haven’t yet resolved the problem. This communicates that you are being open-minded rather than defensive and leaves room for future dialogue.Say something like, “What you’ve told me isn’t easy to hear, Jack, but I know it’s important to you and I will consider it” or “Thank you for telling me this, Aisha. I’ll think what you’ve said over carefully.”
You still don’t have to agree or accept your peer’s position. However, by being empathetic rather than defensive you can open the way for compromise and a solution.

