 There are a variety of third-party applications on Facebook that are capable of creating a raffle in a post. Do a search online and find the raffle app that best suits your needs. Consider things like website integration, price, and the level of customization that's available within the app.Popular Facebook raffle apps include WishPond, Heyo, ShortStack, AgoraPulse, and WooBox., The headline of the raffle post should be clear and results-oriented. Make sure to let people know that you are holding a raffle and what the prize is. If people are interested in the header of your raffle, they will be more likely to read the rest of the post and enter.Your header could read "Enter to Win a Free Optical Headset from Superb Optical."
Or it could say something like "Share a Photo with your Favorite Penclub Pen for the Chance to Win 5,000 Free Penclub Pens!"

, One of the best ways to advertise your raffle is to post a visually appealing photograph that has the raffle information right on the photo. Use image editing software, like Photoshop, to create an image that contains your raffle header and some details about the raffle. The raffle post should be vibrant and contain the rules, eligibility to enter, ways to enter, and the prize within the post., Make sure that the image will fit within the post. If you're using a raffle app, they will have an intuitive layout and process behind creating the raffle. Continue through the raffle app software and fill in all the fields. Once you're done, follow the instructions to post it to your page.If you don't use a raffle app, you'll have to select the winner manually.
 Visit your Facebook page to make sure that everything has been formatted correctly. Enter the raffle yourself to test that all the hyperlinks work and that entering is intuitive. If you find yourself stuck or unable to register, you know that other people are likely to have similar issues. Identify where the process is going wrong and take the right steps to edit the post to fix it., If you're using a raffle app, there will be an automated button that you can press to randomly select the winner of the raffle.Otherwise, you'll have to manually select a winner. If the raffle involved posting a picture, select a photo that best represents your brand.