 Before you create or play a paladin you should read the entry about them in the Player's Handbook (PHB).;
, Most races can become paladins but some are better than others. Humans make the best paladins. Half-Orcs and Dwarves make so-so paladins. Their penalties to Charisma hurt some of the paladin's powers but not by much. Since paladins are melee fighters primarily Halflings and Gnomes make a poor choice, as do Elves. Half-Elves can be paladins as well.
 Consult the Dungeon Master (DM) of your game to see what methods can be used to generate vital statistics (stats) for your paladin. A paladin needs excellent stats, so you may need a lucky roll before you can play one. You will need a high Strength and Constitution, a 16 or better is ideal. You will also need good Wisdom and Charisma scores, a 14 or better. Lastly you will want a Dexterity of 10 or better.
 Most paladins do not get many skill points per level, so choose how you use them carefully. Knowledge Religion is a common choice. Sense Motive is also a good choice as it helps a paladin ferret out evil. Feats that augment your melee combat are good choices. If you plan to engage in mounted combat then Mounted Combat, Ride-by Attack, and Spirited Charge are good choices.
 This step is optional but many paladins choose to select a patron Deity. A paladin may be simply dedicated to righteousness, however if you wish you may select a deity. If you do you need to select one that is neutral or good, a paladin may not worship an evil deity.
, You will need a main melee weapon and armor. A back up ranged weapon is a good idea. You will also want a holy symbol if you have a patron deity, the wooden one is fine. Lastly you will need survival gear (bedroll, trail rations, etc.).
 You will need to know how to use all of your class abilities such as Detect Evil and Smite Evil. Carefully read about each one as your character gets it and make sure you know how it is used.
 Eventually a paladin gets a small amount of spell casting power. When your paladin get access to this magic you should review all the spells you can cast so that you know how they work when you cast them in the game. Remember that you need to prepare a list of spells that your character can cast each day which can only be changed after your character rests.
 At fifth level you get a paladin's special mount. This animal is based on a standard mount but is superior to it in many ways. You will want to make a short character sheet for your mount so that you can look up numbers for it quickly. Not every paladin needs or wants a mount. It depends on the campaign. You'll know by fifth level, probably.
 Paladins are front-line fighters. Much like the fighter you should protect the rest of the party by engaging the enemy in combat. Do not be afraid to take hits in fights. You can use your magic to bolster yourself and others.

