 Since standard shoulder width measurements are taken along the upper portion of your back, another person will actually need to take this measurement for you.


If you cannot find anyone to help you take this measurement, use the “Measure Shoulder Width with a Shirt” method, instead. That method can be performed by yourself and usually produces an accurate result.;
, While not strictly necessary, a tailored dress shirt is ideal since you can use the seams of the shirt to help guide the tape measure.


If you do not have a tailored dress shirt, any shirt that fits correctly in the shoulder area will work. You do not need to measure the shirt when using this method, but a good shirt can provide helpful guide points.
 Your back should be straight, but your shoulders need to hang naturally in a relaxed position.
 These points are actually marked by your acromion bones, which can be found at the upper tips of your shoulders.


These two points should also be the points at which the shoulder meets the arm, or the points at which the shoulder begins curving down into the arm.
If you are wearing a dress shirt that fits your upper body correctly, you can use it as a guide. The shoulder seams on the back of your shirt will usually match up with your actual shoulder points.If your shirt does not fit perfectly, use your knowledge of how loose or snug the shoulder fit is and adjust your two end points accordingly to make improvements.
 Have your helper position the end of the tape measure flat against your back at the first shoulder point. Your helper should then measure up and over the curve of your shoulders, across your back, then back down to the outside edge of the other shoulder point.


Keep in mind that you should be measuring across the broadest part of your shoulders. This usually lands out roughly 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) below the neckline.
The tape measure will not be horizontally straight during this measurement. It must bend at a gentle curve along with your shoulders.
 This measurement is your shoulder width. Mark it down and save it for your records.


Standard shoulder width can be used for both men's and women's attire, but it is most often used for men's tailor-fit dress shirts and blazers.
Shoulder width essentially measures the width of the yoke of your ideal shirt size.
You will also need this measurement when determining the best possible sleeve length for a shirt or blazer.