 Almost every airline has online malls or portals where you can shop. You’ll earn extra miles on your purchases, and the clock will “reset,” so you won’t lose any miles because of inactivity. To shop, visit your airline’s portal and search for a store. Then click through to the retailer’s website when you are ready to make your purchase., You can also reset the clock by using an airline’s dining program. Go to the airline's website to sign up and find which restaurants you can dine at. You’ll earn bonus miles for every dollar spent., Give the rental car agency your frequent flyer number. You might need to pay a small fee in order to collect the miles, but it will keep your account active., You can accrue miles—and keep your account active—by staying at a hotel. Most hotel chains participate in the program, but you should ask ahead of time. Give your frequent flyer number when you book your hotel room., Most airlines offer large mileage bonuses for cruises if you book through their site. It’s not cost effective to go on a cruise just to save your miles. However, if you’re planning to go anyway, then book through your airline’s website., Many brokers will give you airline miles if you open an accountant with them. For example, TDAmeritrade offers 25,000 miles (40,000 km) if you open a new account. Other brokers have similar programs.Ask the broker ahead of time if you’ll earn miles.
 Visit your airline’s website to find out what businesses you can use to gain additional miles and keep your account active. Depending on your program, you might earn miles when shopping at the florist, signing up for DirectTV, or getting a cell phone contract., It’s rarely a good idea to buy miles from an airline. Typically, they jack up the price so that you pay about three cents a mile when a mile is really worth only 1.2 cents to the airline.Nevertheless, buying miles will keep your account active.


Airlines sometimes offer special discounts, so be on the lookout. For example, you might be able to buy 25,000 miles and get an additional 25,000 for free.Depending on the deal, you might be paying close to what the miles are actually worth.
 You can get a credit card affiliated with your airline and earn miles whenever you make qualifying purchases. These purchases will reset your account so that your miles don’t expire.For example, you might have miles with American Airlines. You can get an American Airlines credit card. Check which purchases qualify for miles and use your card before your miles expire.

