 Hold the book shut and blow the dust off each edge of the pages. Remove stubborn dust with a clean, dry paint brush, or a soft, new toothbrush.;
, This is softer than a rubber eraser, but you should still use it with great care to avoid tearing the paper. Work with the art gum eraser only on one direction.


If you don't want to visit the art store, you can pick up some pencil marks with a piece of soft white bread.
 This is a soft and pliable putty that will remove grime and smoke residue from pages and from fabric bindings. Just roll it gently over the grime to pick up the dirt.
 Apply a little clear shoe polish or cleaning polish with a soft cloth. Test on a corner of the book first to make sure it doesn't remove any ink. Wipe off the polish with a clean cloth after you've removed the dirt.
 Carefully clean fabric covers with an art gum eraser or a slice of white bread. Excessive dirt may require a cloth dampened with fabric softener, but be aware this increases the risk of damage or mold. Make sure the book is fully dried before storing.
 This is only recommended on paperback covers and waterproof dust jackets. You can also try this on especially stubborn dirt, if you accept the risk of further damage. Here's how to minimize this risk:


Take a cloth made from microfiber or another lint-free material.
Rinse out the cloth with very hot water, then wring it out thoroughly.
Wrap a dry towel around the cloth and wring it out again. Remove the cloth, which should now be barely damp at all.
Carefully wipe away dirt from the cover, and very lightly from the page edges.
Buff with a dry cloth immediately afterward.
 Label adhesive or other residue responds well to a little baby oil or cooking oil on a piece of cotton wool. Press firmly and work in until the glue lifts. Remove the oil with a clean piece of cotton wool.


Oil may cause stains on some material. Test on a corner first.
 If the book smells musty, put it in a container with something that can absorb smells and moisture. Try a sock filled with cat litter or rice, or place the book on newspaper dusted with talcum powder.


Sunlight will make this most effective. Dappled shade is a compromise that will reduce color fading.

