 People have an innate yearning to know more about themselves. Attention to detail can draw more people to your quiz because it will feel personalized. Create a custom background related to the content of your quiz. Include people in your quiz to give your audience someone to relate to.A bland personality quiz can be overlooked because it may subconsciously say to a person that he has a bland personality. Colourful and distinct images are more likely to draw attention to your quiz.
 Once you know what personality someone is going to achieve, you can work backwards in writing questions to help them achieve this end result. For example, if your personality quiz is “Which Star Wars character are you?”, you can choose the main characters like Yoda and Darth Vader as possible outcomes. Now you can choose images and construct questions based on either a Yoda or Darth Vader result., Personality quizzes are popular because of the final results. If you err on the side of positivity, chances are your quiz will be popular. Have fun and be creative but keep your audience in mind when conceiving your results. Create results that will seem personal and reward the person taking your quiz. Random results can be just as alienating as negative ones because it may make the person feel like he just wasted his time after receiving a random result.For example, a personality quiz similar to "what kind of animal are you" could provide bear as a good result. The description could be something along the lines of "While you enjoy a good refreshing slumber and may get cranky when you're hungry, everyone knows how much you love your children and that giant hugs were named after you." This description is fun and seems personal because it reflects how a bear protects her cubs while using "bear hugs" as an indicator of warmth. Both of which can be relatable to a lot of people.
 Whether you’re snarky or optimistic, create questions with a distinct flair. It is a fine line between creating a result that is fun and personal. Tone and humour don’t translate well over text, especially when the person taking the quiz doesn’t know the person who wrote it.For example, a snarky quiz title could be along the lines of "Which 90s one-hit wonder are you?"

, Write questions that are simple and straight to the point. Be concise. People want to finish quickly and don’t want to be bogged down with complicated description., The first thing that will draw someone to take your quiz is the title. A person will want to know how they relate to your given title so make sure that it is bold and compelling. For example, a good title could be "Which apocalypse are you most likely to survive: zombie, vampire, robot, or puppy?"


5 tools for creating a catchy titles are: using the phrase “How much do you actually know about (insert topic)”, using celebrity, using an adjective, placing someone as a type, and comparing people to popular items. For example, you can use a celebrity in your title like “Which Walking Dead Character are you?” An example of using an adjective for a title would be something like, “How fit are you?” A title placing someone as a type would be something like “How big of a Bro are you?” A title that compares popular items would be similar to “Which brunch meal are?”

