 Punting involves picking up and dropping the ball to kick it high and far into the air. It's a common part of soccer, football, and other sports. Use this technique for punting a soccer ball, rugby ball, American football, or any other kind of ball that you pick up and drop to kick.Never try to punt an especially heavy ball like a medicine ball or another weighted ball. If you try to kick something too heavy with this technique, you can twist your ankle or otherwise hurt your foot.
 Pick the ball up and hold it somewhere around your waist-height. The punt is a way of getting the ball very far and very high, usually to transfer the possession of the ball in football or send the ball up the field in soccer. Make sure you've got enough space to kick the ball, since it's going to go a long ways without trying very hard.


Never drop the ball from very high, or toss the ball up before trying to kick it. Hold it gently with both hands, just out from your body comfortably at about your waist-level.
 The basic punt step involves only two steps. In most game situations, you won't have more space than a few steps, so it's important to distill all your movements into a fairly small space. To punt correctly take full-stride steps, starting with your kicking leg.
 After taking that first step, you're ready to plant and swing. Plant your non-kicking foot on the ground, keeping it flexed and ready to spring. Keep your eye locked on the ball to make sure that you strike it correctly. Don't look at any other players or gameplay happening around you. Just focus on the ball.


Bend your kicking knee and pull your leg back behind you to strike the ball. Keep your kicking toe pointed.
As you do this motion, extend the ball straight out from your body. It'll take some practice to get it completely right, but most people need to stretch their arms out all the way to drop the ball and contact perfectly.
Some kickers prefer a locked plant leg for power, while others prefer a more flexed knee to help make sure your strike the ball accurately and securely. Practice, experimenting some with both methods of punting to get a sense of what feels right for you.
 After you plant your leg, start swinging your kicking foot forward. When your leg starts to swing back around and come straight up toward the ball, drop the ball straight down simultaneously. Don't toss it out in front of you, toss it up, or otherwise put any spin on it. Just drop it straight down as gently as possible.


If you're kicking an oblong ball, you've got to keep the point of the ball pointing straight back at your body, not perpendicular with yourself.
 As soon as your foot contacts the ball, keep completing the kicking motion, swinging your leg forward and up in an arc. Point your toe in the direction that you want the ball to go. (And make sure.. PRACTICE=PERFECT!)

