 Only a trained medical doctor can accurately determine whether you or someone in your family has a primary immunodeficiency disease. If you don’t have a doctor, visit the Immune Deficiency Foundation’s “Ask IDF” page for help locating one who is knowledgeable about primary immunodeficiencies., Molecular-level genetic analyses can identify errors or mutations in your genome that your doctor can use to diagnose a primary immunodeficiency disorder. You likely have a primary immunodeficiency disease if you have the symptoms of a particular disorder, but you do not have an abnormality associated with that disorder in your genes or mRNA, or if you lack the proteins known to cause the disorder.There are several techniques available to your doctor for analyzing your genetic profile. They might take a blood sample or a swab of skin from the inside of your cheek (known as a buccal swab). It could even be as simple as spitting into a cup or swishing and spitting with mouthwash.
 If you have a primary immunodeficiency disease, you might find yourself playing host to bacteria like atypical mycobacteria (which suggests an IFN-yR defect), Pneumocystis jirovecii (which suggests Severe Combined Immunodeficiency – also known as SCID – or Hyper IgM syndrome).Your doctor will detect these bacteria when analyzing mucous or other bodily fluid samples involved in identifying your infection.IFN-yR defects are genetic irregularities that produce greater susceptibility to mycobacteria, including the bacteria that causes tuberculosis, a serious lung disease.
Hyper IgM syndrome is a primary immunodeficiency with five types. Each variation is associated with defective genes that lead to symptoms like frequent infections, hepatitis C, hypothyroidism, and arthritis.
SCID is a serious immunodeficiency characterized by defective T and B cells. People with SCID must often live in a totally sterile environment because they are extra-susceptible to infections.
 Autoimmune disorders are conditions in which the body’s immune system is not only not defending you from external threat, but it actually attacks the cells of your own body. Allergic reactions are an example of an autoimmune condition. Symptoms of allergies or autoimmune conditions that you might experience with a primary immunodeficiency include:itchy, red, watery eyes
sneezing
coughing
an itchy throat
wheezing or difficulty breathing

, An X-ray can diagnose whether you have sinusitis, lung disease, or a similar pulmonary condition that could indicate a primary immunodeficiency disease. X-rays are painless procedures in which you visit a hospital or doctor’s clinic and have a portion of your body imaged with a special device, known as an X-ray machine. The X-ray image the results can help doctors see through your skin and into your skeleton and other internal bodily structures., A CT (computed tomography) scan is not unlike an X-ray. Like the X-ray, a CT scan is painless and allows your doctor to examine your chest, abdomen, and pelvis for infection and other irregularities. But while the X-ray produces only a single image at a time, a CT scan uses computers to produce a layered image, and even three-dimensional images to get a better sense of what’s going on inside you.CT scans are also useful for determining pulmonary function and detecting lung and sinus problems which, if they continue, could indicate a primary immunodeficiency disease.
If you get a CT scan, you’ll be asked to fast for 12 hours prior to getting the scan. Wear loose, comfortable clothing to the appointment and do not wear jewelry.
During the actual scan, you’ll have to lie down on a slab which then slides inside a tube. The tube rotates around you and you will have to lie still until the scan is complete.
 If you have a primary immunodeficiency, your B cells (a type of white blood cell responsible for producing antibodies) and T cells (a type of white blood cell responsible for controlling fungal infections) might be dysfunctional. A blood test can determine if your B and T cells are operating properly. To get a blood test, schedule an appointment with your doctor.Your doctor will clean the skin above the vein from which your blood will be drawn with an antiseptic. They might also tie off the arm just above the site of the puncture.
You will feel a small prick as the needle enters your vein.Afterwards, the doctor will bandage the site where they drew your blood. You might be asked to sit or lie down for a few minutes.
 Primary immunodeficiencies are often inherited from a family member. If your parents, grandparents, siblings, or other family members had a primary immunodeficiency, you are more likely to have one, also.If you are unsure about your family history, ask a parent or other relative if they know of anyone in your family with a primary immunodeficiency.
Write down as much information as possible, including symptoms and the name of the specific immunodeficiency disease they had, and provide your doctor with this information.

