 If you are going to be somewhere there are rules and regulations about wearing makeup, ensure you know what they are. Schools and work places can sometimes have very strict rules about makeup. For example, if you work making food or complex electronic devices, there may be a no false eyelashes rule. Schools often ban all makeup, and some offices, public service roles such as the armed forces and medical profession usually have guidelines at least about your appearance and the use of cosmetics. Read the guidelines, and stick to them.;
, If you are permitted to wear makeup in your workplace, how much you feel it is appropriate to wear depends on the workplace. If you are a flight attendant, for example, the way you apply your makeup might be strictly dictated. If you work in the beauty or fashion industry, wearing makeup and looking well made up is likely to be common. It should not be compulsory.

If your colleagues all wear makeup, feel free to makeup as much as they do. If you want to, and feel comfortable doing so, it's okay for anyone to be at least as made up as the majority of their colleagues are on a normal day to day basis.






If you have a job in an industry where appearance is less at the fore, you can still take this advice, if you follow the majority of your colleagues. You can be the most or the least made up person at work; you're there to work, not look good, but if you like to put on makeup, wearing as much as the majority of your colleagues do will be deemed appropriate by most people.
You may wish to take age into consideration. If your colleagues are mostly younger or mostly older than you, you might feel like their every day makeup is too much or too little for you. That's your prerogative. A general rule of thumb is to look as made up as your average, mainstream channel TV news reader. We all know that any one of those people telling us about the current state of the economy or the latest scientific discovery may have makeup inches think on their faces, but they don't look as if they have. They don't go for obvious, statement makeup, so looking like a newsreader at work will be deemed appropriate by most.
 If you are thinking about appropriate makeup for social occasions, there are really no rules. It is not wrong for anyone to wear yellow eyeshadow and blue lipstick at a funeral if they are comfortable doing so. Other's may think it's disrespectful, but other's shouldn't judge. If you're concerned with wearing a level of makeup that others would consider appropriate for important social events like funerals or weddings, some advice may help:

For funerals, in general terms, it's back to our friends the newsreaders. Add waterproof mascara if you like and are concerned about crying. A funeral isn't the only social occasion when you might ponder how much makeup to wear, obviously. Staying with that theme though, weddings and christenings.






If you are invited to a wedding, it's bad form to try to out do the bride. Wear makeup by all means, remember there might be photos so powder to avoid shine might be a good call and anything that is especially flattering to your features and outfit will look lovely. If you are fond of spending thousands on professionally applied makeup and looking, generally, like you just stepped off a fashion shoot for Vogue Magazine, someone else's wedding day, might be a day to turn it down a notch, unless they usually have an equally high standard of appearance.
Attend a Christening looking at most like the Duchess of Cambridge did for the occasion of Princess Charlotte's christening. She looked, nice. Nice is good for christening. That being said, nothing is bad if you feel comfortable in it. Wear green mascara and blue blusher if you think that is appropriate but keep in mind others likely won't share your opinion.
 You show your date you care about your appearance and looking good for them if you are looking good and have made some effort with your appearance on a date. You can look good and of made an effort without putting on makeup obviously! Really, only you can decide how much makeup is appropriate. Be guided by what others typically wear to the venue if you wish.


Think carefully about putting on all your best and favourite makeup on a first date. You can do so if you wish, but remember if you go on a second date, possibly somewhere more elegant, you've already played your best make up card. At a date where you are just grabbing a coffee, you might choose to wear less makeup than if you went out for a three course meal at a high class restaurant.
 No amount of makeup is right or wrong (unless codes of conduct state otherwise). You can pop to the shop to get milk in a swipe of mascara and some lip gloss or fully made up in all you glory. Just remember if you wear makeup all the time, people are apt to ask stupid questions if they see you without it.
 So you have a port wine stain, freckles, scars, wrinkles, eye bags, acne, really dark skin, really pale skin, a dodgy tattoo, or some other perfectly normal point of difference from every other human being on the planet, cover it with makeup everyday, or don't. If you have some that you like to keep covered with makeup for the good of your mental health and self esteem yet are not generally permitted to wear makeup, discuss it with the rules makers. Some people need makeup likes others need hearing aids - you shouldn't be discriminated against if you need to cover something

, If you feel over made up, or under made up, change your look before you go out. Or, take additional make up or makeup remover out with you. If you get wherever you are going and feel at all uncomfortable about the amount of make up you are wearing, you can rectify the situation in a restroom.

