 This design uses a base color and an accent color. The first color listed is your main house color, and the second color is your accent house color.


Gryffindor: Red and Gold
Hufflepuff: Black and Yellow
Ravenclaw: Blue and Bronze (books) or Blue and Silver (films)
Slytherin: Green and Silver

, This design will create alternating thick and thin stripes. Your first stripe will be a thick one, using your main house color. The main house colors are listed below as such:


Gryffindor: Red
Hufflepuff: yellow
Ravenclaw: Blue
Slytherin: Green

, You can use a stockinette stitch or a garter stitch. The stockinette stitch is alternating rows of knits and purls. It is knit on one side, and bumpy on the other. The garter stitch is knitting on each row. It will give you a bumpy texture on both sides.
 Once you reach the end of the row, cut your yarn down to 4 to 6 inches (10.16 to 15.24 centimeters). Set the yarn aside, and pick up your accent color. The accent colors are as listed below:

Gryffindor: Gold
Hufflepuff: Black
Ravenclaw: Bronze (books) or Silver (films)
Slytherin: Silver(films)

, Use the same stitch as you did for your main house color: stockinette or garter. Be sure to leave behind a 4 to 6-inch (10.16 to 15.24-centimeter) tail when you start knitting., Once you reach the end of the second row, cut your accent color down to 4 to 6 inches (10.16 to 15.24 centimeters). Pick up your accent color., Once again, leave a 4 to 6-inch (10.16 to 15.24-centimeter) tail at the start of the first row and the end of the second one. This will create a distinctive double-stripe seen on the house scarves in the later films.
 Most scarves are about 60 inches (152.4 centimeters) long. Repeat the pattern listed below:


20 rows in your main color
2 rows in your accent color
2 rows in your main color
2 rows in your accent color

, Knit two stitches onto your right needle. Use your left needle to pull the first stitch over the second stitch. Slip that first stitch of off your right needle. Keep knitting a stitch, then using your knitting needle to pull the previous stitch off the needle. Stop when you have one stitch left., Once you reach the of the row and have one stitch left, cut your yarn down to 4 to 6 inches (10.16 to 15.24 centimeters). Thread it through the last stitch, then back through the loop. Make a tight knot, then use a yarn needle or a tapestry needle to weave the tail back into the scarf. Trim off any excess yarn., Go back over your scarf where you had the color changes. Tie the tail ends together, then weave them back into the body of the scarf. You can do this with a yarn needle or a tapestry needle. Trim off any excess yarn., Wrap some yarn around your palm three times. Cut the excess yarn off, then snip the bottom of the loop. Use a crochet hook to pull the folded part of all three strands through the bottom corner of your scarf. Pull the tail end of the strands through the loop. Tug on the tail ends to tighten them. This makes one tassel.You can match the tassels to the stripe you are weaving them into. You can also use the other color.
Consider alternating the tassels between your two house colors. Space the tassels about 2 stitches apart.

