 When creating a story, remember that adding more locations and characters increases the time, complexities and cost. For every location you add you have to break down your last set and move your crew, equipment and actors to the new location. For every location you use you have to pay for the right to film there (unless you can get it for free). It's easier to create a low-budget film by making a list of what you already have or can get and basing your story around that.;
, Final Draft ($170) is the standard used by the film industry to write scripts, it will help you format your script into the industry-standard.
 Storyboards can be made with blender 3-D and a Make human plug-in. If you plan to have 3-D production titles or CG in your film blender storyboarding is a good way to go. It's a full-service free 3-D software. Storyboards can be drawn, if you're not good at drawing, sketch it out to the best year ability even if that means stick figures and if need to let someone who is better at drawing redraw it in more detail.
 This is where you do not want to spend too little money. If you go to cheap your film will look cheap that might be what you're going for.


Camera. A good camera for filming low-budget movies is the Canon EOS Rebel T3i $850 or Rebel T2i $750 (there is a difference between T(2/3)i and T(2/3) T(2/3)i is much better).
Camera lens. You will need camera lenses of this size 28 mm lens (wide-angle), 50 mm lens (standard) and 70 mm lens (telephoto) with the lowest f/ number you can afford (nice ones can be found for around $700 a piece). If you use the lens that comes with the camera it will shoot decent video, but you will have to buy a telephoto lens if you need it for a shot.
Sound. You need an audio adapter like JuicedLink CX211 2 XLR ($200), JuicedLink CX231 2 XLR($300) or BeachTek DXA-SLR Dual XLR($400). Whatever adapter you choose make sure it has phantom power with 48 V. You need a shotgun mic and a boom pole a kit with everything you need can be found at b&h video ($550-$1,000).
Lighting. A decent independent film lighting kit can be bought for $500 or less by googling video lighting kit. If your only an extremely low budget tungsten-based film lights can be bought for $20 apiece are less. If you can afford softbox lighting you can bounce light off of the white surface like a poster board to get a softer lighting feel.
Computer. Almost all computers now can handle HD video editing as long as your computer is reasonably fast you should be fine. If you don't have a reasonably fast computer you can buy a very nice computer for last than a $1,000.
Editing. An the upper end of editing software is Adobe premium Pro and Apple Final Cut, but there are many lower-cost software like that would probably do everything you needed to. A list of editing software, many of them free ($0-$700).

Editing software plug-ins. Magic bullet suite will change the look of your film and make it look more professional ($800). Magic bullet mojo($100) or magic bullet looks ($200) are two of the software that you can buy from the suite if you want to change the look and save money (these softwares require certain editing softwares to work).
 Community theaters are in almost every town and have experienced actors ready to add to their experience. Many mid-size cities have acting schools with actors ready to do a film to help build their credits. Beginning actors are likely to work for free or very little if they take you seriously, so do all your pre-planning so they have something to take you seriously for. If you do intend to pay your actors, take into consideration that for Paranormal Activity, the actors were paid $500 each.
 You need a crew to help you with the production. You may have to get family and friends to fill this role. Film graduates are looking for a film to work on straight out of school and are willing to work for very little or for free.
 If one of your characters must have a costume you will either have to buy one in production or make it yourself because at this level you cannot afford to have a costume custom-made.
, If you followed the most it comes out to $7,520 (not including actors or location). This would leave you with $2480 that you could spend on locations, actors, costumes or props.

