 Is it because you like the music or the fashion? Do you adore the style of Siouxsie Sioux or Vampires? This may help to determine what kind of goth you are aiming for.;
, Did you ever look around and notice that not every Goth dresses the same or listens to the same music? Have you ever seen Goths wearing lace or velvet gowns with long gloves and a parasol? This is the look of the Victorian and Romantic goths. If you ever saw a goth decked in Death hawks and combat boots, which mostly resembles DIY (do it yourself) clothes, you may be looking at a death rocker. Some Goths even wear bright neon colors (shocking, right?) with spandex, goggles, and bright crazy hair. This would be a Cyber Goth, or a Goth from the future, in other terms.
 Music is a must. Learn the music and how it influenced many Goths (and yourself). Some good bands to start you off are Siouxsie And The Banshees, The Cure, and Bauhaus. These are the basics, which most Goths tend to listen to a lot. They also know a lot about the song lyrics, meanings, and history of the band. Don't forget to learn the band members' names too! This is important if you ever strike up a conversation with another Goth. Nothing is worse than ending up tongue-tied when talking to a Goth. That gets you the Poser for life reward (CONGRATULATIONS!).
 Like I said, you want a semi-goth look without being totally Goth. To get a Goth look that isn't too drastic, shop at thrift stores and stores like Target and Kohls. Simply buy a pair of combat boots (like Dr. Martens) and pair them with black or blue jeans (beware skinny jeans and skater shoes like Vans or Chucks) and a band tee you made yourself or bought at a concert offline. As far as hair goes, get your hair dyed black or leave it natural, even if it is blonde! Go to places like Claire's Accessories or Spencer's Gifts and look for clip-in hair extensions, or go to any beauty supply store and buy Manic Panic or Beyond The Zone hair dye. Even temporary hair dye works good too! As far as accessories go, simple black or red or purple or whatever color you want rubber bracelets or a pendant necklace with a bat, cross, or even just a long black beaded necklace. Piercings of the ears are great: just avoid piercings in the face. Maybe pierce the nose, if you want. Have fun and don't copy! Be yourself! Be original and creative. Have fun!

, You may think that all Goths do are sit around and cry and cut themselves. This is a stereotype, and to avoid being called a poser, listen to music and crack jokes.When someone makes you mad, just walk away.Smile and be happy!

