 There are many, many Breyer model horses, so most collectors don't try to collect every single one. One way to build a satisfying collection is to choose one size of Breyer model and focus on that. Your horses will all look like they belong in the same place, and you'll still be able to choose from a wide variety of breeds and postures. Here are a few examples:


Traditional models are the largest, and among the most popular.
Mini Whinnies are the smallest, and therefore the cheapest.
Classics, Paddock Pals, and Stablemates are additional popular types, but there are many more.;
, The mold is the metal sculpture made to create a new shape or posture. If you particularly like the shape of a model, try tracking down every horse made from that mold. Horses from the same mold are often decorated with many different paint jobs, so you do not need to sacrifice variety for consistency.


Cigar and Newsworthy are two examples of popular molds.
 If you love Arabians, Highland ponies, Shire horses, or any other breed, consider forming a color-coordinated collection. You can even base your collection around a non-breed-related attribute—such as white feet or a black mane—that is shared by individual horses.


If you own a living horse, try collecting models that look like it.
 Try this if you have money to spare and enjoy a collecting challenge. Breyer releases special limited-edition horses, and you can earn bragging rights among the collector community if you track them down.


Some of the fanciest models are the "Gallery" horses, available in porcelain, bronze, or resin.
 People often collect horses from a certain time period or a certain region. Some collect horses that are famous for a certain sport, such as racing or jumping. This is a fun way to explore your interests and make your collection unique.
 Toy stores might carry recent models. Horse supply stores often stock higher-quality models and holiday specials. If you can't find what you're looking for nearby, order models directly from the Breyer website or other horse model sites.


Compare prices from several places. Online stores tend to be cheaper than physical stores, but not if you have to pay for long-distance shipping.
The Breyer website has a map where you can look up a Breyer store location near you.
 These are often much cheaper, and they are sometimes sold by someone who doesn't know what he or she has. Visit charity shops, yard sales, and other places where you can find used goods. Look up model horses on online used-goods websites.


These horses are often scuffed, damaged, or broken, but they should be significantly cheaper. It's up to you to decide whether the damaged model is still worth collecting.
 These are much like real horse shows, only using models instead! The goods here are usually more expensive than other models, but there's a great selection of top-quality models.


The manufacturer hosts an annual "Breyerfest" as well.
 Breyer models can be quite expensive, averaging about $50 for the larger examples. If you collect the more expensive or rarer models, you might end up paying over $500 for the crown jewel of your collection. Save up and decide in advance how much you're willing to spend.


In general, the larger models are more expensive. If you don't have much to spend, consider collecting small models, such as Mini Whinnies.
 Don't spend your entire budget on a model horse if you don't know how much it's worth, or if you're not sure which model it is. You can find plenty of useful information from identification guides, online videos, the official Breyer website, and online collectors' forums.


Always look up a model's value online before selling it.
 Some types of Breyer horse tend to become valuable over time. If you manage to find one for cheaper than you expect, it might be worth getting it even if you're not certain about the value. If you're lucky, the horse will increase in value over the years, and you'll be able to resell it for more than you paid. Here are examples of models that fit this description:


Limited edition models
Models marked "retiring" in the Breyer catalog. (Try searching online auction sites for sellers who may not be aware of the model's status.)
Models based on a famous horse from competitions, or from a television show.
 There are three rating usually used to describe how "used" a model horse is. You should always inspect the horse when possible to confirm this, to make sure that the seller is telling the truth. These ratings are a good starting point:


LSQ = Live Show Quality. Excellent quality, no damage.
PSQ = Picture Show Quality. Some flaws or damage that can be covered up for display.
"Body" means the horse has serious flaws or damage.
 If you plan on reselling the model, leave it in the original packaging to keep its value high. If you're collecting for your own enjoyment, feel free to remove the packaging so that you can take a better look.


Be careful while unpacking. The wires in the packaging can scrape the horse's sides and leave a mark.
 Keep them on shelves or cabinets free of clutter. Avoid areas where they might have liquid spilled on them, or where they're likely to be knocked off the shelf.


Check that the models will not wobble when touched. Keep unstable models in a separate area, so they don't fall and scratch other models nearby.
 Breyers will melt if left in very hot conditions, such as a car during the summer. Even in cooler temperatures, direct sunlight can cause them to fade or change shape.
 Carefully dust whenever it begins to build up. If a model gets dirty, clean the Breyer horse gently with a damp, soft cloth, plus a little dish-washing liquid if necessary.


Do not use a sponge or an abrasive cleaner. This may damage the model.

