 If you are race walking for fitness or plan to do competitions, it’s important to use proper technique. This can minimize your risk for injury, maximize your workouts, and prevent you from being disqualified during competitions.Consider doing a local workshop or watching a video of proper technique to boost your knowledge of race walking. Working with a professional race walker may provide you with insider tips on maximizing your performance.;
, Keeping your body properly positioned can help maximize your race walking performance. The most optimal posture for race walking is holding your head and body in an upright position with your hips directly underneath you.Let any leaning while you walk come from your ankles. Leaning from your waist can prevent you from rolling your hips, which is a key component of race walking.
Keep your neck and face muscles relaxed.
 Keep your toes pointing forward, and your ankles, knees and hips in the same vertical plane. This will allow you to maintain proper posture in your hips and knees, which can maximize your stride and minimize the risk of injury. It also sets your legs up to propel you into the next step.Lift your foot off the ground, which will cause a slight bend in your knee. Keep the other foot on the ground at all times—this is the primary way race walking differs from running. You must maintain contact with the ground at all times.Place your bent knee and foot back on the ground as you begin to push forward with the other foot and ankle.
 Straighten your bent knee as you place your foot on the ground. Using the momentum you have, keep the forward leg straight as you begin to push forward with the opposite foot and ankle. You should feel a slight pulling action in your front leg, especially in the hamstring, with this movement.Keep your stride length and quickness at a comfortable level for your body and level of fitness. Readjust them as you improve.
Notice if your straight leg feels as though it’s pushing and pulling the ground underneath and behind you. If you feel this, you’ve got the stride down.
 Allowing your hips to roll as you progress through each stride helps increase your leg turnover. This makes you a faster race walker. This action is unique to race walking and it may take some time to become accustomed to it.Let your hips move as you walk. As you place a leg on the ground, the hip connected to it will rise slightly, driving you forward. As you raise the back leg and knee, the hip connected to it will fall slightly. The turning action comes as your exchange legs and keep moving forward.Avoid swinging your hips out to the side, which can cause injury., Hold your arms at a 90-degree angle and pump them vigorously in conjunction with your strides. This can help maintain your speed, maximize your strides and propel you forward.Hold your hands at the midpoint of your chest, but no higher than breast level.
Avoid tightening or hunching your shoulders when you swing your arms. This can waste considerable energy and may have a negative impact on your stride.
 You can race walk anywhere—indoors or outdoors—and you don’t need any special equipment or clothing.However, consider wearing gear—shoes and clothing—to get the most benefits from your race walking.Make sure you wear a pair of comfortable and flexible shoes. Most race walkers wear running shoes that combine cushioning and stability.
Put on clothing that fits where you are walking. For example, a sweat wicking tank would be great in the summer, and a long-sleeved merino t-shirt can ward off chills in the fall.
 Race walking training often looks much like that of a distance runner.In fact, you can race walk distances from 1 mile to 50 kilometers (30 miles). Figuring out a plan for yourself can build your fitness and improve your race walking performance. You should mix hard and easy days with periods of rest for maximum training benefits. An example of a race walking workout schedule, which you can modify to fit your lifestyle, is:Sunday: rest or recovery day with no activity or light activity.
Monday: economy workout, which is a fast-paced workout to build your speed. For example, you might walk at a fast pace for 20 to 30 minutes on these days.
Tuesday: easy workout to let your body recover. For example, you might walk at a moderate or slow pace for 30 minutes.
Wednesday: threshold workout that pushes your aerobic capacity and takes you to your limit. For example, you might walk for 30 to 60 minutes at a very fast pace.
Thursday: light recovery workout. Walk at a moderate or slow pace for 20 to 30 minutes
Friday: threshold workout, consider adding a few intervals. Walk for 30 to 60 minutes alternating between a moderate pace and a fast pace.
Saturday: distance workout that is slower and allows you to go for a longer distance and time. For example, you might walk for 60 to 90 minutes at a moderate pace.
 Before you start your race walking workout, it’s important to warm up your body. This can prepare your joints and muscles for the workout and minimize your risk of injury.Start with a slow five minute walk.
Follow up with warmup drills for 30 to 40 seconds each. Some drills you can do include: rotating your shoulders, doing arm circles, stepping quickly, and extending your leg long behind you. Hip circles, limited range of motion squats, and lunges are also good warmup exercises.
 If you are race walking for fitness or even competitions, follow your workout plan as much as possible. You may need to adjust it as you improve. In addition, take rest or easy days if you are sick and feeling fatigued. Sticking to your plan can help you improve your form and maximize your results.Scale back your workouts if you are sick and have symptoms above the neck such as runny nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, or a minor sore throat.Give yourself rest days if you have a fever, fatigue, or widespread muscle aches.
Revise your workout plan if you don’t feel it is challenging you any longer or you’ve made noticeable improvement.
 Cooling your body down after a workout is as important for you as warming it up. It decreases body temperature, can loosen tight muscles, and help you make process in your race walking.Walk for 5 to 10 minutes at an easy pace at the end of your workout., Stretching is an important part of any cool down. It helps loosen your tight muscles, increase range of motion, and prevents injury. Perform any of the following stretches for 20 to 30 seconds, or until you feel your muscles elongate without pain:Calf stretch.
Shin stretch.
Hamstring stretch.
Quads stretch.
Hip stretch.
Groin stretch.
Shoulder stretch.
 Just as recovery is an important component of your workout, so is rest. Give yourself at least one full day of rest each week. You’ll also need to make sure you’re getting 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night.This helps your body recover and build endurance and muscle that you need to race walk.

