 The game is most enjoyable when the resource pack is enabled. If you do not accept the download when it prompts you, you'll not be able to see any of the custom items such as:


Custom Gun Textures
Custom Ammo Textures
Car Textures

, When you first join the GTA world you'll spawn at the main GTA lobby arena. In order to play you need to teleport to the city, where you will be able to start your survival on the streets. To teleport to the city right away, just walk over to the Train Station and click any of the buttons; you'll be randomly teleported to a location on the map.
 One of the most important things to do in this game type is collect loot. You'll find all sorts of stuff in chests like this which will help you survive on the streets. For example you will find guns, cars and ammo in these chests. There are thousands of loot crates like this placed around the whole map. Loot chests will repopulate with items after 30 minute intervals.
 Having a gun in your possession is critical, as the main focus of this game is guns; if you don't have a gun you'll most likely just keep getting killed by other players until you find one, unless you're good at hiding. You can get guns from Loot Chests or from the Gun Shop. You can get to the Gun Shop by typing /spawn in chat. Note that you will need to earn some money before you can buy a gun.
 You can make money on Grand Theft Auto by selling unwanted loot that you find from the loot chests. To sell unwanted loot you need to pay a visit to the Pawn Shop which is located in the spawn area too, which you can access by using the /spawn command. The Pawn Shop is very easy to use; you simply drag the items from your inventory into the shop inventory to sell the items.
 If you want to drive a car all you need to do is find a minecart; you can buy one or find one in the loot chests. Unlike regular Minecraft, you can use a minecart on any surface - it does not have to be on a rail track to drive on this server. You can freely drive around in your minecarts and they work just like cars in real life. You can also shoot while driving if you have a gun in your hand.
 The purpose of the Bank is too keep your precious loot safe. If you find something that you don't want to lose then it's best to put it in the bank, that way if you get killed you don't lose everything all the time. The bank is located in the spawn area but you can use the command /warp bank. You use the Ender Chests that are in the bank to store the items.

