 Lye can cause burns. Wear chemical-resistant gloves and safety glasses whenever you're working with lye, and don't use an olive vat made of plastic or anything made out of metal (even lids, since the lye dissolves metal).Do not use the lye curing method if children might come anywhere near the olives or the solution.
Complete the process in a well-ventilated room. Open the windows and turn on a fan to increase the airflow.
 This method works best for large olives, such as Seville olives. It may be used for either green or ripe olives. Pick out the damaged or bruised olives and sort the olives by size, if desired.
 Again, do not use a metal container; a large glass or ceramic. container is best.
 Pour one gallon of water into a lye-resistant container. To the water, add 2 ounces of lye. The solution will immediately heat up. Cool it to 65 to 70ʡF (18 to 21ʡC) before you add it to the olives.


Always add lye to water; never add water to lye. It will cause an explosive reaction.
Use exact measurements. Using too much lye will be detrimental to the olives; too little and they won't cure properly.
 Cover the olives completely with the lye solution. Use a plate to weigh the olives down so they don't get exposed to air, which would cause them to darken in color. Cover the container with cheesecloth.
 For the first eight hours, just stir the mixture and recover it when you're finished. After eight hours, start checking the olives to see whether the lye has penetrated to the pits. While wearing chemical-resistant gloves, pick a few of the largest olives. If they are easy to cut to the pit, with soft, yellowish green flesh all the way through, the olives are ready. If the flesh is still pale at the center, submerge them and try again in a few hours.


Make sure you never handle the olives with your bare hands. If you don't have chemical-resistant gloves, use a spoon to remove the olives and run them under cold water for several minutes before checking lye penetration.
 If the olives are very green, the lye may not penetrate to the pits after 12 hours. If this is the case, drain the olives and cover them with a fresh lye solution. After another 12 hours, do the same if the lye still hasn't penetrated to the pits.
 Change the water at least two times a day. This process washes the olives and gives the lye time to seep back out. Each time you change the water, it will look lighter color.
 If it's sweet and fatty, with no bitterness or soapy flavor, proceed to the next step. If it still tastes of lye, continue the soaking and rinsing process until the olives taste mild and the water rinses clear.
 Place the olives in a glass storage container. Mix 6 tablespoons pickling salt in a gallon of water and pour it over the olives to cover them. Let the olives cure for a week, at which point they're ready to eat. Store the olives in the refrigerator in their brine for up to a few weeks.

