 You should always wash your face before using a pore strip. Washing removes dirt and oil. Using warm water will also open up your pores. It is particularly important to remove makeup before applying the pore strips.By opening up your pores, warm water will make it easier for the pore strip to attach to dirt inside the pores. Thus you can pull it out and prevent blackheads from forming.
 For these pore strips, you will need the egg white specifically, which can be difficult to separate from the yolk. Consider saving yourself the trouble and purchase egg white that has already been separated.


Alternatively, you can use an egg white separator. Crack the egg and let it run through the separator. The yolk will get caught in the separator and the white will flow through. Have a container underneath to catch the egg white.
You can also break the egg into a bowl. Use your hands to gently pick up the yolk and move it to a separate container., Put egg white in a small bowl and place a large piece of two-ply toilet paper or paper towel in the bowl. It is imperative that the paper be thoroughly soaked in egg white.


Alternatively, you can use a makeup brush to spread the egg white directly on your face, stick the paper on your face, and then use the paper to apply an additional layer of egg white on top., A large piece of paper can be spread across your entire face, or at least most of it. This will allow you to get a lot of blackheads at the same time. Be especially careful to target problem areas, where you have or are experiencing blackheads.
 The paper should harden, so that it sticks to your face. This might take anywhere from 10-20 minutes.There is no need to tear the paper up into thin sheets, like store bought pore strips. You can use one large paper towel or piece of toilet paper to cover much of your face. This makes the process quicker and easier.
 After approximately 10-20 minutes, slowly remove the paper from your face. Start from the edge when peeling it off. Do not pull it off so quickly that you hurt yourself., After removing the strip, rinse your face with cold water. It is possible that small pieces of the pore strip will stick to your face if you do not wash. After you wash, apply moisturizer to your face.You should use cold water when washing after removing the pore strip. Cold water will close your pores.

