 The greatest way to boost your employee’s productivity is to provide them with all of the information they need to meet their responsibilities. Further, the more information they have, the more they will be able to make their own decisions. In turn, this can make your whole team more productive.As their boss or manager, you probably have experience, training, and insight into how and why your business runs the way it does. By sharing this information with your employees, they will not only work better on their own, they’ll also rely on you less.
In short, clearly articulate the objectives of their position, as well as what their contribution is meant to accomplish.;
, Providing an employee with additional information is especially important whenever your employees have questions or concerns. Whether questions or concerns are asked directly, or you can tell that some employees are unsure with certain elements of their position, address any need for additional information as soon as you can., By giving your employees more information about what you need them to do and allowing them some freedom to take their own approach, they may even figure out new ways to perform certain tasks more productively. In short, don’t make them go through your, or follow your specific instructions, if they’re ultimately getting the job done with the parameters you’ve defined.Remember that they don’t work for you, they work for the business.
 To be sure, you’ll want to check in frequently with new staff members. For instance, ask them how they feel about their position, and if they have any questions about what’s expected of them. However, once they’ve demonstrated that they’re capable of meeting your expectations, give them the space to do so without interruption., Depending on your business, consider having your employees update you on what they’re working on in weekly or monthly one-on-one meetings. This will give you the chance to provide guidance, but still allow them to focus on accomplishing their tasks.When you do give advice, be as specific and as action-oriented as possible. For instance, say things like, “It seemed to really work well when you ran the analysis that way. Try starting with that approach first for a while, and see if we don’t see results right off the bat.”

