 Dehydration is a common cause of headaches, so make sure you're getting enough water. Carry a water bottle with you wherever you go and take small sips when you feel thirsty. Drink water with meals instead of soda or other beverages. Each time you see a water fountain, stop and take a drink.Make sure to drink water during activities that cause dehydration, like working out.
 Low blood sugar can cause headaches, so eating more frequently can help you stay headache free. Opt to eat small meals throughout the day rather than three larger meals.To break up meals, try having one piece of fruit and a hardboiled egg as soon as you wake up. Then, have another egg later in the morning as well as a piece of toast or half a bagel. Continue this pattern throughout the day.
 Certain foods may help with headaches while others can make headaches more likely. Eating a diet rich in healthy fruits and vegetables can help reduce your headaches.Green, orange, and yellow vegetables have been shown to reduce headaches for some. Other foods that help with headaches include brown rice and dry non-citrus fruits.
Dairy products, chocolate, eggs, citrus fruit, meat, wheat, tomatoes, corn, onions, apples, and bananas can worsen headaches for some.
Some studies indicate foods high in magnesium help prevent headaches, so go for options like tofu, olive oil, spinach, and sunflower and pumpkin seeds., A headache can mean you need rest. If you're overdoing it at work or with physical tasks, you may end up with a headache. Throughout your day, make a habit of taking a break when necessary to avoid getting a headache from overexertion.If it's possible, try lying down in a dark ventilated room for 10 minutes if you feel a headache coming on. This can help reduce symptoms.
 Too much stress can lead to headaches brought on by anxiety. If you're feeling a lot of stress, find ways to reduce stress in your life. In addition to lessening headaches, reducing stress can make you happier overall.Try looking up meditation or relaxation routines online. You can also look into taking a meditation class.
Reach out to others. Make a habit of socializing regularly, as support from friends and family members can help reduce stress.
If you're struggling to manage stress, talk to a therapist. If stress is taking over your life, it may be a symptom of an underlying mental health condition.
 If you're not getting enough sleep, this can cause headaches. Make a habit of going to bed early each night so you get enough sleep for the coming day.Adults generally need between seven and nine hours of sleep a night.If you have trouble sleeping, work on establishing a sleep routine. Make a habit of doing something relaxing each night before bed to wind down, like reading or taking a warm bath.
 Aerobic exercise can reduce headaches. It can also lessen stress, which is also a common cause of headaches. If you don't already workout regularly, incorporate regular aerobic exercise into your routine.Pick an activity you enjoy so you'll stick with it. If you love long walks, for example, try to go power walking a few times a week.
If your'e very busy, find ways to incorporate your workout routine into your daily schedule. For example, bike to work instead of driving or taking public transportation.

