 Phobias are characterized be excessive fear for ordinary things. Because siren sounds are not inherently problematic, if you have a fear of sirens, there is a decent chance that you have a phobia. That said, it is important to receive an official diagnosis from a qualified medical health professional.;
, Phobic individuals, when exposed to what they are afraid of, tend to have intense physical and psychological reactions that may impede their ability to function day to day.A fear of sirens would fall into the diagnostic category of a specific phobia.
 It makes the most sense to seek treatment for your phobia if it is bothering you and is something you want removed or if it is something that interferes with your normal functioning.Examples of ways that a fear of sirens may interfere with your functioning is if you hide from the sirens and end up being late for work, or if you avoid certain streets or intersections and miss out on eating at restaurants you would otherwise like to.
 Specific phobias such as a fear of sirens involves an irrational and persistent fear of sirens that is out of proportion to the actual danger to you by sirens or the things sirens are associated with. More specifically, symptoms of phobias include: A feeling of panic or dread when exposed to sirens.
A feeling that you must do everything you can to avoid sirens.
Abnormal functioning due to your fear (e.g., missing work because you avoided sirens).
Sweating, rapid heart beat and/or breathing, in response to sirens.
You may know that your fear is irrational but be just as afraid nonetheless.
Sometimes people have more than one specific phobia, so ask yourself if you find yourself to be excessively afraid of things other than sirens - this could be other loud sounds or things totally unrelated.
 Actually, much about what causes phobias is unknown. There may be somewhat of a genetic disposition to acquire phobias, given that they sometimes run in the family (however, shared environments may account for some of this association).Because the causes are mostly unknown, try not to beat yourself up over having your fear. Do not blame yourself or others, but instead seek treatment and ways to overcome your phobia.
 Usually people who are afraid of sirens are the ones who cannot stand loud noises or screeching more broadly. Since sirens out in the world are relatively rare, you may more quickly get over your fear of them if you exposure yourself to other loud sounds that are more common. Go outside looking for loud sounds and, for your comfort, bring a pair of noise canceling headphones. Try to listen to the loud sound you find for 1 second, then 2 seconds, then 3, then 4, then 5, until it no longer scares you. Examples of loud sounds you might seek out include:


A construction site
Traffic noises
A train station
A busy store

, When sirens occur, some people will think a fire is started or someone is hurt. However, try to keep in mind that this danger (while sad) doesn't concern you. Rest assured that there are professionals whose job it is to fix situations in which sirens and speeding vehicles are involved.


To avoid thinking about the dangers associated with sirens, try focusing your mind on something else entirely, such as a calm or soothing word like peace our tranquility.
 Usually hip hop, R&B music has sirens in it; since the sirens are coming from music, and not from out in the world, this can be a good way to gradually exposure yourself to this anxiety-provoking sound.There are plenty of options to stream music for free on the web, including YouTube, Songza, and Spotify.
 This will only increase your fear of sirens because you will never get the chance to learn that sirens actually aren't dangerous.Although easier said than done of course, there are a couple of ways you can stop yourself from avoiding sirens:


Try to remind yourself by saying in your head over and over "there is nothing to fear, I will never get over my fear if I don't face it."
Try to "bind" yourself so that you can't avoid sirens. Don't literally bind yourself in place, but instead, bring a friend along a path where you will encounter sirens and ask them to encourage you not to run away should you hear a siren.
 Talking to a qualified mental health professional may be beneficial for you. These individuals are trained to deal with those who have phobias and other psychological issues they wish to overcome.


To find a psychologist near you, try this website: http://locator.apa.org/


, The goal of taking medications is to reduce your anxiety and fear so that can function normally despite your phobia. There are a few different relevant medications you might be prescribed: Beta blockers. These medications block the physiological stress response induced by adrenaline (e.g., increased heart rate, elevated blood pressure).
SSRIs. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) work to increase levels of serotonin in some parts of the brain; serotonin is a neurotransmitter thought to affect mood state.
Sedatives. These drugs help you relax and reduce your anxiety levels. However, they should be used with caution because they can be addictive.
 This therapy involves being in the presence of the thing you fear in a controlled environment with a trained professional who will guide you through dealing with your intense emotions. The logic of this therapy is that, once you survive being in the presence of the thing you so fear, without any injury to you whatsoever, you will begin to lose your fear of that thing.


Exposure therapy tends to be done gradually. For example, you may be first asked to merely think about a siren, and then you may be asked to listen to a siren for 1 second, then 2 seconds etc.
 This involves learning different ways to think about sirens. The purpose of this is to try to re-train your brain to see sirens in a new light, so that you do not fear them as much.Remember that there is no need to keep your treatment confined to a single approach; in fact, you may most effectively be treated by combining therapy and medication.

