 This will allow you to enter the site.;
, Enter your username and password, then click the login button.



After you've logged in, you will see the list of icons, such as your username, notifications and bank. Click “Edit profile."
Another way to access your profile page is by going to your profile. Click the small, camera icon. This will load the page with the entire information you've provided Bubblews.
, The next thing you can edit is your header color. The options are red, yellow, midnight blue, baby blue, and faded blue.
 The information you are asked to enter here is your name, gender, age, and location. All of these can be filled in by simply selecting the box next to the one you would like to edit and entering your information.


The only exception to this is the gender option. It is represented by two bubbles; one that says male and one that says female, simply select the right one.
 These include your telephone numbers, website, and email address. If you want to change your email address you will need to retype it to confirm it on the box below the email box.
 The final thing you can edit under “My Account” is changing your password. Select a new password and type in what you would like it to be. Then you must confirm it directly below that box.


After you are done with the last option under “My Account” select the yellow box underneath the password spot that says “Submit Account Changes” to confirm your changes.



The tabs under here read “First Name, Last Name, Address, City, State, and Zip Code. When you are finished entering in the information just click the yellow “Submit Address Change” button. This is right below the Zip Code option and will save your changes.
 You will see your default picture in the box below “Profile Picture.” To change your picture, you need to select the gray box that says “Choose File.”


This will allow you to search through your computer for a new profile picture. When you have your picture selected click on the yellow “Submit This Avatar” button.
 This is one box that read “Biography.”


Use this box to describe yourself, what you like to do and what you will be writing about. This way, other Bubblews members will see who you are and the kinds of posts you will write.
When you have finished typing your Biography, submit it by clicking the“Submit Bio Change” button.

