 Find a nice peaceful place away from the hustle and bustle, this is important for any group size, but it should be a place that the kids can associate with as a peaceful and safe place. Large echoing halls such as the school gym, or busy places like the classroom or kitchen at home will be too distracting as it becomes difficult to associate the place as somewhere to relax. In a school environment, empty classrooms with a good carpet are usually the best option. The outside environment, such as a park or playground works far better for children than adults, but only when it's a suitable time.;
, Introduce a name for the meditation if necessary. In some instances, children don't know what meditation is, or have an idea based on cultural media and may feel meditation is strange or frightening, or they feel that they are somehow different if they meditate. This often can be an obstacle, regardless of a persons' age, so success often has been found in giving it another name, such as "chill out time", "creative thinking" or whatever the context suits.


Generally, children are very good meditators when they are adept at letting go, but also the hardest to teach. Adults often take up meditation as a personal choice, or on recommendation by their health care professional. Children tend not to see the benefits until they are much older.
The best option in this case is music based relaxations. Provide the child with some peaceful tracks on an MP3, or similar format, which is discreet and can be used at any time.
 Generally kids do best in guided meditation formats until they have had enough familiarity, or confidence, to be independent. It can often be impractical for children to stay with a meditation object - such as breath awareness - without assistance to keep them on track, as even for adults distractions are never too far away. In practice variety is the spice of life that can build this confidence.


Likewise, the duration is important. Quality is much more important than quantity because if meditation seems like a chore then it is unlikely to be of any benefit, or taken up and practiced in the future as a relaxation skill or personal development. 5 to 10 minutes is ideal for beginners, but again be flexible.
 While kids do well at "sleeping" posture meditations, they can be so tired, especially when they have exams at school, that they end up falling asleep. This usually is a sign they are in need of actual rest, but short sleep times have been known to affect nighttime sleep patterns, as well as training the mind to sleep rather than meditate. A chair, sitting comfortably on a cushion, or an exercise mat are the best choices for beginners.


Meditation, unless it is used specifically as a means to fall asleep, requires a steady balance of relaxation, awareness (or mental engagement) and sufficient, but not excessive energy.
 Ideally children should not be in arms reach of each other, or next to their friends or disliked class mates, likewise siblings in a home environment. This is logically so the opportunity to be distracted and disturb others is reduced. This may mean you or your partner should sit between them if necessary at home. This is all to ensure the best environment is available.


Few things are as counterproductive to meditation as giggling or playing around, so strategic thinking is important in a class context. Meditation and trust have a very close relationship.
 There is a huge resource online so there is an endless variety, but the following examples are similar to most styles.


Building a peaceful "mind palace". This method is ideal for tension or anxiety type stress. Invite the meditator to imagine themselves in front of a closed door, to which they hold the key in their hand. On the other side of this door is a place they can feel safe and can unwind. Ask them to describe the door to themselves and, once they go through their door, what it is like on the other side. Ask them to observe and explore this special place. Many meditators see different things, such as a warm cosy room with rugs and a big chair, some imagine a park, the beach or a space in the clouds. This space should be respected as their private place that only they should know, as it serves as a place of personal retreat. Instruct them to imagine a comfortable chair in which once they sit, is fully relaxing and eases away any pain and stress. After some time - 5 minutes is good for a beginner, they can imagine getting up, full of energy and happiness and they can come out of the meditation but walking to the door and through it.
Imagine resting in a beautiful field, and then floating up into the sky where one can fly free like a bird. The meditator can soar over the flowers and dance amongst the clouds. This style is useful for low energy and morale.
Imagine a forest stream, with the sounds of flowing water and birds. This is useful for general relaxation.
Body Relaxation. Start at the feet and ask them to tense their feet for a second or two, then as they breath out, they relax their feet. This can be expanded next to their legs, then their lower middle body, then their upper middle, then their arms and finally their head and necks. This should be done slowly over the course of ten minutes and ask them to be aware of each relaxation and the difference between the two stages.
Breath meditation. This one has plenty of variations, one can imagine breathing in colours, light or breathing out with the notion of relaxing and being at ease.
Incorporate meditation as an activity, such as floating in the water (while supervised), painting or drawing, or as an improvised dance form, which is popular with young children under 10.
 This specifically trains the meditator to recognise what works best for them.

