 In order to start training for the rigors of BUD/s and the Navy you have to know where you're at physically. To do this, you can take a PST. The PST (Physical Screening Test) is administered by the Navy to see if you have what it takes physically to complete the training. You can take a mock PST at home. All you need is a timer and access to a swimming pool.;
, The first event of the PST is the 500 yard swim. You can swim this using either breaststroke, or CSS (Combat Side Stroke, the recommended stroke). The current minimum time to qualify for a contract is twelve and a half minutes. A competitive score is around eight minutes.
 The second event is pushups. You must perform as many as possible in two minutes. Minimum score is 50, a competitive score is between 80-100.
 The third event is sit ups. It will be done with the same time as pushups. Minimum and competitive scores are the same as well.
 The fourth event is pull ups. This will be from full hang to your chin above the bar. You must perform 8, a competitive score is closer to 20. There is no time limit but you may not let go or touch the ground.
 The final portion is the 1.5 mile run. You must complete it in ten minutes thirty seconds. A competitive score is between nine and ten minutes. This will be performed in pants and boots.
 After you have taken your PST you can look at where you did well and where you need to improve to help form a plan.
 The U.S. Navy has built a Personal Training Guide (PTG), that is designed to help you ace your real PST for a contract. It is highly recommended to follow this program as it is designed by Navy Staff and BUD/s instructors, tailored to a SEAL candidate. The link to this is in the tips section.
 Most agree that running is both the most worrisome and taxing thing in BUD/s. This is because you will be running huge distances over the course of the day. Because of this you need a solid base of running before reaching BUD/s. This will help prevent injury.
 Another highly used option is to read the works by a former US Navy SEAL, Stew Smith. He has written multiple books on the subject and helps train aspiring Special Operations candidates, polices, and other national heroes.
 To succeed in BUD/s you must have an unfaltering desire to become a US Navy SEAL. If there is any doubt you will quit in BUD/s.
 By working hard you are paving the road for success.

