 If you break up with or reject someone, there is a strong likelihood that you will never get back together, even if you change your mind at a later point. The damage is almost always irreversible. With this in mind, it's crucial you know for sure that you don't want to have this girl as a romantic part of your life. If you need to take some time to figure out for sure, it's a good idea to wait.


Your decision to break up shouldn't be decided by how much she apparently needs you in her life. That's unfair to the both of you. ;
, Properly wording and navigating a rejection counts on knowing the reasons why you want to go through with it. Offering firm reasons why it won't work out will make you feel more resolute in your choice. Besides that, it will make it easier to word your rejection directly, without falling back on vagueness.


If it helps, try to put your feelings into words. Making a quick list of reasons could make things easier, particularly if you're torn between rejecting her or not.
 Anticipating how a girl will react is the most important part of planning a rejection. Chances are likely you have a good idea what this girl is like, and how she might react if you go through with the break-up. Is she going to respond to it well? How important do you think you are to her? Is she shy and passive, or aggressive and assertive? Before you even get to wording your break-up, you should muster a strong indication what her reaction will be.


Consider the possibility you might be giving yourself too much credit, or underestimating the girl's self-confidence. If you give a girl some credit yourself and assume things will go more smoothly than you're fearing, you'll probably be right in your assumption.
If you know anything about her past break-up experiences (if any), these may be a solid indicator of what you can expect this time.
 Choosing the right time to reject the girl plays into the situation as well. If the girl's family just died in a car accident, letting her know you want to break up (no matter how kindly) is going to add fuel to a big fire. If you're on regular speaking terms with her, you should try to make sure that there's nothing super stressful happening in her life. This includes more routine stressors like midterm examinations or a new job.


If you're anyway unsure how she's feeling, you can always ask "How have you been doing lately?"
Don't confuse major stressors with truly routine stuff. No one's life is free from problems, and if you wait too long for the perfect moment, you'll probably be waiting a very, very long time.