 You'll need to figure out how you're going to dress yourself, whether you are going to make each garment or shop around for some look-a-likes. If you're a diehard fan and you have time, you can either make your garments or buy them off eBay from professional costume makers. You'll need, at minimum:


a white shirt with moderately loose sleeves (A man's dress shirt works very well!)
pinstripe pants (Blue ones are much harder to find, but black works fine.)
a brown vest (This might be a little harder to find and it might be best to make it. Try to give it a rough, worn out look!)
black boots
grey and black scarf;
,, Gather the suggested colors and carefully study closeups of Johnny Depp's character make up.


Start with applying red/copper around your eyes. Cover the top lid with a layer of brown, then a layer of black/charcoal.
Use some of the black/charcoal to give your eyebrows an angry but pleading expression.
Take some of the brown and black/charcoal and build up value on your cheeks to give a hollowed look.
Try to find a cream or powder to give yourself pale skin

, Sideburns can be added last.
 Sweeney has some long ones, keep in mind.
 Hair is a bit more challenging. For people with long hair, you'll need to use a lot of bobby pins and "snap" clips to put your hair up in crazy curls. Using a curling iron is a good idea! White hair paint can be bought at party stores to help you get that skunk look. For people with medium length hair, it should be curled,teased and tousled to look insane. A streak of white can't be forgotten! Don't forget to invest in a very strong hairspray.
 Accessories are fantastic for this character. Some good ones to look for are a nice leather razor holster, grey knit or leather fingerless gloves, a large belt with hip rag, and a razor.
 Practice your Sweeney attitude by sulking around and staring off into space. Keep a sad, but vengeful look on your face and don't speak much. If you must speak, talk in a very monotonous and low tone. Practice your angry yell and general empty feelings.
 If you intend on singing, you can do two things. One, mouth the words, or two, use your own voice. Make sure you carry around something that can play music!

