 A martini must be properly chilled for the best taste. Place the martini glasses, the shaker or stir glass, and the bottle of gin in the freezer for at least a half hour.Classic martinis typically use gin, though some recipes replace it with vodka. You can use whichever option you prefer, but be sure to choose a high quality alcohol to ensure the best taste.;
, Hold a 1-inch (2.5 cm) or larger ice cube against the palm of your hand, and hit it with a metal spoon to crack it into large pieces. Crack enough ice to fill the chilled shaker glass.If you’re cracking the ice while the glasses, shaker, and alcohol are still chilling, make sure to place it in the freezer after cracking until you’re ready to use it.
 Lemon is a traditional garnish for classic martinis. Use a sharp knife to remove a 1-inch (2.5 cm) strip of the peel. Try to cut off as little of the white pith under the peel as possible.Olives are another traditional garnish for martinis, so you can substitute one or two olives for the lemon peel in your martini if you prefer.
 Once the glass shaker is chilled, fill it with the cracked ice. Pour 4 ounces (120 ml) of gin over the ice, and then add 1 ounce (30 ml) of dry vermouth.Dry vermouth is perishable so make sure that you store it in the refrigerator.
 When all of the ingredients are in the shaker, you can stir or shake them to ensure that they’re fully combined and chilled. Stir or shake the martini until the outside of the shaker becomes frosty, which should take at least 30 seconds.While famous fictional spy James Bond prefers his martinis “shaken, not stirred,” many mixologists prefer stirring because they feel shaking dilutes the drink and leaves it cloudy. You may want to try it both ways and see which you prefer.
Whether you stir or shake the martini, try to touch the outside of the shaker as little as possible so the mixture stays cold. When shaking, place your hands just on the top and bottom of the shaker.
If you’re stirring the martini, you’ll need to stir it approximately 50 times.
 When the martini is properly combined and chilled, use a Hawthorne strainer or a large slotted spoon to strain it into a chilled martini glass. Make sure that none of the ice makes its way into the glass., After you’ve strained the martini into the glass, twist the lemon strip that you cut over the glass to express the oils. Next, rub the peel along the rim of the glass.If you plan to use olives as a garnish in place of the lemon peel, place one or two on a toothpick to ready them.
 Once you’ve rubbed the lemon peel around the rim of the glass, make sure that it’s still twisted. Drop it into the martini so it floats in the drink.If you’re using olives instead, place the toothpick with them on it into the glass. They won’t float, so you may want to hook them on the rim.
 If there is any excess martini left in the shaker after you strain it for serving, strain the remainder into a regular glass. Place the glass in a bowl full of ice so it will remain chilled until you’re ready to drink or serve the rest.

