 You actually need to purchase the the Coinvexed® trick. It can be bought from a magic shop or off the internet. The current version, Coinvexed 3® - The Third Generation - retails for £90 ($150 USD), but if you are a dedicated magician, you will be accustomed to this type of price tag. The looks of astonishment resulting from the trick are priceless and the coin bending implement can be expected to last a very long time, so, maybe, £90 is not such a high price tag.

You can likely find a cheaper price through judicious purchasing, that is, by shopping around.
You can choose to buy earlier versions of the magic apparatus which will probably have been used. There are two earlier models— Coinvexed 2® and the original version. Do know that the later versions are said to be incremental design improvements over the preceding generation.This means that the earlier versions will get the job done nearly as well.
It is probable that the earlier, used versions will come without the DVD that explains the showmanship and gives multiple angles of the actual trick being performed, so it is best to ask if the DVD is included before you buy a used product or assume that it will not be. It is not such a big deal not having the DVD (which is padded a bit with showmanship) because all you need to know will be provided in this article.

First and foremost, the DVD is a promotional tool to get you primed about the prospect of amazing and delighting your friends and neighbors. Still, use the fact (read line) that the trick comes without an essential (not really) part to leverage the price down. - Your parents would be so proud if they knew (or maybe not).;
, Once the package arrives, take everything out and examine the contents to make sure everything is included and has arrived undamaged.
 When you open the trick, you should get a Sharpie with a metal lid that looks like a Sharpie lid. The metal lid will have a slit in the top and you will also get a metal object that you can stick coins to. Stick the coins to the pile and place the false lid on a Sharpie pen, colour of your choice.
,,, The coin shouldn't fall and, if you do it properly, the coin should bend.


While you are bending the coin, make sure the viewer is doing something else, like signing a card for an *upcoming trick*.
 At this point they should believe the coin isn't bent yet.
