 As hard as it may be: keep your head held high, and keep on walking. The words of homophobes do not at all reflect who you are – they speak to the intolerance of the homophobe. You don't need to meet anyone's standards, and you don't need to try to be someone you're not. To conquer the haters, you must believe that you can, even though it may seem impossible at times., Homophobes can be bullies. When a homophobe is acting aggressively, you cannot show that it hurts you. All they want is a reaction. If you show a bully that they hurt you, they'll keep going because that's the reaction that they wanted in the first place. It may hurt to hear the things that they say or see the things that they do. However, if you stay strong and don't let the bully see that they've affected you negatively, there's a good chance that they'll back off., If someone shouts something homophobic at you, don't let it get to you. Try smiling and blowing a kiss at them. Don't act how they want you to act. If your reaction makes them uncomfortable, you may find it easier to laugh about the situation. Laughing off intolerance won't necessarily change the situation, but it may make it easier to carry on with your life.
 Surround yourself with friends who are accepting and unprejudiced. Standing up for what's right can be a heavy task, and it can be very draining. Make sure you have a solid support system of friends to whom you don't need to justify yourself. At the end of the day, we all need a safe place to let our guard down.
 If you don't have to see this homophobe often, or if you're feeling particularly daring: come out to them. People may try to retrace their steps to undo the intolerant things they've said. You may even change their mind. Remember that doing this may put you in danger or in a very uncomfortable situation. Consider the potential outcomes of coming out.
 Consider taking a self-defense course or studying a martial art so that you are better equipped to deal with violently intolerant people. This is especially important if you live in an area that is known for violence towards homosexuals. You never know when your self-defense knowledge might come in handy.
 If someone is legitimately violating your rights or someone else's rights, you may need to reach out for support. If you're at school, consider speaking with a teacher, a counselor, or any adult who you respect. If the situation gets bad enough, don't be afraid to involve law enforcement. Harassment is a hate crime.


For instance: if a server at a restaurant won't serve you and your significant other, tell their manager and get the owners of the establishment involved. Most places want to keep customers happy, and there are laws against discrimination. Know your rights!

