 Whenever you come across somebody, whether they are being respectful or not, be respectful of them. Those deserving of it will give it back and, if they are already well-known in the community, will give you a slight popularity boost.;
, While using short hand and the like might be fine for texting, you have no excuse not to type out full words on a computer keyboard. Keystrokes take much less time here. Using proper grammar and spelling will make you seem more intelligent and worth knowing, and therefore more respectable.
 Whether on the boards themselves or PMing another user, it is very important not to insult another user. Insults make you seem petty and immature. You may have issues with another user, but take them somewhere else.
 It may seem like a "teacher's pet" kind of thing to do, but the mods will appreciate it (they have busy schedules) as they pride themselves on how well their forums are run. (For things like Myspace, don't be afraid to hit the "report abuse" button.)

, The worst thing to do is take your position in your online community for granted and think that the entire Internet should revolve around you. Even as you become better-known, don't let it feed your ego.
 If others have spelling or grammar mistakes, don't point them out unless you're absolutely certain that would be appreciated. Remember also that there's difference between saying "The Moon Landing was in 1969, actually" and "Wasn't the Moon Landing in '69?" Remember that voice tone does not carry through the Intertubes.
 You probably have enough enemies in real life, so why would you need more on the 'net? Even if you're not an outgoing person IRC, it's easy on the Internet, and the friendlier you are the better respected you will become.
 You don't have to think all of the same thoughts as the rest of the forum, but if you find yourself disagreeing with another user, do so in a way that doesn't involve insults or anger. Everybody's different--always remember that. (Never, ever tell somebody that they're wrong!)

, Even following all of the above rules is fine, but there will certainly be times when you are put in a situation where you are asked to do something you don't want to do or can't do (perhaps because of your personal beliefs). In these situations, it is important to say "No" and not give in to the pressure. Standing up for yourself in a manner that doesn't hurt anybody is, also, one of the most impressive and respectable things you can do.
 You will become hated by just about everyone.

