 Many gyms and some public facilities have racquetball courts. A standard racquetball court is 20 feet (6 m) wide, 20 feet (6 m) tall and 40 feet (12 m) long, with a demarcated serving zone and receiving zone.;
, Make sure each player has eye guards, a racquet and suitable athletic shoes. They may also want to have flexible shorts, a short-sleeved shirt and a racquetball glove.


A racquetball glove is optional; however, it allows you to grip the racquet more easily.
 This means any part of the court that is considered out of bounds. The ball is dead when it hits this hinder.


Hinders are classified in 2 categories, either dead-ball hinders, when a ball goes out of bounds, as determined at the beginning of the game, and avoidable hinders, where a person makes a blunder. An avoidable hinder can result in a point for the server or change of server. After a dead-ball hinder, a rally is replayed.
 This person will take their place in the service zone, which is a thin horizontal box close to the front wall. The other 2 people will take their place behind the receiving line.
 The ball must hit the front wall and rebound behind the short line, the line at the back of the serving zone.


Any failed serve will result in an out and a switch in server. This includes a failure to hit the ball after it bounces, a serve outside of the service zone, incorrect movement after the serve or failure to hit the front wall.
 Either of the 2 receiving players can play the ball. It must be returned before the second bounce on the floor, and it must hit the front wall, or bounce off a side wall onto the front wall


A failure to return a serve in the proper manner will give a point to the server. Only the server can score points.
 The server will act as 1 team and the 2 opponents will act as another team for the duration of the rally.


If the server fails to return the ball on a rally, if there is an avoidable hinder or if there is a failed serve, the next server will take their turn. Servers will rotate in the correct order with failed serves, hinders or un-returned serves.
 Each player will keep track of their own points until they reach 15. A player wins the match after winning 2 games.


If a game is required to break a tie, it can be played until 11 points are reached, rather than 15.

