 Don't forget to download a lot; variety is professional!;
, If you already have a song in mind, you have to build a storyline around it. Nothing is more annoying than a completely pointless GMV with no storyline and random clips.
 For instance, using another Kingdom Hearts example, if your storyline is a simple SoraxKairi match, you may want to start off with some clips of them alone in separate cut scenes, but put it in to match the beat of the song.
, If the song is like most and separated into stanzas, do a clip per line. Make sure that it fits the mood; no fight scenes during a pretty line unless you're trying to make it funny.
 This may be repeating a couple of ideas, but absolutely do not use one clip for about forty seconds straight, or even twenty seconds. That looks very lazy and unprofessional, and will take about three clips to finish the GMV, and no effort at all.
 It's alright with AMVs, but with GMVs the game cut scenes already, usually, have many nice effects with them. Film Age: Older, Black and White tone, Sepia tone, etc. aren't that bad, but only when not overused. No choppiness. When your video is choppy, it means a new clip will start for less than a second when another clip starts, it usually means you did not cut the clip well. That's very easy to trim under the Timeline mode, which is recommended for the whole process to help with timing. If you're having problems with your clips running smoothly, try simply moving a bit of the clip into another through the timeline to fade it. Another way to make it smoother is to fade the previous clip out to black and fade the current clip in from black. If it's a fast-paced clip, just fade the current clip in from white. It may cause seizures, but it looks VERY good.
 Going back to the KairixSora idea, don't have Kairi die at the end of your AMV unless the storyline makes sense to lead up to it.
 If you want it only for yourself, then save it under the best quality. We can't all have Mac graphic quality.

