 One aspect of dressing nicely is taking the time to plan your outfits. This might mean planning your outfit the night before, or planning an entire week’s worth of outfits at the beginning of the week; go with what works best for you. Trying to figure out a great outfit in the morning before school may make you feel a little too stressed, so take some time to consider your wardrobe and try on several different outfits that you could wear.


Some girls find that trying out outfits and taking photos of the ones that they like to put in a binder can help them to decide on an outfit when they are in a rush. If you plan a last minute outing with your friends, simply flip through the binder and pick out a pre-planned outfit.
 When planning your outfit, think about what you will be doing in that outfit. Different events call for different kinds of clothing. For instance, if you’re going to school, try not to show too much skin, or wear a shirt that is too low cut. On the other hand, if you’re going to the beach with your friends, wearing a summery dress and shoes you can walk through the sand with may be the way to go.


If you are not sure what would be appropriate to wear to a certain event, such as a cousin's baptism, or a job interview, don’t be afraid to ask friends or family for advice.
 When picking out your outfit, make sure that you feel good in your clothes. Ultimately, you should be dressing nicely for yourself rather than dressing for anyone else. It is important to feel comfortable and happy in the clothes that you are wearing; projecting confidence and enthusiasm will give your outfit that extra, energetic boost.


Try to keep in mind that if someone only likes you when you are dressed up, that person might not have their priorities straight. First and foremost, dress the way that you want to dress.
 While you may be able to get away with some very subtle pattern combinations, it is generally a good idea to only have one pattern in your outfit. Clashing patterns can often make an outfit look sloppy.


For instance, if you were wearing an argyle sweater, you would most likely want to avoid wearing that sweater with a striped skirt.
 If you are having trouble putting together an outfit, using the ‘rule of three’ can help you to create a quick but elegant ensemble in no time. When using the rule of three, pick out three colors: two that will be your base colors (most likely your shirt and pants or skirt) and one that will be your accent color.


Your base colors could be subtler colors that go together well, such as navy blue shirt and camel skirt. Your accent color should be a brighter color that makes the rest of your outfit pop, such as a red thin belt or a silver-laced scarf.
 While you may want to look nice every day of the week, throwing on an outfit that really dazzles once a week can help to make you feel that much more well-dressed. Take the time to really come up with this eye-catching ensemble.
 While this will not be possible if you have to wear a school uniform, or a uniform for work, try to avoid wearing the same outfit two times a week if you are planning on hanging out or being seen by the same people. If you have two different parties to go to, however, and the people at these parties won’t overlap, feel free to consider wearing the same great outfit.


By no means does this mean that you avoid wearing the same article of clothing twice in a week. If you have a skirt that works well in two different outfits, feel free to rock both of these ensembles in the same week. Remember, mixing and matching is the key to making you feel like you have an endless wardrobe.
 Some days, you might find that you just don’t want to wear the outfit you have planned. On those days, its important to have an emergency backup outfit. This outfit should be simple, comfortable, and easy to accessorize with. For example, your emergency outfit could be a pair of nice jeans, a tank top in your favorite color, and a cropped sweater. With these basic items already put together, all you need to go is add a necklace, scarf, or rocking pair of shoes and you’ll be good to go.

