 A girl who has a good relationship with her mother tends to be more confident and independent. This is because a mother has a great impact on her daughter’s life, and can help to build her self-esteem and sense of self-worth, which is very important for teenage girls. Additionally:


Your relationship with your daughter can affect her mental health. Having a dysfunctional mother-daughter relationship can lead to depression, low self-esteem and bad decisions.
Being a good mother will also help your daughter to be a better mother herself in the future, as she will take what she has learned from you and implement it in her own life.;
, If you feel as if the two of you have grown apart in recent years, or if you feel that your daughter is closer to their dad, it's important that you take time to build a connection slowly. Forcing the issue can simply push your daughter further away.


This can be tough, especially if your teenage daughter is reluctant to let you in, but don’t lose hope as it doesn’t mean that it is impossible to change the situation.
To begin with, you may ask your spouse to help you repair your relationship with your daughter. Have your spouse talk to her and ask her to give you a chance.
 When trying to connect with your teenage daughter, make an effort to be there for her as a friend. As much as you can, keep an open mind about what your daughter shares with you and try to think outside the box.


Try to avoid being too judgmental or making snap decisions about what she can or can't do. Try to consider things from her point of view and to interact with her in a calm rational manner.
Of course, you're still her mother and it's your job to offer her guidance and advice, but try to do this in such a way that she listens to you. If you make too many rules or expressly forbid her from doing things she wants, she will simply rebel and go in the opposite direction.
 Try to keep the lines of communication between you and your daughter open at all times, so you can share your experiences with each other while practicing the power of active listening.


Set aside some time at the end of each day or week where you sit down together with a cup of tea and talk about your lives. Your daughter needs to feel like you have time for her
Stay in touch through texting and calling when she is out of the house, but do not do it too much as she might misunderstand you for being overprotective.
 This is the best part of strengthening your relationship with your daughter, as it bridges the gap and allows you to create some amazing memories together. Some examples are:


Enjoy some adventurous sports together. Find a common interest such as rock climbing or yoga and you will be surprised by how much she looks forward to this “sports date” with you.
Have a spa date or a total makeover. This is for both of you to relieve stress while feeling and looking beautiful.
Shop for bags and shoes. This will help you to understand your daughters style. This will work in your favor when it comes to buying a gift for her.
Travel together. This is a fun way for both of you to explore a new place while also discovering more about each other’s individual personalities.
 You will experience lots of clashes with your daughter because it is perfectly normal for moms and teen daughters to disagree on many things. However, it is how you deal with these disagreements that really matters.


Apologize,when necessary, and learn to always forgive her as well. She will appreciate it when you don't make a big deal out of her little lapses, and treat her more like an adult,
Show her the importance of letting go of the pain of her past experiences to help her avoid holding grudges.
 It is a wonderful feeling for any mother to have the opportunity to teach her daughter how to look good, including applying proper makeup, choosing nice dresses, etc.


Nonetheless, being beautiful is not all about what#s on the outside. What's more important is your daughter's inner beauty because this is what will define her as a person.
Focus on explaining to her that true beauty that comes from being positive, honest, patient, generous, respectful, loving, etc.
 Remember when you were your daughter’s age? Weren't you the exact same? Make an effort to understand her as much as possible. She will be happy to know she has a non-judgmental mom who really gets her.


However, it is best to give her some words of wisdom to help her on her way. Tell her about the mistakes that you made in the past and how you wish you could change them, but don't forbid her from doing the same thing.
Your daughter needs to make her own mistakes in order to learn from them. Just make sure that she has all the information she needs beforehand in order to make an informed choice.
 Learn to appreciate everything about her, even her weaknesses. It takes a lot of patience and commitment to be able to love someone selflessly.


Above all, do not forget to tell your daughter you love her. Don't just assume that she knows - she needs to hear it.
 Despite the fact that your daughter feels that she can already do everything on her own because she is already a teenager, she is still dependent on you in many ways. As a parent, it is important to set boundaries.


Remember that you are her mother, not her best friend and sometimes you will need to do things that she doesn't like for her safety and well-being.
Take comfort in the fact that even if she doesn't appreciate it now, she will thank you for it in the future.
 A girl who has a good relationship with her father tends to be more confident and independent. This is connected to how a father views and treats his daughter.


For example, when a father demands too much and neglects his daughter’s skills, there is a tendency for the daughter to have low self-esteem, where she stops herself from doing something out of fear of being rejected.
The relationship you have with your daughter will also influence her relationship with her future boyfriend/husband. This is because your daughter tends to look up to you as her standard when finding the love of her life.
 This is more applicable, for example, for dads who were not present while their daughters were growing up, or for dads who feel that their daughters are closer to their moms.


These situations can be tough, but don’t lose hope as it doesn’t mean that it is impossible to change the situation.
To begin with, you may ask your daughter's mom to help you repair your relationship with your daughter, as your daughter may be more inclined to listen to her.
 Listen to your daughter when she shares her dreams and fears with you. Be as compassionate as you can, and try to be sensitive to her emotions when forming a response. Show her that she can trust you and feel secure enough to confide to you.
 This builds trust between the two of you. You should also try to share some things about yourself, as this will allow your daughter to get to know you better.


After a conflicts, apologize when necessary, as you are teaching your daughter the importance of being humble enough to admit mistakes.
 This is the best part of strengthening your relationship with your daughter as it bridges the gap between you and allows you to create amazing memories together. Some examples of things you can do include


Go on a vacation. Organize a vacation for just the two of you, or even for the whole family. Use the vacation as an opportunity to get to know each other better and have some fun.
Enjoy some indoor games or outdoor sports. Challenge your daughter to a game of Foosball or table tennis, or invite her to shoot some hoops with you outside.
Beat each other at video games. Take some time to just hang out with your daughter and play video or computer games together.
Bring her to a concert. Bringing your daughter to see her favorite musician or singer can be a great way to bond.
 Fathers are known to be the ones who provide for the family and who keep them safe. Make sure that you do your duty to your daughter and make her believe that she can rely on you.


Protect her financially by making sure her educational fees are paid, or by setting up a college fund for her. Even if she doesn't fully appreciate this now, she will in the future.
Furthermore, protecting her doesn’t only mean keeping her safe physically and financially, but also keeping her safe emotionally--protect her heart from being broken.
 Tell her she is beautiful. Be careful not to make negative comments about the way she looks or dresses. A negative comment from you could be a major blow to her self esteem.


This is also a great opportunity for you to explain to your daughter that being beautiful doesn’t just mean looking good physically.
What is more significant is the character of a person and whether or not they have a good heart.
 You must know what her interests in order to be able to appreciate her skills and capabilities and to connect with her about them.


Even if you don't understand her hobby, make sure that you express an interest. Ask he to play a song for you on her clarinet, or show up to her soccer games. She will really appreciate you being there for her.
You may also teach her your own hobbies (if she's interested) as she will benefit from learning something new. For example, fishing, fixing things around the house, driving, etc.
 Remember that you are the first man in your daughter’s life. Be a gentleman, as you are also demonstrating to your daughter how a man should treat her.


This could have a huge impact on the type of partner she chooses in later life. Never be violent with your daughter and avoid raising your voice.
On the other hand, do not become too overprotective of your daughter, as you might only be pushing her away.
Do not forget to tell your daughter you love her.

