 Try to avoid buying everything from the shop. Instead, go for a walk and stop off at discount shops. Buy some major supplies there. Sometimes, if you've got enough money, you can buy some toys they sell. They sell nice things to have around the home, such as pull ropes, balloons, keyboards, wind toys, and dog biscuits, for very low prices.;
, Competitions are the supreme way to make money and get out of the house simultaneously.


Train for disc competitions. To train for a disc competition, take at least one walk everyday to the park with no dogs, and practice throwing some discs. Do this for one or two days to get him prepared.
Train for agility trials. Upon arrival to the gym, let your dog run the entire field by slowly guiding it around once. Go through the obstacle course until each obstacle has received an 'excellent' position. Run one lap and go thoroughly through the course.
Train for obedience competitions. Learn five new tricks upon entering (check the internet for special bonus moves). Spend a chunk of time practicing.
 When your dog is hungry or famished, feed it a whole bowl. Dog food ranges from two to four dollars at both the store and discount shop. Make sure you've always got a handful of dog biscuits around.


Give your dog water and milk all the time. If you're living under one hundred dollars, try to save up some money and buy at the discount shop for a while. It's not the best, but it's enough to make sure your pup won't go hungry or thirsty.
 Shampoo can go up to two dollars, but don't worry about the price: worry about which type of shampoo to get. There are two kinds: for long hair and short hair, so check what kind your dog is and stock up on that kind. Shampoo at least once a week, and use your brush, but don't rely on it.
 Make your dog run only a short distance and let it walk and enjoy. Stop for restroom breaks, and when you meet another trainer, let them play for a few minutes. Avoid fighting! When things seem tense between the dogs, walk them away. Take it to the dog park with other dogs there and let the dogs bond.
 Look around. When things seem to get boring around your home, go out to the Interior Designer, save some money up, and buy a new place which should come arrive a few days later.
 Take a chance to enjoy some quality time with your dog. Have fun and let him know you love him.


Check on it a few times a day. Don't drown yourself into your DS and become obsessed with it, but play at least three times a day for seven minute periods.
Spend time with your dog at the house, too, rather than outside all of the time. The both of you can have fun indoors. You can also teach tricks, feed him treats. Throw the disk for a laugh. Have fun with him and the game and yourself.

