 Not all feedback is worthy of further consideration once we’ve actively listened to what the person giving the feedback has to say. Each circumstance is different and you must assess the value of the feedback and decide if, how, and when to follow up on it.Think about who is giving the feedback and why. If your boss is asking you to improve your writing skills, this is valid feedback; however, if they criticize your new haircut, you might choose to not give this feedback as much value.
 It’s easy to get flustered and even angry when someone gives us feedback. It’s important to keep your attention on the feedback itself instead of getting angry at, for example, your boss or spouse.Don’t get too upset if your sister criticizes your makeup. Instead try saying, “I thought my makeup looked great, but I’m always up for learning new things. Do you have any tips for nailing the smoky eye?”

, Once you’ve decided that the feedback is valuable to you, it’s important to follow up through words, actions, and/or modified behaviors. Simply saying you will do something is not enough, you must follow up with concrete actions.


If your partner expresses that you aren’t cleaning the kitchen thoroughly, don’t brush them off. Instead, follow up by carefully washing the dishes after meals.
If your boss gives you less than savory feedback on your public speaking skills, try signing up for the next webinar on public speaking that your company offers.
 This is important for both negative and positive feedback. Even if you don’t agree with all the feedback a person gives you, it’s important to thank them for taking the time to provide you with feedback. A sincere expression of gratitude can go a long way.Try saying, “Thank you for your feedback on my paper, Dr. Johnson. I really appreciate you taking time out of your schedule to meet with me and point out ways I can improve.”
If your friend tells you they really admire your parenting, be sure say thank you.
 It’s only feedback and everyone can become better at their professional and personal lives with a little bit on constructive criticism. Embrace the feedback but don’t let it consume you.


Don't spend a ton of time pondering the feedback. Allow yourself a set amount of time, perhaps 15 – 20 minutes, to think about the feedback and process your emotions.
Don't let negative thoughts about you or your work consume you. Try saying to yourself, "I have already spent enough time being angry about my boss's criticism. It's time to get back to work."

