 All three will help dissolve the chemicals in the permanent marker, making it easier to dissolve. Here are the benefits and drawbacks of each:


Rubbing alcohol is the safest to use, but it may not be as effective and you may need to use it a few times before you get the stain off. The higher the percentage, the more effective it will be. Try to get something that is 90% or higher.Hand sanitizer works great on curved surfaces because it holds its form better and does not drip as much. It will be about as effective as rubbing alcohol.
Acetone is the strongest and most effective. It can remove paint and melt certain surfaces, so it is not recommended for painted surfaces and softer plastics. Consider testing in an inconspicuous area first. Simply dampen a cotton ball and press it against the area for a few seconds before wiping it away. If the plastic appears distorted or loses its color, do not use acetone; try rubbing alcohol or hand sanitizer instead.
 If you are using hand sanitizer, squirt a few drops onto the stain and spread it with your finger so that the entire stain gets covered.
 This works well on curved surfaces as well as keyboards and phones. If the stain is stubborn, then soak a fresh cotton ball with the alcohol and hold it against the stain for a few minutes before wiping it away. Do not try this with acetone; acetone can melt plastics if it is left in contact with them for too long.
 Spread it around with your finger until it is covering the entire stain.
 For stubborn stains, let the alcohol sit for a few minutes. Again, do not leave acetone on plastic for longer than a few seconds, or you may ruin the plastic surface.
 Most of the stain should have disappeared after the initial treatment, but you may have some residue. Keep in mind that the longer the permanent marker has been on the plastic, the more difficult it will be to remove; in some cases, it may have soaked too deeply into the plastic. In this case, you may still see a slight "ghost" of the stain.








