 This also includes learning to control the adults in their environment.;
, When a toddler begins to throw a tantrum, it will be indicated by yelling, thrashing, kicking, holding their breath, flailing arms, etc. The tantrum may include any or all of these behaviours.
 This can be a mat or towel or something, that has a well defined area. It should be readily accessible to the child during the anti-tantrum training period. Preferably it should be an object you do not want to keep long term or that will be kept in a cupboard or out of sight most of the time.
 You could say, "When you act this way, people do not know you are nice."or "when you throw a tantrum, it makes everything that is nice about you hide". Children are much more sophisticated in their understanding than most give them credit for.


They should be told the truth about how their behaviour affects other's opinions of them, even if they are very young. They may appear not to hear or understand what you are saying, but say it anyway.
 This is the key. The tantrum is the child controlling their environment in an inappropriate way. The adults in the child's life need to teach the child that tantrums are an unacceptable way to control their environment.



Place the 'rug' in an area less central to the room, (usually toddlers tantrum are thrown centre stage). Lay the rug in a safe place away from heaters, stairs, doors, sharp objects or heavy things that can be toppled like bookshelves.
, Sit beside them and without raising your voice explain calmly that this is the only place they can throw the tantrum. If they try to roll off the rug, calmly roll them back on and tell them repeatedly that until the tantrum is over that this is the only place they can kick and scream like that. If the child is striking at you, stand and step away, only moving in to put the child back on the rug.
, Even if you are certain that the child has no idea what you are saying or can even hear your words, still speak them in a controlled manner.
,, Most children only need a few 'tantrum rug tantrums' to accept that they are not in control of the adult or their environment.

