 The hand puppet should be roughly the size of your hand from your wrist to the tips of your fingers. Trace around your hand on a piece of paper while extending your thumb. Your thumb will be one arm of the puppet, your pointer finger will be the head, your middle finger will be the other arm, and your two smallest fingers will be bent toward your palm.








Remember to include any other details your want to include in the shape of the felt, such as little semi-circles on top of the head for ears.
You may want to leave a little more room past the edges of your fingertips to accommodate the space where you will sew the puppet together.
 Once you have a template you’re happy with, you’ll need to cut it out from the paper. 







, You’ll need felt from a craft store or the craft section of a big box store in your desired color for this method. Rather than tracing the template onto the felt, you can easily just pin the template down against the felt.Remember to make sure that the bottom portion of the template (where the template reaches your wrist) lines up with the bottom edge of the felt. This is where your hand will go into the puppet.
You’ll need both a front and a back piece of the hand puppet, so you can easily place two pieces of felt on top of each other and pin the template to both of them at once.
 With the template pinned firmly to the felt, you can cut out the pieces of the hand puppet.Try to cut in smooth, fluid lines rather than jagged ones to ensure that you have a polished finished product.









If you did not line up two pieces of felt together, then pin the template to the second piece of felt and cut it out as well.
 It’s easier to add things to the body of the hand puppet before sewing the two halves together, so now is the time to accessorize the body. For instance, if you are making a teddy bear hand puppet, then you may have dark brown felt for the body, and you can add an oblong, tan piece of felt for the tummy.








You can attach the tummy felt with either a hot glue gun or by sewing it.
All of the sewing required for this project is very simple, but you can learn more about sewing if you need to at: How to Sew.
 Now you’re ready to accessorize the face of the hand puppet. You can use a variety of different objects to help you create the face.








Consider using beads, other pieces of felt, or even googly eyes for the eyes.
You can use a bead, a pompom, other felt, or even just a knot of stitches for the nose.
For the mouth, you can create lips or a tongue with felt, stitch a mouth, or come up with another idea for a mouth entirely.
If you made the shape for ears in your felt, your can also give more definition to the ears by sewing or gluing a smaller semi-circle of felt onto the ear. For the bear example, you can easily use the same lighter color you used for the tummy.
 Once you’re happy with the body and face of your puppet, you are ready to sew the pieces together. Follow around the edges of the two pieces of felt and sew them together with stitches close enough that you can’t accidentally stick your fingers through the edges of the puppet.








Remember to leave the bottom edge of the puppet stitch free since this is where you need to put your hand inside the puppet.
 Once you’re done with all of the sewing, you are ready to bring your puppet to life. Put your hand inside the puppet in the most comfortable position with your fingers and start practicing working the arms and head of the puppet.








