 The title of a song is often the first thing a listener sees, so it needs to do a good job conveying the content of the song Read through the track list of Public Enemy's famous album Fear of a Black Planet, for example, and you know instantly that the songs are protests against a racist society and government ("911 is a Joke," "Power to the People")


"Rising Down," by The Roots, does a fantastic job implying the themes of the song, such as falling into poverty, while contrasting another song later in the album, "Rising Up."
"Memory Lane (Sittin' in the Park)," by Nas reflects on a childhood growing up in Brooklyn.
"Bring Da Ruckus" by the Wu Tang Clan is about getting the party started, and introducing the raucous group to the world.
 The hook is the part of the song that repeats frequently either in the chorus or the background. Most songs are named after their hooks or a shortened version of the hook, such as Outkast's "Ms. Jackson," Kanye West's "All Falls Down," or Joey Bada$$'s "World Domination."


If your song has multiple hooks, choose the one that represents the song best, like Kendrick Lamar's "The Blacker the Berry," a song about race relations in America.
 This is a measure of mutual respect. You need to cite any other rappers who are on a song, such as "Slow Jamz (ft. Jamie Foxx & Twista)." While the name of the song is technically just "Slow Jamz," you need to add the featured artists so your listeners know who is rapping.
 Album titles are what bring the CD's themes together. They can be simple, like Lil' Wayne's The Carter, or complex, like Kendrick Lamar's To Pimp a Butterfly. In either case, the title sums up the songs inside of it and gives the album direction.


Albums titles can refer to a rappers style, like 50 Cent's Get Rich or Die Trying.

Many rappers have sequential albums, like Kanye West's series College Dropout, Late Registration, and Graduation, implying that the albums are all linked.
Some albums simply adopt the name of one song, usually the radio hit or the "thesis," of the album, like Common's Be.


