 The most obvious signs of anger are often physical symptoms that emerge after the fact (like voice tone, language, and gestures). But with practice, you'll learn to recognize the warning signs of anger when you mentally check in on yourself.Common signs of anger include angry/vengeful thoughts, muscle tension, headaches, or elevated heart rate.
If you catch yourself speaking out loud (even when you're driving alone) about another driver, you may be experiencing elevated anger.
By catching yourself as your anger first emerges, you can prevent that anger from turning into aggression or road rage.;
, If you notice yourself feeling angry, it may be best to pull over (if it's safe to do so). Get off the highway or pull over to the shoulder of the road (again, only if it's safe to do this) and put your vehicle in park. Take a few minutes to collect your thoughts and calm yourself down before returning to the road.Practice deep breathing or meditation to calm your mind and body after experiencing anger.
Remember that driving while you're angry puts yourself and others at risk. Even if you're not yet experiencing full-blown road rage, your anger may cause you to drive recklessly and take unnecessary risks.
 Using deep-breathing exercises can help you calm down and center yourself when you feel angry or tense. Deep breathing is quick and easy, and it can be done while you're driving or stationary.Take a long, slow inhalation into your diaphragm over a five-second span. Make sure you're breathing into your diaphragm (below your ribs) and belly instead of just taking shallow breaths in your chest.
Hold your breath for five seconds
Exhale slowly over another five-second span.
 A good way to relax when you start to experience road rage is to listen to soothing music (if you can do so without being distracted). Music can help you calm down and focus on getting to your destination safely.Try keeping a few relaxing CDs in an easy to reach spot in your car, or keep your radio tuned to a station that plays calming music. That way you can play music without having to take your eyes off the road.
Figure out what types of music are most relaxing for you. Try jazz, oldies, and classical music for calm, soothing melodies.
Avoid listening to fast-paced, aggressive, or angsty music while driving.
 You may have seen someone in your family or a character in a movie or TV show counting to avoid getting angry. It's an age-old trick to calm down and prevent an outburst, and it may help you in your moment of anger.Count upwards for about a minute. If you focus on your breathing and distract yourself with counting, you'll stop actively thinking about the person who wronged you and gradually cool down.
If you don't feel better after a minute, try counting for another minute. The key is to stop yourself from thinking angry thoughts long enough for your active rage to pass.
 Hand yoga is the act of stretching and tensing/relaxing the muscles in your hands. It may sound strange, but for some people it's an excellent way to relieve stress - just be sure to only take your hands off the wheel when your car is at a complete stop in traffic or at a red light.Spread your fingers and stretch out both hands as much as possible.
Hold this position for a few seconds, then release it.
Curl each finger individually into your palm, pushing gently with your thumb. Hold it, then release.
Flex your wrists and bend each knuckle individually to "shake out" the muscles and joints.
 If someone cuts you off or is driving too slowly, your initial reaction may be to honk your horn, scream, swear, or use profane gestures. This may make you feel better for an instant, but it will almost certainly aggravate the other driver, and could set you both down a rage-filled path.


Avoid any inflammatory gestures. This can include honking your horn, flashing your high beams, or extending your middle finger. Each of these may result in an escalated and violent reaction.Try to avoid even yelling or screaming. If you shout swear words at another driver and your window happens to be open, there’s a chance that driver could hear you and respond with his own aggression.
 Some people feel compelled to tailgate when they are cut off or otherwise "wronged" by other drivers. This is a potentially dangerous move. Tailgating increases the risk of causing an accident, and it could also trigger the other driver's anger.Use the four-second rule. When the car ahead of you passes a sign or lamp post, start counting and slow down so you don't pass that same post until at least four seconds later.

