 Sometimes, the best way to prevent being annoyed is to get space from the person who is bothering you. Walk a different route to your classes, take a different lunch break at work, or even reconfigure your office so that you do not have to face them if you are in neighboring cubicles. If you work closely with the person, this might be a bit difficult, but you can set up more phone calls and emails rather than meeting in person frequently.
 Though you cannot change the person, you can alter your surroundings. Perhaps the person who annoys you lives in your home or is someone you work with. If you have your own room or your own office, you can simply close your door when you need some alone time or when you have something to work on that requires your full attention. Exercise your right to privacy as much as possible and whenever you need it., One other way to monitor and limit your interactions is to make yourself unavailable so that they cannot approach you. Put your headphones in, make a phone call, or put your purse or bookbag in the chair next to you so they can’t sit by you.If that is the only seat left, don’t be cruel. Allow them to sit down and pull out a book so they know you are busy.
 Though you should steer away from gossip, if the person’s annoyance begins to escalate, tell a friend or give them a sign so they can create an excuse for both of you to walk away from the person. Don't make it obvious that you are trying to get away from the person, or they will think you are mean, especially if they do not intend to annoy you.


Perhaps your sign is that you pat their shoulder or wink at them.
 Sometimes, the best way to keep yourself calm is to walk away. If someone is annoying you in particular and you feel yourself on the verge of lashing out, step away, take a walk, go get a snack, or go to the restroom. You will often find that once you return to the situation, you will be much calmer and less likely to respond negatively.For instance, if a coworker is bragging again about how much money his family has, knowing that you are going through a financial hardship, say “Excuse me for a moment,” and take a quick walk until you are calm.

