 Regardless of what the situation may be (for example, their sporting event or taking on a promotion at work), make sure they know that you support them.Be excited about opportunities that arise for them, and express that excitement.
Be there in person to support when you can, like at a sporting event or at a fundraiser.
Let others know about their opportunity, if they feel comfortable with that.
 Encourage them to take on the new opportunity by taking tasks off of their to-do list so that they can better focus. Offer to take care of some chores or errands so that they can focus their attention on their needs:


Grocery shopping
Laundry or dry cleaning
Cleaning your home
Preparing food in advance
Helping with administrative tasks, like sending emails or managing their calendar

, An unhealthy relationship is one in which one person holds the other back. Show they that you truly support they by encouraging they to chase their goals.Offer to find ways to make their goals or dreams attainable, like helping them do research and learning more about their ambitions.
When they feel discouraged, share uplifting words: “I know you feel like you're a long way from reaching your goal right now, but let's take a moment to look at how far you've come since you started!”, There will likely be times when they feel pessimistic. Help them turn those feelings around by remaining optimistic.


If you feel pessimistic, too, and display that pessimism, then they might give up on their goals.
Even if you do feel frustrated at times, find ways to continue to be supportive and to express that frustration in a healthy way. Find a friend to whom you can vent your frustrations, play sports, or take a walk.
 At times, the best way you can encourage them to do something is to give they space. Recognize when this is needed, and give them the space they need.


Giving too much encouragement can become or seem nagging, and no partner appreciates being nagged.
Take this time to do something good for yourself: a warm bath, a good book, a solitary walk, time with your hobbies, or something else you enjoy.
 No one is perfect—including you—and one way to be supportive of them is to encourage them to become better.Your relationship will benefit from individual improvements, whether those are related to their attitude, personality, physical appearance, et cetera.
This does not mean that you should or can nag them. If there is something you do not like about them, you cannot force them to change it, especially if they do not want to change. However, you can inspire them to become a better person in some way.
Be open to they turning this around on yourself and encouraging yourself to become a better person, as well. Show support by improving together.

