 Coat hair from roots to ends with some almond oil or olive oil. Cover your child’s hair a towel or shower cap and leave the oil on for at least 1-2 hours. Then, completely comb out the hair, shampoo, and rinse. Repeat this process every day for 3 weeks.


Before using oil, test the oil on a small area of your child’s skin to make sure your child is not sensitive to it. (Place a drop or two of the oil on your child’s forearm and wait about 30-60 minutes, then rinse off. If there is no reaction such as redness or itching, you can use that oil).
Vaseline and mayonnaise are not recommended by most experts because they are messy and can be difficult to wash out.
 There have been a number of studies showing that some natural products, including those using tea tree oil, eucalyptus oil, neem oil and lavender oil can be just as effective as OTC products and prescription medications.Before you try any essential oil, put a small drop on the back of your child’s hand. It is relatively rare, but some children do have allergic reactions to essential oils. Leave the oil on for 30 minutes to an hour and rinse off. If there is no redness or itching, you can use the oil. If there is any reaction, try again with another oil.
Mix 2 ounces of olive or almond oil with 15-20 drops of the essential oil. Apply this mixture to the scalp and work it through the hair. Leave on overnight, these oils generally take about 12 hours to completely kill the nits (eggs), nymphs (young) and adults. Comb out and shampoo, rinse and repeat.
Try one of these essential oils:Tea Tree Oil
Lavender oil
Neem oil
Clove oil
Nutmeg oil



, Wash all (everyone’s) bedding, clothing, hats, jackets, stuffed animals and other items that may have been exposed to the infested person during the two days before treatment. Wash these items using hot water (should be at least 130°F) and the high heat drying cycle.For anything that cannot be machine washed, have it dry-cleaned. Just make sure that you check first with the dry cleaner and explain that it may have lice on it, so that they can take extra precautions.
 If you have items that cannot be washed or dry-cleaned, it is recommended you place them in sealed plastic bags, keeping them sealed for two weeks. This is not always necessary, but this precaution may help ensure you kill every last head lice and nit., Lice may have gotten onto cloth furniture surfaces or they might still be living on hairs that have fallen onto these surfaces, so make sure to vacuum daily to prevent the lice from finding a host again. Vacuum your home thoroughly, especially any surface that may have have made contact with your child's head. Areas that you should be sure to vacuum include:Carpets
Mattresses
Upholstery

, Use very hot water (at least 130°F or 54.4°C) to soak all of your hair tools and other hair items. Let them sit in the solution for about 10 minutes. This should kill the lice on these items. You can also use isopropyl alcohol to soak these items. Another option is to dispose of the infested hair tools and go out and buy new ones.Make sure that each child has his or her own personal comb and/or brush.
 If your child is involved in any sport or playtime activity, make sure they have their own gear or equipment. Make sure they can keep track of it as well.


At the pool or gym, make sure your child has their own towels and other personal items.
Make sure your child understands that they can share toys, but they should NOT share combs, brushes, hats, scarves or hair accessories

