 Most places that sell laminate will provide sample chips for you to take home and compare to the house's color scheme. Take several of these home and test for additional properties to help you decide.Also keep in mind that you can purchase formed laminate to fit your counter if you do not wish to do the sawing yourself.


A matte finish will hide wear and tear better than a glossy laminate, which is easily scratched, but may require more cleaning. Laminates come in a whole spectrum from the most glossy to the most matte, so consider each chip by its appearance, and not its marketing.
Test how well the laminate stands up to wear and tear by scratching it with a steak knife.
If you're applying a thin laminate sheet, use 1/16" (0.16 cm) thick laminate for flat work surfaces and 1/32" (0.3 cm) sheets for vertical surfaces.;
, Sand the surface to create a rough surface for solid adherence, and wipe away sawdust with a tack cloth or damp rag.If the surface is covered by paint or varnish, you should sand thoroughly to remove it using coarse or medium coarse sandpaper., Use a tape measure to get an accurate measurement of each dimension of the area.


If you are installing a full countertop and your walls are not at perfect right angles, you should scribe the Formica first. See Troubleshooting for more information.
 This should be large enough to keep the Formica steady while cutting. Use scrap plywood or similar material that you don't mind damaging with the saw. Don't use concrete or another surface that will damage the saw blade.
 Draw your cut lines onto the laminate at the increased measurement, which ensures you don't waste a large piece of laminate due to cutting too small a piece.
 This makes it easier to see where to cut, while also reducing the risk of chips. You can also apply additional tape to the surface beneath the formica to protect it, but you shouldn't cut over a surface you want to keep presentable.
 Ideally, you should use a circular saw, saber saw, back saw, table saw, or laminate shears. A handsaw with at least 10 teeth per inch (4 per cm) will also work, but may be tedious for larger jobs.Use a metal straightedge to ensure a straight cut.


If you don't have a saw, use a craft utility knife with a laminate cutting blade to score the laminate sheet, and then snap it on the scoring by lifting the smaller piece until it snaps. Use a straightedge to keep your score straight. Lift carefully and keep an eye on the score to make sure the laminate bends at the desired break point.
Do not use these tools to make circular cuts. Cut out the laminate piece in straight lines, taking care not to cut into the marked area.
 If your installation place is curved, you'll need to use a jigsaw or laminate router to make these finer adjustments. The cutting tool you used earlier will have trouble turning along a curve, resulting in laminate that won't fit.

