 If you have severe diarrhea or vomiting, your body will lose fluids, which can lead to dehydration. If so, you'll notice increased thirst, dry mouth, sleepiness, less frequent urination, dark yellow urine, headache, dry skin, and dizziness. If you experience any of these symptoms, call your doctor. You'll probably be told to start taking ORS drinks if the symptoms aren't severe.


Left untreated, dehydration can become severe. Severe dehydration symptoms include: very dry mouth and skin, very dark yellow or brown urine, loss of skin elasticity, lowered pulse rate, sunken eyes, seizure, generalized body weakness, and even coma. If you or the person you’re caring for show severe dehydration symptoms, get emergency help.
 ORS drinks are designed to replace lost salt content and improve absorption of water by the body. At the first signs of dehydration, you should take ORS. This mainly helps by re-hydrating the body. It is easier to prevent dehydration early on by drinking ORS drinks than to cure it.


Severe dehydration will require hospitalization and intravenous fluid administration. But, if caught early, ORS drinks can be prepared at home to treat mild dehydration.
 Sip ORS drinks throughout the day. You can drink it along with eating meals. If you vomit, take a break from drinking ORS. Wait 10 minutes, then drink the solution again. If you're nursing and treating a baby, you must continue breastfeeding while treating with ORS. You can keep using ORS until diarrhea has stopped. The following tells you how much ORS you must give to:Babies and toddlers: 0.5 liter of ORS drink every 24 hours
Children (2 to 9 years old): 1 liter of ORS drink every 24 hours
Children (more than 10 years old) and adults: 3 liters (0.79 US gal) of ORS drink every 24 hours

, Symptoms should start to disappear a few hours after drinking the ORS solution. You should start urinating more and the urine will start to look light yellow or almost clear. If symptoms do not improve, or if any of the following symptoms begin, get immediate medical help:presence of blood in diarrhea or black, tarry stools
persistent vomiting
high fever
very dehydrated (feeling dizzy, lethargic, sunken eyes, no urination in the past 12 hours)

