 Try adding a few drops of food coloring or colored bath salts to your toddler’s nightly bath. Talk to them about each color, and name other items that are the same color. Alternate every week, or every few days, to give them time to really learn the colors.


You can even introduce bath toys to match the weekly bath color. Let them play with a rubber ducky during Yellow Week or a blue boat during Blue Week.
 Tell your child the color of each food item as you serve it to them. Help them associate the color with a particular dish by reinforcing the connection with each bite. Say, “Now we’re going to have a bite of corn that is yellow...Here’s broccoli, which is green.”If you’re focusing on a particular color, serve them food of that color. If it’s red week, give them strawberries and beets. If it’s blue week, have blueberries for dessert.
For more advanced learners, you can use a cereal like Fruit Loops to your advantage by having your child name the colors. Pick out a single loop in their spoon, and ask your toddler: “Can you tell me what color this is?”

, It's also fun to add food coloring to their hard-boiled eggs and other food you make for them, so you can say, “this egg is red.” This is especially helpful when there are few foods that are naturally the color that you’re focusing on (like blue).
 This helps your child learn about colors going together in a tactile way.Remember to start easy, with socks that are solid colors. You want the learning to be challenging but not frustrating for your toddler.
For another version of this lesson, try making the family’s socks into a game. You can put out two baskets, one with a pair of white socks and one with a pair of colored socks. As you roll each new pair, have your youngster toss it into the basket where they think it belongs.
 Lay out a variety of clothes and accessories. Ask your child to pick out and put on specific colored items.For instance, you can tell them, “Put on a green shirt,” “Put on a red skirt,” or “Put on a yellow necklace.”
If you’re focusing on a particular color, ask your child to dress themselves in that particular hue. A simple morning lesson could be: “It’s Blue Week; Ashley, can you pick out some pants that are blue?” Be sure to help them with each selection until they’re confident enough to do it themselves.
 If you’re in your back yard, go around and see what red things you can see-- “I spy a red wagon; I spy a red flower; I spy a red bucket.”