 How much protein you need on a daily basis depends on your calorie requirements. The recommended dietary allowance (RDA) for protein is 0.8 g of protein for every kilogram of body weight.This RDA is for adults with a sedentary lifestyle. For an RDA that is tailored to your body and activity level, use an online calculator (http://fnic.nal.usda.gov/fnic/interactiveDRI/) or use the equations below.


If you have your weight in kilograms, simply multiply it by 0.8 to find your protein RDA. For example, if you weigh 63 kg, you need to consume 50.4 g (63 x 0.8) of protein per day.
If you have your weight in pounds, you must first convert to kilograms. Divide your weight in pounds by 2.2. For example, if you weigh 145 pounds, that converts to about 66 kg (145 ÷ 2.2).
Multiply that amount by 0.8 to find your RDA of protein: 66 x 0.8 = 52.8 g of protein per day.
For sedentary adults, it is recommended that you get 0.8g of protein per kg of body weight per day (0.4g/lb).
Strength athletes (those who regularly strength train, like bodybuilders or linemen) should usually get 1.2 – 1.7g/kg of body weight per day (0.5 – 0.8g/lb).
Endurance athletes (such as cross-country runners) should usually get 1.2 – 1.4g/kg of body weight per day (0.5 – 0.6g/lb).;
, Vegetarians traditionally do not eat meat, poultry, or fish, but some types of vegetarians may eat dairy products and eggs. Vegans only eat food that comes from plant material. Anything that comes from an animal (meat, dairy, eggs, honey) is strictly off limits to vegans. Some vegans follow this diet for health reasons, and others do it for ethical ones. Either way, it can be hard to get enough protein on this diet, so you have to plan your meals well. The major food sources from which the vegetarian diet draws are:


Vegetables
Fruits
Grains (bread, pasta, rice, quinoa)
Legumes (beans)
Nuts and seeds
Soy substitutes for meat and dairy products
Eggs (omit if vegan)
Dairy (omit if vegan)

, It used to be recommended that all vegetarians eat "complementary" proteins, such as rice with beans, in order to get all the necessary amino acids that meat protein contains; however, health experts now advise simply eating a wide variety of protein sources every day.The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND, formerly ADA) indicates that eating an assortment of plant-based proteins throughout your day provides all the essential amino acids and also ensures adequate nitrogen retention for healthy adults.If you have a health condition or weakened immune system, consult with your doctor or a registered dietician to see whether you should use complementary proteins at meals.
If you are a vegan, you should make sure that you incorporate plenty of beans and soy into your diet to make sure that you get enough of the amino acid lysine. Lacto and lacto-ovo vegetarians appear generally to meet protein and lysine requirements with their diets., Certain animal products supply most people with certain nutrients as well as protein (most people get their zinc from red meat and poultry, for instance).Make sure that when you eliminate animal proteins you are making up for any lost nutrients as well.


Diets that don't include fish or eggs are generally low in eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which are fatty acids vital to your heart, eye, and brain health. Eating algae or taking algae supplements can help make up for this deficiency. You can also find soy milk and other products that are fortified with DHA.Lack of protein can cause a zinc deficiency. This can cause things such as a weakened immune system and even an increased risk of cavities.Eating soy, nuts, legumes, whole grains, and cheeses can help boost your zinc.Animal proteins often contain iron that is more easily absorbed by the body than the iron in plant proteins. Vegetarians need about 1.8x as much iron as non-vegetarians.Iron deficiencies can cause symptoms such as fatigue, weakness, headache, and a weakened immune system, among others.Eating sprouted or fermented beans, grains, and seeds can help improve your iron intake.Lacto-ovo vegetarians usually get enough B-12, but lacto vegetarians and vegans may not get enough B-12 in their diets because of the limited sources of protein they consume. Fortified foods and beverages, as well as dietary supplements, can provide extra B-12.B-12 deficiency can cause symptoms such as diarrhea or constipation, fatigue, shortness of breath, and loss of appetite, among others.Vegans are at particularly high risk of a vitamin D and calcium deficiency, but several brands of soy and rice milk are fortified with vitamin D and calcium. Vitamin D is synthesized by exposure to sunlight., We often eat the vegetable and toss out the plant's nutrient-rich sprout or shoot, but a plant that's sprouted has grown into a deeper nutritional state. In fact, sprouts have the highest protein content of any vegetable.Eat sprouted beans, lentils, and peas that are low in calories but dense with protein.
Try cutting the sprouts away and adding them to your salads and sandwiches.
 Most people consume far too much protein in their diets. Humans only need to get about 10 – 35% of their calories from protein. Most whole (not processed) vegan food sources provide 10 – 20% of their calories from protein.Consuming whole, unprocessed foods is always best to obtain adequate, optimal sources of protein. Good examples of plant-based proteins include:Cooked lima beans, which have 11.6 g per cup (170 g)
Green peas, which have 7.9 g of protein per cup (145 g)
Kale, which has 0.7 g of protein per cup (16 g)
Other rich sources of vegetable protein include broccoli and broccoli raab, cooked mushrooms, yellow corn, and green leafy vegetables like spinach and collard greens.
 The refining process strips whole grains of their bran and germs, which contain the most protein in these plants.Refined grains like white bread and white rice are easy to find and often cheap, but whole grains will provide you with a better ratio of protein to carbohydrates. This ensures you don't have to gorge on calories from unwanted carbs to get enough protein, and will also help keep your blood sugar from spiking.


Avoid "white" versions of common grain products like rice, bread, and pasta. Look for words like "brown," "unrefined," "whole," or "whole grain" on packaging.
Uncooked wheat germ has 26.6 g of protein per cup (115 g).
Cooked oat bran has 7 g of protein per cup (219 g).
Uncooked rice bran has 15.8 g of protein per cup (118 g).
Other rich sources of grain protein include raw oats, wheat bran, soba noodles, oatmeal, quinoa, wild rice, semolina, couscous, and millet.
 They're also much cheaper than whole grains, which can hurt the pocket. Though you may not think of tofu and other soy products as a legume, they pack the soybean's protein punch. Boiled soybeans have 28.6 g of protein per cup (172 g) and tofu has 9.4 g per 1/4 block (116 g). Tempeh can provide 30.8 g protein per cup (166 g), and roasted soybeans provide 36.8 g cup (93 g). Soy milk also can help you meet your protein requirements, especially if you're vegan. But there are plenty of protein-rich legumes other than the soybean:


Split peas
Lentils
Mung beans
White beans
Fava beans
Kidney beans
Lima beans
Black beans

, Nuts and seeds are more than just dense with protein. Nuts, especially, can also lower your LDL ("bad" cholesterol) and improve overall heart health. Along with protein, they provide unsaturated fats, omega-3 fatty acids, fiber, and vitamin E.You can either snack on nuts and seeds in between meals, or add them to your entrees and salads for a little protein punch.


The best seeds for protein are pumpkin, hemp, chia, sunflower, and sesame seeds.Look for nuts like almonds, cashews, pecans, pistachios, and walnuts.You can also use a variety of nut milks, such as almond milk and cashew milk, to help boost your protein intake.
 That doesn't mean you should dismiss plants as a protein source, though. Most of your protein should still come from whole grains, vegetables, legumes, and nuts and seeds.
 A single chicken egg can provide 6 g of protein with just 71 calories and no carbohydrates.You can start your day off with boiled or scrambled eggs, or add boiled eggs to your salads. You can also add scrambled eggs to a soba noodle stir fry or fried brown rice dish with vegetables and tofu. Overindulging in eggs, though, can lead to high cholesterol.Eating four egg yolks a week is healthy for people who have otherwise normal cholesterol levels.
 If you love eggs and want to eat more than four a week, you have an out! Luckily, all the cholesterol is found in the yolk, which you can avoid while still getting protein from egg whites.The whites from one chicken egg provide 4 grams of protein with only 16 calories and no carbohydrates.You can eat egg whites or substitutes made from egg whites in larger amounts without worrying about cholesterol.
 The most common milk, of course, is cow's milk, but you have to choose between whole, 2%, and skim. Surprisingly, there's more protein in low-fat milks than in whole, full-fat milk. Whole milk has a little under 8 g of protein per serving, whereas 2%, 1% and skim milk have 8 g or slightly more. If you're not worried about fat content, non-cow milks provide even more protein, but with more fat:


Goat's milk has 8.7 g of protein and 10. g of fat per serving.
Sheep's milk has 15 g of protein and 17 g of fat per serving.
If you are lactose intolerant, soy and nut milks can help you boost your protein intake.
 While cheese is high in protein, it can also be incredibly fatty and caloric, and lead to high cholesterol.You definitely shouldn't eat grilled cheese sandwiches and nachos every day. In small amounts, though, cheese is a good way to bump up your protein intake.


Parmesan cheese has the highest protein content, with 10 g per ounce.Sprinkle a serving over your pasta dishes, or shave a serving into your salads.
Most cheeses, like cheddar, brie, or gouda, have 6 – 7 g of protein per ounce.
Cottage cheese provides 23 g of protein in just a single cup! But that protein also comes with 206 calories and 9 g of fat, so indulge in moderation (and look for low-fat dairy).