 In the second row to the left, there will be two green rocks that you can lift using your mitts. Lift the bottom rock, and a staircase is revealed! When you go down the staircase, there will be 10 pots. Each pot has a blue rupee underneath. This means that every time you come back, you can get 50 rupees. Doing this 20 times will completely fill your rupee pouch.;
, It'll reveal a hole, which you'll instantly fall through. You land in the dungeons of the castle. To your left will be a bomb-able wall. Bomb it, walk through, and lo and behold the chests of rupees. Exit through the hole at the top right, push aside a block that is blocking the northern door, and continue to go through the doorways (pull the right lever in the third room) until you end up in the church.
 Every dungeon has chests of rupees just waiting for you to find them.
 To do this, go to the southern stone entrance head in the Great Swamp. Enter it. Keep going forward until you see two levers and a bubble. Pull the right lever; did you see the dam open up? Go outside and there will be a single solitary fish flopping around in a shallow puddle. Kill enemies around you so they won't interfere and grab the fish. Now go up one screen until you see deep water. Stand off to the right side of it, turn to your left, and toss the fish in. The fish will reward you with rupees.


You can also sell the fish to the bottle salesman, but all you get is a bomb or two and about 5 rupees. Besides, it's very hard to carry a fish all the way to Kakariko Village while avoiding enemies.
 To get a golden bee, go to the east side of Lake Hylia and enter the Ice Cave. With your Pegasus Shoes, dash into one of the fairy statues. A golden bee will spring out. Catch it with your net, bottle it, and take it to the bottle salesman. Unbottle the bee in front of the salesman; he will be amazed and pay you 100 rupees for every golden bee you sell to him.
 Pots and chests with rupees will be there, and will reset every time you return.
 Not only is it fun, but it's quick as well.
 20 rupees will spring out of most of the paintings.
 You'll be rewarded with rupees.


There's also a hidden staircase on the same mountain level. You have to use the hookshot to get from platform to platform in order to open up chests containing 50 rupees.
 As you keep hitting the sparkling object, rupees will fall in increasing value. You can get up to red rupees.
 Some require skill, such as the archery game in the Dark World, but most just require luck and chance, like the chest games in the Light and Dark Worlds. The games requiring luck and chance will give you a bigger reward, but you'll also be more prone to spending more rupees to keep playing.

