 Most vegetables require at least 6 hours of sun, so choose a sunny location for the vertical garden. If you live in an apartment building, a sunny balcony may be an option. If you have a yard, consider a sunny location against a south-facing wall of your house.;
, In order for plants to grow vertically, they need a vertical support system. Common support structures include trellises, tripods, pyramids, walls, fences, wire cages and walls. Arches or arbors can serve as focal areas while also supporting vegetables. Almost any structure that points toward the sky can be used for vertical gardening. Consider creative options like bamboo poles, tree branches, ladders, sunflowers or corn stalks.


Choose a support structure strong enough for the vegetables you want to grow. Mature plants loaded down with vegetables can be heavy. For example, tomato plants require very sturdy vertical structures, while peas may climb almost any structure without bearing much weight on it.
Place the support system in your garden or on your patio before planting vegetables. This prevents you from damaging plants.
Locate vertical supports on the north or east side of the garden where they won't block the sun from the growing vegetables.
Anchor the support system securely. Vertical supports like trellises or wire cages can be staked directly in the ground. Trellises and other flat vertical supports also can be attached to the exterior wall of a home. If you attach a vertical support to a wall, leave space between the wall and the trellis for air circulation as the plant climbs.
 Whether you plant vegetables in the ground or in containers, soil quality is important for your vertical garden. Use weed-free, compost-rich soil. To encourage proper drainage in containers, mix the soil with peat moss or perlite.
 If you are growing vegetables in containers, you can use almost any type of container. Make sure that the container is deep enough to accommodate the type of vegetable you are growing. Larger and heavier vegetables will require larger and sturdier containers. Consider hanging baskets, urns, window boxes, washtubs, coffee cans, clay pots or wooden crates. If the container does not have drainage holes, drill small holes on the bottom of the container before filling it with soil.

