 Paleo is generally designed around the idea that you eat a diet high in fat, moderate in protein, and low or moderate in carbohydrates. If you are eating the correct foods, you don’t have to worry about counting calories or thinking about your portions.The paleo diet recommends getting your nutrients from 65% fat, 20% carbohydrates, and 15% protein. Most people who follow paleo use this as a guide, not a hard rule., Many people make the mistake of eating too much meat on the paleo diet. Too much protein without carbs can cause kidney damage and osteoporosis. Too much meat can also cause heart disease because of the saturated fat. To help avoid this, eat mostly vegetables in your diet.You want to fill your plate up with tons of veggies, then add a healthy fat and a protein. For example, your breakfast may be eggs, avocado, tomatoes, broccoli, and peppers. Your dinner may be a cauliflower fried rice made with coconut oil topped with sautéed shrimp.
 Fruit and starchy vegetables should be eaten in moderation because of the sugar and carbohydrate content. Eat mostly berries when you consume fruit, such as blueberries, blackberries, and strawberries. Limit starchy vegetables, especially if you are trying to lose weight.If you work out often or are an athlete, you may want to increase your starchy fruits and vegetables some. For example, many people who eat paleo will eat a sweet potato on days they have a heavy workout.
 Many people switch to paleo and instead of eating a lot of vegetables, healthy fats, and protein, they eat the wrong things. They eat too many paleo treats, which are paleo-friendly recipes for foods like cookies, brownies, cakes, and pancakes. These foods still have carbs and sugars, just made with paleo-friendly ingredients.People often eat more fruit than what is recommended on the paleo diet. Fruit is high in carbs and sugars, so it is important to limit how much fruit you eat. Dark chocolate is another paleo-friendly food that needs to be eaten in moderation.
 If you are unsure if you want to go paleo, try looking into an online community. Paleo is a community of people who support each other as they eat a specific way in a society that doesn’t encourage that kind of eating. Look on paleo forums, Facebook, or even go to a Meetup where you can read about other people’s paleo journey.Many people share recipes and tips about how to manage paleo with their busy lifestyles.
You can even use this opportunity to ask questions to those who do paleo.

