 If you have a hard time getting to sleep, you should take some steps to help you relax and prepare for bed before you want to go to sleep. Spending some time relaxing and clearing your mind can help you to fall asleep more quickly and sleep peacefully through the night. There are lots of different techniques you can try to help you relax before bed, such as:


Practicing some gentle yoga stretching.Progressively tensing and then relaxing the muscles in your body.Doing some controlled breathing exercises.Reading a book, or taking a nice warm bath.;
, You should try to avoid things that might make it harder for you to fall asleep and stay asleep. If you eat a big meal before going to bed, your overfull stomach may make it more difficult to fall asleep. You should try to eat your evening meal at least three hours before you intend to go to bed.


A carbohydrate-rich snack, such as oatcakes or a bowl of cereal an hour before bed, might help you sleep.Going to bed when you are hungry or have an empty stomach will also make it harder to fall asleep.
Eating too much or too little before can cause you discomfort throughout the night, preventing the peaceful sleep you need., Avoid drinking stimulants such as alcohol and caffeine before going to bed. Alcohol might seem like something that can help you sleep, but you are more likely to experience poor quality sleep if you have been drinking. You may be dehydrated, and you may have to get to use the toilet in the night.Having a warm milky drink, or a herbal tea, can help you to prepare for sleep.A glass of warm milk will help produce more of the chemicals in your brain that induce sleep., You may find it harder to get to sleep and sleep peacefully if you have been watching TV, playing video games, or using your computer or phone soon before bed. Looking at a bright screen can make it harder for you to relax, and can disrupt the secretion of melatonin.It’s best to make sure that you have a break between looking at screens and getting into bed. Research has suggested that playing video games in the early evening has a connection to sleeping difficulties.
Similarly, those who use their phones in bed are often drowsier and less alert during the day., If you want to enjoy a peaceful sleep, making your bedroom into the perfect sleeping area can really help. Generally, you should try to keep your room dark, reasonably warm, and free of clutter and electronic devices which could irritate or distract you. You want to create a relaxing and comfortable place that you associate with sleeping more than anything else.


Keep your room dark. Consider using blackout curtains or an eye mask.
Try to keep the temperature between 60-65°F (16-18°C).
Avoid bright colours which can be overly stimulating when you want to relax.
Try not to have a TV or computer in your room.