 It can be difficult to gain fat in a specific area of your body. It is much easier to gain weight in the form of muscle. Toning your arms is a great way to increase their size. There are many effective exercises that will target your arm muscles. Your triceps should be a main focus.Learn to do a triangle push-up. The triangle differs from a traditional push-up because your hands are directly under your chest, instead of spread out. Form a triangle with your two hands by touching the tips of your index fingers together. Extend your thumbs and touch the points of your thumbs together. Lower yourself almost to the ground and back-up.
As with traditional push-ups, utilize your core to stabilize your body. You'll get bonus ab work while you work your triceps. You can do these push-ups from your knees in the beginning and work up to a full plank.
If you are working from your knees, try to begin with 10 reps. Gradually build to 2-3 sets. If you are working from plank, start by trying to complete 5 reps. Gradually build to 2-3 sets.
Tricep kick-backs are also very effective. To perform kick-backs, hold your arm at a 90-degree angle at your side. Extend your arm back, straightening it. You can use light weights while performing this move.
Do 12 reps, then switch sides. By building muscles in your triceps, your arms will appear more toned and shapely.;
, In order to increase the size of your arms, you need to target several different muscles. Familiarize yourself with each of the different arm muscles. In addition to the triceps, which are the back of your arms, your biceps are very important--they are just above your inner elbow. Curls are one of the most effective ways to target your biceps. Simply curl your arms up towards your shoulders, then extend. Using heavier weights will build larger muscles. Light weights will tone and lengthen your arm muscles.
Begin with 12 reps on each side. Building bicep muscles will increase the overall size of your arms.
Make sure to avoid momentum. This means that you should not swing your arms while doing curls. Instead, go slowly and focus on resisting the motion on the way up and down., To effectively shape your arms, you will also need to target your shoulder muscles. Try doing presses. Hold your arms at 90-degree angles out from your shoulders, in front of you. Your feet should be shoulder width apart and your knees slightly bent.Then press one arm up, holding a weight. Alternate arms.Breathe out as you raise your arm, and inhale as you lower it, focusing on keeping your elbows in near your body.
Begin by doing 8-12 reps on each side. You can start out with light weights, such as 5 lbs., and work your way up. Creating larger shoulder muscles will up your arms appear larger and more defined.
 If it seems overwhelming to try to learn about how to target specific muscle groups, you should consider working with a personal trainer. A trainer can create an exercise program tailored to fit your individual goals. She can help you find the best exercises to add weight to your arms, and can teach you how to do each move properly.Ask your gym if they offer some introductory personal training sessions at a discount. That way you can make sure you like the trainer and find the program useful.
If you are not interested in one on one training, try a small group session. These are always a less expensive option.
 Whether you choose to work with a trainer or on your own, consistency is key to gaining weight in your arms. You should plan to do strength training 2 to 4 times a week. If you are lifting heavy weights, your sessions should be less frequent than if you are doing lighter lifting.Your muscles need time to rebuild, so try to take a rest day between strength training sessions.
The amount of weight you lift depends on your size and fitness level. It also depends on your goals and what results you are looking for. If you belong to a gym, ask one of the staff members to make some recommendations for your particular body type.

