 Pour a dollop of laundry soap directly on the gum. Use a toothbrush to scrape around the space where the gum is connected to the shirt. Then use a strong scraper such as a paint scraper to remove the gum entirely.
 Goo Gone and Goof Off are strong degreasing agents that make removing gum a breeze. Allow the product to soak into the gum and then scrape the gum off using a metal scraper.
 Spray an adhesive remover on the gum and let it soak in for several minutes. Use a toothbrush or a wire brush to scrape off the gum.
 Let the rubbing alcohol seep in and loosen up the gum for several minutes. Then remove the gum using a metal scraping tool.
 Let it sit for several minutes and then use a brush or metal scraper to scrape off the gum.
 Immediately scrape off the gum, do not wait for it to harden, as hair spray is generally not strong enough to harden the gum completely.
 Like the peanut butter method, make sure the duct tape covers all of the surface area of the gum. Avoid pressing the duct tape too hard into your shirt. Peel off of the duct tape. Repeat with a new piece of tape if all the gum isn't gone.
 Lanacane contains Ethanol, Isobutane, Glycol, and Acetate, which all help to loosen the gum off of the clothing. Let the Lanacane sit for about one minute and scrape off the remaining gum using a paint scraper or a butter knife.
 Be careful to keep these flammable products away from fire while using them. Scrub the gum with a toothbrush and scrape off any extra with a metal scraper. Rinse the clothing with detergent and warm water by itself before putting it in the washing machine with other clothes.
 Use a rag to rub the orange oil on the affected spot. Allow it to soak into the clothing and then use a metal scraper to remove the gum.



Scrape off thick pieces of gum first.
Wearing gloves, apply a small amount of paint thinner or turpentine to the gum residue. Scrub it with an old but clean toothbrush.
Rinse off the scrubbed gum before laundering.
Launder as usual. The gum should be washed away.
 The heat will soften adhesive in the gum, making it easy to scrape off. Use a paint scraper and scrape off immediately after taking it out of the microwave.


Only use on fabrics that can withstand being heated.

