 Clear off a table and lay out the necessary materials for the card. For a basic birthday card, you'll need:


Construction paper or cardstock and stationery
Coloring utensils such as markers, crayons, and colored pencils
Glue
Stickers
Rubber stamps or other images such as photographs, magazine pictures, or images from cards that have already been used;
, Take a piece of construction paper and fold it into quarters.


Depending on how large or small you want to card to be, you can also use a piece of good quality cardstock (A4 size), cut it in half, and then fold it down the middle.
If you have an envelope you'd like to use for the card, fold the paper so it will fit inside the envelope. Leave at the very least 1/8" (.3 cm) on all sides so the card can slide easily in and out of the envelope.
 Customize the card design based on who the card is for and the materials you have available. Keep in mind you have the front and inside of the card to decorate, so perhaps you want to include a simple design or image on the front of the card and a more personal or detailed design inside the card.


Think of a riddle or poem. You can compose a limerick, look up a line from your favorite poem, or find a funny riddle.
Draw a picture of a person the card receiver admires or likes. You can also cut out and paste a picture of a person or of the card receiver. Add a thought or speech bubble over the picture and include a funny message or saying.
Turn the card a mini graphic novel. Divide the card into a grid and tell a little story.
Choose a quote or saying based on a personal moment with the person, such as the first time you met them, or something they did on their last birthday.
 Tailor the card’s decorative details to the recipient.


For example, if it’s your dad’s birthday and he likes to fish, you could add a stamped fisherman image and a piece of string glued to a fishing rod and anchor it to a drawing of a big fish on the front of the card.
Bright colors are vivid and fun; muted colors are classy and more sophisticated. A card for a child may be filled with bright colors, stamped animals, and whimsical phrases while a card for a teenager or adult may be more muted and simple.
Use your own handwriting or a computer generated greeting such as "Happy Birthday!” on different coloured paper. Cut it out and paste it to the basic card template.
Add the person's name to the card to make it more special and personal.
 Making a basic pop-out card is actually fairly straightforward and simple to do.


Choose a level of difficulty that suits your skills and time.

