 People without disabilities sometimes treat disabled people as childlike, and this attitude can come across as condescending and very annoying. Talk to them like a real person.


Use your regular tone of voice. Don't modify your voice in pitch, volume, or speed unless they tell you they're having trouble understanding you.
Don't bend down or treat them as if they are younger than they actually are. Their only "real age" is their chronological age.
Speak directly to them, not to their translator, aide, or family (even if they don't exhibit typical listening body language).
Ask before helping them. Sometimes a disabled person really does need help, but other times they can handle things on their own. Ask before you jump in to the rescue.
Don't play with their service dog, wheelchair, tablet, or other accessibility device/animal without their clear permission.
 Disabled people are people like anyone else, with unique interests and passions. Ask questions about their hobbies, plans, and favorite things. When they mention something you like, say you like it too, and talk about that thing together.
 Some people with intellectual, developmental, or cognitive disabilities may have trouble initiating tasks and planning things. Thus, you might need to take initiative by suggesting an idea first, and handling most of the planning and logistics. Suggest a get-together, talk back and forth about what you want to do, and then help them work out the details or do it on your own.
 It's okay to ask how to accommodate them and be helpful. As long as you're polite and respectful of their feelings, it won't bother your friend. Here are some examples of ways to ask politely:


"Would you like me to escort you across the street?"
"I've heard that sensory issues often come along with autism. Will you need to sit in a quieter part of the restaurant?"
"Do you have any needs I should be aware about?"
"I'm curious about cerebral palsy. What would you say are the biggest misconceptions about it?"

, Your new friends may behave in ways that seem unusual to you, and may have needs different from yours. This is okay. Let them be themselves and don't worry about it.


If they are seriously upsetting you or invading your personal space, let them know.
Look for the beauty in their uniqueness. Maybe your friend with Down Syndrome has the most beautiful eyes, or your Autistic friend waves her hands and squeaks because she's so happy to see you. Appreciate them for who they are.

