 No matter what you are telling her, make sure you say it with a smile. Also show her that you are comfortable in your own skin and are teasing because you like her. Otherwise, she might think you are serious and take whatever you say as an insult, especially if you look withdrawn and sullen. Just try to be as comfortable as possible, even if you like her a great deal. She will catch on to your mood and be less likely to take offense., Notice the things she does while you are around her. Then, make a sly comment about how she does a certain thing. For example, if she tosses her hair when she laughs, say something like: “Watch out where you throw that, you’re gonna put my eye out!” Not only will she laugh, she'll know that you've been watching her and notice things about her.


Be open to letting her tease you back. Try to leave your comments open for her to tease you about something similar. This way, it will be a back and forth instead of assault from you.
Make sure it doesn't come out as insulting. The idea is to make her smile and laugh., A good way to tease her that has the added bonus of bringing you in to contact with her is by doing some physical teasing, such as playing keep away. This is especially effective if you pair it with doing something nice for her. Think about buying her a present, like tickets to a concert she wants to go to. Offer the tickets to her, then pull it away. Each time you do this, bring her a little closer to you. This is playful and a good way to tease her, but you end up doing something nice for her as well.


You can also tickle or poke her teasingly, trying to get a reaction out of her. If she responds, you can amp it up a little., Although teasing usually incorporates some kind of jibe at the girl, try to give it a positive spin. If she keeps stumbling over her words, instead of insulting her ability to talk, ask her something like: "What's with all the stumbled words? Are you trying to confuse me and throw me off your trail?" This implies that she is purposefully stumbling over her words in order to mess with you instead of making fun of her for making a mistake. It is a playful way to draw attention to it while not being a jerk about it.


This can also work with her physical appearance. If she is wearing a particularly high pair of heels, make some comment like: "Well, at least I know we're safe if we get mugged. You could stab them with those heels." It points out that you noticed what she's wearing but gently teases her about their height. It teases her subtly without critiquing her appearance., As you are spending time together, take notice of something about her, like how much she laughs or the kind of movies she likes. Based on your observations, give you a nickname. You can say something like: "I see you're really into Star Wars. I guess I should start calling you Jedi Jane." If you make it playful and fun, she'll be more likely to play along.