 If you've never had a Hollywood job before, the best way to get attention is to demand it. Getting someone to read your script is tough, but if you can develop a few thousand views on your video people will start to take notice. You don't necessarily need to shoot the entire show, either. Sites like Amazon Studios, for example, allow you to post clips that people vote up and down, giving great ideas visibility.



Always Sunny in Philadelphia, for example, was written and shot on a tiny budget, then sent to executives at FX. They were so impressed with what they saw they bought the show.
Almost anyone can get a show on Public Access, and they often have equipment and training options available too., Shop for agents and producers who are open for submissions, and enter in contests and festivals for exposure. The best way to do this is through "the trades," such as Deadline.com or Variety. These sites are mandatory reads, as they talk about development deals, who is shopping for shows, and agents currently on the market.


Whenever you see a show like yours or a writer/producer you admire finding work, make a note of their agency (like CAA or WME) and their collaborators. Check out their websites and send out query letters asking to meet.You can also post your idea on search sites, like The Blacklist, that allow agents to search for manuscripts that match their interests. They cost money, however, and you should always research "success stories" by checking out the projects online to see if the show actually got made.
 Find the groups that are making shows like yours and send them a quick letter. Use their websites to get the names and emails of executives and workers in the "Development" department. The more you can tailor your search to specific people that would be interested in your script the better your odds of making a show.


You wouldn't pitch a cheesy monster show to NBC, you'd send it to SyFy. Reality TV shows shouldn't be sent to the producers of The Sopranos. Think about what the studio is already making to pitch to the right people., Very few people make a TV show without starting on the bottom rung. You can always produce your own show, and you might take off. But 95% of all TV creators started as production assistants, writing assistants, camera operators, actors, etc. This is the best way to meet people who might help you out later on and opportunity and learn how TV is constructed.


You should try and have 3-5 pilots scripts on hand or being worked on at any one time. You never know when an idea will be taken, when someone will like you but want a different story, or when someone wants to see more of your work. The people who get shows made keep working, writing and rewriting until something is on air.

