 He's already given all of His Love and proved it by dying for you. So, just believe what He said: I will in no wise cast out anybody who comes to me for salvation. So, be saved by believing that God is who he says He is and that He sent Jesus to pay for all of your sin. Repent for your sin (turn your heart and actions away from it) --and ask Him to save you from eternal Hell and He will; simple! Ask for forgiveness because all of us commit mistakes -- small or big, but that doesn't matter because Christ don't look for flaws and mistakes. He's after what's inside each of our hearts.;
, Appreciate both the big things and the little things in life. Be grateful--even through the low points--remembering that the sweet would not be quite so sweet without the sour.
 Pray, asking for guidance, and listen for the Holy Spirit to answer. There are many ways to listen, whether it's through coincidences, or insights, or whatever way makes you feel like you're being drawn in a particular direction to do the right thing! Be sure that your spirit does not go against Bible truths.
 Romans 5:5

, The Bible says that without faith, it is impossible to please God. A fact will not satisfy you or save you: there is always the need for your faith to really please God.
 Seek God and read your Bible! God reveals Himself through the Bible, which is His Word. Make sure you use a sound bible... King James is the closest to the truth without man's sinful influence. Take time to learn from it. You will find that it reveals more as you grow. Other versions make you feel good at first but are not good for you in the long run. Better to feel the heat at first and grow in truth than to feel good now and find out you fell short of the mark in the end.
 He promises if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart God raised Him from the dead, you will be saved. He delights in you. ((Hebrews 10:17 says that God does not remember your sins. Proverbs 8:17, "I love those that love me." Jeremiah 31:3, "With an eternal love have I loved you."))

, Just because a pastor, like a priest, says something doesn't automatically mean that it's right. The ONLY way we know what God wants/thinks/says is through His Word... the BIBLE!

, God gave you intelligence, use it. On the other hand, God will teach you all things. John 14:26, (("But the helper, the Holy Spirit whom the Father will send in My name, He will teach you ALL things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said unto you.")) I John 2:27, (("But the anointing which ye have received of him abides in you, and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anointing teaches you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him.")) Hebrews 8:6,10, (("But now He has obtained a more excellent ministry, inasmuch as Christ is also Mediator of a better covenant, which was established on better promises. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the LORD: I will put My laws in their mind and write them on their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people."))

, If you are saved, He will speak to you through your spirit, you just have to listen and decide to obey. Jesus said, in Mark 16: "15 And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues;... 20And they went forth, and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following.",