 Add your carrots and water to a high speed blender. Blend these ingredients on a high setting until the mixture is smooth throughout. If your blender has difficulty blending, add a little more water to the mixture.


While blending, chunks of carrot might become stuck on the sides of the blender. After turning the blender off, use a kitchen implement, like a wooden spoon, to push this down into the mixture.;
, Drape cheesecloth over a medium sized mixing bowl. Pour your juice through the cloth. When the majority of the liquid juice has passed into the bowl, gather the edges of the cloth. Twist the cheesecloth to wring the remaining juice out of the pulp.


Carrot pulp can be saved for later. It’ll add nutritional content to future smoothies, and can also be used in carrot muffins and carrot cake., You’ll only be using ½ cup (118 ml) of carrot juice. Measure out this amount, and set it aside for use in your turmeric smoothie. The remainder of your carrot juice should be put in an airtight container and stored in your refrigerator.


Carrot juice can be stored for several days when refrigerated. Use your carrot juice in smoothies and recipes throughout the week., Insert your smoothie ingredients into your blender. Pulse the blender on high until the mixture is smooth throughout. If your blender has difficulty blending, add a little more carrot juice or almond milk to it.


While blending, it’s common for chunks or pieces of ingredients to get stuck on the side of the blender. Turn the blender off and use a kitchen implement to push these back into the mixture, then continue blending., If your smoothie isn’t sweet enough, add some banana or pineapple to it. You can increase the citrus profile by adding more lemon. Additional ginger will give the flavor of your smoothie more bite. Turmeric will add warmth to the flavor., Split the ingredients in your blender between two glasses. If refrigerated in an airtight container, your smoothie will keep for at least 24 hours, though the flavor will be best when served fresh.If your stored smoothie has turned brown in color or is giving off an unpleasant odor, it’s likely gone bad and will have to be thrown away.