 This can be one that is used, or simply pour out the soda. Make sure that all the soda has been removed and that it has been washed out with warm water., Use a pair of scissors. Poke a hole through the bottle using one of the blades on the scissors. Do this right where the funnel of the soda bottle ends, and where the large shaft begins (near the middle of the bottle).After you have poked the hole in the bottle, insert your scissors and cut around the bottle. Cut off the entire top funnel, so that what you have left are two separated pieces: funnel (top) and shaft (bottom).
Try to cut as close to the edge of the funnel as possible, otherwise when you flip the funnel upside-down it won't stay in place.
You can also use a sharp knife to cut the top funnel off, but make sure not to cut yourself. If you are doing this project with your kids, it is better to use a safe pair of scissors.
 Stick it into the bottom half of the bottle. If you cut close enough to the edge of the funnel, it should stick inside as you slide it in.
 The simplest and most effective way is to staple the edges together. Simply staple three or four times around the bottle, equidistant from one another.If this project is done with children, an adult should staple the two parts together. If you do not have a stapler, the following two options work fine as well.
Tape is another good option, but make sure that the tape is water resistant. Apply three or four pieces of tape around the funnel.
If you wish to use superglue, or regular glue, that will also have to be water resistant. Before you add the funnel, apply a thin layer of glue around the top inside of the base. Then insert the funnel upside-down. Use your fingers and press the funnel with the base. Hold the two pieces into place until it is dry.
 Pour five tablespoons of sugar into a pot. Place the pot on a stovetop. Flatten sugar so that it lies evenly across the bottom of the pot.Pour in enough water to cover the top of the sugar. Slowly heat the mixture on medium-high heat until it boils.
Stir the mixture well. Dissolving sugar in hot/warm tap water makes sweet water but boiling makes "syrup", a more concentrated attractant. Let the liquid sit until it goes from hot to warm.
 Try and drip it down the edges of the funnel so that when the flies come towards the funnel, they will stick right from the start.
 You can slice up some apple chunks, and push them through the bottom of the funnel. A piece of raw meat will work as well, as does a few tablespoons of old wine. You can also simply add in water mixed with either sugar or honey.
 If your bait of choice is a liquid, add in a few teaspoons of vinegar, preferably white vinegar. This will help keep bees and other unwanted insects away from the trap., This will help the fruit/meat to rot and thereby increase the likelihood of flies smelling the bait. It will also cause liquid mixtures to evaporate, thereby creating a pheromone, drawing the flies towards the trap. Marvel at your new fly trap as it catches flies.
 This will improve your results because insects are attracted to heat and carbon dioxide. You can also rub the bottle in between your two hands to create more heat.
 After you see that flies begin to accumulate, throw the bottle away, and create another one. Eventually the effects of your bait will be used up, and you will have to start again. If you try to empty the bottle, it will be hard because flies/bait will get stuck to the inside of the funnel. You also do not want to have to handle dead flies with your hands.

