 Though telling your crush in person will make you look more confident and mature, and saying it over the phone is sort of the worst way to do it, if you're really shy about telling your crush how you feel, then calling them and revealing your feelings is the next best bet. Just say hello, make them comfortable with a joke or casual comment, say, "I wanted to tell you something," and then reveal your feelings.


Talking over the phone will make you feel less nervous because you won't see your crush face to face. Still, if you're nervous, you can pace back and forth to get rid of some of that nervous energy.
If you're determined to tell your crush how you feel over the phone, you can also practice by calling one of your friends and rehearsing what you'd say first.
 Putting a cute note in your crush's locker, textbook, or backpack that tells them that you like them can be a nice way to tell them how you really feel. Just write something like, "Hi, Mark, I just wanted to tell you that I like you." Having your crush find the note at the right time can be a pleasant surprise -- just make sure the note will be easy to find.
 If you're too nervous about saying, "I like you," you can sidestep the situation by just asking your crush to hang out. You can simply say you have extra tickets to a movie or a show and invite your crush along, ask your crush if they're hungry or want to grab a snack or coffee somewhere, or ask if they want to go for a walk in the park. Asking them to hang out solo will make your feelings pretty obvious, so you can let your crush do more of the work when he figures it out.
 There are a few things you should avoid doing if you want to tell your crush that you like them and get the best results. Here are some things you should avoid if you want to look confident and mature:


Don't have your friends tell them how you feel. If you want to look mature, you have to do it yourself.
Don't do it over Facebook. This will make you look like you're not serious or confident enough to have the conversation in person.
Don't be too eager when you tell your crush how you feel. A simple "I like you" is far more effective and far less likely to scare them off than saying, "I've been in love with you since the second grade..."

