 Take a moment to think about what you are eating and why you are eating it. Being mindful can help you reduce your food addictions by forcing you to be conscious of your eating habits.Don’t just absent-mindedly reach for something to eat. Think about what you want to eat and why you want to eat.
If you are craving something unhealthy, force yourself to eat something healthy first. This may help reduce your hunger or relieve some of your compulsion to eat. This may lead you to eat a smaller portion of the unhealthy food.
Make a conscious choice to eat something healthy and nutritious. Think about how what you are eating can benefit or harm you.
Pay attention to how hungry you are or if you are even hungry at all. Sometimes people eat for reasons other than hunger.
Pay attention to how much you are eating. Are you eating the recommended portion or more than that?

, You can reduce your food addictions if you pay attention to what you are eating as well as the process of eating. Focusing on the act of eating will help you notice how eating makes you feel physically and emotionally. To do this, eat slowly, setting down your utensil between bites and thoroughly chewing your food.


Don’t just notice how the food tastes. Think about how it looks, smells, and it’s texture. Think about how it sounds as you eat it.
For example, you might think, “This apple is sweet and juicy. It’s crunchy and smells fragrant.”
Notice how you feel as you are eating. For example, “I’m feeling content and peaceful and I’m starting to feel full.”

, This is when you eat not because you are hungry, but because you are stressed, bored, sad, or angry.You can reduce your food addictions by paying attention to whether you are eating because you are hungry or because of your emotions.


Emotional eating doesn’t make you feel better in the long run.
If you are suddenly craving certain foods and overeat when you get them, it could be emotional eating.
When you are emotionally hungry you are likely to crave foods that are salty or sweet like candy, pastries, pizza, or chips.
If you find you are engaging in emotional eating, try to come up with a replacement behavior that you can do instead. When you notice you want to eat emotionally, go for a walk, call a friend, dance to your favorite song, or do some other replacement behavior.
 Writing down what you eat and how you are feeling while you eat it can help you reduce your food addictions.Keeping a food journal can help you identify what foods or types of food you are addicted to. It can also help you determine what emotions make you want to eat, as well as how eating makes you feel.


Make daily entries describing your snacks and meals. Also write about your moods.
Write down how you felt before you started eating, while you were eating, and after you finished eating.
For example, “Today Max hurt my feelings. I had a pint of ice cream and some pretzels while I had my pity party. I felt worse after I was done.”
A food journal can also help you identify if you are eating more unhealthy foods than you think.

