 The bulk of leptospirosis prevention focuses on limiting your dog’s exposure to the environments where leptospirosis is likely to be lurking. Leptospirosis is often transmitted through stagnant bodies of water where infected wild animals have urinated or defecated.Keep your dog on a leash when walking or hiking in high risk areas, like marshy land or around stagnant ponds so that he doesn’t drink standing water. Don't allow your dog to drink or swim in standing water. When your dog is outside, provide fresh clean water and change his water regularly to prevent his drinking water from becoming infected.
You should also keep your dog away from raw sewage.
Keep your dog away from other dog’s feces and urine when you take him for a walk.
Separate infected dogs from healthy dogs as well.;
, Vaccinations are available that protect against the common leptospirosis strands.The initial vaccination is given to healthy dogs 10 weeks of age or older followed by a booster three to four weeks later.The vaccination lasts for a year and should be boosted each year.
These vaccines are only effective for the forms of leptospirosis which are more commonly found to cause disease symptoms in dogs. For the most part this will be adequate for the average dog.
Vaccinations do not work immediately after the first vaccine. After the booster vaccine the dog will then have full protection against leptospirosis.
 Another way to prevent leptospirosis is to remove or fix situations that might attract vermin to your property. Animals such as raccoons, skunks, opossums, and rodents can carry leptospirosis.Drain any stagnant water on your property. Stagnant water attracts vermin.
Keep garbage cans covered so these animals won’t be tempted to search for food in the garbage can.
Monitor bird feeders so they don’t attract these pests to your yard.
Trap any bothersome creatures with a live trap and release far away from your home or consult an animal exterminator if you cannot get rid of them.
 If your dog comes down with leptospirosis, you will need to keep in mind that he can spread leptospirosis to you or other animals. Put your infected dog in a separate room or area than other dogs.Make sure your other pets or family members don’t come in contact with the infected dog’s waste.
If you have to handle the infected dog, make sure to wear gloves at all times. Wash your hands after coming in contact with the dog.
 Dogs may pick up the bacteria from areas that haven't been disinfected. Properly cleaning any bodily fluids your pet sheds while infected can help reduce the risk of the bacteria spreading to other dogs.Be careful when handling your dog’s waste. Use gloves to pick up any stool. Make sure the dog only uses the bathroom in a spot that can be cleaned, like concrete. Don’t let the dog use the bathroom on the ground or dirt because the bacteria can soak into the ground and spread.
Most common household disinfectants will kill the leptospirosis germ, so bleach or other disinfectants can be used to clean the bathroom area, dog kennel, and water and food bowls.
Make sure to wash your hands well after touching the infected dog or his waste.

