 These products use chemicals to dissolve the proteins in your hair, causing the hair to loosen from the follicle. The most important consideration when selecting a cream is your skin's sensitivity. Opt for a formula made specifically for facial hair removal, which contains vitamin E or aloe.Depilatories come in creams, gels, roll-ons, and aerosols. Roll-ons and aerosols make less of a mess, but you can get a nice, thick layer of product with a cream.
If you have sensitive skin, talk to a dermatologist about the best hair removal cream options for you.
 To avoid an allergic reaction, apply a small amount of cream to your skin, wait the prescribed amount of time on the packaging, and then wipe it off. Wait at least 24 hours to make sure you don't have an adverse reaction to the cream -- the chemicals can be harsh, as your skin contains the same proteins the chemicals attack in your hair.Your wrist is a good spot to test the cream because the skin is thin and delicate, just like the skin on your face.
 A thick, fabric headband makes a good barrier to your hairline so you don't accidentally remove more hair than you mean to. Make sure your sideburns are free and not pulled back with the rest of your hair so you can target them with the cream.


Check the area around your sideburns to make sure you don't have an open cut, scrape, burn, or peeling skin. The depilatory may irritate or cause chemical burns on damaged skin.
Make sure you have removed all your makeup and your skin is clean before you apply the cream.
 Spread it over the hair in a dabbing motion but do not rub or massage it into your skin. Do both sides of your face at the same time, and wash your hands thoroughly afterwards.The cream may have a strong, almost sulfur-like scent, which is normal. If you’re sensitive to smells, choose a product that’s scent-free.
 Read the instructions carefully to see how long you should wait; in most cases, it’s five to ten minutes. Don't go beyond the recommended time, though, or you may get a nasty burn. Many creams recommend checking after five minutes to see if the hair is loose enough to come out.A slight tingling sensation is normal, but if the skin begins to burn, immediately remove the cream and wash the area with cool water and a gentle soap.
 Use a warm, wet cotton pad or washcloth to gently remove it, and the hair should wipe away with it. You may have to make a few passes with the pad or cloth to remove all of the hair.Be sure you remove all traces of the cream so it doesn't continue reacting to with your skin.
It should take about a week for the hair to start growing back. In the meantime, your skin should be smooth and free of ingrown hairs.Moisturize your skin afterward. Most kits come with a soothing lotion that you can apply after using the depilatory.

