 A title is the legal proof that you own a particular vehicle. It is an important piece of paper that should be kept in a safe and secure area. Unless you are certain it is permanently lost or stolen, keep looking for it, as it is a time-consuming and relatively expensive process to have a title replaced.If you have your title but it has been damaged, bring it to your local Secretary of State or DMV office.
 If you do not have a title to prove your ownership of a vehicle and cannot contact the party that sold it to you, you will need to purchase a surety bond and apply for a bonded title through your state government.Check your state’s DMV website for the eligibility requirements for a bonded title in your state. These will usually include residence in the state where you hope to title the vehicle.
 Give everything required to prove your eligibility to a state office, as directed by your state's DMV website. You will also need to pay a fee. Necessary paperwork will likely include a statement of fact regarding how you came into possession of the vehicle, any other evidence that indicates your ownership of the vehicle, a photo ID, and an application for a bonded title.Note that a vehicle that has legally been deemed abandoned, junked, or stolen, or is involved in a pending lawsuit will not be eligible for a new title.
 If you meet eligibility requirements, the state will send you a letter that contains the amount of the bond you will need to purchase. This bond amount will be greater than the value of the vehicle itself. The amount is determined by the state based on the information contained in your paperwork. Bring the letter to an agency that is licensed to sell surety bonds in your state, such as an auto-insurance agency.Keep in mind that you do not have to pay the state or the insurance company the value of your vehicle. While there will be some fee involved with the purchase of the bond itself, the bond is simply a legal instrument that makes you financially responsible for ownership of the vehicle.
 Once you have purchased a bond, return to the secretary of state to complete the titling process. You will then need to register your car to drive it legally.