 There are several conditions that can cause tremor, including hyperthyroidism or an overactive thyroid. Your doctor can test you for this condition by conducting a physical exam. They will also review your medical history to see if you have any previous symptoms that could indicate you have hyperthyroidism.Your doctor will do a blood test to see if you have abnormal levels of thyroxine and TSH in your blood. This can indicate you have hyperthyroidism.
 This medical condition can cause essential tremor. It will need to be diagnosed by a specialist who works with patients with Parkinson's disease. The specialist will determine if you have Parkinson's disease by doing a physical exam and having you complete several neurological tests to check your agility, your balance, and your motor skills.They will also look for other symptoms of Parkinson's besides your tremors, such as trouble with your balance, slowness of movement, and stiffness in your arms, legs, or torso.
 Another condition associated with essential tremor is multiple sclerosis. It can be diagnosed by getting blood tests done by your doctor. Your doctor may also perform a spinal tap to test a sample of your spinal fluid. They may conduct an MRI to check for lesions on your spinal chord and your brain.They may review your medical history to see if you have previous symptoms or a pattern of symptoms that may indicate you have multiple sclerosis.
 Having essential tremor may indicate that you have had a stroke. Your doctor will perform a physical exam and conduct a blood test to determine if you have had a stroke. They will also do a CT scan and an MRI of your brain to see if there are signs of a stroke.They may also perform a carotid ultrasound, a cerebral angiogram, and an echocardiogram to confirm you have had a stroke.
 The overuse of drugs like amphetamines, corticosteroids, and pharmaceutical drugs can lead to the development of essential tremor. Alcohol abuse can also cause tremor. If you have any substance abuse issues, tell your doctor and discuss whether this may be the cause of your essential tremor.You may also experience essential tremor when going through substance withdrawal.
 Other health issues like mercury poisoning and liver failure can also cause essential tremor. If you suspect you may have these health issues, speak to your doctor and get tests done to confirm the diagnosis.Keep in mind that sometimes there is no overt cause of essential tremor. The cause may be a variety of health factors or there may be no clear cause.

