 You may be tempted to choose the brightest hot pink in an effort to make your cheeks look rosy. However, the color of your blush should complement your skin color; otherwise, it can end up looking clownish or too dark. Check out the blush section in your favorite makeup department and make your choice based on the color of your skin. here's a guide:


For dark skin, choose a cranberry color. This will give your cheeks a rosy hue that stands out beautifully against your dark complexion.For olive skin, choose a deep pink, berry color. It'll have enough subtle pop to bring some cheer to your face.
For medium skin, go for a lighter berry color. Test it on your hand to make sure it's not too dark for your skin; it should make you look flushed, not painted.
For fair skin, look for a bubblegum pink. It'll be just right for bringing out your roses.;
, Blush comes in different textures that work better for different skin types. If your skin is dry and you use a liquid foundation, a cream blush will be easier to apply and blend. If your skin tends to get oily and you like to use face powder, a powdered blush will give your cheeks a better finish.
 Apply your other face makeup before you apply blush. Blush should be applied after you've applied your moisturizer, foundation and setting powder. Blush is the final touch on your cheeks; if you apply it before these other products, it won't show up., Rather than just dashing it on, consider the shape of your face as you apply your blush. You want the blush to look like natural roses in your cheeks, and applying it in the wrong place could make it look painted on. Use a blush brush to apply it according to the following guide:If you have a round face, suck in your cheeks and make fish lips. Apply the blush along your cheekbones, sweeping it out toward your temples.
If you have a long face, apply blush just below the apples of your cheeks (the plumpest part). Apply in a circular motion, rather than sweeping outward.
If you have a heart-shaped face, apply blush just below the apples of your cheeks, and sweep it out toward your temples.
 After you've applied it, check yourself out in the mirror. Does the blush look like a natural rosy glow? Use your fingers to lightly blend it with your makeup so it doesn't stand out too much. Blush should help you look flushed and healthy.Try mixing the blush with a little highlighting powder for a glowing effect.
Or add a layer of shimmery powder to look striking during a night out.

