 When settling on an additional island in Anno 2070, you will need 3 Wood and 2 Building Modules. These resources will be used in making a Warehouse on the new island. Drag these supplies from your warehouse at your main island to your ship.;
, Before you set off to find an island to settle, you should consider bringing more than just the resources required to construct a Warehouse. This includes Building Modules and Wood.


If you plan to build certain buildings, make sure to bring the required supplies so you can build as soon as you locate your island. If you don’t, you will find yourself sending your ship back to your main island to pick up supplies. This will waste time and be an annoyance!

, Once your ship is full of supplies, set out to locate an island. If you already have your eyes set on an island, head directly there. If you are still looking for an island, make your way into parts of the map covered by fog. Your ship will reveal what’s behind the fog and eventually reveal an island.


Each island has a certain amount of resources and fertility type. You can identify the fertility by simply hovering over the island and viewing the fertility at the top of your screen where your resources are located. The fertility will be displayed by icons of the fertility type. If you are looking for a particular fertility, such as Rice, make sure you locate this island or else you will settle on the wrong one!

, Locate a beach on your newfound island and move your ship close to the shore. When selecting your ship, there will be a button in the infobox at the lower right-hand side of the screen to establish a new settlement. Build the Warehouse along the shore to claim the island. The resources on your ship will automatically be placed into the newly built Warehouse on the island. This allows you to quickly begin building.
 Once you have established a Warehouse, you are ready to start building on the island. Remember, you must build the Warehouse first in order to interact with the island.

