 Start by choosing a picture that you want to display on the ornament. The photo you pick should capture a favorite memory of a friend or loved one. Look for photos of moderate size and good quality where the subject’s face and body are in clear view.


Photos printed on traditional cardstock will work better for crafting projects like this one, since they will be sturdier and easier to work with.;
, Use your scissors to trim the photo down to about 2.5” wide and 3.75” long. This will result in a frameable portrait of just the right size. To create the backing layers, cut the plain white sheet to 3.25”x5.5” and the printed or colored sheet to 3”x5” even. You’ll be layering each of these pieces to create dimension.You can adjust these measurements as you see fit, as long as you stick with the staggered sizing—the white piece of cardstock should be big enough to frame the patterned piece, which should be big enough to frame the photo.
Make sure you don’t cut out any of the photo’s important details, like the top of the subject’s head.
The printed piece of cardstock can be any color or design you want, from a simple solid color to sparkling glitter to contrasting chevron zig-zags.
 Apply a strip of double-sided tape or a small dot of glue to one side of the printed piece of cardstock and attach it to the large white piece. Leave a bit of space near the bottom if you want to add a name tag or other message; otherwise, align the layers evenly. Press the pieces of cardstock flat to make sure they stick together.As a substitute for double-sided tape, you could also use adhesive foam dots. These will give the ornament the appearance of more depth.
To create a name tag, cut a thin strip of leftover white cardstock, spell out a name or custom message using stick-on craft letters and leave a little space beneath the photo to attach it.
 Tear off another strip of double-sided tape or squeeze a little of glue onto the back of your photo. Arrange the photo in the center of the printed cardstock layer and stick it down. Smooth all three pieces to secure them.If your photo came from a regular inkjet printer, the ink will be more delicate. Be careful not to smudge it while smoothing down the photo.
Use a minimal amount of glue so that it doesn’t oversaturate the photo paper., Use your hole punch to make a small hole in both of the ornament’s upper corners. Guide a strand of ribbon through the front of one hole, around the back side of the cardstock, then out the front of the other hole. Tie the ribbon into a neat bow. It’s now ready to be the centerpiece of your tree or mantle!For an alternative to ribbon, use butcher’s twine, yarn or colored fishing line. Playing around with different materials will allow you to further customize your ornament.

