 The first step to snuggling in bed is getting your body close to your girl's. If you're already in bed together, then things must be pretty intimate between you, whether you're waking up in the morning together, are just taking a little nap, or even if you just got it on. Whatever your reason for being in bed together, it's time to get as close as you can. Here's how to do it:


First, subtly move closer until your bodies are touching.
Then, put your arm around her. This works whether she's facing you, looking up, or even turned in the other direction.
 Now that you've gotten closer, it's time to caress your lady so she wants more of your super snuggling skills. There are a variety of ways to get her into the snuggling mood. Here are a few:


Try some gentle kisses. If you're already in bed together, it's pretty likely that you've locked lips, so this shouldn't throw her off her game. But don't kiss on the lips, because that may lead things in a different direction. Kiss her on the top of her forehead or her cheek. If you're feeling bold, you can even lift her hand to your mouth and kiss it, or even kiss her on the shoulders.
Stroke her shoulders and her hair.
Stroke the small of her back.
 Once your bodies are close and you've eased your girl with some gentle caresses, you can experiment with a few different poses to see what snuggle style suits you best. Here are some things to try:


The spoon. This is a classic. Take turns with one of you being big spoon and the other being little spoon.
Try the star gazer. Have your girl put her head on the fleshy part of your chest, and snuggle up at your side. Put your arm around her while she gazes out.
Face each other. Put your girl's head into your chest and wrap your arms around her. Put your chin on her forehead.
 The "dead arm" is the worst thing that can go wrong during snuggling session in your bed. But worry not — you and your girl will be able to avoid "dead arm" with just a few easy tricks. Here's what you can do:


Do the superman. Get in big spoon mode, but instead of putting your bottom arm around her, hang it up over her head or straight out. You may have to scoot down a little lower in the bed so there's room for your arm.
Do the shoulder roll. While you're snuggling, turn your chest closer to the bed so you can easily roll the arm that was supposed to be under your girl behind you.

