 Think clearly about a general idea of what is wrong. (This should be easy, just think about what needs to get better!)


For example, "My hand hurts," or "I am vomiting.";
,


Example: "My pain is more toward my wrist, but further from my fingers," or "My stomach is in pain."
If it's easier than writing it down, you can draw a picture of where on your body it's hurting the most.
If you're in the doctor's office, or hospital, just point to where the symptoms are occurring.
 (The more creative, the better. This gives health care professionals an idea of how to treat your symptoms, and get you feeling well faster!)


Example: "My wrist feels like someone is stabbing it with a knife." or "my stomach feels like it is burning"
Write down all the words you can think of that describe how you're feeling.



Example: "My wrist started hurting about a week ago," or "my stomach felt weird this afternoon"
If you can, document a specific time and date of each occurrence. If not, just an approximation is enough.
 (This might a complicated step. Sometimes it's hard to find one thing that got you sick, but even a faint idea may help.)


Example: "I hurt my wrist after I fell off my bike," or "I felt nauseous after I ate those shrimp."
Determining the source of the symptoms can affect what kind of treatment you will receive.
Even something obscure in the past may be what caused the symptoms to occur now, so write down everything you think may have caused your symptoms.
 Do your symptoms make it harder to do everyday things? Does anything alleviate your symptoms?


Example: "My wrist hurts more when I try to handwrite, but it feels better when i rest," or "I vomit more frequently as time goes by."
Writing down these causes can help health care professionals diagnose you at the time of your visit.
 Have you had any other medical problems recently that may or may not be related to this? (This is a very important step! Even symptoms that may seem completely unrelated could have something in common.)


Example: "I have knee problems too," or "This is the third time I've been sick like this in 6 months."
You should keep a detailed record of every time you have a symptom similar to the ones you're having from now on, so that you can start to see patterns in your own health.
 After you've written down this detailed description of your symptoms, make sure you write down any questions or concerns you have regarding this. Do your own research, if you are able to.


Keep your record in a safe place, and update it as symptoms progress.
 Before your visit, try to remember if you've had any tests for this problem previously. Also, think about the medications or treatments you've had previously, as well. You can call the hospital or facility that you had the test done at, and have them send a copy of the results to your doctor's office. Also, bring in any results that you have at home.
 HIPAA laws protect you; your doctors cannot share any of your information without your express consent. Take your record of symptoms and read it off to your doctor. Explain or show where the symptoms occur. Share as many details as possible with him or her, so that you can get the best treatment possible.
 If you need to, bring a relative or a friend who will help you remember as much as possible. Every detail counts!

