 Being troubled can cover a wide range of issues, from the behavioral (drug use, sexual explorations, and criminal activity) to the mental (ego and self-esteem). Being aware of what the teen is dealing with is the first step in helping them recover.


Before you go investigating, try communicating honestly with your teen (or have someone else do the job for you). If they aren't willing to open up, you'll need to start putting the pieces together yourself.
Just about all teens are dealing with many issues at the same time, which creates even more stress.;
, These include falling school grades, lack of interest in hobbies they previously enjoyed and suspicious activities.


Though these are just symptoms of a greater cause, keeping alert will help you piece the puzzle together and help you get to know your son/daughter better. Take every opportunity to gauge information and keep notes to stay mentally organized.
 Your neighbors and parents of your teen's friends are a good place to start. This gives you a broader view of the situation in your teen's sphere of influence with his/her peers.


In addition to being valuable resources of information, it's likely that they've been there too and can be a source of support. Don't be afraid to open up about your concerns - you're trying to be an involved, caring parent.
Don't ask them to divulge secrets or overly personal information, unless you have a good reason to believe they are contributing to your teens stress. Doing so will breach your teen's privacy and can only make the path to recovery even harder.
 Not all teens are going to be excellent students, nor will they all begin dating at the same age. But knowing what track they are on will help you better predict the future.


Certain facts are not necessarily indicators of trouble or rebellion. But as a parent, you should develop a familiarity of your teen's growth, both mentally and physically.
 Sometimes signs of trouble may just be signs of growth. All teenagers go through changes in dealing with growing up.


Keeping up with fashion is important to many teens. This may mean that your teen suddenly decides to dress provocatively or dye their hair. For some, this is normal behavior. Limit your criticism to bigger issues.

A changing appearance is not a red flag unless you suspect self-harm or see serious weight gain or loss.


As teens mature, they can become more argumentative and rebellious. Red flags include skipping school, getting into fights and violence on any level at home. These go beyond the norm of teenage rebellion.
Mood swings are normal. They may be irritable one moment and jumping for joy the next. What you should be concerned with is persistent sadness, anxiety or sleep problems. These could be signs of depression or bullying.

