 The director is the person running the band. Their job is to make sure things are running smoothly and progressively. They will be the person to ask if you want to join.;
, Marching band includes marching drum line, pit percussion, brass, and woodwinds. If you have no musical experience, but like to dance, you could consider joining colorguard also.
 Being social will help boost confidence when joining a band. Most of the time they love what they are doing and will give you a good idea of what it is like.
 If any of those appeal to you, join up! However, if one doesn't seem appealing to you, just ask to play one that you like.
 Private lessons will help provide you with knowledge you need to proceed further into your music. They help you become a better player. Most schools will offer lessons, but if they don't, look for private lessons at a community center or ask your band director for recommendations.
 Most bands practice over the summer (aka band camp), on Saturdays in the morning, and once or twice during the week after school - sometimes even everyday after school! You will most likely participate in marching competitions throughout the year, competing against other bands in your county, state, or even country! You might also have to be in the pep band at fall football games.
 This will be a daunting task at first. Try hard and you will become decent in your first year.
 Memorize your music and learn the marching drill. That way the band can put together the field show.
 They've been around the longest and will be correct 99% of the time.
 People will learn to respect you even as a newcomer if they can see that you are working hard instead of complaining or being lazy, even if you aren't very good yet. Also, remember that you aren't perfect and don't expect too much of yourself. Don't be discouraged if you find it difficult, just try all the more to overcome it.
 Hopefully you'll make friends and perform an awesome show.
 You might be required to play at every Friday night football game until November, or even later, depending on your school's schedule.

