 It’s going to be a lot easier with a squirmy toddler to cut the hair in smaller sections. This is true even for toddlers with shorter hair.


Take a clip, and fasten back all of the hair that you are not cutting. Pull out a small piece of the hair one section at a time.
You don’t need many sections. Pull away a piece that you will find manageable to cut. The goal is to be able to focus on one section at a time.
You also don’t need to make each section exactly the same size. It’s not that important. Sectioning back the hair just makes it easier to cut when a toddler gets a little antsy.
 One of the most important things when it comes to cutting toddler’s hair is to cut at an angle.


Try to cut the toddler’s hair at a 45-degree angle. Slant your cuts toward the toddler’s neck as you do so. If you don’t cut at an angle – other experts say to cut at 11 o’clock – you will make the hair too blunt.
Hold a piece of hair at the 45-degree angle, while you cut along your fingers, using your fingers to keep the line straight.
If your child has cowlicks on the top of his or her head, leaving the hair longer on top can help with that. The additional heaviness of the hair will likely stop it from standing straight up.
 Start cutting the toddler’s hair from the front because that's what people see first. This is partly because your toddler will probably be most compliant at first.


Start with the bangs. Cut from the outside of the toddler’s eyebrow to the outside of the second eyebrow. Pull the bangs straight down, and then cut them at an 11 o’clock or 45-degree angle.
Hold the child’s hand gently with one hand while you snip the bangs.Make sure that you keep the scissors positioned away from the child’s skin and eyes. Be ready for sudden movements the child might make.
Some parents find it easiest to start around the ears when the child is least restless at the beginning of the cut. Cut very slowly around the ears so you don’t cut them.
 In order to cut toddler’s hair, it’s important that you are gentle but firm, and that you snip tiny pieces at a time slowly. Hold the sections vertically.


This will make it easier to control the cutting, especially if the child moves suddenly. In order to cut a piece of hair, take a small piece between your fingers. Cut at an 11 o’clock or 45-degree angle not parallel to your fingers. This will blend the hair better. If you cut the hair too parallel to your fingers, you will end up with hair that is cut too bluntly for most people’s tastes.
Choose the lengths with the first section. As you work around the head, take a little piece of the previous section to guide you on how short to go.
Slide your fingers down the hair’s length, and then cut with the scissors below your fingers. Start out by cutting less than you think you want. You can always do more if you feel it’s necessary.

