 Make sure to wear fitted clothing keeping in mind, the tighter, the better. Opt for a one-piece jumpsuit instead of the traditional pants and a shirt.When you select a pair of pants, make sure they are high waisted, tight and flair out at the bottom.
If you’d like to try something slightly different, opt for a one-piece jumpsuit. It should fit snuggly, but the pant legs should be slightly flared.
To find this style of clothing, try looking at local vintage stores. You could also shop at Goodwill, if you’re looking for more of a selection.
For an authentic look, try searching online for an Elvis style jumpsuit.;
, Elvis was known for his bright and bold color choices, so don’t hold back when it comes to adding blues and pinks to your wardrobe. Black should be included as well, particularly if it’s black leather.


Embrace bright colors, as Elvis did. Try to tie in the chosen color with other accessories. For example, if Elvis wore a pink shirt, he paired it with a pink belt and socks.Another way to add a pop of color is to include some bedazzling on your clothes. For example, if you choose a solid black one-piece bodysuit, add a homemade touch to it by applying some embellishments. Elvis often sported homemade looks., Blue Suede Shoes, wasn’t just a song; it was also a look Elvis sported.The bright colors worked perfectly with his flamboyant style, so find a pair of shoes that works for you as well.


If you can’t find actual blue suede shoes, find another pair of bright colored shoes that can be your signature look.
If you’re going for a more authentic look, you can find plenty of blue suede shoe options online. Just do a Google search for, “buy blue suede shoes,” and choose which pair works best for you.
 Nothing says rockstar better than a pair of sunglasses. However, if you’re trying to look like the king of rock and roll, opt for a pair of aviators.


Although any pair of aviators will do, a more authentic look is thicker, gold aviators.
Have fun with it, though. You’re a rockstar so don’t be afraid to go big and bold!

, Embrace the rockstar lifestyle by adding some flashy jewelry. Elvis wore lots of sparkly accessories, such as gold rings adorned with diamonds, which made him stand out.When it came to style, Elvis was ahead of his time. Take chances when it comes to your accessories. Whatever you choose as your signature look, embrace it and wear it with pride. In doing so, you’ll be a trendsetter just as Elvis was.
If you’re going for a more authentic look, consider purchasing big, gold rings with diamonds - think Super Bowl rings. Wear one, two or even three, like Elvis did.
 Complete your look with a leather jacket. If you’re feeling extra daring go for an all leather look.


Purchase a leather jacket. You can pair the jacket with just about anything, but consider wearing a white, v-neck shirt underneath.
For the full effect, add a pair of leather pants. Elvis didn’t shy away from wearing head to toe leather., Although many musicians from the 50’s donned the pompadour hairstyle, none did it quite as well as Elvis.To style your hair into a pompadour, you will need either wax, gel or pomade and a comb.
Using the comb, lift all of your hair up. Now dip your fingers into the wax, gel or pomade, making sure to coat them well.
Apply the wax, gel or pomade to your hair. Be generous with how much you apply. Your hair should feel fairly slick and wet.
Slick back the hair by starting at the back of your head. Do 4 inches at a time.
Once the hair has been slicked back, place one hand in the middle of the top of your head and use the other hand to hold the comb. Now push the front half of your hair forward with your hand, while using the comb to style is straight into the air.
Once the hair is straight up in the air, roll it back into a wave with your comb. Add more wax, gel or pomade to keep the wave in place.
Make sure the remaining back half of your hair is still slicked back, by going over it with a comb and more product.
 Elvis was known for sporting the mutton chop sideburns, which meant his sideburns came down to corner of his mouth. He varied the look, though, sometimes preferring to keep his sideburns trimmed and a bit more polished. Feel free to experiment with your look as well.To get Elvis sideburns, it helps to start with a full beard. Shave the beard back, leaving only a large triangle shaped piece around the ears.
To get a feel for the length, align the base of the triangle with your mouth.
For those who are unable to grow sideburns, consider purchasing an Elvis wig. Do a search online for, “Elvis wig with sideburns.” You’ll notice there are many options and price ranges, so choose one that works best for you.
 You may not realize it, but Elvis’s jet black hair color wasn’t natural. You, too, can achieve the same look as the king of rock and roll by dying your hair jet black.


Choose a dark brown dye. Elvis used a combination of dark brown and black velvet.For a temporary look, try a non-permanent hair dye. This way, you aren’t committed to jet black hair and can experiment with the right color. You can either purchase the dye at any major retail store or can pay a professional in a salon to give you an Elvis makeover.
Once you’ve found the best color combination, consider switching to a permanent dye. Be aware that in order to keep his hair healthy, Elvis used aloe vera regularly. Try buying some and working it into a lather when you shampoo, to keep your hair looking glossy like Elvis’s did., Elvis’s southern drawl made women swoon. To get the accent down, watch videos of Elvis on Youtube or rent one of his movies such as, Love Me Tender.


Listen to how he talks and practice saying things as he would, making sure to use a similar intonation.
 When watching videos of Elvis, take note of his lip curl. You’ll notice that his lip curl was more of a snarl, with the lip curving to the left.


Look at pictures online by searching, “Elvis lip curl.”
Practice doing the lip curl with a mirror.
Once you have the lip curl down, try speaking while your lip is curled.
 When it came to using the word “honey,” Elvis didn’t differentiate between men and women. He used “honey” when speaking to everyone.


For example, “Well, honey, I am the king of rock and roll,” or “I am the king of rock and roll, honey.”

, To complete the rock and roll look, purchase a guitar and learn how to play it. Choose songs of his to play on the guitar, such as Hound Dog or Jailhouse Rock.


Elvis played a range of guitars but favored a Gibson or a Martin. Do a search online for Gibson and Martin guitars and select one that fits within your price range.
More serious guitar players should visit a local Gibson or Martin retail store to get a feel for the different types of options available.
You can really use any type of acoustic guitar though, as your end goal is to be able to play some basic songs. The guitar can even be used as more of a prop.Learn to play the guitar either by watching Youtube videos online or buy taking guitar lessons from a professional.
You can find Youtube videos online that will provide you with step-by-step instructions on how to play Elvis songs. For example, you can do a search for “How to play That’s All Right Momma, by Elvis Presley.”

, If you’re not a gifted singer, consider taking vocal lessons. You can also listen to Elvis Presley songs and try to mimic his sound.


Watch the video, “Three Essential Elements to Singing Like Elvis,” on Youtube. It highlights the quality of Elvis’s voice, along with the power and wide range he had.
You can also purchase videos, which will help you sing like Elvis, such as “Sing Like the King.”
More than anything, listen to Elvis sing and practice mimicking his vocals.
 In addition to singing Elvis songs, focus on rock and gospel music as a whole.


Elvis combined both rock and gospel, along with a little country, to get his signature sound. He reinvented the music industry with his sound.
Don’t stay within the confines of modern music. The title, king of rock and roll was given to Elvis because he pushed boundaries. Get creative with your sound.
 Elvis sent America into a frenzy with his hip gyrations. To complete your transformation into the king of rock, add some hip gyrations into your performance.To do the Elvis hip gyration, bend your knees slightly and make a circular motion with your hips. Thrust your pelvis forward, for extra flair and drama.
Take it to the next level by spreading your arms straight out to your sides while you’re doing the hip gyration. Snap to the beat of the music.

