 An attempt to avoid negative feelings may be one of the reasons you fell into disordered eating patterns. You can learn to recognize and tolerate your feelings with mindfulness.The next time you are overcome by strong emotions, pause. Breathe deeply. Take some time to sit with these feelings. Try to label what they are (e.g. sadness, guilt, etc.).
Identify any thoughts that are associated with these feelings. Pay attention to how these feelings manifest in your body (e.g. tightness in your chest). Continue to sit with these feelings without judging yourself or trying to make them go away.
 It can help to create a soothing care plan that helps you be good to yourself when negative emotions arise. Anorexia has caused you to develop destructive habits that harm your body, so create a list of nurturing habits that allow you to pour love back into yourself.For instance, when you feel sad, you might call a friend for support. Other suggestions include performing self-massage, taking a bubble bath, eating a balanced meal, lighting a scented candle, or taking a walk by the riverside.
Turn to these activities instead of over-exercising or restricting your foods in response to uncomfortable feelings.
 Unrealistic, self-defeating thought patterns are at the core of eating disorders like anorexia. You may only focus on the negatives of a situation, place pressure on yourself to be perfect, or always jump to conclusions. Learn to cross-examine your thought patterns, tearing them apart to reveal how weak and unrealistic they are. Then, you can replace them with adaptive thoughts.For instance, you might look at yourself in the mirror and say “I look disgusting.” Ask yourself how would you respond if you heard a friend say this to themselves. Can you rephrase this harmful statement?
You might change “I look disgusting” into “I am unhappy with how I look. But the doctor says I am at a healthy weight and I am healing. This is a good thing.”

, When you’re only focusing on what you don’t like, you discount all the wonderful things about yourself. Train your mind’s eye to view the positives. To do this, start a list of your positive qualities. Read the list aloud every day while looking in the mirror. Pull out the list when you start to give into negative thought patterns.You might write, “I am…funny, compassionate, intelligent, and artistic.”
Include any positive qualities others have made about you.
 Being around positive and healthy people can help you feel supported as you recover from anorexia. Identify the people in your life who have positive viewpoints about their bodies and healthy relationships with food. Also, look for people who have an optimistic outlook on life. Make an effort to spend more time with these people., Keep yourself preoccupied with positive activities. Doing so can help you cope with negative emotions that trigger unhealthy eating. If you are in high school or college, join a few clubs, organizations, or sports teams at your school. If you are not in school, pick up a hobby you once enjoyed or commit to volunteering in the local community.Examples of positive hobbies may include joining political activist organizations, joining an intramural sports team, or participating in a writing group.

