 There are many positions which you can situate yourself for meditation. However, you will find the best results in one which is comfortable to you. The Burmese position has you sitting with your legs crossed and both your feet and knees on the floor.
The Lotus or Half Lotus positions has you seated with both feet placed on the opposite thigh, or just one in the Half Lotus.
Seiza posture positions your body so you are on your knees with your buttocks resting on your upturned feet.
Chair position has you simply upright in a chair.
For every position, place your hands folded together. One hand holds the other, palms up. Your thumbs are lightly touching. Rest your hands on either your feet or thighs depending on your position.
Keep your back straight and your head positioned over your heart. Picture a beam extending from the crown of your head into the sky.
 Feeling your breath is the main focus when meditating.


Breath in and out through your nose.
Take steady breaths and notice how your body moves as you breathe. Your diaphragm should extend out as you breathe in to allow for more air.
Breath through your whole body, taking the breath deep down and into your stomach and back.
 As you stay still and focus on your breath, you’ll start to notice which parts of your body carry more tension. It may be your back, neck, or shoulders.


During Zazen, Zen meditation, you will most likely experience tension. When you do, try to breathe into these areas and relax.
If you find that your shoulders are tense, notice how you are positioned. Are your shoulders scrunched up? Let your body loosen up as you continue to breathe.
If it helps, think of the tension blowing off of you with every breath.
 In Zazen, it’s typical practice to keep your mouth shut. However, oftentimes, this causes people to clench the jaw. Keeping your jaw and facial muscles relaxed is a great way to release a lot of tension.
Rub your jaw in circular motions before meditating to help loosen the muscles.
Clenching your jaw can often lead to headaches.
Put a slight smile on your face to keep your facial muscles loose.
 In Zazen, it’s common to keep your eyes open slightly and fixated on a certain point. This can sometimes cause you to become distracted. Try not to fight your thoughts.


If you wish, you can also close your eyes.
During meditation your mind will begin to wander. Let it. Try not to steer it in any way.
Focus on your breathing as much as possible. Sometimes it helps to count your breaths from 1 to 10, then starting back at 1. The counting will allow you to stay in the moment of your breathing and not wander.

