 This guide is for tanks less than 30 gallons (113.6 L). Decide on the location of the aquarium in your home. This place should have lots of circulation and have zero exposure to direct sunlight. Tanks of this size can be placed on a sturdy piece of furniture. You can also purchase a pre-manufactured stand which may increase the warranty on an aquarium. Also be sure to get the items in the "Things You'll Need" section.;
, Always Use R.O.D.I. water. Tap water will not work and will lead to massive algae break outs as most tap water has many phosphates and silicates. If you do not have an R.O. unit, buying premixed water from a reputable local fish store is a great option. You may also experiment with distilled water from the store however if the water has copper in it (distilled in copper containers), it will kill coral. Be sure to leave about two to four inches at the top of the tank.
 Continue adding salt and stirring and checking salinity until the hydrometer reads somewhere between 1.022-1.025. With a new hydrometer you will frequently get air bubbles stuck to the needle, these will seriously throw off a reading. Tap it up and down and left and right until they float off. Once you have an appropriate salinity take a break and let the water clear up. Pour the water into the aquarium. Check it again and proceed to the next step.
 Slice open one side of the bag and slide it out very gently. It is similar to the magician pulling out the tablecloth, but a lot slower. If you do this properly the tank will hardly cloud at all. If you don't, you will have to wait longer for the water to clear so you can see through the aquarium. (You may use sand bought at the pet store or live sand bought from a local reef store)

, Read the directions for the test kit they vary in methods. Alkalinity reading should be 8-12 dKH. Calcium should be at 400-500 ppm. If either tests low, add an appropriate amount of alkalinity increase or calcium increase.
 Keep in mind that you will need to clean the glass so leave enough room on any sides you will be cleaning, really important on the front pane. It is also advisable to stack the rock in an arch formation with many open holes and few touching regions.
 Place the filter in a place where it will maximize the flow in the aquarium. The middle works better than the sides. If you are using two filters place them on opposite sides but not on the edges. Read the directions thoroughly before you plug them in. Make sure the filters are running properly.
 Leaving this off allows a ventilation in the tank and keeps the temperature lower.
 Dr. Tim's or add a few small cheap hardy fish and wait around a month to a month or two for ammonia, nitrite, and nitrate levels to zero out and the biological filters to establish Then head over to the BRS web sight and watch as many videos as possible on running your reef.

