 Most hip-hop and rap style trends involve baggy or loose clothing that is comfortable.Basketball jerseys, especially vintage ones, are very popular.
Loose t-shirts with graphic prints are often featured by hip-hop designers such as Sean John and Wu Wear.
Baggy polo shirts and button downs are also fashionable.
Large hoodies in bright colors are very popular among rap and hip-hop stars.
People who wear these often tuck in the front of the shirt and let the back loose if they are wearing a designer belt.;
, These should not be so baggy that you can't see your shoes.Make sure you can let the tongues of your shoes show.
Jeans like South Pole and Mecca are good for this.
Jeans that are too big and baggy can be held up with a belt. Belts which are embellished with stones or designs are most popular in hip-hop fashion.
 There are several types of jackets that are popular in hip-hop fashion. 90's style Starter jackets are really good for an old-school type hip hop look.
Stars like 50 cent made the Pelle Pelle style leather jacket very popular.
Army fatigue jackets are also recommended by hip-hop stylists. Rappers like DMX wore these.
 Put the bandana on your head and the hat over the top of it.You can wear the brim of your hat facing forward or to the back or side.
Try to get a bandana in a bright color, and wear it tied like a skullcap so you can fit a hat over it.
Do-rags are also popular headgear in hip-hop fashion.
 This is called bling or ice in hip hop fashion. Large gold or platinum chains are popular, especially with large crosses.
Wear rings that are gold or platinum with diamonds or stones in them for some flash.
Grills are very popular among rappers. These are caps made of metal for your teeth. Getting a full grill can be very expensive.
If you can't afford to cover all of your teeth with a gold grill then start with covering one or two teeth. When most individuals cover one or two teeth they usually have their initials cut out of the cap.
 These are very popular among rap artists.


The most popular styles have square frames.
Some fashionable labels are Adidas and Sean John.
A lot of stunner shades have colorful sides and are studded for some "bling".
 High tops and boots are the most popular types of rapper footwear.Brands like Vlados, Nike, Reebok, Adidas, Jordan and Timberland are very popular and should be the brands you choose from.
Hip-hop high top sneakers are worn with the tongues out.
It's very important to keep your shoes crisp and bright for hip-hop style.

