 Everybody has a flaw or two that they would like to overcome. Never lose hope. Make these steps a habit and over time you will find yourself buzzing with confidence!;
, As clichéd as this may sound, know that this helps vastly. It is very unlikely that you don't have any strengths. You just have to identify them if you already haven't.
 For example, if you are fairly good at a subject, say, history, concentrate more on it. Remember that it is always better to be excellent at what interests you rather than hanging around being a mere average across the board.


This doesn't mean that you should neglect your studies in other areas, but don't ignore your passions. Spend time on subjects that really motivate you, and your overall school study habits will likely benefit.
 Devote time to those subject areas adequately. Chart out a plan for how to spend sufficient time on each subject. Stick to your plan at any cost.


If you are poor at math, practice daily. Solve as many problems as you can. If you are stuck at any point, clarify your doubts and brush up your concepts. Do this every single day.
 Many students who do poorly in examinations have a common complaint: 'I study so much yet I don't get good grades'. The underlying cause of this, most of the time is a lack of concentration and focus. Even if you spend hours together reading your lesson, nothing, absolutely nothing will go into your head.


The key to the above problem lies in total concentration while studying. Don't let your mind drift to other things for the entire duration of your study. Take a break, but don't just sit there and stare at your book and make it look like you are studying.
 Only reading won't help. Having a conceptual understanding will help you grasp the subject fast. If you don't understand what you are reading, then seek help from a parent, friend or teacher who is good at that subject. Don't shy away from it. Take private tuition, if need be.
 Don't leave things for the last minute. Make sure you have enough time left to revise. Even if you were a pro at a lesson 2 months back, you may prove to be a dud in the exam, thanks to forgetfulness. Forgetting your lessons at the crucial moment will lead your hard work to nowhere.