 Knocking yourself for this is unlikely to help, as it's most likely it'll make you feel de-motivated and possibly even depressed (depending on the extent this habit has affected your life). Instead, bear in mind that it's not unusual to feel undisciplined and that this is an ability that can be both learned and mastered. It's just likely to take time, as with trying anything new.


A survey from 2011 revealed that approximately 27 percent of respondents felt they needed help with self-control and willpower.However, most respondents have hope that they can get better in this area.
 Self-control can be a limited resource capable of being depleted. Certain situations can make your self-discipline waver more than others. For example, being sleep-deprived can cause you to make poor decisions and even overeat. Nourishing your mind, body, and soul should help you on your journey to better self-discipline.Eat well-balanced meals. Ensure that you have between 3 to 5 small meals a day that include a variety of vegetables, fruits, lean protein, and whole grains. Drink plenty of water to stay hydrated.
Get regular exercise.Maintain a consistent level of physical activity while you are undertaking your self-discipline goals. Exercise not only puts you in a positive mood but gives you energy and motivation to accomplish tasks.
Work to reduce stress. Being stressed can take a toll on your productivity and overall health. Minimize stress by getting enough sleep, practicing self-care activities like a soothing bath or a walk in the park, or perform relaxation techniques like meditation or yoga. If you are a spiritual person, performing rituals such as prayer can also help you manage stressful situations.
 The book The Power of Habit' explains that habits are processed in the brain in the same area as automatic reflexes rather than through the prefrontal cortex which regulates decision-making.In the beginning, you will require constant motivation to perform acts of self-discipline until these acts become habitual and don't require any conscious thought.


Strategies to motivate yourself can include reading inspirational quotes or books, watching uplifting podcasts or Ted Talks, and talking on the phone to a person who inspires you. Do this in the morning - or as needed - for greater enthusiasm for difficult tasks.

