 You should not attempt to feed your baby solid foods until the age of six months. After this, you can expose your baby to small amounts of healthy foods, like fruits and vegetables, in addition to breast milk.Pureed fruits and vegetables are usually good foods for babies, as they'll help your baby get a taste for healthy food early on. These may be labeled as "stage one" on store-bought baby foods. Some pediatricians encourage introducing vegetables before fruits.Grain cereal is also a popular choice, as it's a healthy finger food your baby can easily eat.
Baby foods made with meat can be helpful if your baby has been breastfeeding. The vitamins may be easier to consume in meat.
 If your baby is spitting food out with every bite, they may not yet have outgrown their tongue-thrust instincts. These are instincts that prevent a baby from choking. You can address this issue by adding breast milk, formula, or water to whatever food you're serving.Adding liquid will help thin out food. This will make your baby less likely to feel they have to push it out to prevent choking.
Instead of using a spoon, dab some food on your finger and feed your baby this way.
 If your baby is turning their head away when you offer food, they may simply not be hungry. You can try offering a different type of food, but if your baby still refuses do not push it. Your baby will likely eat once they're hungry.Children often have a better sense of when they need to eat than adults. While adults may eat out of boredom, very young children are still developing a relationship with food. They're often more likely to listen to their body's cues, so respect when your child does not seem hungry., You want your child to develop for a variety of flavors. However, it's not uncommon for a child to make a face or refuse new foods. Have patience when this occurs. Remember, your baby is probably wary of the food because of how it looks or smells. If you can coax them to give the food a chance, they may like it.Keep trying with new foods, especially healthy ones that are important for a baby's diet. Do not stop feeding your baby something like spinach simply because they seem to dislike it.
It can take up to 15 tries for a baby to accept a new food, so have patience. Keep introducing the new food at meal times and encouraging your child to eat a little bit more each time.
 If you continue to struggle with getting your child to eat, talk to a doctor. It's important your baby make a healthy transition into solid foods. If your child is refusing food long term, this could indicate a medical problem that you need to address.

