 Exercise gives you energy and keeps you active. In addition, it can help you maintain a youthful figure.It also tones your muscles and improves your balance and coordination, and it releases endorphins to lift your mood.


For the best results, do both aerobic exercise to trim down and strength training to acquire shapely muscles.
Try to jog, walk, swim, or do other physical (aerobic) activities for 150 to 75 minutes per week; focus on the low end of that if you exercise more vigorously and on the high end if you exercise less vigorously. Aim for two strength-training sessions, such as weight lifting, a week.It may seem like a lot, but 150 minutes a week is really only 30 minutes five days a week. You can break up those 30 minutes into 10-minute intervals, which makes it even easier to stay active.
 Drinking too much can give you serious health problems that will make you look and feel old. Excessive drinking can cause cancers of the digestive tract, heart problems, strokes, high blood pressure, and liver disease.If you do drink, you shouldn't drink more than one drink per day as a woman or a man over 65. Men under 65 can drink up two drinks per day., Smoking will age your skin, reduce your stamina, and give you serious health problems. Smoking can cause a number of diseases and make you look older.Smoking can contribute or cause lung diseases, heart attacks, strokes, diabetes, eye disorders like cataracts, respiratory infections, gum diseases, and various cancers (from cancer of the esophagus to cancer of the mouth, lungs, bladder, throat, or kidneys).Even if you’ve smoked for many years, quitting will still improve your health, let your body heal, and make you look and feel younger.
 Tanning, whether from natural sunlight or from a tanning bed, exposes you to ultraviolet radiation which damages your skin.Avoid wrinkles, sun damage, and skin cancer by using sunscreen when you are exposed to strong sunlight.
Spray tans have chemicals that shouldn’t be inhaledand tanning pills have chemicals that can turn cause hives, liver damage, and vision problems.If you get a spray tan, make sure you hold your breath and close your eyes, and make sure the facility is well-ventilated. You can also try using a self-tanning lotion, which is generally considered safe., Hydration keeps your skin hydrated and helps you stay healthy. It helps flush toxins from your body, helping you look and feel younger.Adults should consume about 16 cups (4 quarts) of fluids thought the day — this includes water from foods, water, and other beverages, like milk, juice, and even coffee.