 Traveling to Mecca can be an ordeal, especially during the yearly Hajj, when pilgrims from all over the world flock to the holy city in huge numbers. To ensure you're able to make it to Mecca without difficulty (and get the best fare), book your travel arrangements as early as you can. This also allows you to have some flexibility — if, for some reason, you can't make your original Umrah dates, you may still have time to make arrangements for another date.


To avoid the hassle of making travel arrangements to Mecca, many Muslims use the services of special Hajj and Umrah travel agencies. For a fee, these agencies will handle the process of buying tickets and scheduling flights for you.
While you are booking your Umrah arrangements, you may also want to make arrangements to complete other religious duties while you are near many of Islam's holiest sites. For instance, Medina, the second-holiest city in Islam, which contains many holy sites, shrines, and mosques, is only about four hours from Mecca by car.
 If you don't have Saudi Arabian citizenship, making the Umrah or Hajj requires a valid Umrah or Hajj visa. These visas are issued by the Saudi government for free, but require a valid passport, up-to-date vaccinations, and a completed application authorized by a licensed travel agency. For the official application form and a list of licensed Umrah travel agencies in the US, visit the official website of the Saudi Embassy at Saudiembassy.net.Note that Umrah visas are valid for 15 days — pilgrims must not stay in the country any longer than this., The Umrah and Hajj pilgrimages are major life events for most Muslims. Luckily, they're almost never ones that must be undertaken alone. Ummahs (Muslim communities) around the world generally offer some sorts of informational events or seminars for those wishing to make their pilgrimage in the future — this will vary from community to community, so talk to a local imam if you are unsure what options are available in your community.


Note that many Muslim communities and Hajj/Umrah travel agencies will also organize pilgrimage groups so that pilgrims can travel to the holy city with people from their community that they know. For many, especially those who are uncomfortable traveling to a foreign country alone or only with one's family, this is a very preferable option.
 Except for small outlying parts of the country, Saudi Arabia is a very hot, arid desert. Average summer temperatures are about 45o C (113o F), though highs of up to 54o C (129o F) are not unusual. In the spring and fall, temperatures are more moderate, but still quite hot, while in the winter, low humidity and high windchill factors can make the weather surprisingly chilly.In short, the Arabian climate can be very unforgiving, so be absolutely sure to bring proper clothing and accessories.


In the hot months of the year, lightweight clothing that minimizes the amount of exposed skin is essential. Loose, flowing garments that cover the skin but allow air to reach it are best — take inspiration from traditional Saudi garb like the Thoub. In cooler months, more conventional clothing may be worn. Be sure to bring a parasol or umbrella as head coverings are forbidden during Umrah.
Keep in mind that, in the dessert, the temperature can plummet with nightfall, so it's a good idea to have a few sweaters or other types of warm clothes with you to be safe even during the summer.
High-SPF sunscreen is a must to prevent serious sunburns and skin damage, especially if you're fair-skinned. Most skin cancer resources also recommend SPF 15+ sunscreen even for dark-skinned people., In addition to your clothing, there are many other essentials that are best not to forget for pilgrimage. While some may be available from vendors in Saudi Arabia, there's no guarantee. Below is a brief list of must-have items:


Your Umrah visa — without this, you can't enter the country.
Valid passport and identification
Basic toiletries
Over-the-counter medicines
Small bag for keeping track of shoes when entering a mosque
Ihram robes (for men)
Prayer mat/Qur'an
Umbrella
Scissors, razors, and nail clippers (for pre-Ihram grooming)
Lots of bottled water (can be purchased in Saudi Arabia)

, Though Saudi Arabia is a modern country by most standards, there are many significant cultural differences between Saudi Arabian life and Western life. As a general rule, Saudi Arabia is a much more religiously conservative country than most Westerners will be used to. To avoid a faux pas (or more serious problems), it's important to understand these differences before arriving. Below are just a few major cultural differences to expect:Saudi businesses halt operations five times per day for the five daily prayers mandated in Islam.
During the holy month of Ramadan, the pace of daily life slows down significantly and the entire Muslim population practices daytime fasting. It is discouraged to eat food in public.
Pointing the soles of the feet at someone is considered a sign of disrespect.
The right hand should be used for shaking hands and giving things to people.
Saudi men are comfortable standing very close to each other — usually, their idea of "personal space" is much smaller than a Westerner's.
It is considered rude to completely refuse refreshments like food, coffee, tea, etc. — as a courtesy, it is best to accept at least a small amount.
Saudi men should not be complimented on their material wealth or possessions.

Most importantly, contact between men and women can be very limited, even in religious/business settings. See below.
 As noted above, women in Saudi Arabia have a very different life than those in Western countries. A Western woman arriving for the first time in Saudi Arabia will probably have to "cover up" much more than she is used to and to restrict her interactions with males in public. Women (even foreigners) are expected to wear conservative, loose fitting attire that, at bare minimum, covers their collarbones, elbows, and knees. In public, more conservative coverings like an abaya cloak may be required. Women usually do not usually meet with men without male accompaniment.


Note that women who are menstruating are not allowed to perform the Tawwaf (though they may take part in the other aspects of the Umrah).For this reason, many Muslim women schedule their Umrah for a time when they don't expect to menstruate or use a medical solution (like birth control pills) to change their menstrual schedule.

