 Close friends and family members are the best people to include in your support network. However, you shouldn't include someone just because you're friends. Not everyone is capable of providing the kind of support you'll need, so think about who among your social circle would be best equipped for that level of care.Think about which of your friends and relatives are the most supportive, kind, and understanding.
You can include as many or as few individuals as you need, but it's generally best to have multiple people you can rely on. You may feel more comfortable talking to certain individuals about a given problem, so it's good to have options.;
, It's best if the people you include in your network know about your mental illness so that they can provide you with the support you need. If they do not yet know, you should talk to them about your mental health.


Choose trustworthy people to include in your support network.
Sit down with these individuals and let them know that you live with a mental illness. Be direct and upfront about your condition and what you may need in the future.
Say something like, "You may not know this about me, but I've been diagnosed with depression. I'm managing it okay, but I may need someone to talk to from time to time - can I call you if I ever need help?"

, Your support network will naturally be the first place you go when you need help. However, you shouldn't limit your contact with friends and family members to crisis calls. Try to get in the habit of keeping regular contact with your support network, even if it's just to say hello or offer your help with household tasks.Commit to using your support network. Whether you call, text, email, or meet face-to-face, your support network should be your first line of defense when you feel stressed, anxious, depressed, or overwhelmed.If you stay in touch with your friends and relatives, they're more likely to reach out to you. This can help strengthen your relationship and your network of support.
If meeting face-to-face isn't always convenient, call or text your friends and relatives.
Aim to speak with at least one member of your support network every day, even if it's just a quick text message to say hi. If daily contact isn't feasible for any reason, make contact every two or three days.
Share good news with your support network in addition to bad news. This helps build more of a rapport with your network and reduces the risk of your friends/relatives feeling like you only call when something's wrong.
 In addition to getting support from friends and relatives, many individuals living with mental illness find support from others who share their condition. There are many support groups for people whose lives have been affected by mental illness, some of which are condition-specific (for example, groups for anxiety, groups for depression, etc.).It can be comforting to know that you're not alone in living with your condition. Hearing other people's stories can offer comfort and perspective while also helping you make connections with people who understand what you're going through.
Some individuals (for example, those with severe social anxiety) may be uncomfortable sharing their experiences with strangers, but many people have great success finding help through support groups.
You can find information on support groups near you by searching online, or by asking your doctor or therapist.
 Another way to help build a social support network for you and for others with mental illness is to become an advocate for your condition. Many people whose lives aren't touched by mental illness perceive certain stigmas around these conditions, mostly due to negative portrayal in media and a lack of research or education on the subject.


Educate others who are misinformed. Do your own research on mental illness and let others know if they hold incorrect assumptions about mental health.
Be kind and helpful if you hear someone speaking incorrectly about mental illness. You should leave every mental health conversation with the other person knowing a little more and seeing you as a helpful, friendly authority on the subject.
Join or start a local chapter of a mental health advocacy group. You can find information about such groups by searching online.Contact your elected officials and voice your support for improved access to mental health care for all residents of your community.You can also vote during elections for representatives who include mental health care as part of their platform.
 There are two main types of support: emotional support and practical support. Both types of support are essential for your wellbeing. Most people are capable of providing a mix of emotional and practical support, but some individuals in your support network may be better suited to one type of support over the other.Emotional support means having someone to listen to your thoughts and respond with positive support. This may also involve having someone to tell you they care about you.
Practical support means having someone who can help you resolve problems. These are the people who can help you move, watch your kids or pets when you can't be at home, or help you with food or money when you're short on cash.
Determine what you really need in the moment by asking yourself what would get you through the rest of your day with the least amount of trouble or stress. Then contact someone you can rely on for that type of support.
Consider the experiences a given person has had. For example, if someone in your support network has dealt with what you're going through, they may be a good person to talk to.
 Talking to someone in your support network allows you to get things off your chest, get perspective or feedback from someone else, and reduce your feelings of loneliness or isolation. If you're feeling anxious, stressed, depressed, or otherwise not well, don't hesitate to contact someone in your support network.You can visit someone in person to talk with them, or talk over the phone. Either way, it's important to let the individual know that you're struggling and need to talk.
Say something like, "I hope you're doing well. I know you have a lot going on, but I'm really struggling to cope with depression and I was wondering if I could talk to you about it."

, Some people feel uncomfortable calling another person to ask for help. Others may simply feel awkward sitting idly and chatting. Whatever the case may be, you might benefit from focusing on doing things together with the people in your support network.Try going for a bike ride, walking through the park, getting coffee, or taking a craft class with the people in your support network.
This may be particularly helpful if you suffer from social anxiety or have a hard time being intimate with other people. Participating in some type of shared activity can make you feel less pressured and more at ease.
 Like every other friendship, you and your support network should have a give-and-take relationship. You want to know that you can rely on your friends and relatives when you need them, but you should make them feel like they can rely on you equally.Listen to your friends and relatives when they talk to you about their day. If they're going through problems, listen to their issues and offer any support or advice you can.
 Even if you have a social support network, you may experience a particularly difficult period that makes you feel helpless or alone. When talking to friends isn't enough, you should seek medical help to cope with your mental illness.If you feel hopeless, trapped, or if your situation seems out of control, seek help immediately.
If you ever find yourself considering hurting yourself or taking your own life, call a crisis hotline or get to the nearest emergency room immediately.
 Therapy is a proven method of coping with mental illness. Your doctor can recommend a therapist to you, or you can search online for therapists in your area. There are several different types of therapy that your doctor may recommend, depending on your condition.Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) focuses on changing thought patterns and ways of viewing yourself and your situation. The goal is to develop a better sense of self and healthy coping methods to deal with mental illness.
Interpersonal therapy (IPT) involves one-on-one therapy sessions to improve the way you interact with others during troubling times.
Psychotherapy (aka talk therapy) involves speaking with a therapist or medical professional about your thoughts, feelings, mental state, and behavior. The goal is to learn how to manage stress and cope with mental illness.
 If therapy isn't enough, your doctor may recommend that you take a prescription medication. There are many different types of medication prescribed to treat mental illness, and only your doctor can determine which one is right for you.Antidepressants are useful in treating depression, anxiety, and some other conditions.
Anxiety medication is used to treat anxiety disorders and relieve the symptoms of a panic attack.
Mood stabilizers are typically used to treat bipolar disorder. Mood stabilizers help level you out so you don't swing between manic and depressive episodes.
Antipsychotics are used for psychotic disorders like schizophrenia, but may also be used for bipolar disorder and some forms of depressive disorder.

