 Arrange your tools on a clean flat surface and have all your tools at hand. Make sure you have enough space to move around as well as keeping your soldering iron at a safe distance while not in use.


Make sure you have the Dream Lite on hand, too!;
, Remove all three batteries before moving forward.
 Starting at the corners, pull up until you hear the top cover pop, continue to the next corner (start going long ways) and then pull up on the middle. The other side will come off with greater ease once the first side is done.


This does take a bit of muscle; don't be afraid to strong arm it, just be mindful of your fingernails.
Here's what it should look like without the cover.
 Using a Phillips head screwdriver, remove the two screws that are securing the board to the casing.


You will now be able to move the board around but be careful as some of the wires are short and won't allow you to twist too far.
 D1 is the amber LED, D2 is the green LED, and D3 is the blue LED.


This tutorial shows replacement of the blue LED (D3). You can even change up the colors to suit your child's taste.
 Place locking pliers (regular pliers will work but you will need to keep your grip) around the bulb you want to remove keeping it as close to the board as possible. You can use this to not only hold your board still but the added pressure will help pull the bulb out as you use your soldering iron to loosen it.
 Using the pliers to hold the bulb and board, carefully use the soldering iron to melt the solder around the two pins for that specific LED bulb. This may take some back-and-forth moving between the pins––do not hold the iron against the board or keep it on the solder too long or you may damage the board this way. Going back and forth will help keep the heat down.


You can use small nail clippers to trim some of the solder and pin away before using the soldering iron. This can help cut down the amount of time needed to loosen the bulb; doing this is optional.



Depending on the style of LED bulb you are using, you may have to trim the pins. Trim just above the little squares using wire cutters or nail clippers.
If you want to test the bulb before doing anything and have a flat 3v battery at hand, place the bulb with one pin on each side as shown in the photo. Make sure the positive pin is on the positive side. If it doesn't light, try flipping the bulb around.
 Each bulb has a positive and negative pin. In order for it to work, you must make sure you are placing the new bulb on the board correctly. To find the positive and negative pin, look at the inside of the bulb. The positive pin will have the least amount of metal inside and the negative pin will have the most.
 You can use them to slide the new bulb into. One of the openings will have + above it. Make sure to place the positive pin into that hole.
 Using electrical tape, secure the new bulb onto the board to keep it in place while soldering.


If you make the strip of tape long enough, you can then secure the board to part of the casing.
This will help keep your hands free to use the soldering iron and solder.
 Using a small amount of solder, secure the pins to the board being careful to not press the iron against the board for too long. Use as little solder as possible to keep the board clean.
 Replace the batteries and turn on the Dream Lite. Go through all of the settings to make sure the bulb is bright enough and dims with the rotate setting.
 Screw the board back in once you have verified everything is working.
 Pop the top of the casing back on. Again, this takes a bit of muscle. Start with the corners first and then the middle. Revel in your newfound skills!

