 Uterine fibroids are benign growths inside the uterus. These benign tumors are muscular and grow within the wall of the uterus. There can be a single tumor or many. They can be as small as an apple seed or grow larger than a grapefruit.A hysterectomy may be necessary to remove large fibroids.


Uterine fibroids may have a negative effect on your ability to become pregnant. Uterine fibroids may also cause excessive bleeding.
Uterine fibroids may cause anemia due to excess blood loss during your period. As a result, you may require iron supplements or a blood transfusion., If you are diagnosed with cancer of the uterus, cervix, or ovaries, then your physician may recommend that you have a hysterectomy. A hysterectomy will help to remove the cancer cells in your reproductive organs, which may improve the effectiveness of other treatments.
 Endometriosis causes the tissue that grows inside the uterus to begin growing on the surrounding tissues in the abdomen, such as the ovaries, fallopian tubes, the area between the vagina and rectum, the outer surface of the uterus, and the ligaments that support the uterus. A hysterectomy may be required to stop the excess tissue growth.Tissue may also grow on the cervix, vulva, bladder, bowel, and in abdominal surgical scars.
If left untreated, endometriosis may cause lesions, inflammation, pain, scar tissue, infertility, and bowel problems.
 Abnormal vaginal bleeding is often the result of an underlying medical condition. Some causes of abnormal bleeding include fibroids, cancer, infection, changes in hormone levels, endometriosis, Polycystic Ovary Disease (PCOS), Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID), sexual abuse, hyperthyroidism, and diabetes.


Depending upon the underlying condition and whether it can be controlled with medication or lifestyle changes, your physician may recommend a hysterectomy to prevent excessive blood loss each month., Uterine prolapse means that the uterus or womb has sagged or slipped out of its normal position. After diagnosis, your physician may recommend a surgical option of either a hysterectomy or uterine suspension. In a uterine suspension, the uterus is put back in place and suspended with a sling like apparatus or reattached to the back of the uterus.When a prolapse happens, the uterus may even drop partway through the vagina. This creates a lump or bulge.
 Adenomyosis affects the inner lining of the uterus, also known as the endometrium. Adenomyosis can cause severe menstrual cramping, lower abdominal pressure, bloating, and heavy periods. The condition can affect the entire uterus or just one spot.


Even though adenomyosis not life-threatening, the condition can have a negative effect on a woman’s quality of life. Hysterectomy is one of the options for treating adenomyosis.Hysterectomy is often the best choice for this condition, but it can be delayed if you wish to have more children.
 A hysterectomy may be necessary to remove polyps if they are too large to be removed using dilation and curettage. Polyps can develop in the lining of the uterus and cause irregular bleeding. Polyps are not often cancerous and can often be removed through the vagina when they are near the opening of the cervix.If your doctor has recommended a hysterectomy to remove polyps, ask if performing a dilation and curettage may be possible instead.

