 A professional exterminator will typically have the knowledge to spot a termite infestation before it’s too late. The earlier you catch termites, the easier it is to deal with them.


If you live in a densely wooded area, you may be more prone to termites.
Make sure the service is part of the National Pest Control Association or your local or state pest control association.Ensure that the company offers a guarantee with their service.
 If you have any sort of organic material made of wood around your house, make sure you’re disposing of it. The longer it’s allowed to stay out and gain moisture, the more likely it will attract termites to your location.


You can make compost out of your landscaping trimmings.Breaking it down will prevent termites from infesting the wood.
Another alternative is to contact your local municipality and ask about wood recycling in your area.
 Termites can enter your house easily if there is wood making contact with the ground. Some examples of this include a wood lattice, wood siding, and door or window frames that make contact with the ground. Anything made of wood should be at least six inches above ground level, to prevent termites from getting into your house.You may have to put a concrete base on some wooded items on your house.
Cutting off the base of wood lattice work that touches the ground will help you keep termites out of your house.
 If you're building a new home make sure to consider getting your house pre-treated for termite prevention. It’s much easier to set a termite barrier with termiticide before you begin construction, by creating the barrier on the land where the house will be.


If you live in the southwest of the US, you should highly consider this option, as this is where most termites are found., After locating where you think the termites may be coming from, make sure to fill the holes and treat the surrounding area with termiticide to prevent further termite infestations. Laying down termite poison around entry points will kill them before they can begin boring new tunnels.

