 If you have decided to terminate the pregnancy, you will want to find out where you want the procedure to be performed.


You can ask for a referral from your medical doctor.
Search for providers on Planned Parenthood’s website., Make sure that you are fully informed of everything that will happen.


Call ahead or speak to a staff member or doctor about what to expect.
Find out about the cost, some services can be low-cost or free, while others can be pricey depending on where you choose to go.
Understand abortion laws in your state.
Find out about the different types of abortion and which one will be best for you.
If you ask the doctor, she will give you a summary before the procedure and walk you through it while it is happening.
 Planned Parenthood has information about what to expect during and after each type of abortion.Also look up complications, so that you know what to do in the rare chance that these occur.


You may experience light to moderate bleeding, similar to a menstrual period. However, if bleeding continues for a long period of time you should seek medical assistance.
You may experience cramping, which should not last more than a day.
Be sure to know the emergency 24 hour number on the rare chance that something were to go wrong.
 The distress from an abortion tends to be greatest before the abortion takes place.There is no "wrong" way to feel. Some people feel negative emotions like sadness, anger, and guilt. These may be mild or intense. Other people have an easier time, and feel no more strongly than they would towards any medical procedure.You may be nervous or scared, and this is okay.


Confide in a trusted person (someone who is a good listener) and explain your feelings.
Talk to others who have been in a similar situation.
Look online for support groups or forums to discuss your concerns. Make sure they are pro-choice forums.
 You may want to take it easy after the abortion, so prepare for a relaxing day or two at the house.


Make sure you have plenty of maxi pads for bleeding after the procedure. (Your doctor may recommend pads instead of tampons.)
Get your chores done, like laundry and grocery shopping. If you experience cramps, you might want to take it easy.
Get some books, movies, and other relaxing activity materials together. Try scheduling time with loved ones to watch movies.
 This person can provide emotional support. If you are going to be sedated during the process (i.e. given medication to relax you), then you will need someone to help you get home safely.