 In many courts you are required to attend settlement discussions before you can continue with the lawsuit. Sometimes you and the other side will meet with a “mediator,” who is a neutral third party. The mediator is trained in helping each side listen to the other. He or she can help you come up with a solution that works for both parties.


A judge can order mandatory mediation or settlement discussions in a variety of lawsuits, including divorce proceedings and commercial disputes. In other courts mediation might be optional. You should check with the court clerk to see if the court offers mediation services. Mediation would be ideal if you or the other side doesn’t have a lawyer. A mediator is skilled in guiding the settlement process.;
, If the court offers a voluntary mediation program, you should tell the other side that you are interested in participating. You can also propose mediation or negotiation even if a court doesn’t have a formal program to use.


You can talk to the other side when you see them in court for one of your hearings. Tell them you want to negotiate a settlement.
You can say, “I think we should consider mediation. The court has a program we could use. Think about it.” You shouldn’t expect an immediate “yes.” However, they may contact you after giving the issue some thought.
 The other side might be resistant to settling the lawsuit. People’s emotions can run high when they are involved in a lawsuit, and they might not want to listen to what you have to say. Nevertheless you should be prepared to discuss the advantages of negotiating a settlement: It’s often faster. A lawsuit can last more than a year. If you negotiate a settlement, you can put the suit behind you much faster.
It may be cheaper. The costs of a lawsuit add up fast even when you don’t have a lawyer. You have to pay for court reporters, filing fees, and possibly expert-witness fees.
Negotiation can be more satisfying. By negotiating a settlement, you can avoid the stress of trial. As an added benefit, you and the other side might still be able to do business with each other, which is particularly important in business disputes.
The defendant doesn’t have to admit fault. You can reach a settlement without either side having to admit they were at fault. This can be psychologically important to the defendant.
 Before you can begin negotiating you might have to provide information to an insurance adjuster. If you are in mediation, the mediator will want background information. You should provide all requested information promptly so that you can begin negotiating as soon as possible. Build trust by doing what you say you will do. This is important in settlement negotiations.
 Before you begin negotiating you should identify exactly what you want. Expect the other side to be prepared and to know what final outcome they are negotiating toward. You should do no less.



If you are divorcing, you would want to resolve division of property, division of joint debts, alimony, and custody of children. Your state will set the amount of child support you must pay, if any. However, you could negotiate a higher amount.
If you are settling a personal-injury lawsuit, you will need to decide on the amount of compensation and which injuries are covered. If you are the defendant, you will also want a “release” of liability, which prevents the other side from suing you in the future for the same injury.
If you are settling a debt, you will need to decide the amount that will be paid, whether payment can be made in installments, and the amount of interest due (if any).
 If you are settling a personal-injury lawsuit, you should take some time to value the amount of your injury. Generally, you should do the following: Calculate what you have lost “out of pocket.” This includes lost wages, lost earning capacity, money spent on medical treatment or rehabilitation, and property damage.
Calculate your “general damages,” which include pain and suffering, humiliation, and emotional distress. These usually amount to a multiple of your “out of pocket” expenses. For example, if you spent $20,000 treating an injury, you could multiply this amount by between 1.5 and 5.0 to get your total damages.
Adjust your damages depending on circumstances. For example, if you delayed seeking treatment, you might not be able to be fully compensated. You should also adjust depending on how clear it was that the other person was at fault. If it isn’t especially clear, consider reducing the value of your injury.
 Before you can effectively negotiate you should think about your alternatives if settlement discussions fall through. For example, if you were injured in a car accident, your next best alternative could be to go through with your lawsuit. This is known as your BATNA, your “Best Alternative To a Negotiated Agreement.” If you are trying to negotiate a settlement on a debt, your BATNA might be to declare bankruptcy, which could wipe out unsecured credit such as credit card debt.
Consider how attractive your BATNA is. Bankruptcy, for example, would stay on your credit report for up to seven years (perhaps longer) and could make getting future credit difficult.
 After considering how attractive your BATNA is you should decide on your “walkaway” point. This is the absolute minimum you are willing to settle for. If your BATNA is attractive, you can be more aggressive in your demands during negotiation, because you aren’t afraid of negotiations failing.
If your BATNA is not attractive—for example, your defense in a lawsuit may be weak—you might be less aggressive during negotiations, because you're anxious to settle.
 You can benefit from having a lawyer represent you during settlement negotiations. If you're unable to afford an attorney, you might want to attend a half-hour consultation with a lawyer (often free) to discuss your negotiation strategy.


You can find the name of an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral. Call the attorney and schedule a meeting. Ask how much the attorney charges.
A lawyer will probably have experience with settlements and can help you understand whether or not your goals are realistic.
 Research suggests that the first person to make an offer has an advantage, because the final number reached in negotiation tends to be near the amount of the first offer. Making the first offer has psychological benefits, too: you help “anchor” the negotiations: For example, two people might meet to negotiate a personal-injury settlement. The victim wants $100,000, but the person who caused the accident is thinking $50,000. If the victim makes an opening offer of $100,000, the settlement will tend to be closer to $100,000 than $50,000.
 It is common to negotiate certain types of disputes using “demand letters.” In fact, personal-injury disputes are often negotiated entirely through letters. Other kinds of disputes, such as divorce, might involve some face-to-face negotiations or discussions over the telephone. A general demand letter should include the following: A brief description of the incident as you remember it. Maintain a neutral tone. Refer to witnesses and police reports if they're available.
An explanation of why the other party was at fault. Remain factual as you explain how and why the other party caused your injury. For example, they might have driven carelessly through a red light.
No admission of your own fault. Don’t admit that you were at fault in any way. Let the other side raise the issue of your fault during negotiations.
A description of your injuries. Go into detail about the injuries. Don’t exaggerate, but don’t hide anything.
A calculation of your medical expenses and other losses. You should explain how you have suffered financially because of the injury. You might have been forced to miss work, and you probably paid for treatment of your injuries.
A demand for compensation. Determine how much money you want, and then make a demand for twice that amount. This gives you room to come down during negotiations. For example, if you think your injuries are worth $50,000, demand $100,000.
 The other side might begin with a very low offer. You should respond with the following techniques, which work whether you are negotiating in person or in writing:


Ask the other side to give reasons for the offer. For example, they might not be fully informed about your injuries. Their low offer might indeed be an honest mistake and not a bargaining tactic. Don’t respond emotionally. Often the lowball is simply a way to learn how desperate you are to settle. You can certainly reject the lowball offer. The other side probably expects they will have to negotiate.
Refuse to become “anchored” to the lowball. Respond that you don’t think the offer is reasonable, and make a vastly different counteroffer in order to detach the negotiations from the first offer. Come down only a little from your initial demand. For example, if you started at $100,000, you could come down to $90,000 or $95,000.
 If you are negotiating in person, listening is absolutely crucial. You can often tell how committed to a position someone is by listening to the tone of their voice and paying attention to their non-verbal actions. Don’t approach face-to-face negotiations as primarily an opportunity to talk. It's your chance to listen, too. Don't think of the time the other person is speaking as “dead time” while you merely wait for your next turn to speak.
 Negotiating involves a lot of give and take. Don't accept an early offer even if you are pleased with it. Let things drag on for awhile. You want all sides to walk away from the settlement discussions feeling as if they have driven a hard bargain.
 A settlement agreement becomes a binding contract on all parties. Don't settle unless you're truly pleased with it. If you fail to adhere to the terms of the settlement, you could be sued. For this reason you should not agree to a settlement unless you feel that you can live with its terms.
Negotiation and mediation are voluntary. You can walk away from negotiations and pursue your best alternative to settlement.
 Once you agree to the terms of the settlement, you should write them down in a formal agreement. If either side has an attorney, he or she will probably take the lead in drafting the settlement agreement. Review it with your attorney.


If you settle with an insurance adjuster, write the terms of the settlement in a letter. Mail it to the adjuster and ask that he or she respond in writing confirming the details of the agreement. See Write a Settlement Agreement for more information.

