 There are many different types of fairies, each with their own unique personality, talent and style. Before you can set about becoming a fairy, you will first need to decide what type of fairy you wish to be. Try to match up your fairy personality with your existing one, as this will make the transition to fairy much easier. Search up different types and choose which one you think your most like. Maybe even take a quiz.


Will you be an earth fairy, who loves the trees, flowers, plants and woodland creatures? Who favors earthy-toned clothing and spends her time in the garden?
Will you be a water fairy, who loves all things water related and spends her time near rivers, lakes and streams, always with her feet in the water?
Will you be a fire fairy, who loves heat and flame, and is passionate about all of her chosen causes, no matter how large or small?
Will you be an air fairy, who craves open spaces and the wind through her hair? Who's breezy personality leads her wherever the wind takes her?
Will you be a dream fairy, who is in touch with her mystical side, and can wish good dreams on her friends and loved ones?
Will you be a musical fairy, who constantly finds melody and rhythm in the world around her -- whether it's the birds singing in the trees or the breeze tinkling through a wind chime?
Will you be a light fairy , who loves the sunshine and can glow as bright as a million stars?
Or will you be a dark fairy, a mysterious individual who prefers the night and dabbles in dark spells?;
, For example: Flameburst, Riverberry, Fluttersage, or Spiritwind. Fairy names generally reflect the personality or talents of the fairies they belong to. For example, earth fairies might be named Hazel or Buttercup, fire fairies could be Amber or Ashley, and water fairies could be Marina or Brooke.


Choose a fairy name which you feel best reflects your personality, or use a random fairy name generator on the internet to provide some inspiration.
Once you decide on a fairy name, you may wish to keep it to yourself, or share it only with those closest to you, as it is said that a fairy's name can be used to control her and make her use her magic unwillingly. Protect yourself by only revealing your fairy name to those you trust.
 Now what would a fairy be without her fairy dust? Your fairy dust, like your name, should reflect your personality and talents and should be completely unique to you. You can buy some glitter at the craft store to form the base of your fairy dust, but you’ll want to add some additional ingredients to it, to make it magical. You'll also want to make sure you always have it with you, so people see that it's needed and very special to you.


Make sure the glitter is fine and not coarse. Chunky glitter is a fairy no-no. Pick a color of your choosing, one that matches your fairy type. For example, green for earth fairies, blue for water fairies, black for dark fairies, purple for dream fairies, pink for music fairy, yellow for light fairy, white for air fairy and red/orange for fire fairies Add a drop of essential oil to the glitter to give it a subtle scent -- just don't add too much or it will start to clump.
Next you will need to add in some elements that match your fairy type. For earth, try dried flowers or leaves. For water, add some small sea shells or sand. For fire, add some flint, charcoal or wood. For air, add some cotton, or a small feather, for music a bell.
Shake your fairy dust well to combine the ingredients. Pour your fairy dust into a cute necklace container, which you can wear around your neck. Then you can access it whenever you need it. Alternatively, you can put it in a jar (which you can decorate) and keep it in your room or somewhere safe, for fairy trails, etc.
 A fairy signature is not the same as a human one though. A fairy signature is a physical item which best represents your personality or talents.


For instance, if your fairy talent is gardening, then your signature can be little dried pansy flowers. If you're a water-type fairy, you can use little pearls or seashells. If you're an air fairy, consider using a single feather. You get it? Something small to represent your talent, and you.
You can use your signature whenever you make something or complete an activity. For instance, if you plant some flowers in the garden, you could leave your fairy signature beside them. Or if you bake some cookies, you could use your fairy signature to show it was you who baked them.
For added effect, sprinkle some of your unique fairy dust over and around the signature.
 For a guide: Water fairies favor dresses that remind them of lakes and oceans lapping at their feet, fire fairies love tight clothing in their selected clothing, and wind fairies tend to love breezy, airy clothing. And Earth fairies love the feel of denim-like cloth, t-shirts, actual denim, and hardy clothing that is suitable for being outside all day while getting messy.


If you do decide to make your own fairy costume, find fairy-style patterns at a craft or big box store, and then buy the fabric. You can use a multitude of different fabrics -- velvet, tulle, sheer, iridescent, etc. You can also get used dresses and skirts at thrift shops which can be altered and decorated to your liking.
You should mostly wear flowy clothing items, so they remind people of the beautiful, flowing wings of a fairy.
To make a fairy skirt, you can simply take ribbon or an elastic band (the size of your waist or hips, depending on where you wear it), and then take pieces of tulle or mesh fabric (the length depends on how tall you are), and sew them to the ribbon or elastic. Make sure you give the skirt enough layers so it's not see-through.
To wear the skirt, you can simply tie the ribbon, but if you used elastic you’ll need a way to fasten the back, either with Velcro, or a snap button. To decorate the skirt, you could make large flower petals, stars or other shapes out of felt or fabric and attach them to the tulle.
For a fairy-style top, you can create one if you’re good at sewing, or find a renaissance style shirt (which can be dyed if need be), or a top that's airy and isn't too heavy.
 Fairies are famed for their fabulous flowing locks, so taking care of your hair is a priority. The color doesn't matter -- fairies are all about individuality! The most important thing is that your hair is in good condition, so make sure to keep it well hydrated with a good hair conditioner, drink plenty of water and maybe even apply a homemade hair mask from time to time.


In terms of styling, most fairies will let their hair grow long, letting it reach as far as their waist if possible. Never tie your hair up, always let it flow freely down your back. However, if you prefer to mix things up with a cute pixie cut, that works too!
Think about curling your hair, or even doing a few small ringlets just to frame your face. You can use a curling wand or a flat iron, use hair rollers or do pin curls to achieve this look. Alternatively, you can simply scrunch your hair for a more natural look.
Fairies shouldn't be too concerned with getting their hair perfect though -- they have more important things to think about! You'll often spot a fairy with bits of twigs or flowers stuck in her hair from all of her outdoor adventures!

, Fairies must have perfect, luminescent skin, so make sure to take care of yours well. Wash your face twice daily (no more, no less) and moisturize with a hydrating, brightening moisturizer. Zap any pimples or blemishes with an over-the-counter cream. Eat plenty of fruit and vegetables and try to drink between 6 to 8 glasses of water a day. Also, you might want to work on enchanting your magical powers. Meditating helps so does keeping in touch with your inner soul.

In terms of fairy make-up, use a light-reflecting foundation or powder which will add a healthy glow to your skin. Use a highlighter across your cheekbones and under your brow bone to add extra definition to your features. And if you really want to sparkle, a little facial glitter on your cheeks will do the trick!
Other make-up you could use to enhance your fairy features includes a light pink blush and lip gloss, a little mascara (applied only to the top lashes) and some eye shadow in a color which matches your fairy type and clothing.
 As mentioned before, fairies aren't overly concerned with their appearance, so you don't need to go overboard on the accessories. However, a few simple touches here and there can really bring your outfit together and make you feel like a true fairy.


Everyone knows that fairies can fly, on wings as delicate as a butterfly's. You can buy fairy wings at costume and Halloween stores , or make your own using wire and colored stockings. Find out how to make them here. Don't worry about having to wear your wings all the time though, often fairies will conceal their wings when they become "big", so going wing-free is not an issue.
If you want a fairy “crown”, that's simple! Take a headband and glue a fake butterfly, and/or some fake flowers to it. Or, take a few hairpins, or bobby pins, and glue fake flowers to them. Pin them throughout your hair for a pretty hairdo. Alternatively, you could make a crown from a daisy chain and just wear that, for a simple, earthy vibe.
Not all fairies carry wands, but some use them to channel their magic, particularly dream or dark fairies. Wands can either be bought, or made. You can make a wand using a twig from the garden or from any thin, straight piece of plastic. Attach ribbons or other decorations as you see fit. Use your imagination!
Most fairies are very old, as time works differently for magical beings. As a result, any jewelry they own will be very old. Shop in vintage or thrift stores for vintage jewelry, especially charm bracelets or necklaces with lockets. Anything with large gemstones will work too -- particularly if it's in a color that matches your fairy element. For example, dream fairies will favor moonstones, water fairies pearls, fire fairies rubies, earth fairies jade, etc.
 Part of being a fairy is having your own unique fairy scent. So depending on what type of fairy you are, you can create a perfume to match. You can just buy a suitable perfume, if you like, but it's better to make your own.


Think about buying a perfume kit, which contains different oils that you can mix and match to create a perfume as unique as you are. You can also buy natural essential oils, which come in most health food stores, and combine them with some water in spray bottle. Add a pinch of fine glitter to the scent for some subtle sparkle.
Some popular scents often found in fairy fragrances include floral scents, such as jasmine, lavender, chamomile, rose and geranium, fruity scents such as lemon, grapefruit and tangerine, spicy scents such as cinnamon, nutmeg, cardamom and clove, and earthy scents such as vetiver, cedar and eucalyptus.
Again, pick a scent that corresponds with your fairy type. For earth, choose a flowery/grassy/fruity scent. For water, choose a rainy/beachy scent. For fire, choose a spicy scent. For air, choose a cotton/wind/mountain scent.
 Fairies are happy, sprightly creatures who always have a mischievous twinkle in their eyes. As a fairy, you should always have a smile on your face, whether it's a kindly grin, a naughty smirk or a dreamy half-smile.


You don't need to walk around beaming constantly, but always smile in your interactions with humans as it will help endear you to them, while also giving off a knowing, mysterious air.
 Fairies, though they love playing tricks and being mischievous, also have hearts of gold and will help out any creature in need. You can adopt such do-good behaviors in many aspects of your daily life, whether it's washing up a sink full of dirty dishes or spending time with the elderly in a nursing home.


Keep in mind that fairies often complete their good deeds anonymously, they don't do them for praise. Just knowing that they've made someone's day a little brighter is reward enough.
 No matter what type of fairy you are -- fire, water, dream or even dark -- all fairies are connected with the earth and with nature. As a result, they want to spend as much time outdoors as possible, feeling the grass beneath their toes and the wind in their hair.


As a fairy, you should feel a deep connection to nature and enjoy spending hours on end simply frolicking outdoors, appreciating the sights, sounds and smells of the earth. Try activities like picking bunches of wildflowers, climbing trees or practicing your bird calls.
 All fairies (though especially musical fairies) appreciate music, song and dance. They hear music everywhere, in birdsong, in the babbling of a stream, in the wind rushing through the trees and in the crackling of flames. They enjoy singing ancient chants and lullabies in their sweet, high voices and are fond of prancing around on their delicate feet to the beat of an invisible drum.


Fairies also enjoy playing such musical instruments as the flute and tin whistle, the harp, tambourines and bells and the bodhrán. Learning to play any of these instruments is a worthy pastime for any fairy.
 Tied in with their love of nature, fairies also feel a deep connection with the various fauna of woodlands and pastures. They can communicate with them, and connect with their emotions in a way humans never could. Birds, deer, rabbits, frogs, squirrels and mice are all friends of the fairy, so do your best to look out for these creatures whenever possible.


Leave a carrot or leaf of juicy lettuce outside for a passing rabbit or help a fallen bird to mend its broken wing. Anything you can do to show you care.
Fairies are not so fond of cats, however, who chase them and try to swat them when they're inhabiting their tiny, flying form. Of course, this is because cats are loyal to witches rather than fairies.
 Fairies live off nature, and enjoy all things natural. This is reflected in their food choices, as they prefer to eat fruits and berries, raw vegetables and nuts to most regular human food. Due to their connection with animals, they tend to stay away from meat, so adopting a vegetarian diet is common for fairies.


But although they stick to a strictly healthy, natural diet most of the time, fairies can't resist home baking and will devour homemade cookies, breads and cakes, especially if they contain flavors of vanilla, nutmeg or cinnamon, mmmm!

, Create a fairy-friendly environment in your room by decorating in colors that match your fairy type. Hang dream-catchers and wind chimes from the ceiling and place small, fairy statues on your desk, bedside table and windowsill. Hang a gauzy canopy around your bed, to protect you while you sleep. Keep a stash of fairy dust somewhere safe, like on a high shelf or in a locked drawer.
 Certain herbs, plants and flowers are particularly favored by fairies, so planting them in your backyard can turn your garden into a fairy haven.


Fairies are particularly fond of edible plants such as rosemary, peppermint and licorice root, fragrant shrubs like lavender and eucalyptus, and brightly colored flowers that attract butterflies and hummingbirds, such as honeysuckle, calendula, snapdragon, petunia, sunflower and foxglove.
 It goes without saying that fairies enjoy the company of other fairies, so once you have adapted to the fairy way of life you can send out an open invitation for others to come and visit!


You can attract their attention by planting the above-mentioned flowers in your garden, by baking homemade bread or cookies and allowing the wonderful smells to waft through the air, by blowing bubbles into the sky (fairies love bubbles), or by building little fairy homes around your garden where they can stay.
But most of all, you just need to behave like a true fairy in your day to day life -- being good to others, connecting with nature and opening your heart. If you can do that, other fairies will sense a kindred spirit, and you won't need to try too hard to get their attention.

