 The word Qi (pronounced “chee”) means “energy” and the word Gong (pronounced “gung”) means “exercise” or “practice.” It is a system that involves static postures, dynamic movements, meditation, and focus on breathing in order to learn to balance the Qi flowing through your body.Qigong believes in gathering “life force” through these different methods. It also believes that this vital life force is all around us, but that we must learn how to use it effectively.;
, The goal of Qigong is to help teach you to correct imbalances that you have gathered during your life; for example, from negative emotions such as anger, stress, and sadness, physical injuries, poor diet, and/or a lack of exercise. Practitioners believe that these imbalances can cause Qi to become stagnant in our bodies, or cause it to flow too quickly. Practicing Qigong will help you learn to balance your Qi better.You may feel skeptical about these ideas, but if you find Qigong interesting then go ahead and give it a try before you assume it doesn’t work.
 Qigong is not something you can master in a few days like you might be able to do in some other areas of your life. It is best to view it as a long-term journey. The person practicing Qigong can commit themselves to learning how to master Qi so that they are able to live longer, prevent disease, and heal themselves of any ailments.If you approach Qigong with an attitude of, “I’ll do this for a month and then all my problems will be solved” then you will find yourself very disappointed at the end of one month.
 If you were raised in the Western part of the world, you might feel skeptical about the concept of Qi, and using Qigong as a way to influence it. If you are skeptical of Qigong, but still want to learn more about it, try doing an internet search for “Qi” or “Qigong” and read everything you can find on the topic. This will help you determine for yourself whether this is something that is right for you.You could also seek out a Qigong teacher to learn more about the concept of Qi. This would also offer a good way to get any questions you may have answered. You can search for Qi instructors and therapists here.
 Qi is a concept that has been around for thousands of years. If you come from Western society it may be difficult for you to understand it. If you are interested in learning more, try to approach the concept with an open mind. If you don’t have an open mind you will never be able to understand the teachings as they don’t really conform to Western philosophies.For example, you may feel like you want someone to explain to you exactly what Qi is and how you can feel it. However, this is not really possible. Qi can be difficult to measure, but it refers to the flow of energy within the body and around the body. It can take a good deal of practice to be sensitive to Qi energy, but consistent practice is essential for anyone to sense the energy flowing into, through, and around your body.
 If you are interested in practicing Qigong in order to become more aware of your Qi, it may be very helpful to search for a skilled Qigong teacher who can guide you through a well-planned, complete practice. This doesn’t mean you have to stick with a teacher forever, but learning how to practice Qigong correctly will make a huge difference.You can find a list of Qigong teachers and therapists in the United States here.
Depending on your needs a complete practice will focus on breathing exercising, meditation, and movements meant to help you become more aware of Qi.

