 This means reducing your cable or cell phone bill every month, not eating out, and skipping your morning coffee at the local coffee shop. Focus on trimming down on any unnecessary expenses so you can put this money towards your debt.You may want to set a time frame on this cut back, noting that if you cut down on these expenses for six months to a year, you will reach a certain amount of money that you can then apply to your debt. After the year mark, you may then loosen up your spending and budget for a morning coffee every now and then.
 Though it may be tempting to simply replace a broken item or a used item, you should try to repair the item on your own or repurpose it in some way so you do not have to spend money on new items. This could be fixing your headphones with electrical tape or repairing a broken coffee maker instead of spending money on a new one. Be creative and think of ways you can avoid spending money and still get through your day., Look over your belongings and consider if there are any items that you no longer use that you can sell. Consign used clothing at a local consignment store or sell clothing items or other used items online. If you used to collect expensive electronics, consider selling off your collection to buyers online and using that money to pay off your debts., If you struggle with keeping your spending habits in check, you may want to consider taking professional debt counseling. Contact The National Foundation for Credit Counseling to set up a meeting with a credit counselor who can help you develop a debt repayment plan. They may charge you a one time fee for their time or a monthly fee if you see them more frequently.You can also enroll in a debt payment plan with the help of a debt management company. These are third party companies who negotiate your interest rates, your payments, and any fees with your creditors. You usually have to pay a monthly fee to the debt management company, but they will then take this fee and pay your creditors for you.Be wary of debt repayment scam companies, who are not legitimate and will not help you effectively repay your debts. Avoid companies who promise to reduce the amounts you owe for you or ones that charge large upfront fees.

