 There's no one better to help you decide if a low salt diet is appropriate for you than your doctor. Make an appointment to discuss your current diet and plan to reduce your sodium intake.


There's been some conflicting studies on the recommended sodium intake. Recommended intakes range from 1400-2500 mg daily. Speaking with your doctor can help you decide what an appropriate sodium intake is for you.
Talk to your doctor about why you want to follow a low sodium diet. Are you retaining fluid? Do you think it's affecting your blood pressure? These are issues that should be discussed with your physician.
If a low salt diet is appropriate for you, ask your doctor to give you some advice on how to cut out excess sources of salt in your diet.;
, Sodium regulates the amount of water that your body retains. If there's more sodium in your body, your body will retain more water. This puts stress on blood vessels and the heart, as your blood pressure rises with more fluid in the system. One of the most common reasons for following a low or reduced salt diet is to help treat or prevent high blood pressure. If you have or are at risk for high blood pressure, consider adopting this eating pattern.


Studies have shown that reduced salt diets, can help reduce your blood pressure by about 14 points in just a few weeks.This can make a significant change in your overall pressure readings.
When you consume excess amounts of sodium, your body retains excess fluid which increases not only your blood pressure, but the amount of work your heart has to do.
Reducing your salt intake can help you get rid of excess fluid which overtime, can reduce your overall blood pressure.
 Even if you do not have high blood pressure, excess salt can still cause you to retain excess fluid. This can cause a host of health problems.


On the less severe side of fluid retention is weight gain, puffiness, bloating and swelling in your feet and lower legs.You may notice after a salty meal that your eyes are puffy or it's difficult to put on or take off your rings. This means you're retaining fluid and are sensitive to salt.
If you notice or have been told that you retain water when eating larger amounts of salt or sodium, you may want to consider following a reduced salt diet.
 A high salt or high sodium diet doesn't affect your heart directly. However, it will effect your blood pressure which can damage your heart.


When your blood pressure is elevated (which can happen as you age or if you eat a high sodium diet), it causes your heart to work harder.
In addition, the elevated pressure can damage your cardiac artery walls and the actual heart muscle itself.
If you are at risk for cardiac problems, have a family history of problems or already have some cardiac health issues, a low sodium diet may be appropriate for you.
 Although many people would benefit from a reduced salt diet, some people will not. Review your health and evaluate with your medical provider whether or not a low sodium diet is safe for you.


If you have any type of cardiac condition, like heart failure, you'll need to maintain a constant sodium level in your diet. Reducing sodium may cause additional problems.If you have problems maintaining appropriate electrolyte levels, especially sodium levels, you may actually need to consume higher amounts of sodium every day.
If you deal with low blood pressure regularly or have certain kidney conditions, following a low sodium diet may not be appropriate for you.
 When evaluating whether or not a low salt diet is safe for you, you'll need to calculate your current sodium intake. This will give you a basis of where to start.


To calculate your current sodium intake, you'll need to keep a food diary. You can keep a paper and pen journal or download a food journaling app. Many apps will automatically calculate your sodium intake for you, so this might be helpful.
Keep track of each breakfast, lunch, dinner, snack and beverage you consume everyday. Even small nibbles or bites are important to record.
Keep your food journal for at least 3-4 days. Track a few weekdays and weekend days as your food choices may differ when you're off of work.
Total your sodium intake for each day and then come up with an average. This can give you an idea if you are over or under the recommended sodium intake.
 Now that you've calculated your total sodium intake, found which foods contribute the highest salt content and talked to your doctor, it's time to decide whether or not a low salt diet is right for you.


If your daily sodium intake is surpassing the recommended 2500 mg limit, you may benefit from cutting down on the salt.If you notice that many foods that contribute the highest amount of sodium in your diet are also highly processed foods, high fat foods or just not the most nutritious foods, you may benefit from limiting these foods and salt in your diet.
Lastly, if it's appropriate for your current health and a low sodium diet will not negatively impact your health, you can decreasing your sodium.
 If you've decided to follow a low salt diet, start by determining a personalized guideline. This will be what you follow when you write up your meal plan during the week.


Most health professionals recommend that you do not consume more than 2500 mg of sodium daily. However, other health professionals suggest that you keep sodium below 1400 mg daily.
Figuring out the appropriate sodium level for you is something that you should talk to your doctor about.
For example, if you have high blood pressure and diabetes, your doctor may suggest limiting your sodium to 1400 mg daily. However, if you're young and have no health issues, your doctor may suggest following the standard 2500 mg rule.
Also, if you are a competitive athlete or work in environment where you sweat, reduced salt diet may not be right for you.
 In addition to calculating your total sodium intake, you need to be aware of where your sodium is coming from. If you do end up following a low salt diet, you'll know which foods to cut down on.


Some foods that are high in sodium may need to be limited in your diet as they are frequently high in other not great for you nutrients like fat, preservatives or calories.
Review your food journal and look over what foods are contributing the highest levels of sodium to your diet. Again, a food journal app might make this really easy as they will give you the sodium content of each food you input.
If you notice much of your salt intake is coming from fried foods, chips, crackers, restaurant foods or processed meats, it may be beneficial to cut down on these foods. Not only are they high in sodium, but they are also high in calories and fat.
When you're shopping for food, pay attention to the labels. Foods with 140mg of sodium (or 5% of your daily value) are considered low in sodium. Also, look for the words “soda” or “sodium bicarbonate” or “baking soda,” as well as symbol “Na” and “sodium,” all of which mean salt., Before starting any type of diet, it'll be beneficial to write up a meal plan for yourself. This will make following a low salt diet a little easier.If you've decided to do a low salt diet, start by writing out all the meals, snacks and beverages you'll be eating.
Take an hour or so in your free time to design your meal plan. Write out every breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks you plan on eating. This will give you a blueprint to follow during the week.
If you want to a little extra work, consider plugging this information into your food journal and see what the sodium totals are for the day. This can help you make any changes or swaps in your meal plan to keep your sodium where you want it to be.
 Although managing your overall sodium intake can be difficult, the more you cook from home, the easier it will be. Try to plan to eat out less often and make your foods from scratch.


Studies have repeatedly shown that when you cook from home you can easily follow a variety of diets including a low salt diet.You have full control on the types of ingredients you use, the amounts you use and how much actual salt you add to different foods.
Remember that Kosher salt and sea salt have the same amount of sodium as regular salt! They should also be counted toward your total salt intake.
Start trying to cook more foods from home. Try reducing your meals away from by 1-2 meals a week until you're mostly eating from home.
Foods that are processed, canned, and prepared outside of your home often have MSG monosodium, too.
 If you want to begin managing your sodium intake a little better, consider keeping a food journal. This can help you constantly stay on track of your intake.


When you keep a food journal, make sure to stay consistent. You'll want to track everything that you eat and drink during the day.
Try to be as detailed and thorough as possible. The more you are, the more accurate your journal will be.
Continue totaling your sodium intake each day. You can catch yourself going back to old habits quickly if you do this., Another way to manage your overall sodium intake is to purchase low sodium or no salt added products from the grocery store.


It won't do you any good to start cooking more from home, but end up using foods and ingredients that are really high in sodium.
When you're purchasing foods at the grocery store, look on the label for wording link "no salt added" or "low sodium." This will help keep your homemade dishes low sodium.No salt added means that there is not salt added during the processing of the food. Low sodium means that there cannot be more than 145 mg of sodium per serving of that item.
 You may benefit from cutting out specific high sodium foods from your diet. Many foods that are known "salt bombs" are also not very nutritious.


Avoid frozen and canned meals, even the healthy ones. These are notoriously high in sodium. They can get as high as 1,600 mg of sodium per meal.Also limit the amount of processed meat you consume. Whether it's deli meat, hot dogs, sausage, pepperoni, bacon or canned meat, these can also spike your total sodium intake. Just a few slices can have half of your intake for the day.Also be aware of restaurant foods. Items like pizza or burgers can contain more than half or your daily sodium needs.
Salted nuts, too, can contain a lot of sodium. Look at the nutrition facts to determine whether or not they are high in sodium.
Don't forget to look at the amounts of sodium in your over-the-counter medications, too.

