 You can try music therapy at home for your speech impediments. You can use it to relax and reduce anxiety connected to your speech impediment. When you do music therapy on your own, make sure to remove all distractions. This time should be about you focusing on the music.Focusing on yourself can help you clear your mind of negativity or blocks.
If you have been going to a music therapist for your speech impediment, you can do some of the exercises your therapist gives you, like rhythmic singing or repeating words or phrases to a melody.
 To get the benefits of music therapy at home, make sure you give yourself the proper time to do it. You should take about 20 minutes to really get into your music. This gives you a nice amount of time to work on speech drills, practice singing, or other music-speech exercises.This length of time should help you get to whatever mental place you want to be.
Make sure that 20 minutes is distraction free. Devote that time to only your music.
 Since the part of the brain that houses your memorized songs and lyrics is different from the speech part, listening to familiar songs can help you work on building your speech abilities.Put on songs with words you have memorized or that are familiar. Practice trying to sing, say, or hum the words.
 Choose some of your favorite songs. You may also want to choose soothing, relaxing songs. Use these songs to practice your speech skills by singing your words.Because singing is easier for many people with speech impediments, you can try singing your words instead of speaking them.
You may also write down words and read them as you sing them to the melody of the music.
Practice repeating phrases or sounds along with the music to improve your speech ability.
 Think about the music you enjoy and like. Think about the music that lifts your mood or relaxes you. Put together playlists for these different moods so you can use them during your personal music therapy sessions.For example, if you need to relax, find music that soothes you instead of excites or depresses you. These songs might be instrumental, soft, or slower than a lot of the songs you listen to.

