 Common over-the-counter medications can poison your bird. These products can cause stomach problems and liver failure. If your bird roams your home freely, make sure all medications are stored away properly so the bird can’t accidentally eat one thinking it is food.For example, NSAIDs (like Aleve), birth control, and vitamins can poison birds.
 Cosmetics and cleaning supplies are also toxic to your bird. You should make sure to keep all these items safely put away. When using the products, move your bird to a different, well-ventilated room. The following items are poisonous and should not be used in the same room as your bird:Shaving cream
Lotion
Laundry detergent and softeners
Toilet bowl cleaners
Strong cleaning supplies, like bleach or ammonia
Aerosol sprays

, Scented candles can be very toxic to your bird because they release carbon monoxide, smoke, and essential oils. Reconsider using scented candles if you have birds. If you want to burn them, make sure to do it in a different room or ventilate your home well to get out any harmful chemicals.Burning candles release minimal amounts of carbon dioxide. This is harmless to humans, but even a small amount of carbon monoxide can kill birds. Place carbon monoxide detectors in your home, especially in the room where your bird is located, to monitor the carbon dioxide levels.
 There are many different gases that can be emitted in your house that can poison your bird. You should be aware of these gases and how to limit them in your home. Take caution in any room where your bird lives to make sure no toxic fumes are building up and causing them harm.Burning cooking oil, fats, or butter may produce harmful gases. Try to cook all oils, fats, butters, and margarine cooked at a temperature below 500 degrees Fahrenheit. Refrain from cooking oil or butter on high.
The “self clean” option on your oven may put harmful gases into the air.
Natural gas can kill your bird. If you have a gas stove, water heater, or other appliance, keep an eye on the pilot light to make sure it doesn’t go out or leak. Keep your bird in a different area than these appliances, preferably in a ventilated area.
Avoid using solvents in the same room or near your bird. This includes nail polish remover, gasoline, glue, or paint.
Smoke, including tobacco smoke, can poison your bird.

