 The muscle pass is one of the most impressive sleights and one of the few ways to make a coin look like it’s levitating. This is because it involves developing the muscles in your palm. The trick is done by using the pads on your palm near your thumb to shoot the coin up into the air. Open your dominant hand and study your palm. Notice the padded area at the base of your thumb. This is the magic spot where you will place the coin.
Grab a larger coin like a half-dollar or even a poker chip. A quarter will be too small in most cases.
Push the coin into your palm with your other hand. Then move your thumb over the coin. Notice how the muscle and padded part of your hand below your thumb begins to cover the coin. Play around with the position of the coin in your palm until you feel comfortable with the coin being held in place by the padding on your palm.;
, With the coin in your hand, turn it over. See if the coin falls out or stays in your palm. Spread your fingers out slowly until the coin falls.


Adjust the coin in your palm until you can turn your hand over with your fingers uncurled slightly so your hand looks natural.
This is known as palming a coin and is the basic ability you will build on to perform a muscle pass. Likewise, practice picking up your coin off a table by palming it. This will probably be very difficult at first. But it’s a great way to develop your muscles in your palm.
 This will probably take weeks to get the hang of. The muscle pass is a very advanced trick, and practicing it can hurt. With the coin placed in the sweet spot of your palm, push it down. You can either use the fingers on your other hand to push the coin into your palm or use your middle and ring finger on your hand to push the coin in. Using the fingers on the hand that is holding the coin will make this process look more natural.
Bring your thumb over the coin. Here you are moving your thumb so the padded, muscled area below your thumb goes over the coin. Try to keep you fingers from curling over. If your fingers are curled over the coin, it will hit your fingers and not pop up.
Snap your thumb back and down. This motion is what will eventually cause the coin to fly upward.
 Reposition the coin if you feel like you’re not getting enough grip on the coin as you move your thumb back. It will take some time to find the best place to put the coin.


The muscle pass will take a lot of practice to accomplish. But don’t practice too much. Once your hand starts to hurt or gets red, stop trying to pop up the coin and take a break. If you keep at it, you’ll eventually get the coin to fly up.
 To perform the muscle pass trick, you will produce a coin and explain that you can magically float it up out of your one hand into the other. Don’t explain the mechanics of the trick as that will hurt the illusion. Don’t say that you will perform a muscle pass. Instead, say that you can float or levitate the coin upward.
Hold your other hand over the hand with the coin and wiggle your fingers for effect.
As you do this, make sure the coin is pressed into your palm in the right spot with your middle fingers.
If you want, you can say some magic words. Then, flip your thumb back and perform the muscle pass.
Catch the coin in your other hand.

