 You can honor God by performing good actions for others more casually in your everyday life. Additionally, helping others can help increase your overall appreciation, enjoyment, enlightenment and quality of life. Change up the small, nice things you do for others to keep it new for you. How can you put others needs even-with yours, and avoid pressing for minor desires and grievances to live a more humble life, outwardly and inwardly, for honoring others and God?Yield to a car to let them merge in traffic, and merge gradually, not haltingly
Make food/a meal for a hungry person, not just for a friend or family member
Smile, not proudly, as nicely holding the door open for someone
Be a productive and thoughtful co-worker, not boastful
Provide a needy person some clothing or other necessity

, Take time to make sure you find a good volunteer match for you. Look into volunteer work that lines up with your interests. You might try local places of worship or charity, or use the Yellow Pages under "Volunteer Center" or "Volunteer Clearinghouse", or you can look online at Volunteermatch.org or 1-800-volunteer.org to find opportunities in areas near you. Consider the following types of volunteering:Tutoring or volunteering at a school.
Translating for immigrants, if you speak another language
Coaching a team, if you play a sport
Cleaning up and working at a local park or wildlife refuge
Working at a local hospital, old folks home, or clinic
Calling people for fundraisers from home

, Over committing to helping others is stressful and will hurt your ability to serve others well. You want to be able to do good things for others with a good attitude. Take some time to consider whether you have the time before committing to do something.


If you have already committed, consider finishing out a portion of the work and then stepping up for another effort. Communicate openly about what is going on with you. People understand that others are busy and will respect you if you communicate with them honestly.
Do not be afraid to go back to volunteering for the same organization once you have time to commit again. Pick back up with volunteering, if you had to take a break.
 Doing things with others often helps provide the motivation you will need to follow through with the work you want to do. In addition, it can help you bond as a friend in the work experience you will have and the new people that you might meet.


Consider doing volunteer work with your family, spouse or significant other. This kind of work could help give your relationships healthy perspective and can help create a sense of purpose outside of yourselves.

