 These can be bought online or at local toy stores. You can also purchase model Poké Balls so that you can pretend to be a trainer in real life! Choose one of your plushes as your starting Pokémon, and hide the others as "wild Pokémon" to be caught later.
 There are many Pokémon costumes available to you at local costume shops, Halloween stores, or online. Some Pokémon costumes, like Squirtle or Aipom, are relatively easy to make and can be a fun crafts project to do with friends. Once you have a Pokémon costume, you can ask a friend to be your Pokémon, or take turns practicing being a trainer as you explore your imagination.


A potential idea for a group costume is to dress up as Pokémon and trainers for a convention, costume party, or Halloween.
 These can be used as accessories to a Pokémon themed costume, or even as an accessory to your daily attire. Make Pokémon treats using fruit chews, Pez, and hard candies, to list a few examples. Label your Pokéfood in a baggy or container and reward your Pokémon with these for all its hard work.


Don't forget to reward your Pokémon for using the right moves. You should also remember the abilities your Pokémon has so you can coach them effectively in battle.
 You can buy packs of Pokémon cards at game or hobby stores, online, or at various other retailers. With these packs you can build a 60 card player deck, which you will fill with Pokémon cards, Trainer cards (cards with special effects activated by you, the trainer), and energy cards (cards used so Pokémon can perform attacks).You can purchase pre-made "Trainer kits," or "Theme Decks" that have everything necessary to play, or you can build your own deck from scratch.
 There are Pokémon conventions, Pokémon card tournaments, and card markets. Look online or check local game or hobby stores to see if there are any local events you can join.


It can be fun to offer a duel to another player by starting off with a catchphrase, much like non-player trainers do in the game. Something like, "My heart is beating for a battle!" might get some laughs and earn you a new friend.
 An effective trainer should have a comprehensive knowledge of Pokémon strengths, weakness, and abilities. You and your friends can deepen your knowledge by watching Pokémon movies, the TV show, reading trainer manuals and so on.

