 A good place to start the massage is on your baby’s lower body. Begin by massaging the soles of the feet. Use a firm, yet gentle, stroke, moving from the heel to the toes. Make sure to go slowly.After finishing with the feet, move to the legs. Use long, slow strokes up your baby’s legs. Make sure to massage each part, including the ankle, calves, knees, and thighs. Do not massage the genital area.
To help get rid of gas, gently bend your baby’s leg up to their belly.
 As you move to the upper body, you may want to start with the shoulders. Massage inwards, pressing gentle strokes from the shoulders towards the chest area. Alternately, you can start at the center of the chest and stroke towards the shoulders, then down in a circle until you get to the middle of the chest.Next, massage the arms. Start at the shoulders and stroke downward.
Massaging the hands can help your baby relax them. Open the baby’s hand and massage each finger separately. Then, massage the whole hand by rubbing from the wrist to the tips of the fingers.
Be careful not to get any oil on the baby’s hands. If you do, clean them so they won’t ingest any oil.
 After you have massaged the upper and lower body, work on their legs and arms. Flex and extend each of your baby’s legs and arms separately. Spend a minute on each one. Then, spend a minute moving both legs back and forth at the same time.After you finish this, massage the baby all over their body for another five or so minutes.
 You can massage the belly by moving your hand in a circle in a clockwise direction. You may also try stroking down the belly, each hand following right after the other. Your baby may not like this since the belly area is very sensitive. If you baby starts to squirm or get restless, move on.Only massage the baby’s belly if it is soft instead of feeling hard or full.
 Next, massage the head. Use your fingertips to massage this area. Start at the forehead and stroke down to the cheeks. Rub small circles into the scalp. Your baby should still be relaxed and content.If your baby is content, turn them onto their stomach and massage the back. Stroke from head to toe, covering each part of their back and legs. Finish here, or turn them back over onto their back so you can make eye contact again as you gently massage them for another minute or so.

