 You should run 2–5 miles (3.2–8.0 km), 2-3 times a week. Stamina won't be an issue if you do this.


A point guard has to be in good shape you will be doing a lot of running so a good diet is good. Eat plenty of carbs. Fruits will give you some good initial energy. And a little junk food every once in a while is not bad. Pasta or potatoes are good to eat before games. But do not eat too much or too close to the game. And drink plenty of water.;
, Basketball is all about explosive legs, so you should be doing squats 2 times a week, 4 sets of 5-8 reps, heavy sets. Also, strong shoulders and abs will help you to be more of a scoring threat, so if you do military presses 2 times a week and leg lifts every other day, you will be able to drive to the basket with ease. By the way, if you can squat twice your body weight once, you have enough muscle to dunk easily. Try doing that once or twice a month.
 Practice dribbling low, with your back straight and with your eyes not looking at the ball. When you practice dribbling, do it different ways. For example: dribble 15 yards (13.7 m) with 2 balls low, then high, then middle. Then, use 1 ball to dribble crossover style, then behind the back, then with spins, etc., etc.
 Hit your post players with some lobs over the defenders, and make sure they're out of reach of the defender.
 Remember the point guard is the leading roll in the game of basketball so always think about the other players on your team. Do not keep the game going too fast. Just because you are in good shape does not mean that the other players are in good shape. If you see one of the players on your team mess up, talk to them and tell them what they're doing wrong and tell them how to do it right. Also when playing basketball you have to do plays that will make your players score better with a high shot percentage.
 Try to get at least 10 points or assist and if you can get rebounds GO GET SOME REBOUNDS.
,, Make sure the defence has no idea what you're about to do. Just make sure the unexpected play you are about to do isn't stupid.
 You have to shoot open shots,make bank shots in the post,do layups or dunks,try to get to the line,and don't let your defender block you.

