 The easiest, fastest, and most secure way to check your scores is by logging into the ACT website. To do this, sign up for an account either before you take the test or immediately afterward. This can ensure you are able to access your current and composite, or average, ACT scores.You can only access your test scores by signing up for a secure online account at the ACT website.Register for an account and the ACT through the ACT’s official website.You can also register by mail if you are under the age of 13 or do not have a credit card.;
, The scores for your ACT are available between two and eight weeks after you take the test. Scores on the multiple choice section are generally ready within two weeks of the exam, while the essay follows two weeks after that. If you took your test on the following dates in 2016, for example, your report date availability would be:September 10, 2016: September 20, 2016–November 4, 2016
October 22, 2016: November 8, 2016–December 27, 2016
December 10, 2016: December 20, 2016–February 3, 2017

, After waiting for at least 10 days after your test, sign into your ACT online account. Use the user ID and password you created when you signed up for the test to log you in. This should take you to your home page. Click on the “Your Test Dates and Scores” tab in the left column to get the link with your results by test date. Then enter your password again to see you scores.Enter the same password as your login.
 Check your individual scores page for your composite score, your subject area scores, and subscores. You cannot see your exact raw scores, but consulting tables with conversion can give you a sense of what your raw scores are. You can do this at https://www.princetonreview.com/college-advice/act-score-chart.


Have a copy of your individual test questions and answers sent to you if you would like to see raw scores. You can order them for $42.50 – 58.50 from the ACT website at http://www.act.org/content/act/en/products-and-services/the-act/scores/request-a-copy-of-qa.html.
 In some cases, you may not receive your online scores within three to eight weeks. Your scores may be delayed if:Answers from your test center arrived late
Your test date was rescheduled
The “matching information” on your answer document isn’t the same as the one on your admission ticket
There are issues with the answer document
Your test center reports an irregularity
You owe registration fees

, Although your score remains the same, the scores you see online are not official. Instead, you’ll receive an additional student report in the mail. Your high school and chosen colleges will also receive separate reports. These official reports contain useful data including scores, college and career planning information, grades for high school courses, predictions for performance in specific college programs and courses., Your official ACT scores will arrive at your home by mail. This generally occurs within three to eight weeks of your test date and once the ACT body scores the entire test, including the essay if you took it. Checking your mail regularly can ensure you get your test results in a timely manner.Contact the ACT student services if you don’t receive your results within 3-8 weeks. You can do so from your online account or by phone at 319.337.1313.
 If you lose the copy of your official report, you’ll need another. This can help you apply for college even if you haven’t sent a college report to your choices or have decided to apply to other schools. You can order extra copies of your reports online, by mail, or by phone and pay with a credit card. You’ll need to include the following information:Current full name
Full name at the time you registered or test, if different
Current mailing address
ACT ID from your score report
Date of birth
Home phone number
The test month and year for the scores you want
Location of test
Valid codes and names for universities where you want scores sent, if applicable
Signature
Type of report you want, regular or priority

, You receive a point for each question you answer correctly on the ACT, which is called your raw score. There is no penalty or point deduction for incorrect answers. Your raw score is converted into a scale score on the online and official reports. The scale score accounts for any differences in level of difficulty between tests.Your scale score will be a number between 1 and 36, with 36 being the highest.
 You’ll also receive an overall score on your ACT, which is called the composite. This is the average of your scores on each test—the math, reading, English, and science. You can also get this number by adding up your scores for each test and dividing the total by 4., If you took the essay test, two people will evaluate what you wrote. They will score the essay in four different areas. From this, the ACT will translate this onto the 1-36 scoring scale.

