 Use the return key to move your title down the page. It should be about 1/3 of the way down the page.If your title is especially long or it has a colon in the middle of it, you can place it on two lines.Cut out extra words and abbreviations. In APA style, you should be as precise as possible.Use title case capitalization. That means that you capitalize important words, such as nouns, verbs, adverbs, and adjectives, but that you don't capitalize unimportant words, such as articles, prepositions, and conjunctions. Basically, you don't capitalize words that are three letters or fewer unless they are at the beginning of a title or after punctuation.;
, Press the return key once. Type out your name. You should use your first name, middle initial or initials, and your last name. Skip titles such as "Dr."If more than one person is responsible for the paper, include all author names.
Separate two names with the word "and." Separate three or more names with commas, placing the word "and" between the final two.
 The institution is your university or other organization you're affiliated with. Basically, you are telling your reader where you did the majority of your research.If you have multiple authors who are affiliated with the same institution, place the name of the institution after you list the names of the writers.If you have multiple authors who are affiliated with different institutions, separate the names of the authors and write the name of each writer's corresponding university below his or her name., In the paragraph group, under the "Home" tab of a Word document, select the line spacing button. Under the spacing drop-down menu, select "2." Your text should now be double-spaced., Highlight the text on the page. At the top of the screen, click on the button under paragraph to center your text. It should move all of it to the center of the screen., A running header goes at the top of your paper, and it continues throughout the paper. On the first page, your header will be "Running head: KEY TITLE WORDS." You do use all capital letters for the title here.Your header is not your full title. Rather, it is two or three key words. Generally it should be fewer than 50 characters long.
Use your document's running page numbers to add a page number to the upper right-hand corner. You only need to add the number, not "p." or "pg."To add a header in most newer word processing systems, simply double click in the header area at the top of the page. You won't be able to see the area before you click. However, just double-click near the top of the page, and it should bring up the header section.
You will also have to click "Different First Page" at the top of the screen, as your other headers will omit "Running head:" and just use the title of your paper in all capital letters., Use 12-point Times New Roman font. Also, make sure all your margins are set to 1 inch.