 One of the more effective ways to craft an opening line for your book is to start with a description that is engaging and will leave your reader asking questions. You want your reader to be in a state of wonder and pique their curiosity so they have no choice but to turn the pages of your book to find out more.For your first line, you can use a strong, interesting description to describe an image of your main character in action. For example, the first line of Joseph Heller’s novel Catch-22: “Yossarian was in the hospital with a pain in his liver that fell just short of being jaundice.”This is a strong opening because the main character is introduced to the reader right away, he is placed in a setting, and he has an issue he has to deal with.
You can also start with a description of the setting of your book. For example, the first line of J.R.R. Tolkien’s The Hobbit: “In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit.”This is a strong opening that introduces the setting to the reader and the titular hobbit of the novel.;
, You can also create a first line that introduces the reader to a pivotal plot point, starting right in action. This will allow you to hit the ground running and get the reader invested in the plot of the story right away.For example, the opening line of Kate Morton’s The Forgotten Garden: “It was dark where she was crouched but the little girl did as she’d been told.”This is a good hook opening line because it places the reader in the action, creating a situation that suggests danger or fear for the “little girl.”

, You can also start your book with a narrative voice that is unique and compelling. This is especially effective if your book has a first person narrator, as the narrative voice can really propel the story along. You can also use a compelling third person voice to act as the narrator who introduces characters in an engaging way.For example, the opening line of J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone: “Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much.”This is a third person narrative voice that has attitude and color to it, drawing readers into the story.
The first line of Vladimir Nabokov’s novel Lolita is another good example, as the novel begins: “Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins.”Right away the reader is prepared for a unique narrator who is not afraid to embellish, entertain, and disturb.
 You can also draw your reader in by creating a situation for your characters that is unusual or strange. This could then intrigue the reader enough to continue on with the story and see how the characters deal with the unusual set up.For example, the opening lines of Nick Hornby’s novel Juliet, Naked: “They had flown from England to Minneapolis to look at a toilet.”This first line pulls the reader in right away and sets up a strange, engaging situation.
 You can create a strong first line by focusing on what your audience would be interested in reading about first. Try to picture your ideal reader and consider how old they are, what they are interested in, and what type of writing they might enjoy. You can then use this ideal reader and write a first line just for them.For example, if you are writing a book with a reader who is young adult, you may start the story with a young adult in mind. Consider what details or moments you might include if you were writing for a young adult.
This may also be a useful tactic if you are writing a hook for a book that is non-fiction, as you may consider what fact, anecdote, or moment in the history you are writing about would most spark your reader’s interest.

