 Make sure to rid your hair of any dirt, oil, or leftover product residue. Apply conditioner to your hair, paying special attention to your roots and ends. Then comb your hair gently with a wide-toothed comb to spread the conditioner evenly throughout your hair. Let it sit for a few minutes before rinsing your hair clean with warm water.;
, Using a wide-toothed comb will apply less stress to your hair, which is important because wet hair is very weak and breaks easily.
 Continue to be gentle as you run your fingers through your hair from root to tip, and squeeze portions of your hair to wring out water. Further absorb water by using a clean, dry towel to gently pat your scalp and squeeze your hair. You may need more than one towel if your hair is long or very thick., Reading the directions for your specific product will ensure proper application. However, typically when you apply your hair product, you will apply it to the roots of your hair, and then spread it along the length of your hair and to your ends.


If you’re going for a classic straight look, you’ll apply a thermal protectant and a leave-in straightening treatment.
If you want added volume, start by applying mousse. Apply it throughout your hair from roots to tips. Apply the volumizing spray to the roots of your hair only. Then apply the argan oil to the length of your hair that extends from the chin down. Argan oil is a very lightweight oil that will protect your hair from the heat.The amount of product you use may differ depending on the length and thickness of your hair.
 Rough drying your hair means instead of using your brush, you’ll use your hands along with your blow dryer to dry your hair. Start by placing your fingers against your scalp, finger-comb your hair upwards to create volume or downwards for a sleek straight hair, and follow with your blow dryer pointed at a 45-degree angle.Blow dry until your hair is about 80% dry.
 If you want to ensure added volume to your look, these sections should be no wider than the width of the brush or taller than the depth of the brush.


Starting with your hair in the back, you’ll want to section your hair into one-inch sections using a rattail comb.
Create a horizontal part near your ears to separate a portion of your hair right above the nape of your neck from the rest. Secure the top portion of hair to the top of your head with a rubber band or large hair clip.
You can either divide the entire lower section of hair into one-inch parts using your rattail comb and hair clips before you begin blow drying, or you can divide your hair into one-inch parts as you blow dry.
Section your hair by working your way up and around your head. You can either section all of your hair at once, or save time and hair clips by simply sectioning and blow drying your hair as you go along.

