 If you can think of any way to demonstrate your truthfulness, do so by backing up your statements with credible proof. However, in some cases, it may be impossible to show evidence that you're not lying.


For example, you can show evidence by producing paperwork, such as time-stamps or receipts. If your girlfriend accuses you of being out with someone else on Tuesday night, it can prove your innocence by showing a time-stamp that you were using a computer in the college library until 3am.
 Social proof is the concept of using others' opinions or beliefs to influence a person's decisions or behaviors.If there isn't any physical evidence, you may be able to convince the person by employing someone (or several people) who can testify to your innocence.


For example, if your mom feels certain that you were not at a friend's house, but had snuck out to a party, you can back up your story by asking your friend's parents to testify on your behalf. If two adults--and seemingly trustworthy people--say that you were definitely at their house, your mom is more likely to believe you.
 A method often employed by law enforcement is the process of making a suspect repeat a chain of events in reverse to see if this version of a story will be consistent with the original version.Tell the person to ask you about what happened by starting at the end. If you are lying, you are more likely to screw it up or show inconsistencies by telling the story backwards.
 Explain to the person who is accusing you of being a liar: "I wouldn't lie to you, I promise." Hopefully, if the person has any faith in you, or you haven't already damaged the trust previously, she will believe that you are being honest.


If you have a particularly spotless history with this person, you could add to the promise by offering them examples of ways you have been honest and trustworthy in the past. For example, you might say "I have never lied to you. Remember, that time when everyone else wasn't being straightforward with you, and I did?"
Be careful with this method, though, because some people will think you are manipulating them by making a false promise.
 Research shows that liars often talk in more complex sentences than people who are telling the truth.Even if you are telling the truth, speaking in complex sentences can make it seem like you are covering something up or being evasive.


Strive for clear, simple, and concrete sentences with a moderate level of detail. You might tell your girlfriend, "No, I was not with anyone last night. I was at the computer lab on campus. I can show you my time-stamp." rather than "Oh, what are you talking about? I would never do anything like that to you. I love you so much. Who could I have been with? Why don't you trust me?" All the extra questions and miscellaneous information sheds doubt on your honesty.
 Another science-tested characteristic of liars is the tendency to repeat a questions before providing an answer. Avoid this at all costs. If you didn't clearly hear a question ask the person to repeat it himself. Repeating it from your own mouth makes it seem like you are delaying your response so you can think up an answer.An example of this happening in action could be demonstrated in this way: Your partner asks "Where were you last night?" If you say "Where was I last night?", pause, and then add "I was in the computer lab doing work," this seems less than honest because of the need to hesitate before providing your answer.

