 Combine the flour, baking soda, and salt in a sifter. Sift them into a medium sized bowl. Make sure you get out any lumps., Make a well in the middle of the dry ingredients with a wooden spoon. Crack the eggs and pour them into a separate bowl. Beat them well with a whisk. Pour the egg mixture into the well. Whisk the buttermilk and 3 tablespoons of the cold water in another bowl. Pour half of the buttermilk mixture on top of the eggs in the well.
 Gradually whisk the wet ingredients into the flour mixture by starting in the middle of the well and whisking outward. Continue to whisk until you have a thick but smooth texture. Add the rest of the buttermilk mixture a little at a time, whisking completely every time you add more. Keep whisking until it is lump free and smooth.
 Take a large, heavy bottomed pan and heat 2 tablespoons of sunflower oil. Use a paper towel to grease the entire bottom of the pan evenly. Pour a ladle of the batter for each pancake. Cook 60-90 seconds on one side. It should be golden brown. Flip the pancake and cook another 45-60 seconds on this side. Cook the rest of the pancakes in the same way until you run out of batter.


The batter should make 10-12 small pancakes.
Keep them warm in a low heated oven while you make the caramelized bananas.
 Cut the bananas into slices length ways. In a heavy, nonstick pan, pour the sugar evenly around the pan and cook on medium heat. Once the sugar has melted, turn the heat to high and cook until it is golden brown.
 Add the butter to the sugar and stir. Add in the bananas to the mixture and coat them in the caramel. Cook for 1-2 minutes. The bananas should be slightly golden and slightly tender.


Use a knife to check the bananas.
If you feel comfortable enough, you can toss the pan slightly to get the bananas covered in the caramel.
 Remove the pan from heat. Pour a generous dash of rum around the pan. Light the pan using a long kitchen match. Put the pan back on the stove. Once the flames subside, stir in the 2 teaspoons of water to help loosen the caramel.


The flames will be kind of high at first. Watch to make sure you do not get burnt.
Never pour the rum in while it is over an open flame. If you have an electric stove, you don't have to remove the pan from the heat. You have to if you cook on a gas stove because the rum might splash onto the flame and cause a kitchen fire., Take the pancakes out of the oven. Put two pancakes on a each plate and add 3-4 pieces of banana. Scoop a small serving of vanilla ice cream on top of the bananas. Drizzle a spoonful of the caramel mixture from the pan on top of the ice cream. Eat right away while it is still hot.