 Social work is a demanding job, and to excel you’ll need professional and social support. This support will both keep you sane and help to progress your career.


Join professional organizations such as the British Association of Social Workers or the National Association of Social Workers in the U.S. in order to take advantage of conferences, workshops, and mentoring.Develop helping relationships with peer groups, spouses, or friends. Interpersonal relationships are key to helping social workers deal with their own distress., If you are interested in social work, you are probably an empathetic person, which means that many of your clients’ problems will impact you emotionally. Their disappointments and failures can all too easily feel like your own failures. It is important to make time for yourself – reading, laughing, being with your family – whatever you need to recharge so that you can face your clients’ problems anew.Some clinically tested strategies of self-care include:Self-Evaluation – The ability to effectively monitor one’s own condition has been cited at the number one trait of effective therapists. This means both using introspection and being attentive to interpersonal feedback, such as a family member or colleague noting that you look tired or are working longer hours.

Creating a Pleasant Work Environment (aka stimulus control) – Changing one’s environment is a proven way to impact one’s mood. There are a variety of steps one can take: get a comfortable chair; play calming music while writing up reports; put plants in your office; take time to talk to colleagues; don’t eat at your desk; etc.

Relaxation, Exercise, and Diversion (aka counter conditioning) – These are activities that replenish you physically and psychologically, and they are vital to success as a social worker. Typical activities include: reading or watching TV; working out; hobbies; vacations; meditation; worship; volunteer work; and keeping a diary.
 The psychological perils of social work are many: compassion fatigue, burnout, and unchecked counter transference (taking up your clients’ pain and trauma as your own) among them. Spending time with a therapist has been shown to help mitigate these problems, resulting in both an improved personal life and better professional development for social workers., When facing people who are dealing with huge problems like abuse or addiction, there is an understandable temptation to pour more and more of your time into helping them. However, to avoid burning out and to maintain one’s own mental health, a social worker must learn to set boundaries both on the time they devote to each case and on the milestones they hope to achieve.Create a realistic care plan – Don’t try and fix a client's problems overnight. If you create a reasonable care plan with small intermediate goals, you will have a road map to stick to and be less likely to pour time into seeking an immediate solution.

Be wary of devoting extra time to particular clients – While some clients do require more work, treating one client differently than others is often a sign that your boundaries – both in terms of time and your emotional relationship with the client – are overextended.

Limit client communication – Always use your organization's process for communicating with clients. Allowing a client to contact you directly leaves you out of control of your work schedule and, if you are unable to respond when needed, may create a loss of trust.

Discuss your workload with your supervisor – Speaking regularly with your supervisor about your workload and particularly difficult cases can help manage your case load and set boundaries. Know that working extra will not help your organization, it will only set unrealistic expectations for your fellow social workers.
 As a social worker, you should have your own work assessed on a regular basis. Instead of dreading these assessments, use them as a tool to improve the services you offer.Clarify vague terms – If your manager offers vague advice with no clear indication of how to enact it (e.g. use your time more efficiently), ask him or her to clarify or provide a series of clear steps.Bring your own questions – Managers are more likely to give candid feedback if you ask for it. So ask a general question – “What two things do you think I can do to most improve my work?” – or ask about areas you think need strengthening, such as “Can you recommend a strategy for dealing with all this paperwork?”Make a plan – After any performance review, take time to write down your manager’s recommendations or areas where you are underperforming, and then make a step by step plan for how to enact the recommendations or improve your performance. Consult your manager or colleagues as needed in creating your plan.
 Doing the same social work over and over again can be depleting. Diversifying the type of work you do has been shown to improve both personal mental health and professional output.Conduct multiple forms of therapy: individual; couples; group
Work with different types of problems
Work with different types of patients: ethnicity; age; social background; profession
Try teaching, researching, or learning alongside counseling

, Your degree qualifies you to be a social worker, but it definitely doesn’t teach you everything you will need to know. Good social workers keep learning as they go, whether that means pursuing another degree, taking courses or attending workshops, or doing research on your own as issues come up.