 When choosing outfits, go for patterns and colors that come off as girlish. You'll want to consider outfits stereotypical of a young girl. This can help you look girlish and innocent.


Go for bright primary colors, like bright reds and blues. You should also consider colors considered traditionally girly, like pinks and purples.
Try somewhat childlike patterns. Polka dots, stripes, checkers, and floral patterns are great for a girlish, innocent look.
 Blouses are a great addition to any wardrobe if you want to look girlish and innocent. Blouses are a versatile wardrobe option, as they can be paired with jeans, leggings, and skirts.Go for blouses that are not cut too low, highlighting the innocent aspect of the look.
Choose girlish colors, like pastel shades and pinks and purples.
Add a variety of nice blouses to your wardrobe. Include some that are sleeveless, some with sleeves, some button up blouses, and so on. Having a wide variety of cute blouses can help you look girlish.
 Skirts are a must for a girlish, innocent wardrobe. Go for long skirts, as well as knee-high skirts. Pick floral, polka-dot, or other girly patterns over solid-colored skirts, which may look stuffy or professional. You can also pick some cute, colorful tights to wear with some of your skirts., Another great addition to a girly wardrobe is a variety of feminine dresses. You can stop by a local mall and pick up a handful of cute, girly dresses.


Go for colorful dresses or dressed with girlish patterns.
Avoid professional-looking dresses. You want to look girlish, which requires looking somewhat young. A work dress may make you look older.
Select dresses that appear somewhat childish in nature. For example, a dress with a hoop skirt may be fun, as well as a sailor dress.
A sundress is a classic dress option, particularly popular among college girls. You can wear a sundress in a variety of fun, girly shades., Consider wearing colorful jeans, which are sold at many department stores. A lot of brands of skinny jeans sell jeans in shades of pink, red, and blue. You can also find leggings in a variety of fun, cute shades. These can all help you foster a girlish wardrobe.Black leggings can also be good for your wardrobe. While they don't scream girly like other options, they are versatile. You can mix and match a lot of tops and dresses with a basic pair of black leggings., When it comes to footwear, make sure to include girly shoes. Wearing something like tennis shoes with an otherwise girlish outfit could throw off your whole look.


Try ballet flats. These are basic flat, laceless shoes you can slip on and off. Try flats with girly designs or colors.You can also go for Mary Jane heels. These are heels that are large and clunky in appearance, giving a girlish and innocent feel. You can purchase Mary Jane heels in a variety of fun styles.