 French braiding can be particularly tricky if your hair is tangled, so take a few minutes to remove knots with a brush or wide-toothed comb.
 For a traditional French braid, this is probably the front section of your hair, that's closest to your forehead and temples.









You don't have to start a French braid at the top of your head. It's the easiest way to learn, but theoretically you could start a French braid anywhere. Just make sure you're including the hair above your ears in your starter section if you decide to move down the head.
You can create multiple French braids on your hair using several parts. If you have short hair, it may be easier to make two medium braids rather than one large one.
 These three strands will make up the beginning of the braid.









The real trick to French braiding is keeping your three sections evenly sized as you braid. Give yourself a solid head start by making sure your strands are equal to begin with.
Make sure the strands start from the same row of hair, rather than staggered areas. Keeping the three strands close together will also be helpful.
 Grasping the strands correctly will help you braid neatly and quickly. Though you might find another way that's more comfortable for you, here's a basic beginning grip:


Grasp the left strand in your left hand.
Grasp the center strand between the thumb and index finger of your right hand.
Grasp the right strand between your right palm and the last three fingers of your right hand.
 Here's how to shift the right strand without completely losing your hold on the braid:









With the last three fingers of your left hand, grip the left strand between your fingers and your palm. This should free up your left thumb and index finger.
With your left thumb and index finger, reach over the center strand and grab the right strand. You should now have two strands in your left hand and one in your right hand.
 This will be the same process as the previous step, mirrored.









With the last three fingers of your right hand, grip the right strand between your fingers and your palm. This should free up your right thumb and index finger.
With your right thumb and index finger, reach over the center strand and grab the left strand. You should now have two strands in your right hand and one in your left hand.
 Up until now, you've done a regular braid. This is where the "French" part of the process comes in. It might take you a few tries to get it right, but it's easier once you're comfortable with the grip.









Let go of the center strand, and allow it to hang between the left and right strands. You should be able to tell it apart from the rest of your hair — it'll be slightly elevated above the hair that hasn't been braided yet.
Grip the left strand between the last three fingers of your left hand and your left palm and grab the right strand with your left thumb and index finger. Your right hand should now be free.
Using your right hand, pull up a small section of unbraided hair from the right side of your head. Grab this new section with your left thumb and index finger to add it to the right strand of the braid.
Pick up the center strand of the braid again. Grab it with your right hand, and move it to the right, making it your new right strand. The section you added hair to, between your left thumb and index finger, is the new center strand.
 This process will be just like the previous step, but using opposite sides:









Let go of the center strand. Again, it will hang between the left and right strands.
Grip the right strand between the last three fingers of your right hand and your right palm.
Grab the left strand with your right thumb and index finger. Your left hand should now be free.
Using your left hand, pull up a small section of unbraided hair from the left side of your head. Grab the new section with your right thumb and index finger to add it to the left section of the braid.
Pick up the center strand of the braid again. Grab it with your left hand, and move it to the left, making it your new left strand. The section you added hair to, between your right thumb and index finger, is the new center strand.
 You will run out of new hair to add into the braid when you reach the nape of your neck, at which point you can finish with a regular braid. To keep the braid looking as neat as possible, try to add sections that are about the same size throughout the braid.
 Continue doing a regular three-strand braid with the hair that's still loose.
 Use a hair tie the same color as your hair, or one that is translucent so that it blends in. Avoid rubber bands, which can damage your hair and be difficult to remove.
 Hairspray or spray gel can help your French braid from developing flyaways as the day goes on.









If you're going to add extra embellishment to your hair, hairspray it first. This will prevent flaky residue from getting on your barrettes or ribbons.
Using shine serum will help to keep your hair looking smooth and soft, if it has the tendency to be rough and dry looking.
 For some extra flair, tie a colorful ribbon in a bow at the end of your braid.


You can use tulle, grosgrain, or ric rac, all of which can be found in a variety of colors at your local fabric store.
Adding a pretty brooch or multiple hair pins along the braid is a great way to add a bit of glam to your look.

