 Both fruits and vegetables are high in water content and fiber, which result in your feeling more satisfied after eating fewer calories. Because people tend to eat about the same amount of food every day, simply substituting more fruits and vegetables for other, more calorie-rich foods may help you feel full while still maintaining dietary limits.Adding water-rich ingredients to any recipe will increase the density of the food without increasing the calorie-count.
For example, include spinach, zucchini, or carrots to your favorite chili or casserole. Add lettuce, tomatoes and sprouts to a simple sandwich, and you'll be less likely to crave additional high-calorie foods.
 Research shows that people are more likely to eat less during a meal if they start it out with fresh vegetables. Eating high-fiber, foods with a high water content results in feeling fuller, without eating more calories.If you're trying to lose weight, use low-calorie dressing and don't add additional fats, such as cheese, to your salad.
A vegetable-based, low-calorie soup can also help you feel full without increasing your portion sizes.
 Including a serving of lean protein with every meal or snack will result in less craving, and feeling more satisfied. Because protein can come laden with fat, be sure that your protein sources are carefully selected to minimize fat content. Lean sources of protein include soy, low-fat dairy, eggs, lean meats, fish and poultry.For best results, add protein to foods that are high in fiber and water. For example, adding low-fat peanut butter to celery or a slice of apple results in a satisfying snack.
Adding hard-boiled eggs or lean meats to a salad creates a lunch dish that will keep you from feeling hungry later in the day.
 If you're trying to control your appetite, you might be substituting solid meals with liquids. While these may contain the same nutrients as fresh fruits and vegetables, research suggests that you'll feel less satisfied after a beverage than after eating a solid meal.Juices won't help control your appetite and they tend to be loaded with sugar. Juice should be limited to 4 oz portions.
For best results, drink fresh water while eating at least nine daily portions of fruits and vegetables.
 Drinking two 8-ounce (500 ml) glasses of water before eating meals, and drinking additional water in between meals, will help to control your appetite.Low hydration levels can send false signals to the brain regarding appetite satisfaction. If you're thirsty, you might be misinterpreting it as feeling hungry. If you're well-hydrated, you're more likely to feel full.
People who drink water before meals feel more satisfied and less hungry at the outset of the meal and are better able to control what they eat.
 Foods high in capsaicin (the chemical that makes hot peppers hot) help you feel satisfied longer than non-spicy foods. In addition, hot chile peppers may reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and speed up your metabolism.Adding hot peppers to your diet adds only a few calories.
Hot peppers may also lower your cholesterol and reduce the risk of peptic ulcers.
 Even small amounts of "healthy fat" triggers a fat-derived compound called oleoylethanolamide in the brain, and this sends the message to your body that you're satisfied. A healthy diet contains three to nine servings of these healthy fats.Healthy fats are good for the heart. They are also known as polyunsaturated fats.
Nuts, seeds, avocados, and olive oil are all sources of healthy fats.
These fats are also rich in Omega 3 and Omega 6.
 Like water, herbal tea can help hydrate your body which helps you feel more satisfied and full. Some studies suggest that peppermint tea in particular functions to curb your appetite, whether consumed before or after a meal.In addition, drinking a cup of hot peppermint tea following a meal will freshen your breath and eliminate remaining food particles that might contribute to bad breath.
Peppermint tea is well-known as a stress reliever. If you're tempted to eat out of anxiety or frustration, try drinking a cup of peppermint tea to relieve the pressure. You'll likely find yourself calmer and less hungry.

