 Before you can road test your business name, you need to come up with some names to test out. Start by having a brainstorming (or "namestorming") session, thinking of as many names as you are able that might be good for your business and writing them down.You can look in the dictionary and/or thesaurus for inspiration if you are having trouble thinking of names.
It's also a good idea to get friends or family involved, asking them to suggest names they think would be appealing for the types of business you are planning to open.
In this initial creative stage, you should feel free come up with as many as 100 potential names.Don't worry too much at this point about whether the names are good or not, just allow your creative juices to start flowing.;
, Once you have a good list of names and can't think of any more, your next step is to narrow the list down to a much smaller set of the best names. You'll want to narrow down to about five.Here are some criteria you can use to narrow the list:Avoid names that might be difficult to pronounce.
Avoid names that are too similar to those of competitors.
Eliminate names that don't make it obvious what the business does.
Consider how the name will look online and in logo form.
Eliminate names for which you cannot purchase a matching domain name.
Choose a name that can't easily be transformed into something embarrassing or the butt of a joke. Imagine how a child might try to mock your business name, and choose something that doesn't leave you open to too much ridicule. For example, if your name is Patty and you are considering opening a store selling plus-sized clothing, you probably would not want to call it "Patty's Plus-Sized Clothes," as people might make jokes about "Fatty's Plus-Sized Clothes."

, Once you have narrowed your list down, your next step will be to do a search to determine which, if any of the names are not yet trademarked by other people. Any name which is already trademarked should be eliminated from your list.The US Government has an online trademark search tool you can use to look for other businesses with the same (or very similar) names to your own., Once you've narrowed down to one or a few names, your next step will be to design a survey (sometimes called an "instrument") to examine people's opinions about your name. However, you don't want those taking the survey to share your ideas with others, so you may wish to include a confidentiality agreement.A confidentiality agreement is a legal document that forbids anyone who signs from discussing some topic or information.Sample confidentiality agreements (also called "non-disclosure agreements") can be found online, or you can consult an attorney to have a custom agreement drafted.
 Your instrument should include some questions to determine whether the name makes it clear what the business does.For example, you might ask: "Imagine you hear about a business called VideoPros. What would you guess that business does?"
Or, you could say, "We are considering opening a new video production company called VideoPros. If you heard this name, do you think you would guess that is what the company does? Why or why not?"

, A successful business name is a name that customers like. Make sure your name sounds appealing to people.


One approach to this is to provide a list of several names and ask people taking the survey to put them in ranked order or rate each one on a scale of one to five.Another approach would simply be to ask people taking the survey whether they like or dislike the name(s) you are considering, and explain why.
 A good business name is one that people can easily remember. Make sure to include some questions about whether your business name is easily recalled.


You can ask people how memorable they think each name you are considering is, using a one through five scale.
Another approach is to give people a list of names on one page of the survey, including both those you are considering and some that you have rejected. Then, on the second page, ask them to write down any names they can remember without looking back at the first page. Hopefully, your preferred name is one people remember., There are many other questions you could include, such as whether the name you've chosen reminds them of any other businesses, what the name makes them think of when they first hear it, and so on.Ask any questions you think might be helpful, but don't ask too many! If surveys get too long, people often don't finish taking them. Many people will not complete a survey that takes more than three minutes., Leave some open space at the end where people taking the survey can express their thoughts in their own words.You can leave this wide open, simply asking: "Do you have any other comments you'd like to share?" Or, you can be a little more specific, saying something like, "Do you have any ideas for names for a company like this you would like to share?", Next, you'll need to find people who are willing to offer you feedback on the name or names you are considering. A great place to start is with your friends or family.


You can ask friends and family to take your survey, or you can also just have informal conversations with them in which you ask the same questions., People who might be potential customers should also be included in your survey. Go to where your target audience is, and ask people to participate. This approach is sometimes called an "intercept survey."For example, if you are starting a company that produces high-quality dog food, you might ask your local pet store if you could stand outside and ask people to take your survey.
 To gather a larger number of responses, you may want to put your survey online. There are a number of websites that host surveys for free or for a small fee which are excellent choices for market research like this.


SurveyMonkey, Ask Your Target Market (AYTM), Google Surveys, and Qualtrics are all good options.For a greater response rate, you can also hire a third-party company to administer your survey for you. This obviously costs more, but you can count on getting a lot more responses. Make sure to look into their research methodologies and confidentiality policies when selecting a company.Some of these companies will also help you design your survey and analyze your data.
 Spend some time looking over your surveys, analyzing the results and drawing conclusions about what people thought, overall.For example:


Did most people seem to like or dislike your proposed name(s)? Why?
Could they remember the name or names you like best?
Was it clear to them what services the company would offer?
Were there interesting comments or suggestions that you should consider?

, Think about the comments and decide whether the name or names you are considering will work for you, or if you need to go back to the drawing board.Don't stick with a bad name just because you've already invested time and energy in testing it. If customers don't like it or don't get it, this will harm your business.