
For instance, for the domain zillow.com, you can get data at https://www.similarweb.com/website/zillow.com.In case of subdomains, enter the subdomain name instead of the domain name. For instance, to get data on ocw.mit.edu, you would go to https://www.similarweb.com/website/ocw.mit.edu.Data shown for a domain name aggregates data over all subdomains. Profiles for subdomains are fairly similar to profiles for domains, with a few differences: ranks and subdomain breakdowns are available only on domain profiles.
For some websites, SimilarWeb may redirect to the error page https://www.similarweb.com/error/notfound. This means that SimilarWeb saw no traffic, or too little traffic, to the website and has not built a profile for it.
For most websites, SimilarWeb uses "estimated data", measured by extrapolation from a small panel of users it tracks (and therefore not necessarily accurate). You will see the text "Estimated Data Claim Your Website" on the page in such cases, at the top right of the "Traffic Overview" chart. For a few websites, you will see "Measured by Google Analytics" on the right, indicating that the data is taken from Google Analytics because the website owner connected SimilarWeb with Google Analytics. The feature to connect with Google Analytics is in beta so it may not work properly at any given time.






If you have SimilarWeb PRO, you will be able to see more data than the default level of data visible on SimilarWeb.If you want to access historical data, check for archives of the SimilarWeb profile using archive.is.


At the top you can see the rank of the website globally, in its country, and in its category. You can click through to get the list of top websites globally, by country, or by category. The basic SimilarWeb only gives a list of the top 50 websites; with SimilarWeb PRO you can get a longer list. Note that these ranks depend on estimated traffic computation for all websites in the category; since each of the traffic estimates could be inaccurate, the rank could also be inaccurate.
The next section, Traffic Overview, includes a plot of total visits over the last six months, by month. To the right of the plot is information on total visits, average visit duration, pages per visit, and bounce rate over the last month. With SimilarWeb PRO, you will be able to get data over the last three years rather than the last six months. For most websites, the data is estimated rather than directly measured; for websites that have connected Google Analytics, the data is measured and says "Measured with Google Analytics" on the top right of the Traffic Overview section.
Additional subsections under Traffic Overview include Traffic by countries and Traffic sources. Later sections are Referral, Search, Social, and Display Advertising.
The Website Content section provides information on Subdomains, Folders, and Popular Pages. The basic SimilarWeb only shows the top five subdomains. With SimilarWeb PRO, you can see more subdomains, as well as get access to Folders and Popular Pages.






The Audience Interests and Similar Sites sections provide more information on related topics and websites.


SimilarWeb only shows a six-month history for visits and one month of estimated data for other metrics. Therefore, you should record, by saving or screenshotting, any data you want to reference in the future.
You can request archival of the existing profile using archive.is. Note that the archived page will not have the full functionality of the original page because of limitations in the way archival interacts with JavaScript.


The estimated values (for visits and pageviews) reported by SimilarWeb vary between half of and three times the values directly measured by sources such as Quantcast Measure.

Glassdoor reported about 40 million visits and 140 million pageviews on Quantcast Measure in March 2017,compared with 54.5 million visits and about 200 million pageviews on SimilarWeb in the same time period.Trello reported about 46 million visits and 75 million pageviews on Quantcast Measure in March 2017,compared with about 85 million visits and 600 million pageviews on SimilarWeb.Stack Overflow reported about 265 million visits and 660 million pageviews on Quantcast Measure in March 2017,compared with 337 million visits and 1 billion pageviews on SimilarWeb.Upworthy reported 9.6 million visits and 11.3 million pageviews on Quantcast Measure in March 2017,compared with 7.5 million visits and 9.5 million pageviews on SimilarWeb.Accuracy in estimation of visits and pageviews is higher for websites with more traffic, and more unique visitors.
Ranks and category ranks should be treated as loose estimates.
Although the monthly traffic levels are not very accurate, the trends between months are somewhat more accurate. In other words, you can use the six-month graph of visits to get some sense of how traffic is varying with time. However, before drawing any conclusions, see if the trend is consistent with what you would expect given the annual traffic cycle for that type of website. Unfortunately, a six-month history does not provide a clear view into the full annual cycle. If you have SimilarWeb PRO, you will be able to get a better sense of whether an annual cycle is being captured and how that compares with expectations.
 This will help the website owner be able to share up-to-date traffic data at any time, without having to manually export data from Google Analytics., The extension does not give you access to any other information beyond what you can get from the profile -- it just makes the lookup process quicker.
In return, installing the extension means that you get included in the panel of users whose behavior is collected by SimilarWeb to estimate website traffic.

