 Computers with Windows operating system often comes with pre-installed anti-virus software trial at the time of purchase. In situation where anti-virus has not been included, you may obtain antivirus software on the Internet at little or no cost to the consumer.


Perform an Internet search for "anti-virus protection" to retrieve a list of anti-virus programs.
Navigate to the preferred manufacturer's website, and follow the instructions for download and installation provided by the developer.;
, Windows users can use the "System Restore" feature to schedule an automated, periodic back up of the entire system. Regularly backing up the system provides a perfect copy of your system functioning at optimum performance levels.


Open the Start menu, type "System Restore" into the search field located below the Programs menu, and press Enter on the keyboard.
Follow the instructions provided in the System Restore dialog box to schedule an automated full-system backup.
 The amount of free space remaining on the C drive can have a dramatic effect on a computer's performance. The Disk Cleanup feature automatically scans a computer hard drive to locate and remove temporary files and other files no longer in use. Removing these unneeded files increases the amount of free space available, which improves system performance.


Open My Computer from the Start menu. Right-click on the icon labeled "C Drive" or whichever hard drive contains your operating system files and select "Properties".
Click "Disk Cleanup", the Disk Cleanup dialog box will open on the desktop. The total amount of space gained will be displayed in the dialog box above the feature description.
Place a check inside each check box located in the "Files to delete:" menu box and click "OK." The process may take a few moments. You will receive a prompt when the cleaning process has completed.
 These updates can be located and downloaded from the manufacturer's website, usually at no charge to the consumer.


Navigate to the manufacturer's website for each product (computer, operating system or other software programs) and follow the instructions provided for updating.

