 It will give you experience interacting with children of all ages and help you feel more comfortable around them.


Previous experience will teach you how to provide a warm, friendly environment for kids.
Observing this procedure in action can help you recreate a similar environment in your own home.
 In the event that something more drastic occurs, it’s imperative that you know how to react. Know how to perform CPR, make ice packs, and treat allergic reactions. Get familiar with the signs of basic illnesses, such as colds and flus, which can spread among children very quickly.


Be able to spot situations when you can’t care for a child, such as when they have chicken pox or head lice, because the contagions will infect your other charges.
Create hard and fast policies about such illnesses and stick to them.
Make sure the parents know what healthcare you can and can’t provide their child in your home setting.
 Contact the Families Information Services at your local council to find out when there is a childminding pre-registration meeting in your area. At this meeting you will receive your application pack and details of the early years foundation stage (EYFS). The EYFS set the learning, development, child safety and well-being standards for childminding in the UK.Complete the application and submit it to your regional Ofsted (Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills) facility.
Ofsted will require you to have a DBS (Disclosure and Barring Service) check, which will confirm that you are suitable to care for children. Once you pass, you will be given a DBS certificate.
Joining the DBS update service is also a required part of your pre-registration. You can register online and the DBS certificate will be good for one year. It will costs £13 annually.
 Once you’ve registered with Ofsted, they will do a home inspection and an interview with you. You will be required to have a medical check. You also must complete an introductory training course and a 12-hour paediatric first-aid course. Both of these are offered through the Professional Association for Childcare and Early Years (PACEY). PACEY’s training course, Preparing to Work in Home-Based Childcare (HBCA), is a level 3 award. This CACHE accredited HBCA course covers everything you need to know about being a registered childminder.The HBCA is an e-learning course that you purchase online for £238.80.
The course, which has two units, takes most people three months to complete, but you have up to six months after you buy the course to complete it.
An additional part of your pre-registration training is working towards an optional unit taken from the qualification: Level 3 Diploma for the Children and Young People's Workforce.
Visit the Professional Association for Childcare and Early Years (PACEY) website for more details.

