 Like adults, babies can also fall into a lighter or deeper sleep. Your baby’s body cycles through these phases of light sleep and deep sleep. Try to only wake your baby up when she is in a light sleep, as this will be easier than waking her when she is sleeping deeply. You can tell when your baby is in a light sleep by looking for these signs:


Your baby moves her mouth as if sucking.
Moving her arms and legs.
Smiling in her sleep.;
, As mentioned above, you should try to avoid waking your baby when she is in a deep sleep. If you want to feed her but see that she is sleeping deeply, you may just want to sit and do some quiet activity near by until she starts showing signs of entering into a light sleeping phase.
 Skin contact can help to ease your baby into wakefulness. Try removing her blanket or clothes, and gently stroking her arm while she sleeps to help wake her up. Try gently stroking her head or cheek.


The physical stimulation, as well as a brief exposure to the cold, may be enough to wake him up.
Skin-to-skin contact helps to calm a stressed baby and prepares him for feeding.
You can also try dripping a small amount of milk onto your baby’s mouth. Some babies will wake up at the taste of milk.
 Taking her out of her crib and holding her in an upright position may be able to help her transition into a light sleep, or even into wakefulness.


While holding her like this, try singing or talking to help wake her up.
 Hold your baby like you are going to feed her, and then run some milk along her lip. Being in this position and tasting milk may help to wake her up.
 Try tickling your baby’s feet lightly to see if you can wake your baby up that way. You can also try gently blowing on her face or touching her cheek.


You may find that your baby reflexively turns her head to the side when you stroke her cheek because she thinks it is your breast touching her.
 Changes in temperature may help to wake your baby up. You can try getting a washcloth wet with cold water, and then applying the wet part of the cloth to your baby’s head, feet, or arms.


Removing her blanket may also help to wake her up, as she will suddenly be able to feel the cool temperature of the room.
 If your baby is sleeping in a darkened room, try letting some natural light in by opening the blinds. Your baby’s eyes are sensitive to changes in light.


However, too much light will make your baby want to keep her eyes closed, so try to let just a little light into the room.
 This does not mean that you should yell or try to bang things to wake her up; try instead to sing or talk with your partner. The sound of your voices may be enough to rouse your baby.
 It’s important that your baby is fed every 2-3 hours for them to stay healthy and well nourished.


Their small stomachs can digest food quickly, in about 90 minutes, so you have to make sure that their bellies are not empty, to avoid a fussy, hungry baby.
Even if your baby is already sleeping, you need to make sure they are fed.
This is important especially for newborn babies who need to be religiously fed every 2-3 hours, until your baby is ready to set his own feeding pace.

