 Following the rules and never giving your teacher a reason to punish you is a great way to annoy a teacher who seems to hate you. If you have a teacher who seems to pick on you or punish you for things more often than your classmates, then make sure you never break any rules. This can be hard if some of the rules seem unfair or unnecessary to you, but it is crucial if you want to annoy a teacher who seems to hate you.If you never break any rules, then your teacher will have no reason to call you out and that will be annoying to your teacher.
For example, if you are required to ask for a pass to go to the bathroom, then make sure that you do so. Be as polite as possible when you ask, such as by saying, “Mr. Smith, may I please have the hall pass? I have to go to the bathroom.”
If your teacher does call you out despite never breaking the rules, then this is unfair treatment. Talk to your parents about what is going on.;
, Turning in work late can also give some teachers a reason to punish you or single you out. To ensure that your teachers can’t use this against you, always turn in your homework and other assignments on time.Double check your work as well to be sure that it is complete and correct. This will help you to earn better grades, which will also frustrate a teacher who dislikes you.
You might even try handing in your assignments a bit early to show that you are really on top of things. Just make sure to ask if this is okay with your teacher first. For example, you might say something like, “I finished my paper a bit early. Is it okay if I hand it in early?”

, Smiling and being as pleasant as possible may annoy a teacher who dislikes you. If the teacher is unhappy with his or her circumstances, then it is possible that your teacher may be taking it out on you. But not letting on that anything the teacher says or does is upsetting to you will be annoying to the teacher.If the teacher yells at you, then keep a calm demeanor and avoid yelling back. Speak in a low, calm voice to the teacher. This will be annoying to a teacher who wants to get a rise out of you.
Greet the teacher every day with a smile. Try saying something like, “Good morning, Mrs. Jones! How are you today?” Showing that you are in a great mood (even if you are not) will be annoying to a teacher who is always in a bad mood.
 Showing personal responsibility may also frustrate a teacher who seems to dislike or hate you. Using “I” statements and asking what you can do about a situation may also help to defuse the teacher’s anger, which will benefit you as well.If your teacher reprimands you or says something to criticize you, then try replying with something like, “What can I do to correct the problem?” or “I want to do something about this. What do you think I should do?”
Responding in a calm, proactive manner will help to show your teacher that you do not want to engage with him or her in a juvenile way. If your teacher truly hates you, then this will be extremely annoying to him or her.

