 You can change certain things about yourself, such as what you say, how you say it, and how you act. When you try to change someone else, you are changing something about yourself in an attempt to incite change in that person.
 Sometimes, despite your best efforts, someone will not change. Again, it is important to note that you cannot force anyone to change if the person doesn't want to. You can say things to try to affect change within that person, but you are an agent of change, not the change itself. No matter how many times you tell your friend to tie his shoelaces, he does not have to tie his shoelaces., Get comfortable with the possibility that the person may never change, because it's quite possible that he will not. How would it feel to simply live with the behavior? Is it possible you could change your own behavior and attitude to accommodate the person? Or are there ways to work around it? Ask yourself if you can accept the person as he is. If you cannot accept the behavior, then you may need to end the relationship.


If you can live with this behavior, try to avoid situations in which it might arise. For example, if you hate when your friend sings in the car, avoid long road trips or listen to music that he doesn't know.
Consider whether there are any ways to work around the behavior. Would it work to simply tell the person a time to meet you that is a half-hour earlier than necessary? Is there something that could be purchased that would solve the problem, for example, if your complaint is that the person will not clean the litter box like he promised, can you buy a self-cleaning one? While these don't address larger problems (such as the person not following through with his promises), but they may help you accept the person as he is.
If you cannot live with this behavior, you may need to cut off contact with this person. If your boyfriend’s drug problems are out of control, for instance, and you think that living with him will be extremely detrimental to your own health, you should consider breaking up with him and cutting off contact. It can be painful, but, if the behavior is greatly impeding your life, you owe it to yourself to consider your own health and happiness.

