 Or just a baggy pair of jeans/overalls. If you're comfortable with ruining your jeans/overalls, you can rip holes in them (this comes in handy later!) and sew little patches on them. If you plan on wearing these jeans/overalls after Halloween, just leave them as they are.;
, Use one of your own, or borrow one from somebody else. If possible, find one with a pocket (again, this comes in handy later).
 If possible, destroy it. Make some holes in it. Farmers wouldn't put a brand-new, gorgeous straw hat on a scarecrow, now would they?

, These can be bought at the Dollar Store for a buck if you can't find one lying around at home.
 You can use real hay, or go to a craft store and buy some fake hay. This is essential for your costume, because otherwise nobody will understand that you're a scarecrow. You'll be projecting more of a farmer image.
 Glue some inside your hat so it's sticking up through the holes. Put a clump in the pocket of your plaid shirt! Glue some onto your pants and stick it through the holes and in the pockets. If you're wearing boots on Halloween, stick clumps of (fake) hay so it sticks out the top of your boots. If you want, glue some of the fake hay to the cuffs of your shirt sleeves. If you don't want to do this, follow the step below for a genius idea!


If you don't want to glue hay to your shirt, get some armbands. They're used for sports, so if you play any, you'll probably have a couple lying around your house. If not, you can buy some at a sports store. Hot glue the (fake) hay to the armbands, and put the armbands on under your shirt. Make sure that the hay sticks out the sleeves! It looks really cool! Instead of using armbands, you can always use stuff like headbands, ponytail holders, spare pieces of fabric, etc.
 Now for the face paint. I'd suggest going for the look of the scarecrow in "The Wizard of Oz", since people understand that you're a scarecrow that way. Use black face paint. Start at the bottom of your eyebrow and paint a triangle up about an inch or so. Do the same to the other eyebrow. Finally, cover your nose in black face paint. (If you're having trouble visualizing this, look up pictures of the 'Wizard of Oz scarecrow' on the Internet)

,, Now you have the perfect scarecrow costume. Go out trick-or-treating or to a Halloween Party and feel confident that you look awesome!

