 The excitement and nervousness can be distracting, and rightfully so! Big changes are on the way. However, final exams still need to be studied for, since those grades will contribute to your final GPA.


Don’t forget to put in adequate study time for your final exams.
It might help to form study groups with friends and classmates, to help keep you on track during your last days as a student.;
, This includes library books, uniforms, technology and any other equipment you’ve borrowed or checked out from your school. Keep in mind that some schools won’t send you your diploma or release your transcripts if you have any outstanding fees.


Check online or with the appropriate offices on campus to make sure you are fully paid up.
 Once you do, confirm the delivery date. Choose your graduation announcements and order them as soon as you are able. Once you get the announcements home, start a list of people you want to invite to the ceremony. Gather the addresses you need for mailing and start sending the announcements out.


Find out if your school has limited seating or restrictions about how many people you can invite. Adhere to any guidelines.It’s best to send your invites out as early as possible, so that people can mark their calendars for the event.
If you’re tight on money, consider sending e-invitations. This will cost you significantly less and, in some cases, may even be free.
 Make it a point to visit the people who’ve positively contributed to your experience as a student. Thank them for it and let them know what it means to you. If you want to keep in touch, gather phone numbers and email addresses.


This is also a great opportunity to line up recommendations and references for the future.
Whatever your next step is, whether that’s going on to further education or entering the workforce, you will need quality letters of recommendation and/or references.
 This is a great opportunity to reflect on your time as a student there. Recall the good memories you’ve experienced in these places and fix them in your mind.


In a few weeks you will have moved on to the next phase of your life. You may not have the chance to visit these places ever again and you don’t want to forget them.

