;
,, Just sign up with a fake one like 'blah blah' or use the last name of a favorite celebrity or fictional character. Use your middle name or mom's maiden name instead or keep it blank. (actually this isn't true, in order for people to search and find you on Myspace your last name has to be what it really is. But don't worry, this information is private and the only way it is used or seen is when friends search for you.) If your last name is very common, like Anderson, you don't have to worry about that. A list of common surnames can be found here.
Your full school name. If you go to a school called 'Riverside Clementine Junior High' don't put that on. Just put "None of your Business" or use the name of a fictional school, like Hogwarts or Pokémon Trainer School. Don't add your schools to your profile if you are under 18.
Your address, street name, city, phone/cell number, etc. These things are almost an instant key for pedophiles to find you. Just put something dumb, like "123 Sesame Street." Myspace does not give out addresses or phones by default, but watch these surveys.
Your full birth date. If you also post your location, someone can use it to guess your social security number (identification) and steal your identity. If you must, only put the month and day or just your age (without the birth date).
Where you go after school, on weekends, etc. If you go to practice at the soccer field outside of your school, just put "Soccer Practice". If you are going to a basketball game, just say "basketball game" on your status instead of your home team name, unless it is something common like Wildcats or Tigers.
What you 'like' in someone. Don't put 'I love rocker dudes who have pink hair and wear eyeliner and drink coffee.' Pedophiles usually come as the 'perfect match', which makes you trust them so quickly. Put more celebrity names or just say "my friends from school or work or nice people"
Any pictures with license plates, addresses, store names (not Starbucks or Walmart or McDonalds, just local shops people can easily search up and find the one address), school names, or anything that leads a pedophile to you. Only post the name of a store or shop if you know it is a chain all over the United States or the world or blur the names out.
, There is a good chance they aren't really friends.
 And there is a part on it where you can make your Myspace private from people you don't have as a friend. Only add celebrities and well known trusted people that you are not your friends. Do not add porn stars because you'll be filled with spam.

