 There you’ll see two text boxes: "Petition" and "Question.";
, This is what you'll ask Peter.


If you already know the answer, proceed to the next step.
If it's a question you don't know the answer to, you can ask them for the answer, telling them that if they say the question and answer out loud, Peter will hear them with his psychic powers. If you don't know the answer, you won't be able to follow the next step, and Peter will answer with a very generic statement like "You shall not doubt of me at all, keep trusting on me and soon I'll answer." In other words, the trick won't work!

, and then type the answer. Pressing the period key will clue the site into the fact that you’re typing the secret answer, causing each letter you type to appear as part of the phrase, “Peter, please answer the following question.” Since, for this example, the question will be “Why is wikiHow the best website?”, we will now type, “.Because it is a group effort” into the petition box.
 repeatedly until you reach a logical break in the automated question. In our example, the secret response only takes us as far as “Peter, please answer the foll”; to get the phrase to say “Peter, please answer the following,” simply press the period key five more times. The extra periods will not appear in your secret answer.


Note that the full question reads “Peter, please answer the following question” – though you’re welcome to stop anywhere that makes sense before that.
 This is essential because it signals your secret answer is done. Moreover, without the colon, you will not be able to proceed to the question box.
, to submit the question. You may have to agree to a liability release before you can move to the next step.
 He should display the response that you typed. If your audience doesn't know that you typed in the answer, they will be flabbergasted. You can probably keep them amazed for quite a while as long as they don't start paying close attention to what your fingers are actually typing.

