 To stay healthy, your sheltie will need a high-quality dog food meant for medium sized dogs. One easy way to check the quality of a dog food is to read the ingredients on the label. If the label lists meat as the first and second ingredient (not a meat by-product or grain), then it is probably a high-quality food.


You can also ask your dog’s breeder or veterinarian for recommendations if you are not sure what type of food to feed your sheltie.
 Dog food packages provide a range for how much to feed your dog, but this is often a wide range. You will need to know how much your dog weighs and consider his activity level as well.For example, if your dog food package recommends feeding your sheltie two to four cups of food per day and your dog is very active, then you may need to give him the full four cups each day. But if your dog is sedentary, then you may only need to feed him two cups of food per day.
 It will be easier to house train you sheltie if you have a solid feeding schedule for her. You can develop a feeding schedule for your sheltie based on how much food she needs to eat each day.


For example, if your sheltie requires two cups of food every day, then you may want to split this amount into two meals. You could give one meal at 7:00am and give the other meal at 6:00pm.
 Adult dogs can eat just one or two big meals per day. If your sheltie is still a puppy, then she will need to be fed more often. If your sheltie puppy is:


eight to 12 weeks, then do four meals per day
three to six months, then do three meals per day
six months to one year old, then do two meals per day, Your sheltie needs to have access to a large bowl of fresh clean water at all times.Make sure that you clean and replenish your sheltie's water bowl at least once per day. If your sheltie has been running around a lot or if the weather is warm, then you may need to refill your sheltie's water more often.
 Dog obesity is a major cause of health problems, so it is important to make sure that your dog does not overeat. However, your sheltie will still appreciate a treat now and then, so try these nutritious, low-calorie foods:


baby carrots
cooked green beans
cooked sweet potatoes
cooked peas
blueberries
banana slices, Some foods can make your dog sick or even kill her. Foods to avoid feeding your sheltie include:avocados
alcohol
caffeine
chocolate
grapes
raisins
nuts
onions, garlic, and chives
raw meat, bones, or eggs
salty foods
yeast dough
xylitol (often found in sugar free foods)