 Before you use a nebulizer with your toddler, talk to their doctor. They'll give your specific instructions for how much medication to use and how long your child should use the nebulizer. Make sure you follow your doctor's directions very carefully. Your doctor can tell you where to get a nebulizer, or you can purchase them from most pharmacies.
 It’s important that they don’t move while the nebulizer is working. Moving the mask as little as a half inch can cause half of the medication not to make it into your toddler’s lungs. Have them sit in a high chair or your lap so that they’re comfortable but not able to move much., The nebulizer can be a bit heavy, and you don’t want to risk knocking it over and it hurting someone on the way down. Place it on a table or desk, far enough away from the edge that it can’t get knocked off., Take the top off the nebulizer cup and pour the medicine in the cup. The amount of medicine you need will vary according to what your toddler is being treated for, how old they are, and how severe their medical condition is. Make sure you follow your doctor’s instructions exactly., Then connect the cup to the nebulizer. Depending on the type of nebulizer, you might have a mouthpiece or mask. The nebulizer will connect differently to the cup depending on the type you have., The tubing will connect the face mask or mouthpiece to the compressor, which makes the steam that delivers the medicine to your toddler’s lungs. Make sure the tubing is inserted as far as it will go – if not, you risk some of the medicine leaking out., If everything is connected correctly, you should see a light mist coming out of the compressor. If you don’t see a mist, the tubing may not be securely connected. Turn the compressor off and recheck your connections., If you’re using a mouthpiece, place it in your toddler’s mouth and have them close their lips around it. Make sure the mask or mouthpiece is positioned comfortably so your toddler is less likely to fidget., It might help to breathe along with them so they know how deep to breathe. Ask them to hold their breath for about 5 seconds and then exhale. Repeat this breathing pattern for 5 to 10 minutes or until the medicine is completely gone.