 This site contains the ROM file you must download. ROMs are customized Android Operating System (OS). They are created by users (not by smartphone manufacturers) and shared online. Since Android is an open-source type of application, anyone can have access to its code and customize it. You may access this site on your Kindle or a computer. If you choose to download these files on your computer, you will then have connect the Kindle to your computer and transfer them to your device’s SD card.
 This option is located in the left sidebar. It will bring you to a page with a variety alternative OS systems suited for first generation Kindle Fires., The zip file contains the basic components of an Android OS. You must download the file before you can access its contents. The download will begin instantly.

The file is located under the column “CyanogenMod Build”.
 Alternatively, click here. This website provides users with the basic Google App Suite. On Android devices, these apps come standard.,, This version of the file is compatible with your first generation Kindle Fire. It is also compatible with the Android OS you downloaded in Step 3. Downloading an incompatible file may result in failure., This option is located in the corresponding “Package” column. The download will start instantly., You may skip this step if you downloaded the files directly to your Kindle.,, This will pull up results containing “TWRP”. The Team Win Recovery Project Manager should be one of the first results. This program is allows Android users to instal a third party firmware onto their devices and backup their content., Please note, you must root your Kindle Fire before downloading this app.,, Otter is an alternative name for the first generation Kindle Fire. If you recall, the file you downloaded in Step 3 also contained the word “Otter”., The file will automatically download to your device., The round power button is located on the bottom edge of the device. Press and hold the power button to turn off the Kindle and then turn it back on immediately. This will restart your device., This indicates that the device is turning back on.,, This indicates that your device is ready to enter “Recovery” mode., This will launch the Recovery setting and open the TWRP app., This will bring you to a screen with a toggle., This may erase all of your data.

Back up the content on your device before you take this step.
, This option is located on the TWRP Manager App’s main menu., The file will start to download., This will root your device. This allows you to alter your device’s existing OS.,, The file will start downloading automatically., This process may take awhile., The device should be running Android OS.