 If your baby is teething, sometimes simply applying pressure can relieve some of the pain. Rub a clean finger over your baby's gums. If you're not comfortable using your finger, you can also use a moistened gauze pad., Keeping your baby's mouth cool can relieve some of the pain of teething. You can use a variety of cool substances to cool off your baby's gums and mouth.


You can use a cold wash cloth, a cold spoon, or a slightly chilled teething ring to help your baby feel better.While cold substances can help, anything frozen can be bad for your baby's health. Contact with extremely cold temperatures can be harmful to the mouth and gums. Use your refrigerator instead of your freezer when cooling off silverware or teething rings., You can purchase a teething device online or at a local drug store. Teething devices can be traditional teething rings, which are small plastic devices babies can chew on when their gums are bothering them. You can also buy teething blankets, which can be more convenient. Some teething devices vibrate to massage the gums and add extra relief., If your baby is old enough to eat solid foods, harder foods can help. Your baby can chew or gnaw on harder food items, such as peeled cucumbers or carrots or teething biscuits, and the pressure can provide pain relief.Keep a close eye on your baby if you give him hard foods, or place the hard foods in a mesh feeding bag approved for this use. You want to make sure he does not choke., Babies tend to drool a lot when teething. If excessive drool dries on your baby's mouth, it can cause skin irritation. Make sure to wipe off any drool you see with a clean towel.A water or cream-based lotion can be applied around your baby's mouth. This can also help prevent her skin from drying out due to drool.In the event a drooling rash does occur, place a cloth under the bed sheet while she sleeps. You should also rub some baby lotion or ointment around her mouth and cheeks before bed.If drooling is a common problem, consider a bib to catch drool as it falls.
 If home remedies aren't helping, there are a variety of over-the-counter medications designed for use on teething babies. Consider giving your baby painkillers if his teething is really bothering him.


Acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil, Children's Motrin) can be helpful for a teething baby. It might be a good idea to run this by your baby's doctor first to ask about dosage and any safety precautions you should take.Do not give ibuprofen to babies under 6 months of age.
Avoid any medications that contain benzocaine, a common pain reliever. In rare cases, this can cause a serious condition that reduces the amount of oxygen in the blood.You should have your baby evaluated by a doctor before administering any medication if teething is severe. You want to make sure the pain is caused by teething and not an undetected underlying condition, like an ear infection., You can buy teething gels at a local pharmacy or supermarket if your baby does not respond to other treatments. Gels usually contain a local antiseptic or anesthetic. Use a sugar-free gel specifically recommended for babies. Gels usually wash away with a baby's saliva, so the effects might not last long. Talk to your doctor before using any gels.Avoid teething gels with benzocaine and make sure not to use teething gels more than recommended.
 Many parents use homeopathic methods to treat teething. While some of these methods may be relatively harmless, there is little scientific evidence to back up claims of effectiveness. Certain types of homeopathic methods may be harmful to your baby.


Homeopathic powders or granules, sold by many pharmacies, are relatively harmless as long as they're sugar-free. However, most evidence regarding their effectiveness is anecdotal. If your baby is not responding to other treatments, you may want to try such powders but know there is no guarantee they will work.Some stores sell amber bracelets or necklaces which supposedly aid with teething pain by releasing a small amount of oil into the baby's skin. You should take extreme caution if you decide to try this method. Bracelets and necklaces both carry a choking risk for a small child. Babies may also suck or chew on such devices, and dislodged beads also carry a choking risk. There is no scientific evidence that shows amber is effective during teething pain., Teething is usually a normal part of a baby's growth and development. It can be handled at home without a doctor's assistance. However, if your baby develops a fever or seems particularly uncomfortable, she may have developed an infection or illness. Make an appointment with your doctor as soon as possible., When your baby's first tooth arrives, he should see a dentist. Make an appointment no more than 6 months after the first tooth develops but before your baby's 1st birthday. Your dentist will check to make sure the baby's teeth are coming in healthy and strong., As your baby's teeth come in, take efforts to care for them. Healthy teeth and gums are important for your baby's overall health.


Wash your baby's gums with a clean, damp washcloth each day. This will prevent bacteria from building up.Switch to a soft-bristled toothbrush as your baby's first teeth begin to appear. Your child will not learn to spit until the age of three. Before this, use only a small bit of fluoride toothpaste that is approved for babies or children. It should be no bigger than a grain of rice., As your baby begins to transition to eating solid foods, provide her with healthy, low-sugar options. Always brush your baby's teeth after she eats. Minimize feeding her milk during the night and avoid letting her suck on a bottle at night or putting juice or other sugared drinks in a bottle.