 If you haven't chosen one yet, consider reading the wikiHow on "How to Choose Bamboo for Garden or Landscape" (Coming soon!). If you received an unidentified bamboo from a friend, ask bamboo-friendly nurseries or online newsgroups for help in identifying it. Bamboos have a wide variety of temperature and sun requirements. Some are more or less tolerant of drought or water saturated conditions. Knowing the needs of your plant is critical to your success in growing it.;
, Bamboos typically like as much water as a healthy lawn. Some of the larger species need a bit more. It will make maintenance a lot easier if you put your bamboo near the edge of a stream, or in a location where water is already being handled. However, note that bamboos can not endure being kept soggy. They will not grow in swamp or other saturated areas. The ideal is to have high drainage soil with frequent watering.
 Almost all clumping bamboos will grow well in partial shade. Many of them can be severely harmed by too much direct sun. However, the largest clumping bamboos require full sun to attain their full size. The sun preference of bamboos is typically rated on a 1 to 5 scale where 1 is full shade and 5 is full sun.
 Clumping (pachymorph or sympodial) bamboos are fairly compact. Most varieties will not fill a square meter of ground for 20 or more years. However, the largest of tropical species can put up culms 15cm or more in diameter, and will need an area 2 or more meters around at maturity.
 It is much more difficult to improve soil once the bamboo is planted. Till the ground and mix in as much organic matter as you can afford. Up to half of the soil can be replaced with peat moss or well composted steer manure. Loosen the soil and add organic material to a depth of 30 to 45cm (12 to 18 inches) if you are able.
 Make it about an inch deeper than the soil in the pot it is coming out of.
 It is okay to make a bit of a soupy mess.
, Then fill in around the plant, making sure to get firm soil contact with the soil and roots from the pot.
 It is okay if the plant ends up a few inches below ground level, as it will self-adjust its depth, and being deep at first will give it some additional shelter in its first summer or winter.
 This should be about twice the diameter of the pot the plant came out of, and 2 to 3 inches high.
 Small bark chips, straw, or grass cuttings make good mulch. However, bark chips usually have a lot less weed seed mixed in with them.
 But let it get to where it is only damp before watering again. Keeping a bamboo too wet is not good for it, and encourages rot.

