 Wealthy people can afford to maintain perfect skin, so having lots of blemishes or an uneven skin tone can be a dead giveaway that you aren’t rich. The best and fastest way to get great skin is to drink lots of water, get plenty of sleep, and moisturize your skin daily., Keep your teeth as white as possible by using regular whitening treatments. You can use whitening toothpaste, gel strips, or go to regular dental cleanings to get that rich-person smile., If your hair is dyed, make sure you maintain the color regularly--don’t let your roots show or your color fade! Regularly trim your hair to avoid split ends. Keep your hair regularly conditioned and styled. If regular trips to the salon aren’t an option for you, you can learn how to take care of your hair at home.
 Many people can tell the difference between cheap makeup and expensive makeup, so keep your look as subtle as possible to avoid being noticed.Learn how to apply makeup correctly. Poorly-applied makeup will make it obvious that you aren’t wealthy. Watch makeup tutorials or visit your local makeup counter to learn the best makeup tricks.

Match your foundation to you skin. This is an essential step! If you can’t get matching foundation, it’s best to not wear any at all.
 Keep your nails clean, neatly trimmed, and polished--you can easily do this at home. Even a clear coat of nail polish will help you blend in. Check your nails every day for chipped paint, dirt, or uneven ends.
 Rich people don't wear dirty, wrinkled clothes, and you shouldn't either. Wash your clothes regularly and iron them every time you wear them., The best way to imitate the wealthy is to learn what they like to do and buy. You don’t have to actually buy high-end items, but being able to recognize them and reference them is essential!Watch reality shows about the wealthy. Many of the actors on these shows discuss their favorite brands, restaurants, vacation destinations, and beauty treatments. Learn from them!
Read fashion magazines. Magazines like Vogue can show you what the hottest luxury items are. Study them carefully.
Go to the mall and look at what’s on display in the nicest stores. Department stores are great for this--try Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, or Macy’s.
 The rich avoid eating fast food or processed foods. It’s okay if you still eat them at home, but when you’re out, order salads, smoothies, and anything described as “local” or “sustainable.”If an entree is too expensive, just order an appetizer or side dish!

, Once you’ve learned about what the hottest cell phone or tablet is, either get it yourself or get a subtle cover for your own device. The latest Apple products are always popular, and you can also look into getting wearable technology. Many cell phone providers offer free devices with a new contract, and if you go to a university, they often rent tablets or laptops to students. If this isn’t an option, get the most subtle case you can find for your own device--a dark color or fake wood finish is best.
 High-end things don’t necessarily have to be expensive. It's better to buy from the clearance rack a a nice store than to buy regular price at a cheaper one.Shop at secondhand stores for designer bargains. Thrift stores, online consignment shops, and pawn shops can get you designer clothes or high-end electronics for much cheaper than retail.
 Follow the one-third rule: buy one-third as many things as you used to, but spend three times as much on each thing. Instead of buying six $10 shirts at a cheaper store, buy two $30 shirts at a fancier store., Some makeup and perfume stores will give you as many as you ask for without having to buy anything--just ask what their policy is!, Buying flashy clothes can backfire--if you wear the same pair of gold pants every time you go out, people will know that it’s your only nice pair. Buy simple, understated clothes and wear them repeatedly.Choose very simple black bags and shoes. It is much easier to blend in with a basic pair of black heels than it is to blend in with a flashy pair of shoes.
If you wear jewelry, go with small, delicate pieces. Big jewelry can look obviously fake.
 Cheap clothes that fit correctly will look better than expensive clothes that don’t. Try on everything before you buy it, and don't buy anything that doesn't fit., If you can pinch more than a centimeter of extra fabric at the tip of your shoulders, it’s too big. If you can’t move your arms freely, it’s too small.
Blouses and dresses should fit comfortably around your bust. If your outfit has buttons, there should never be a gap between the two sides of the buttons.
Pants should sit securely on your waist or hips, depending on the style. There should be no flesh bulging around the top of the pants, and you should not need to wear a belt to keep them on.
A fitted bra can drastically improve your appearance. If your bra is uncomfortable in any way, have yourself fitted at a department store or lingerie store.
 If you can, start visiting the places where the wealthy in your community hang out. Visit high-end stores, fancy restaurants, and trendy coffee shops. If you live near a ski area or equestrian club, visit those too.Find out what the hottest clubs and bars are in your area. Go just to be seen. If people know you hang out there, they'll think you're rich too.
You don’t have to regularly spend money at these places. Order a basic coffee, juice, or an appetizer at restaurants. If you’re at a store, you can always say you’re just browsing today.
 Most wealthy people are college-educated and up-to-date on current events. Read the news and arts sections of your local paper to learn what the wealthy are talking about in your area. If someone makes a reference you don't understand, look it up online later., The wealthy are expected to have good manners, so you should too. Don’t say rude or insulting things to people, say please and thank you, and introduce yourself to new people. If you are hosting others, open doors, offer them a seat, and bring them refreshments yourself.
 Don’t yell at anyone for any reason, even if you’re just having fun. Don’t share overly personal information with people you’ve just met, and don’t refer to embarrassing or personal things in conversation. A good rule of thumb is to avoid pushing information onto other people--let them pull it out of you., Remember, if you’re acting rich, you want to give the impression that you see nice things all the time. Don’t gush over expensive clothes or accessories, and don’t act like you’re afraid to try new things. On the other hand, you shouldn’t be dismissive or rude either--act interested, but not amazed.