 Understanding the mechanism behind sinusitis can help you gain a better appreciation of how to treat its symptoms. You may also be able to keep your toddler from contracting it.


Acute sinusitis is typically caused by a bacterial, viral, or fungal infection that causes the sinuses to swell up, leaving mucus trapped and increasing pressure in the sinuses.Chronic sinusitis may be caused either by a severe infection or by structural abnormalities in the sinuses such as polyps or bone spurs, or abnormalities of the cilia that keep them from ushering mucus out of the sinuses.Allergic rhinitis is another risk factor for chronic or recurring sinus infections.
 Reduce your child’s risk of contracting sinusitis by educating yourself about the risk factors. You can take control of your child’s environment to help decrease her likelihood of suffering from a sinus infection.


If your child is immunosuppressed, she is more likely to contract an infection. To support a healthy immune system, give your toddler a nutritious diet and plenty of rest.Teach your toddler how to reduce risk of illness by following a proper hygiene at daycare or school. For example, ask for your toddler to wash her hands before eating a snack and after using the restroom.Keep your child’s respiratory tract healthy by keeping her away of smoky environments.Never take your toddler to school or daycare when she is sick in order to prevent the spread of illness.
 Armed with an understanding of what causes sinusitis, you can take steps to prevent it. Making small changes can improve your child’s health.


When the air is dry in your home, especially if you are running the heater, use a humidifier to help your child breathe easy.Take care of your child’s cold and flu symptoms early before the illness turns into a sinus infection. This can include preventative measures such as getting a flu shot and other routine childhood immunizations.Make sure that your child washes his hands thoroughly and often, especially when playing with other children, in order to decrease his risk of contracting an infection.