 Ensure that you have the proper safety gear, including gloves and goggles, before you handle lye. Put Mix your lye (NaOH or Sodium Hydroxide) into the water. Use a heat-proof pyrex or pp jug as you sprinkle lye on top of the water and mix well. Avoid the fumes that are produced when mixing the lye with the water and be aware that heat will also be produced.Do not mix water in with lye because there is a strong chemical reaction that occurs producing heat and fumes. Controlling the lye allows you to control the chemical reaction.
 To speed the cooling process, place the container in a basin of water or simply place it in your sink. Make sure to mix and keep at a well ventilated area. To be safe, create the shea butter outdoors., Measure and pour the coconut oil into a soap-making pan. Do not use equipment that will be used for cooking. Use bowls and equipment made from stainless steel, tempered glass, and enamel. Avoid using copper and aluminum as they have a negative reaction with lye. Moreover, some plastics melt when mixed with lye.Use soap-only spoons made of styrene plastic or silicone., Mix the zinc oxide with a tablespoon of the liquid oils. Once the coconut oil is melted, stop heating it and mix castor oil, sunflower oil, and olive oil. Use a digital thermometer to ensure the mixture is around 85-90°F. Take the temperature of the lye water and mix until it also reaches close to 85-90°F. Keep mixing the 2 separate mixtures until they are at within 5 degrees of one another., Use the double boiler method by placing the shea butter into a heat-proof container and floating that container inside a pan filled with boiling water., Pour the lye water through a sieve and into the oils ensuring that both mixtures are about 5 degrees within 85-90°F. The sieve ensures no pieces of lye are in your final bar of soap. Use a whisk to gently stir the new mixture together., Tap the stick blender against the side of the container holding the lye-water-oils mixture using short pulses. While the stick blender is off, stir the mixture in between each pulse to bring the soap to a trace. Trace is when your lye has successfully mixed with the oils of your soap and produces a thick consistency similar to vanilla pudding.It may take time to bring the soap to the consistency of pudding because you are using a low temperature. Keep pulsing and stirring.
 Pour the zinc oxide oil, jojoba, melted shea butter, and vitamin E oil into the soap and use a whisk to mix. Vigorously and thoroughly work the mixture as soap will quickly become stiff and difficult to work., Stir thoroughly and pour the mixture into your soap molds or silicone baking molds.
 Swirl the soap into a marble pattern or create other details before storing the shea butter soap., The towel allows residual heat to keep the mixture warm and start the saponification process.Saponification is the process at which all your base ingredients becomes soap.
You may keep the mold in your fridge and leave it overnight to speed up the process and protect your essential ingredients. The temperature also makes your bars a more solid white colour.
 Once removed from their molds, keep your soap away from direct sunlight for 4-6 weeks and try to store them in an airy area of your home. This allows the saponification process to complete.