 Hold the shaft of the lacrosse stick just below the head. You will slide this hand up and down the shaft to catch and throw the ball—so think of your cradling position as an intermediate step between those actions.
 You should feel the weight of the ball in the stick.


Always cover the butt end of the stick with your bottom hand so another player cannot hit it and knock the ball out of the stick. If you leave your "tail" hanging out, you are giving another player the perfect opportunity to disarm you.
 Keep your stick at a 45 to 60 degree angle with the ground, and try to keep the head of the stick about a foot in front of your face. The open side of your net should face forward.
 The motion is neither full twist nor full rotation. Twist the shaft by curling your wrist while rotating the whole stick about your elbow. The centripetal force created by the rotation of the stick will keep the ball inside the pocket.


Try to keep your technique as tight and efficient as possible. Do not cradle widely or wildly. Be conscious of how stable your cradle is, and try not to leave the head of your stick hanging for a defender to strip the ball away.
 You will need to run the ball down the field at some point, so it is important that you are able to cradle in motion as well as when you are standing still. The most important aspect of running with the ball is to cradle in cadence with your natural running motion. Say you cradle at a rate of 7 times in 10 seconds, but you take another running step at a rate of 10 times in 10 second—it will be much more difficult to control the ball in the pocket. Since you'll need to be running at varying speeds, you'll need to be able to cradle at different cadences to match your body's motions.


Make sure that whenever you run at practice, you run with your stick cradling. If you run around your neighborhood, consider cradling a lacrosse ball as you go. Practice this until running with a stick is just as natural as running without.
At first, practice cradling while you are standing still. As you improve, try to cradle while you run. Learn to switch sides, cradle the ball one-handed, and perfect the shooting cradle to become an even more effective player.

