 National parks are a wonderful part of any country that are not appreciated enough. Locate the closest national park to you and visit one for the day with your family. Many national parks have a nominal fee, but you can look up free entrance days. When you visit the park, first go to the Ranger Station to pick up Junior Ranger Kit, which requires children to complete a number activities to earn a badge.You can purchase Passport to National Parks and collect stamps at each park you visit.
If you don’t live near a national park, visit any park that is in your area.
 Amusement parks or great for the whole family to have a good time. You don’t need to live near Disney World to enjoy an amusement park experience. Check out the closest amusement park near you and plan a visit with your family. Depending on the time of year, temporary amusement parks may pass through your town for a weekend or month.Amusement parks include water parks, theme parks, and zoos.
If you live in the United States, this list tells you what amusement parks are in your state: http://www.themeparkcity.com/USA_index.htm


, A love for libraries is a wonderful thing to instill in a child from an early age. Libraries are great for the whole family because there are books available for every age and reading level. Often, libraries will host events, even during spring break and summer vacations. Visit your local library or check out their website to see about what kind of events they might be holding.Usually, there are events for kids, teens, and adults.
 Enjoy the outdoors by camping in your backyard. If you don’t have enough space to camp in your backyard, set up a camping area in your living room. Set up a tent and sleeping bags. If you’re outside, build a fire. Make s’mores (on the fire or stove) and set out snacks and drinks. Take turns telling ghost stories.Put on a movie if you’re camping out in your living room.
 Spend your spring break staycation being productive and bonding as a family. Spend the week together improving your home. For example, paint every person’s room in the house together. Or, spend the week building a tree house together.