 A piece of pork shoulder should be at roughly room temperature before cooking. If refrigerated, let the pork sit for roughly half an hour prior to cooking. If frozen, you may need to let the pork defrost overnight.;
, While waiting for your pork shoulder to warm, it's a good idea to let the oven warm up (especially if yours is slow to heat). If your pork is frozen and defrosting, you may need to wait until the end of the defrosting process to turn on your oven.
 Use a cooking rack to ensure the pork does not sit in its own juices as it cooks. An oven-safe pan can collect the pork's juices as they drain during cooking - you can dispose of these after cooking or use them for gravy, etc.


Place the pork on the rack fat side up. As the pork cooks, the fat will render and liquefy, running down the pork. Essentially, this allows the pork to baste itself.
 Use a sharp knife to cut a criss-cross pattern of slices into the top of your pork shoulder. This serves multiple purposes, allowing the pork's juices to spill out and baste the meat during cooking and allowing your seasonings to penetrate deeper into the meat.
 Be very generous with your seasonings - much of the roast pork shoulder's flavor comes from its delicious outer crust, the flavor of which is determined by the seasonings you choose. There are a very wide variety of rubs and seasonings suitable for pork shoulders. Some can be store-bought, while others can be recreated at home.


When in doubt, a simple rub of salt, pepper, garlic, and a few basic spices of your choosing (especially thyme and coriander) works great. If you can't get the seasoning to "stick", try rubbing the pork shoulder with a light coating of olive oil first.
To marinate your pork, you'll want to submerge the pork in a solution that usually contains oil, one or more acidic ingredients, and the seasonings of your choice. The acidic ingredients "cut" the oil in the marinade, providing flavor and keeping the finished product from becoming too greasy. Let the pork sit in the marinade for at least 4 hours and as long as a day or more.

Additionally, you may want to consider using the sample dry rub and marinade recipes above.
 Pork shoulder is best when it's cooked long and slow. Roast uncovered in the oven for about 1 hour per pound of meat. You may reduce the heat as needed if the pork appears to be cooking too quickly - many recipes call for 325 degrees Fahrenheit (163 degrees Celsius) rather than 350 (177 C).


As a general rule, when pork shoulder is done, the skin should be crispy, the meat should reach an internal temperature of 160-185 degrees (70-85 degrees Celsius), and any bone in the meat should "wiggle" easily when grabbed and shaken.
 Like many cuts of meat, pork is best if it's given a "rest" after being taken out of the oven. Letting the meat rests allows it to continue to cook off of its internal heat and also allows it to re-absorb moisture that might otherwise be lost if the meat is cut immediately after removing from the oven.


After the brief rest, you're done. Enjoy your delicious roast pork shoulder!

