 Ask a volunteer from the audience to come with you to another room so you can "form a psychic connection." Talk to the assistant in a private room, where no one else can hear you.;
, In this trick, sometimes called Black Magic, you'll point at objects in the room, and the assistant will say whether or not it's the object you are thinking of. He should keep answering "No," then answer "No" again when you point to a black-colored object. The next object you point to after that will be the right one, and he'll answer "Yes."


Read the rest of the trick below if you don't get how it works yet.
 Ask the assistant to wait in a separate room, where he can't hear the audience. Return to your audience and tell them "I have cast a spell on the assistant, so he can read my mind. I'll prove it to you with this magic trick."

, Ask an audience member to name any object in the room. Point to it, and say, "Now my assistant will read my mind and tell you which object you chose."

, Send out at least two or three people in the audience to bring back the assistant. This way, no one will think you are sending someone to cheat and tell the assistant what to pick.


If you want, you can make a big show of "transmitting a psychic message" by staring at the assistant and holding your fingers against the side of your head.
 Point to something that the audience did not choose, and say "Am I thinking of ___?" Repeat this for a few objects. The assistant should say "No," as you agreed on.
 Point to another wrong object, but one that is colored black. Say "Is this what I am thinking of?" The assistant should say "No" again, but notice that this is black.
 Point to the item the audience chose, and say "Am I thinking of __?" The assistant will now say "Yes," since it is the first thing you pointed to after the black object. Smile and bow to the audience.
 If the audience is trying to guess how it's done, send the assistant out of the room again, pick another object, and repeat. Distract the audience from the real code by pretending to use silly faces, gestures, or different ways of asking the question as a code. Do the trick two or three times, then stop so the audience doesn't guess your secret.


You can also talk to your assistant again and come up with a different code for next time. For instance, ask him to say "Yes" for the fifth thing you point to.

