 Stop using words in your mind such as won't and can't. Allowing negative thoughts to grow within your mind causes them to influence how you react to situations, which can produce negative results.Consciously make an effort to replace these words with will and can. Accept the fact that everyone occasionally fails, but see it as an opportunity to learn from the experience so you can do better next time.


Make a list of negative or extreme words you commonly use such as, "always" or "never." Theses are examples of black and white thinking errors. Then develop a more balanced perspective or way to speak such as, "most of the time, sometimes, or not very often." Write these options down and begin to notice when you use this language in dialogue. Remind yourself in the moment to use more balanced or middle-ground language.
 Once you identify your unhelpful thinking, and develop a list of possible alternative thoughts, you will need to actively focus on your thoughts and change them as soon as you have them.Focus on monitoring your thoughts and notice when you are having a negative thought. You can do this by first noticing when you are experiencing a negative emotion, and then you can think, “What thought led to this emotion?” For example if you are feeling depressed, wonder to yourself, “Is this because I have been thinking that I am not good enough?”
If you are thinking, “I’m no good,” remember the alternative thought you identified and repeat it to yourself over and over, “I am good enough. I am worthy of love.” Or, you can refer back to your history and incorporate more detail into your thoughts such as, "When I was younger, I was not successful at something I really wanted to do. I am older now and I realize that everyone experiences failure at some point in their lives. Just because I had one time I was not successful, it doesn't mean I'm not good enough in anything I try. I made that mistake in the past, but now I know that if I'm not successful the first time at doing something I really want, I can just try again and practice until I do achieve my goals and dreams."
If you continue to practice, eventually these new more balanced thoughts will become second nature. You will become more skilled at it as time goes on, but you have to remember to pay attention to your thoughts and do the work needed to change them.
 Anything and everything in life can be viewed as a bad or good. An example: If someone gives you a bottle of perfume, it can be because he's fond of you (positive) or because you stink (negative). The trick is to choose the most realistic explanation and tell that to yourself (preferably out loud). Then consider (realistic) reasons why the positive explanation must be correct.