 Do you want one with it galloping in the pasture, or one of it in a stable? Think about what part of the horse you would like to show (ex: the whole body or just the head). It helps to know what kind of photograph you want before you start taking photos.;
, Check your camera's settings to make sure your flash is turned off, as flash photography can spook horses and make them go wild. You most certainly would not want to scare the horses or get in trouble!


If flash photography is necessary, play around with the camera settings to see if there are any other suitable options that may give you nearly the same look as flash photography would present.
 Hold your camera in ready position and wait for the right moment to take your picture. If desired, take multiple pictures without worrying about what position the horse is in. The more natural the horse appears, the more natural and beautiful your photograph will be.


Avoid coaxing the horse to get into the certain position you desire, as this creates an artificial appearance to your photograph. Let the horse do what it desires. However, if you find that your photographs of that particular horse are not as good as you would like them to be, choose another horse to focus on and watch.
 Whether it's by whistling, gently but firmly calling the horse's name, or catching its attention with a treat (just make sure you're allowed to give the horse treats if it's not yours), having a photograph with the horse looking into the camera is bound to be an excellent shot. Just make sure the camera is steady and that the picture is clear!

, Zoom in as far as you need to and play around with it, zooming in and out till you achieve the perfect, clear shot.
 Make sure your camera is being held with steady hands and that it doesn't shake or blur when you take the photograph.


Don't get frustrated if the horse moves when you're taking the picture, or your hands slip. Just start over and try again.
If you know that you have unsteady hands, it's best to use a tripod for this. Tripods are easily portable and they guarantee a steady, clear photograph.

