 Many mental health facilities have guidelines regarding visitation during the holidays as well as policies regarding what items can and cannot be brought in for your loved one.In addition, you can find out whether your loved one is able to or wants to have visitors. Checking with them first can help make the visit enjoyable for both you and your loved one. Many psychiatric facilities have nice family meeting areas and encourage frequent visits. Try going to see your loved one regularly, and not just on holidays.


You might call ahead and say, “I’d like to come visit my grandmother during the holidays. When is a good time to come?”
Or, you might contact the facility and say, “I’d like to bring her some presents. Is there anything I shouldn’t bring?”

, It can be challenging for someone with a mental illness having to stay in a residential treatment center, especially during the holidays. One of the ways that you can make your visit enjoyable, show that you care, and support them is to let them know you understand that this may be a difficult time for them. Don’t dismiss their negative feelings or concerns. For example, if your uncle says he hates it there, don’t say, “You’re exaggerating. It’s not that bad.” This will invalidate their feelings and probably upset them. Try to think about how you would feel in their situation and respond accordingly.
Tell them that you can understand how they are feeling, even if you know they are in the best place to get better. You might say, “I can imagine this hard, but in the end, it will be worth it.”

, One easy way to enjoy a holiday visit to a loved one in an inpatient treatment center is to stay upbeat and keep a positive attitude during the visit.Your positivity can encourage them, boost their mood, and help improve their self-confidence.


Talk to them as if they are recovering and will be going home. For example, instead of saying, “if you get out of here,” you might say, “when you’re well enough to go home.”
Avoid blaming them for being there and instead focus on encouraging them to get better.
 Many treatment centers have special programs and events for the residents and their guests during the holidays. Attending one of these activities could do a lot to help your loved one improve and show them that you care.


Ask facility staff about upcoming events. You might say, “Are you all planning any holiday events that I might attend?”
Or you can ask your loved one if they know of any holiday events coming up at the facility that you could participate in.

