 This is important to ensure that your slider does not drown. As a rule of thumb, the water level should be at least as high as his shell is long. For example, a slider with a 6-inch long shell should be in water that is at least 6 inches deep.This rule of thumb may be more useful if you are having trouble measuring the amount of water in gallons.
With the right water level, your slider will be able right himself in case he flips over in the water.Low water levels can increase the accumulation rate of harmful chemicals and debris in your slider's enclosure, regardless of the type of water filter., Turtles are cold-blooded animals and need external sources of warmth to keep them warm. Use a thermometer to maintain the water temperature in your slider’s tank at 75 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit (24 to 27 degrees Celsius).Infrared thermometers are available that you can stick to the side of the enclosure to monitor the temperature.Water temperatures that fall below the recommended range can slow your slider’s metabolism, which can lead to inactivity and serious health problems, such as impaired digestion.Place a submersible aquarium water heater below the water line to maintain the proper water temperature.The wattage of the water heater should be between three and five watts per gallon of water.Not all submersible water heaters accurately gauge the water temperature.Check the water temperature regularly and adjust the heater as needed.
Turtles can be very rough. Consider purchasing a water heater guard to keep your slider from breaking the heater.Do not plug in the water heater until 10 minutes after you place it in the water. Also, wait 10 minutes after you unplug it to remove it from the water.When you change the water in your slider’s aquarium, make sure that the fresh water to be added to the tank is at the proper temperature., Your slider’s health depends on the quality of the water in his enclosure. Poor water quality can lead to an accumulation of microorganisms that can not only cause the aquarium to smell, but also negatively affect your slider’s health.There are several types of water filters (biological, chemical, mechanical) to keep your slider’s aquarium free of dangerous chemicals (e.g., ammonia, nitrates, chlorine).Biological filters remove ammonia from your slider’s aquarium. A mechanical filter removes debris, and a chemical filter removes various pollutants from the water.The website http://www.redearslider.com/filters.html has a comprehensive overview of the many filters available for your slider’s aquarium. Talk to your veterinarian if you are unsure which filter to select.
It is recommended to use a filter with a filtration rate that is rated two to three times the amount of water in the enclosure.For example, a 50-gallon tank would need a filter that can filter 100 to 150 gallons of water.
Although filters will make it easier to keep your slider’s enclosure clean, you will still need to change the water and filter regularly (check the manufacturer’s instructions). How often you change the water and filter will depend on several factors, such as how many sliders are in the tank and if you have a separate feeding tank.Whichever filter you choose, make sure to follow the manufacturer’s instructions to ensure maximal efficiency of the filter.Aquatic plants can be used to filter the water. However, your slider may eat these plants and thus create more waste.