 Because Prozac can be prescribed for several different conditions, you should ask your doctor why she has prescribed Prozac for you.S/he may be able to recommend a different medication for your condition.


In some cases, your doctor may recommend that you stop taking Prozac if she feels that you are no longer at risk for (or no longer have) chronic or recurrent depression. If your doctor recommends this, it will usually occur after you have taken the medication for at least six to 12 months., Inform your doctor about any severe, continuing side effects from Prozac. If you have been taking Prozac for longer than eight weeks and do not feel like it is helping with your disorder, explain the symptoms you are continuing to see. This information will help your doctor make an informed decision and decide if the time is right to stop taking Prozac.
 It’s crucial to understand and follow your doctor’s recommendations exactly. Depending on how long you have been taking Prozac and its dosage, your doctor may or may not choose to taper your medication. Follow your doctor’s instructions to the letter to avoid serious side effects.


Prozac usually has fewer issues with discontinuation symptoms because it has a long “half-life.” Half-life refers to the time it takes your body to reduce the concentration of the drug by one half.A longer half-life such as Prozac’s means that the drug stays in your body longer. This means that the drug concentration in your body will not suddenly decrease, and this leads to fewer discontinuation symptoms.
If you have been on Prozac for a short period of time, such as six to 12 weeks, or are on a small maintenance dose (e.g., 20mg a day), your doctor may not recommend tapering your dose.
Keep track of your tapering schedule. Write down the date and the dosage you took each day. This will help you ensure that you’re following your doctor’s orders.
 Even if you are tapering Prozac, it is still possible to experience discontinuation symptoms, such as those mentioned elsewhere in this article. Talk with your doctor if you develop any discontinuation or other unusual symptoms.


Remember that your depression may reoccur as you discontinue your medication. Keep your doctor informed about how you are feeling. If you have concerns about a relapse, consult your doctor for advice.
Keep your doctor informed of your progress whether or not you experience any symptoms. Your doctor will monitor you for at least a few months after discontinuation.
 Your doctor may prescribe a different medication to control your depression or disorder. Be sure to take it as recommended by your doctor.Your doctor’s recommendations will include your own preference, prior response to medication, effectiveness, safety and tolerability, cost, side effects, and drug interactions with other medications you are taking.
If Prozac did not adequately control your depression, your doctor may recommend a medication in the same class of SSRIs, such as Zoloft (sertraline), Paxil (paroxetine), Celexa (citalopram), or Lexapro (escitalopram).
Other classes of medication the doctor may try if you experienced side effects or inadequate control of your depression include:

Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRIs) such as Effexor (venlafaxine)
Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) such as Elavil (amitriptyline)
Aminoketone Antidepressants such as Wellbutrin (bupropion)



, Several studies show that people who see a therapist while discontinuing their antidepressant are less likely to have a depression relapse.Therapy can help you learn to deal with unhealthy thoughts and behaviors. It will give you tools to manage your stress, anxiety, and responses to life. There are many different types of therapy, and treatment plans will depend on your individual situation. Your doctor may be able to recommend a therapist in your area.Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) has a strong record of effectively managing depression. Its goal is to help you learn to think more positively and challenge negative thoughts and behaviors. A cognitive-behavioral therapist will help you identify unhelpful thinking habits and change inaccurate beliefs. These can help reduce depressive symptoms.
Other therapies include interpersonal therapy, which focuses on improving communication patterns; family therapy, which helps resolve family conflicts and improve family communication; or psychodynamic therapy, which focuses on helping the person gain self-awareness.
You may need to try a few types of therapy (or a few therapists) before you find one that suits you best.
 Although it is not part of the official guideline recommendations for discontinuing medications or treating depression, acupuncture may be useful for some people.Acupuncture is a technique that inserts thin needles into various areas of the body to relieve symptoms. It should only be done by a trained, licensed practitioner. Consult your doctor if you are considering acupuncture. Your doctor may be able to recommend an acupuncturist. Acupuncture may not be appropriate for everyone.


One study suggests that electroacupuncture, which runs a mild electric current through acupuncture needles, is as effective as Prozac in reducing depressive symptoms, and may even work faster.The National Certification Commission  for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine is the licensing organization for acupuncturists in the US. You can use their “Find a Practitioner” feature on their website to locate a certified acupuncturist near you.Keep your doctor informed about any acupuncture or alternative treatments you undergo. This information should be kept in your medical records. All your health care practitioners should work together to ensure you get the best care.