 A tension rod needs to be placed in between two hard, flat surfaces that face opposite one another. In most cases, the two opposing surfaces will be two walls.Examples of two opposing wall spaces include the interior frame of a window, opposing walls of a shower, opposing walls beneath a sink, and opposing walls of a closet.
Measure this space between these two surfaces before selecting and adjusting a tension rod. Use a measuring stick or measuring tape to do so.
Check the label on the tension rod package. The product should list a length range somewhere on the package, and the distance you just measured must fall within that size range if that tension rod will work with your space.;
, Examine the tension rod and look for the point at which the two separate sections fit together.


These two sections are two separate shafts. They lock together, and a strong spring hidden inside of the interlocking area is what allows the tension rod to be adjusted to different lengths.
To adjust the length of the tension rod, you will need to manipulate these two separate shafts.
 Place one hand to the left of the point of intersection and the other hand to the right of that same point.


Your hands must be positioned near the point of intersection. Adjusting the tension rod will become more difficult if you move your hands too far down either shaft.
 Twist the smaller shaft counterclockwise to lengthen the tension rod.If you need to shorten the tension rod, twist the smaller shaft in a clockwise rotation.
Use your other hand to keep the larger shaft stable while you rotate the smaller one. Alternatively, you can speed the lengthening or shortening process along by simultaneously twisting the larger shaft in the opposite direction of the smaller shaft.
Adjust the tension rod until it matches the same approximate length as the measured space you plan to put it in. It may even help to measure the length of the tension rod with a measuring stick or measuring tape as you adjust it.
You can make additional adjustments when the tension rod is actually in its proper position, but it will be easier to work with if the rod has been adjusted to the approximate point it needs to be at before you try placing it.
 If you plan to hang a curtain with an upper hem, the easiest way to do so is by sliding the adjusted tension rod through the upper hem before placing the rod in its final position.


You will need access to at least one end of the tension rod to fit this style of curtain on it, and you won't have access to either end once the rod is in place.
The entire curtain needs be on the tension rod, but it should not cover the entire rod yet. Keep it to one side or shaft of the rod, but do not allow it to hang off either end of the tension rod.
Do not hang the curtain on the tension rod if you plan to hang the curtain with curtain hooks, though. Placing the curtain on unnecessarily early could make it more difficult to manipulate the tension rod as you're installing it.
 Line the tension rod up so that it is perpendicular to the two opposing walls you plan to fit it between. Use your hands to push the tension rod in between these two surfaces.


One end of the tension rod should press flat against one wall and the other end of the rod should press flat against the opposite wall.
You should be able to squeeze the tension rod in place between the two surfaces using only your hands.
Try pressing both ends in at the same time. If that does not work, try pushing one end partially in place first, then wiggling and maneuvering the second end in.
If you cannot fit both ends of the tension rod into the space it needs to occupy, shorten it a little by rotating the smaller shaft in a clockwise motion as before. After shortening the tension rod, try to put it in place again.
 If the rod seems to slip out of place, it is not currently maintaining the right amount of tension. You will need to create more tension by lengthening the rod.


Hold the rod in its final position as you lengthen it.
Twist the smaller shaft counterclockwise to lengthen the rod. Continue lengthening it until the entire rod fits snugly between the two opposing surfaces.
When finished, the rod should be snug and should span straight across the distance between the surfaces. If the tension rod extends between the two surfaces at a diagonal, you will need to take it down and readjust it.
Also note that a tension rod actually loses pressure as you lengthen it because the interior spring becomes less compressed. As such, a tension rod that is unable to maintain enough tension when lengthened to its maximum span and the correct length for the space is actually too short for that space. You will need to use another tension rod that is slightly larger.
 If you wish to hang a curtain with conventional curtain hooks, attach the curtain hooks to the curtain, then slip the hooks over the side of the tension rod.


No matter which type of curtain you're using, take this time to straighten it out so that the curtain spans the entire length of the tension rod.
If the tension rod starts to slip or fall with the curtain on it, the rod might not have enough tension to support the weight of the material. This means that you will need to use a longer tension rod.
Once you complete this step, the installation process is complete.
 If you currently have a curtain or similar drapery hanging on the tension rod you wish to remove, you will need to move the curtain to provide better access to the curtain rod.


If the curtain has been hung with standard curtain hooks or rings, snap the rings apart to open them and remove the curtain from each one. Set the curtain aside, then slip the rings off the side of the rod. Set the rings aside, too.
If the tension rod has been slipped through the upper hem of the curtain and no rings have been used, you won't be able to completely remove the curtain until after the tension rod has been removed. For now, simply slide the curtain as far to one side as possible to get it out of the way as you manipulate the tension rod.
 Grab the tension rod near one of its end caps.


Ideally, you should grab the tension rod with your dominant hand. Use your non-dominant hand for support.

If you're standing on a stepladder, rest your non-dominant hand on the wall to prevent yourself from losing your balance and falling as you tug on the tension rod.
If you're not standing on a stepladder, lightly place your non-dominant hand on the center of the tension rod to steady it as you tug. Do not apply pressure to the center of the tension rod, though.
 Use your dominant hand to tug straight down on the end of the tension rod.If the tension rod is loose enough, this alone might be enough to free the tension rod from its place and cause it to slide off the wall. In this case, you should be able to lift it straight out and away from the space without taking any additional steps.
If the tension rod is not loose enough to come free, you will need to continue with the remaining steps.
 When the tension rod is too tight to pull off with an initial tug, you will need to compress both ends toward the center of the rod and try again.


If the tension rod is fairly small and light, you might be able to do this yourself. Place your hands on either side of the center of the tension rod, placing each hand roughly halfway between the center and one end. Squeeze the tension rod and move both ends in toward the center to compress it.
If the tension rod is too large, too heavy, or too tight, you might need the assistance of another person. Instruct the other person to compress the rod as described and to keep it compressed while you move onto the next step.
 Pull straight down on one end of the tension rod while keeping the entire tension rod compressed toward its center.


This should be enough to pop the tension rod out of its place in between the two opposing surfaces.
 Once the tension rod has been popped out of place, simply pull it straight out, toward you.


If the rod had been inserted through the upper hem of a curtain, slide the curtain off the tension rod at this time.
Once you complete this step, the tension rod has been removed from the space it occupied.

