 Weld two 10-inch (25 cm) pieces of steel rebar together in a cross formation. This will serve as the base for the tetherball pole and will be cemented into a tire.Be sure to measure the rebar carefully; the crossbar won’t fit inside the tire otherwise.;
, Weld a 10-foot (3 meter) long piece of 2-inch (5 cm) pipe vertically to the center of the welded cross bars.


Alternatively, you can drill holes in the pipe and use 16.5 gauge rebar tie wire to secure the steel rebar to the pole., Weld an eye bolt about 2 in (5 cm) from the top of the vertical pole. This bolt will hold the cord that is attached to the ball.


Alternatively, drill a hole at the top of the pole using a ⅜ in (9.5 mm) drill bit. Attach a washer and ¼ in (6.4 mm) by 2 in (5 cm) eye bolt. Secure the bolt on the inside of the pole with one washer and a ⅜ in (9.5 mm) nut., Place the bottom crossbar stand of the tether ball pole inside a used tire. Place a heavy-duty garbage bag under the tire to prevent the concrete from seeping out.
 Mix concrete well, per its label instructions, and fill the tire with wet concrete, cementing the tether ball pole firmly in place.Use a level to make sure your pole is completely vertical.
Use wire to attach your pole to a ladder or other tall structure to ensure it stays in place while the concrete is drying.
 You will typically need to dry the cement overnight, but check the manufacturer's label for specific instructions.Remove the garbage bag from the bottom of the tire once the concrete is dry.
 Then, attach the other end of the cord or rope to the eye bolt. Make sure your knots are secure so neither the cord nor the ball comes loose.Some tetherballs come with a cord attached; if this is the case, use that instead of the rope.
 Select an appropriate play area, free of obstruction and on level ground. You can choose a grassy location, or somewhere that is paved, such as a driveway.
 The circle should be approximately 10 feet (3 meters) in diameter. Use spray paint to draw the circle on grass or dirt. Use chalk to draw the circle on cement., Carefully maneuver the tire so that it lays on its side. Then roll the tire to the area you wish to play and stand it up so the pole is vertical.
 The line should intersect the tetherball pole's midpoint. This line determines the area of play for each player., Now you are ready to play the game. Choose two players and alternate hitting the ball to each other. One person hits the ball clockwise, while the other person hits it counterclockwise. The object of the game is to wrap the rope or cord entirely around the pole.