 Frozen fruit is a perfect addition for smoothies as it negates the need for ice, which can make a mixture watery. Try putting a cup of frozen fruit into a blender with a bit of yogurt, juice, and a green vegetable of your choice. Spinach and Kale work best for most smoothies. This is an easy post-workout snack or a quick, nutritious breakfast.

You can also add protein powder, flax seeds, or nuts to help you feel fuller longer.
For something more like a milkshake, replace the juice with milk and leave out the vegetables. You can also add more fruit to thicken the mixture.
 With a bit of frozen fruit, milk, sugar, and a food processor, you can have ice cream in around five minutes. Take a bag of frozen fruit like strawberries and chop them up into small or medium pieces. Then place these pieces into the processor along with a ½ cup of sugar and blend them. Once the strawberries and sugar have smoothed out, keep the processor running and pour in ⅔ milk or heavy cream.You can keep this ice cream frozen for up to a week.
 All you need for this dessert is a blender or food processor, milk, and juice - orange, pineapple, and mango all work well. For sorbet, place a cup of strawberries or other frozen fruit into the blender, then pour in a cup of juice and blend until the mixture is smooth. Place the sorbet into the freezer until it sets. For sherbert, simply replace the juice with milk. You can use regular 2%, coconut, or soy.For a sweeter sorbet, try blending the fruit with sugar water instead. Simply put a cup of water and ⅔ cup of sugar into a saucepan and heat until the sugar dissolves. Before it starts to boil, remove the pan from the heat and let it cool., Frozen peaches, apples, or cherries work best for this dish. Just take a large baking pan, 9 x 9 inches if possible, and melt a ¼ cup of butter into the bottom of it. Then pour a cup of flour, 2 TBSP of baking powder, 3/4 cup milk, and 3/4 cup sugar over the butter. You want it to spread throughout the pan, though it’s okay if it’s slightly lumpy in areas. Once you’ve gotten all of the mixture into the pan, place the frozen fruit on top of it.