 Having a cluttered desktop does compare to having reams of unorganized papers all over a physical desk, but it also makes your system run slower and contributes to vast inefficiency. Take the time to clean up the desktop periodically for a cleaner and more organized look for your workstation.


Some software providers are offering special tools to the busy professional for hiding desktop clutter. These virtual desktop tools can help when it's time for a presentation, and the presenter's desktop is still covered with a maze of icons.;
, For those freelancers or others with many clients, creating a client package can help to organize a client list without a database. Simply create a dossier template and fill one file with information on a particular client, then keep the files in clearly labeled folders.
 Scanning paper documents and placing them in the right folders will help the harried manager to have more of the essential paperwork in the same place, within an organized digital desk.
 When it comes to organizing files, good naming is key. The more deliberate a file naming system is, the more the worker can do to bring up those files when he or she needs them the most.


Use alphabetical order. Alphabetizing file names will help the computer do most of the work for you when it comes to looking for a particular document.
Make use of file prefixes and suffixes. Prefixes can come in handy for labeling files by client, and suffixes can show you the status of a particular file. Again, consistency is key.
 Having the ability to send and receive digital faxes will also add to the power of an organized virtual workstation.
 When it comes to all of the essential communications that the average manager takes part in during the day, it's best not to trust all of this information to a free web-hosted email provider. Backing up emails can be one of the most important things that a busy worker does to make sure key information is always at hand.


Look for pay web-hosting programs. Paying companies to host email gives workers peace of mind that the emails are stored on a failsafe database and not subject to the whims of providers. Contractual details can provide for more guarantees on email archiving.

