 It is not transmitted from person to person or from animal to person. A person with cryptococcosis is not contagious., This tiny (microscopic) fungus similar to yeast (previously known to grow in the environment of certain warm, tropical countries) is parasitic and causes serious diseases in humans and animals. Why the fungus appeared on the east coast of Vancouver Island, B.C. in 1999 is not clear. It may have been imported or it may have always existed on Vancouver Island and increased in prevalence due to some climate or environmental changes.


Various Cryptococcus fungus are found growing and spreading in the environment in B.C. and in other places including tropical and subtropical climates in countries such as Brazil and Australia. The C. gattii variety of the cryptococcal fungus lives "on trees and in the soil". It was discovered due to finding recent human and animal cases of cryptococcusis, fungal illness, in the Vancouver Coastal and Fraser Health Department Regions, and it is now being found in other areas as well.In Washington State, U.S.A., C. gattii was first identified in cats in 2005; since that time dogs, cats and pet birds have been found to be infected. A small number of human cases have been reported from western Washington.It is not certain how Cryptococcus gattii spread from Vancouver Island to the North American mainland. It may have been transported through the air or on people, vehicles and products traveling from the Island to the mainland. More recently it has been found in the states of Washington and Oregon, as well as in the Vancouver Coastal and Fraser Regions.
 The C. neoformans and C. grubii cause illness mainly in people with "impaired immune systems". On the other hand, C. gattii can cause illness in otherwise healthy people as well as those with impaired immunity. Although C. gattii infection is rare, several Washington residents were recently discovered to be infected by C. gattii., About 25 people become sick from cryptococcosis every year in B.C., Canada. About one of 20 persons dies from the disease (5% mortality in those infected)., The fungus is tiny and cannot be seen with the naked eye. The fungus on trees can only be identified by testing tree samples in a laboratory.
In soil (which appears as normal soil).
