 As soon as you noticed the spill, soak up the excess juice. Gently press white paper towel over the affected area in a downward motion. Continue blotting the carpet with fresh paper towel until you no longer see any juice transferring to the paper.








You can use a cloth or rag to blot the juice, but make sure that it’s white. Dyes from colored fabric can transfer to the carpet.
If a large amount of juice has spilled, you may want to soak up the excess with a wet vacuum before blotting the stain.;
, After you’ve blotted the juice from the surface of the carpet, it’s important to remove any liquid that may have seeped into the fibers. Fill a spray bottle with water, and lightly mist the stained area to moisten it again.








Use bottled or distilled water to spray the area to avoid any additional staining.
 Once you’ve moistened the stained area of the carpet again, use fresh towel paper to blot the stain again. Continue blotting with fresh towel paper until you no longer see any juice transferring to the paper.








If the stained area is particularly large, you may need to repeat the blotting process several times.
 To make a detergent solution for the stain, mix 1 tablespoon (20 ml) liquid hand dishwashing detergent with 2 cups (473 ml) of warm water. Stir the mixture well to ensure that the ingredients are fully combined.








Be sure to choose a dishwashing detergent that does not contain bleach or lanolin.
 Dip a clean white sponge into the detergent solution, and use a pressing motion to work it into the carpet. Next, blot the area with a clean paper towel until the excess liquid is removed.








Wring out the sponge before applying it to the carpet to ensure that you don’t use too much of the detergent solution.
 You may not be able to remove all of the stain with just one application of the detergent solution. Continue wetting the sponge, applying it to the stain, and blotting away the excess liquid until the spot is removed.








Depending on the type of juice and how long the stain has set, it may take three or more applications of the detergent solution to remove it completely.
 When the stain is removed, you need to rinse out the detergent mixture. Use the spray bottle to moisten the carpet again, and blot away the excess liquid with clean towel paper.








If there still appears to be some detergent in the carpet, repeat the process.
 After you’ve rinsed the carpet, spray the area with water once again. Do not blot it this time, though. Place a pad of paper towel over it, and set a heavy item, such as a book or brick, over it to absorb the excess moisture and help the area to dry.
 If the stain doesn’t lift when you use the detergent, you may need to use a stronger solution. Combine 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of ammonia with 2 cups (473 ml) of warm water and mix to ensure that they’re fully incorporated.








Do not use an ammonia mixture on your carpet if it is wool or a wool-blend. If you’re not sure what type of fiber your carpet is, check with the manufacturer.
Mixing ammonia and chlorine bleach will create hazardous fumes, so make sure that the detergent you used on the carpet did not contain bleach before applying the ammonia.
 Dip a clean, white sponge into the ammonia solution. Next, press it into the stained area to work it into the fibers.








Wring the sponge out before blotting it into the carpet so you don’t apply too much.
 After you’ve applied the ammonia mixture, blot the area with white paper towel. Continue blotting the area with fresh paper until the stain has lifted completely.
 Once the stain has been removed, wet a fresh white sponge with cold water. Press it into the carpet to rinse it, and blot the area with paper towel. Keep blotting the area with fresh paper towel until it is mostly dry.








You can place a stack of paper towel or clean white towel over the area and weigh it down with a heavy object to help the carpet dry more quickly.

