 A beat in a script is when something shifts, either in the script’s tone or in a character’s development. Identifying beats can help you to see when you need to alter the way that you deliver your lines from one sentence to the next.Mark beats with two slashes (//) to help you identify these crucial moments in your script.


For example, you might identify a beat in the following lines: “John, I love you. // Don’t you love me?’’ In this situation, the character speaking the lines might be going from feeling love and affection, to being afraid that John does not feel the same way about her.
 It is important for actors to get inside of their characters’ heads and figure out what makes them tick. Intention is what is driving a character’s actions and words. Write your character’s intention for a scene at the top of the page where the scene begins.For example, the intention might be “I want to get him to admit that he loves me.” Or, “I want to convince my friend that he should not seek revenge.”

, Through rehearsals and becoming more familiar with your character, you will start to develop actions to go along with your lines and other character’s lines as well. Writing these actions in the margins can help you to link them with the lines.For example, you might decide that your character would reach out and grab John’s arm while your character asks him, “Don’t you love me?” Or, you might decide that your character would be clenching his fists and shaking while another character is yelling at him.
 Subtext is what your character is thinking and this might be quite different from what your character actually says. Noting your character’s subtext can help you to decide how to deliver certain lines.For example, if your character says, “Of course, I love you,” but the subtext is that he is in love with someone else, then you might say the line in a somber way or say the line while looking in the other person’s direction.
 As you read through a script, make sure that you underline any important words or phrases that you think you will need to emphasize. These words and phrases may seem insignificant to a casual reader, but you may identify them as important based on what you know about your character.For example, in the line, “Of course, I love you,” you might decide to place the emphasis on “love” or “of course.” Delivering the line with emphasis on “love” might make it seem like the character is being defiant while delivering it with emphasis on “of course” could make it seem like the character is being sincere.
Experiment with different types of emphasis to figure out what best expresses your character’s intention and subtext.

