 The Family Safety Filter needs to be installed on every computer in your house that your child will have access to. The Family Safety Filter is automatically installed for Windows 8, but may need to be downloaded for Windows 7. Earlier versions of Windows (XP, Vista, etc.) and other operating systems do not support it.
 Open the Family Safety program and sign in with your Microsoft Account. In order to use the Family Safety program, you will need to have a Microsoft Account. When you sign in for the first time, you will be creating the primary parent account. This is the administrator account for Family Safety, and will be the account that can change the settings from the Family Safety website.If you install Family Safety on multiple computers, log in with the Microsoft Account that you used initially.






Check the box next to each account that you want to monitor. Family Safety works best if each family member has their own account, and if all accounts are password protected. This is important, because if someone switches to an account that isn’t covered by Family Safety, they will be able to access blocked content.






Turn any guest accounts off, otherwise children can access blocked content by signing into the guest account. To turn off a guest account, search for “user accounts” in the Windows Search and select it from the results. Click Manage Other Accounts, and then click Guest. Click “Turn off guest account”.






Verify your settings. Once you’ve indicated which accounts you want to monitor, you will be shown a summary of all the accounts you selected, as well as a link to the Family Safety website.
 Family Safety is automatically turned on for any Child Accounts you create in Windows 8, as long as your administrator account is logged in with a Microsoft Account. You can also enable Family Safety on standard accounts.To enable Family Safety on an existing account, open Settings and click Change PC Settings. Open Accounts and then click Other Accounts. Select the account that you want to enable Family Safety on, and click Edit. Change the “Account type” to Child.






Make sure that all accounts are password protected, so that a child cannot log into another account to access blocked material.
 Once all of your accounts have Family Safety enabled, you can adjust settings for each user through the Family Safety website. Log in with the primary parent’s Microsoft Account.
 Once you’ve logged in you will be presented with a list of all of the users you have Family Safety enabled for. Select a user and you will see options to filter websites, report activity, set time limits, allow access requests, and set game and app restrictions.



Web filtering – In this section you can set the level of filtering for the user. Different levels allow different kinds of sites through, with the strongest filter at the top. You can choose to only allow specific sites, block all but children’s sites, allow all general sites, allow social networking, or don’t block anything.







Web filtering lists – This section lets you designate specific sites that you want to always allow or always block.







Activity reporting – You can set the level of activity reporting for this account, This will allow you to choose how much web browsing you want logged.







Requests – You can allow users to send requests to access blocked sites. You will then receive these requests, and can allow or disallow at your choosing.







Time limits – This sets specific times that the user can use the PC. After the time period is up, the user will be logged out of the computer.







Game and App restrictions – These sections will allow you to specify games and apps installed on your computer that you don’t want the user to be able to access. This is useful if you have mature games installed that you don’t want your children playing.







