 To ensure that you have a clear view of your finances, it’s important that you start by outlining what your financial goals are for the first year of college. Maybe you are just looking to avoid being in debt by the summer, or perhaps you are hoping to save a little. Depending on what your goals are, you will be able to make a basic financial plan to help you reach them.


Write down your goals and try to cost them as precisely as possible.
For example, you might want to save $20 a week to buy books.
Perhaps you want to try to put aside $100 a month to help pay for a car when you graduate.;
, Before you go to college you should spend some time planning your finances to meet your financial goals. The first step is to map out every source of income you will be receiving. This might include money from student loans, financial support, money from your parents, or from a part-time job.Try to be as accurate as possible, but be prepared to modify the information if there are changes in your circumstances.
If you get a different job that pays more or less, you will have to reorganise your planning.
 It is highly likely that you will be reliant on student loans to help you through college, but it's important that you consider the amount to borrow carefully in order to limit your future debt as much as possible. Avoid the temptation to take out a larger loan than is necessary, and remember that the money is to pay for school not an extravagant lifestyle.


If you find that you are able to earn money and don't need to use all of the loan, remember that you can start to pay it off before you graduate.
You can save a lot of money on interest payments if you are able to start paying off the loan sooner rather than later., After outlining all your sources of income, you should go through all the different expenses you will have to meet. Begin with the major expenses, which might include rent, meals, and college tuition and fees. If this is your first time living away from home you might be surprised the amount of money you spend on food and other everyday consumable items.


Consider opting for a meal plan through your college, which will give you a set fee for food throughout the semester.
Although you cannot predict your expenses with certainty, getting a picture of the likely costs early on will help you to be more aware of your finances.
You can organise these expenses according to their importance so you know which you can cut down on if you are short on money., Once you have a good idea of your anticipated income and expenses, you can compile this information into a budget. This will document your financial situation and help you spend your money wisely.You can write this up in a spreadsheet, or you can use online tools and apps to create a budget from your information.Remember that this is just a document to help you organise your finances. You'll be taking your estimated monthly income and dividing it up to cover different expenses (you'll need $500 for rent, $100 for your monthly parking pass, etc.). Then you'll know how much you have left to spend on things like concerts, movies, clothes, etc.
Think of your budget as a living document. Your financial situation is bound to change over time so you need to update your budget to take account of these changes.
 Once you are in college you should try to stay on top of your finances right from the start. Keep a record of your spending, and monitor if you are deviating from your budget. Try to track every expenditure, even small ones such as trips coffee shops, fast food outlets, and small ATM withdrawals. You can use online budgeting tools and apps to help make this easier, as well as using online banking and keeping hold of receipts.


Check your account balance when you get money out of the ATM.
Once a week check your actual expenditure and compare it with your planned expenditure, and with your income for that week.
If you can recognise discrepancies early, you can make some adjustments to your spending before you find yourself in much debt., Your freshman year in college is an exciting time, but some financial management will help you to avoid incurring fees or charges for being overdrawn or missing payments. Sometimes it is necessary to spend some time determining what you would classify as your wants and needs.Food, for example, is certainly a need, but if you want to buy a new pair of jeans, try to alter your budget and save up, rather than buying them on the spur of the moment.
Be sure to include an entertainment part in your budget. This way you can still have fun and do things like go to the movies, but you will know what you can spend.
If you find you are really struggling for cash, a period when you only buy things you really need can help get your finances back in order.
 Part of being at college is learning to manage your money and live on a tight budget. The more aware you are of your financial situation, the better chance you’ll have of adapting to your finances without relegating yourself to an austere lifestyle. Making small changes can save you a lot of money and open up possibilities for spending elsewhere.


Switching to cheaper brands for goods you use a lot can add up to significant savings over time. For example, brewing coffee at home rather than buying expensive coffee at a coffee shop could save you a hundred dollars a month.Making your lunch at home instead of buying it at college can similarly save you a lot of money.
If you have a meal plan, be sure to use it and get your money’s worth., As a student, you should take any financial advantage that you are entitled to, and never be shy about asking if there is a student discount. Often vendors, restaurants, and services near campuses will have discounts for students. If you use these wisely, it can save you a lot of money and still enable you to go out and have fun.Look out for vouchers and discount codes being handed out around campus, and ask friends if they have heard of any good deals.
Don’t forgot to apply for student discounts on travel and anything else that you can think of.
 Even if you judiciously manage your finances, there may be a situation in which you need to earn more money, or find yourself in some financial difficulty. If you need more regular income, the best thing to do is find a part-time job. You should be looking for something that doesn’t have an impact on your studies, and will give you some useful work experience.


You can get a job on or off campus, and in a huge variety of different areas.
Typical jobs for college students including part-time admin work, working in bars, cafes and restaurants, and babysitting.Your school very likely has a career or jobs center that can help place you if you are struggling to find work.
 You may qualify for financial aid from your college. Students are generally considered dependents of their parents until they graduate, so if there is a change in your parents’ situation it could change your financial aid eligibility. For example, if your mother loses her job and this puts you under pressure financially, your college may be able to help in the short-term.


Talk to the financial aid office if you find yourself in any financial trouble and they will be able to provide you with advice and people to contact.
If you do find yourself in a bad situation, don’t ignore it. Face it head on and get advice on how to move forward., It is possible to use credit to your advantage and borrow money at cheap rates, but you need to careful and never borrow more than you need. If you decide to get a credit card, shop around and choose the best deal you can get. Only use the card if you know you can make the payments on time, or the fees and charges could quickly make your financial situation worse.


College can be a good time to build up a strong credit record, so if you get a card use it sparingly.Avoid the temptation to use high-cost credit, such as a payday lender.
Remember that your student loans are for school, and not to fund an extravagant lifestyle.