 The department administrators as the university that you plan to attend will be able to talk to you about typical funding packages for graduate students. If you have further questions or want to explore the possibility of more funding, talk to a financial aid officer.. There may be many additional funding sources available from the college for tuition assistance, Funding opportunities for graduate school include fellowships, assistantships, and grants. Every university has a different set of funding opportunities available to graduate students. Fellowships, assistantships and grants are awarded by college programs, departments, academic offices, and outside institutions. These programs provide money to help pay for graduate school and they are also impressive additions to your academic resume.


Check with each school you're interested in to see what funding opportunities are available and apply for as many as you can.
Teaching or research assistantships are sometimes awarded to graduate students who assist professors teaching undergraduate classes or helping with their research. Duties vary and may include grading papers, holding study sessions, and cataloging research. Compensation also varies, but usually includes some combination of tuition remission, health insurance, and a stipend.
Administrative assistantships offer office work positions to students in various departments on campus. Again, compensation varies based on the institution and the duties involved with the position.
You may only need to check a box on your application indicating your interest in fellowships or you may need to submit a separate application and, in some cases, complete an interview. Check each school's requirements for funding applications before you apply.
 There are many nationally based scholarships available for all fields. Sites such as Peterson's and Scholarships.com have extensive lists categorized by your area of interest. Do the research on these scholarships well in advance. Make sure you fulfill all of the criteria and have the proper documentation -- these will be very competitive scholarships., Many professional associations ranging from the National Shoe Retailers Association to the Garden Club of America to the American Marketing Association offer scholarships for graduate study. Most offer student memberships so joining may increase your chances.If you’re unsure whether a professional association in your field provides scholarships, email the administration. If they don’t have scholarships, they may have other suggestions of places to try.
 If you were a member of a fraternity or sorority as an undergrad, contact the national headquarters to find out about graduate scholarship opportunities. Or contact the North American Interfraternal Foundation for information on scholarships they offer.