 Measure yourself correctly. Bra sizing is a complicated thing that even trips up many cisgender females - 8 out of 10 women are wearing the wrong size! The average woman is a D-cup (though will most likely wear a B or C) so keep that in mind when sizing yourself.;
, This is your band size.


Once you've got your band size, just buy a bra with a cup size that looks good on your frame (if you're unsure, just get a C or D cup) and stuff it with tissues or something.
 If you've been on estrogen for a while and have a smaller-sized area, great. If not, you could Tuck and Tape.
 Stereotypically, scene girls have very heavily teased, poofy, dyed hair. This is actually less than amazing for your hair, and is often looked down upon by scenesters. However, if you're going to be a convincing scene transgender girl, you NEED long, layered hair. While doing too much with your hair isn't a good idea, scene hair's not supposed to lie completely flat on your head. Being a long-haired girl is great because you can just mess around with your hair, see what looks good, looks bad and looks just plain horrible. However, if your hair is curly, you're going to NEED a straightener. No arguing. Put that teaser down! You shouldn't need it. It really frays your hair. Do it on special occasions only. Dye is very good to help you pass-no green or dark colours, though. Stick with pink and purple unless your face is highly feminine. Light blond is also a good color on its own - it's mostly the scene girls who do that! Leopard spots and zebra stripes in your hair are both scene and feminine.
 Scene girls often wear outlandish, happy and above all FEMININE t-shirts. This is very helpful for you. Scene clothes are quite close-fitting. With your padded bra, this isn't much of an issue and is a great way to show off that feminine chest!

, Stay away from brass knuckles, and if you MUST wear skulls, use cutesy skulls. Hello Kitty characters and diamonds score extra scene points, as well as being very feminine. Best possible scene slogans are those that say cutecore, glamor, or "haters make me famous." Avoid anything saying brootal or rawr.
 Now here comes the issue. Scenester pants are, and always will be, skinny jeans. Skinny jeans are a death sentence for transgender girls and seem to gain pleasure out of stopping you from passing. If you can, find pants tight in the legs and loose in the pelvis. Tell everyone where you got them from. If you have feminine hips, you can definitely get away with skinny jeans. Medium hip-wise, and you can wear them so long as they're white or similar light colours. It'll make those hips look bigger. Slim hips, and you might want to wear medium-tight pants. Maybe you wouldn't look totally scene, but you'll be an individual! If you can find jeans that have sparkles, animal print, or hearts, or that are pink, wear them - these are feminine things!

, Girls gotta love makeup, and so do scene girls! And scene guys, for that matter. For everyday wear, start with cover-up and foundation, then put on dark eyeliner to make those beautiful eyes of yours pop out. Smear on a little white eyeshadow, some mascara, a bit of cheek highlighter, and pink lipgloss/lipstick (sparkly if you want to feel extra-special) and you're done!

, Scene girls love accessories. Just remember to never go OTT-too much of a good thing is a bad thing. NEVER wear belts-they'll draw attention to your crotch-BAD IDEA for trans girls! Gauntlets are also out, since they make your bone structure look bigger and the spikes look masculine. Stick with necklaces and bracelets. As Coco Chanel taught us-always take off one accessory before you leave the house. Looking tacky is bad, bad, BAD, and can stop you from passing.
 Piercings are a good friend, but a bad enemy. Lip piercings are both quite feminine and very scene-most scene girls have them, so they're a good choice. Belly button piercings aren't very scene, but EXTREMELY feminine. With the right stud, they can look quite scene. Definitely stay away from septum piercings unless you have a very feminine face-they're painful and a bit masculine (though somewhat scene). Of course, make sure you have pierced ears. Don't gauge your ears, though, since it's mostly guys who do that.
 Laser surgery will keep the raised scar. If you still really, really want a tattoo, get something very feminine-such as a unicorn-tattooed somewhere inconspicuous.
 Are you openly bi or lesbian? If you're openly transsexual and also fall somewhere to the right of the Kinsey Scale, you would've told your parents the same time you became open about your gender identity? Anyway, flaunt it, but in a feminine way. Wear a female on female symbol, a female on female/male symbol, or a lipstick lesbian flag.
 As Lady Gaga sung, "Rejoice and love yourself today, 'cause baby you were born this way.". Girl, you've come a long way admitting this to yourself and probably family. Be happy! And always look on the bright side of life. It's what scenesters do!

