 Find ways to make a difference every day. It may feel as though you are just one tiny part of a huge, lumbering system – and at first, you almost certainly will be. Be patient. All things begin small. Try to make activism a practice and a reality.


Vote for candidates that you think will help out your cause. Sign a petition and write a letter to a congressman. Visit sites like and .
Download the browser extension Tab for a Cause. Each time you open a new tab, you will earn a "heart" (between 1/10 and 1/3 of one cent) that you can donate to a charity of your choosing.
 Write letters to newspapers and politicians; post an article, video, or idea as your Facebook status; wear a t-shirt; hand out fliers or pamphlets. If you think that a cause is important and worthy of attention, try to raise awareness by telling as many people as you can. Don't worry if you are uncomfortable with this sort of activism. There are other, less public ways to show your support!

, If you don't have much time to get involved, consider giving a portion of your income or savings to a nonprofit or charity organization. One simple meal can cost as little as 19 US cents to produce – and most groups will take any amount of money that you can spare. Use websites like and to determine which charities are best at churning donations into change.Read about "effective altruism." This movement aims to use evidence and reason to find the most effective ways to change the world. For instance, if you already make a lot of money, it might be more logically "effective" to donate half (or some large portion) of your income instead of quitting your job to take a low-paying service-oriented position., Attend events focused on a certain cause, or events that are meant to bring thoughtful people together. Ask a local nonprofit if they need any help. If you're really committed, look for jobs with nonprofits and other "social good" organizations that might allow you to build a livelihood from your values.
 The depth of your commitment depends on how much time you have. If you can afford to travel to another part of the world to, say, build houses or distribute medicine – do it! If you can only spare the weekends, or a few days a month – do what you can! Giving even a little of your time is more proactive than giving none of your time.


Look into volunteering at local libraries, churches, soup kitchens, homeless shelters, and beach cleanups. Volunteer to canvass for a politician that you believe in, or to gather signatures for an important petition. If you don't know where to start, there are websites like that can help connect you with causes you care about.Remember that you don't need anyone else's permission to start volunteering your time. You can do almost anything, at any moment, to promote what you believe in. Consider picking up trash in your neighborhood when you have a free afternoon.
 Think about which sort of job might put you in the best position to change the world. You could be a politician, an activist, a journalist, a minister – there are a lot of ways to get paid for adding value to the world. Start researching on sites like to find jobs in fields that feel valuable.


If you aren't ready to think about a career, consider making a commitment to a long-term service position. Look into the Peace Corps or Americorps. These organizations can be a great way to make a difference, learn about the world,and prepare yourself for an even more impactful future.