 In order to improve your handwriting, you will need a couple of tools: a utensil that you like to write with and a notebook you can dedicate to this project. Choose a pen or pencil that feels comfortable in your hand, and choose a notebook that you like., The best way to improve your handwriting in a short amount of time is to use practice worksheets. There are numerous online resources that provide printable worksheets and exercises. Find some that seem appealing to you, download them, and print them out. You will need 87 worksheets in total.

You might visit https://studenthandouts.com/handwriting-worksheets/ to download worksheets.
You can also visit http://www.softschools.com/handwriting/alphabets/ for worksheets.
If you’d prefer, you can purchase a handwriting workbook, such as Write Now by Barbara Getty and Inga Dubay.
 In order to improve your handwriting, you need to evaluate your starting point. Take out your pen and notebook and write a paragraph (at least 4-6 lines of text) about anything you want (even nonsense words). Then spend some time carefully evaluating each aspect of your lettering. What are your strengths and weaknesses? Try to notice:

The shapes of your letters
The slant of your words (and whether or not it is consistent)
The spaces between letters and words
The size of your letters
The alignment of your writing (moving upward or downward; overlapping with other words)

, To best improve your handwriting in 30 days, you need to focus on some specific elements you’d like to improve. Choose one or two elements of your handwriting that you’d really like to change, and focus on these as you practice.Some areas for improvement might include:

Letters that are squished together
Letters that are too far apart
Letters that are difficult to read
Too sharp of a angle to your letters

, In order to improve your handwriting, it can be helpful to see examples of handwriting that you like. You can follow Instagram accounts dedicated to bullet journaling or calligraphy. Or you can visit some typography websites in order to see a wide variety of letter types.Some websites include:

Google fonts
Typewolf
MyFonts
FontShop

, In order for this to work in just 30 days, you have to be dedicated every day. Fortunately, you only need about 20-30 minutes of practice daily. Schedule your handwriting practice each day, and do not allow other obligations to get in the way.It can be helpful to do this at the same time each day, so that you form a habit.
If other people try to interrupt this time, explain that this is important to you.
 Each day, the bulk of your practice will involve the handwriting worksheets you have chosen. Whether you are using downloaded worksheets, or you have purchased a workbook, the sheets should be organized from the most basic to the most difficult. Carefully complete three worksheets every day, following the instructions provided. Remember to focus on the 1-2 areas you specifically want to improve.

This should take 15-20 minutes.
If it takes you a bit longer, that’s OK. Just do as much as you can, and don’t rush.
 The second part of your daily writing practice will be writing the entire alphabet (in capital and lowercase letters). As you do this, slowly refine each letter, creating the look you desire. Keep in mind the slant of your letters (aiming to be consistent), and the spacing between them.This should take about five minutes.
 Look back at some of your handwriting inspirations from before. Each day, choose one that you’d like to emulate. Then try to copy the look of that handwriting, letter by letter. Pay attention to how they connect letters (or not), any decorative flourishes they use, and the shapes and angles they create.Spend around five minutes on this.
 If you want to maintain an attractive handwriting, you will need to continue practicing even after your 30 days are up. Fortunately, you can make this fun, and put your new and improved handwriting to good use. Find a handwriting project that inspires you, and commit to working on it at least three times per week.You might:

Start a bullet journal

Create a handwriting Instagram page
Find a penpal and write letters

