 If there is a guy you know and who you want to want you, try to play hard to get. First, do not try to force a connection with the guy you want immediately. However, also do not avoid him. Hang around with him consistently and when something comes up that bonds you two, you should work with that connection.


For example, if you are both in a class together, study for a test together. Studying for a test together will help you bond over the stress and work it takes to get through the test.
Hang out with him a variety of settings. If you only see him at school, for example, offer to meet at a library to study. Sometimes when you are in a new environment, it is easier to make that connection.
When you do start connecting, be aware of leaving at a good time. Leave him wanting more, but do not cut the conversation short, either. Be aware of when might be a good time to leave and follow your intuition.;
, It may seem obvious to you that you want to talk to him, but it may not be obvious to him. There are three easy non-verbals you can use to demonstrate that you are interested. The eyebrow flash is a non-verbal signal that says that you are friendly and approachable. Tilting your head to one side is another way to show interest while he is talking.
Finally, smile! When you smile at someone they will usually smile back at you. Smiling will make him feel good, because it releases endorphins! , Think about what you are good at and find ways to show that off in authentic contexts. For example, if you are going to be studying together, and you are good at math, offer to help him study for the math portion of the test.


If you know he is having trouble with a certain part of the class, study for that portion of the curriculum harder. You can take good notes, stay after school, or go to office hours. Then offer to help him.
Do not try to become good at things he is good at. You probably will not be able to get good enough to impress him in a short amount of time.
Do not brag. Do not overtly tell him what you are good at out of context in order to impress him. Guys are going to be much more impressed when they get to witness how good you are at something that he is less familiar with.
 The text or call can be simple, and don’t worry; if he is interested it will go somewhere!


Make sure to pay attention to how he responds. If he doesn’t respond much- don’t keep texting. Let him text you.
If the texting goes on for a sustained about of time, consider asking him to get together and do something.
 When you are in places that you love the best you will most likely come out. Go out to get dinner and catch up or go to a coffee shop and go on a walk. You can also go somewhere more like a date where you can be carefree, laugh, and have fun, for example, try going to a local fair or a theme park.


He will be able to experience more about who you are through seeing the places you love. Explain to him why the place is important and give him a tour of what is awesome about the place that you love.
Tell him stories about things that happened in that place. Ask him if there are places that he loves to go.
 Be interested in what he says in person, in text or over the phone. If you are in person, use your body language to show your interest. Nod your head, and be expressive with your facial expressions so that he can see what you are thinking about what he is saying and genuinely laugh. Be empathetic to what he is talking about, if he is expressing anything that is difficult show him concern or sympathy.
Remember what he says so that you can be more specific when you ask him how things are going. Showing him you remember what is going on in his life isn’t creepy, everyone wants to be listened to and acknowledged.
 Smile often and make eye contact. As the night goes on, let your eye contact linger longer, and stay closer by his side, longer. Touch him on the arm when you are talking to him about something that he says that you find exciting or interesting.


Touching his arm in conversation will allow you to break the initial barrier of physical touch.
 If you are interested in getting a guy to want you at somewhere like a bar or club, make sure you look and feel great. Take your time getting ready and putting together your hair, make up and dress.


Give yourself around an hour to shower and get ready.
Take time to style your hair. Blow dry your hair, curl it or straighten it so that it has a particular style. Use a product like mousse, hair spray or hair gloss to preserve and perfect your hair look.
 Because you are going out, you can add a little more flair to your make up, for example, you can add some light glitter eyeshadow or a darker lipstick than normal.


Apply a thin coat of eyeliner, and use dark brown-black mascara on your top eyelashes.
Use a concealer, a shade lighter than your foundation, to cover the bags under your eyes, blemishes and any imperfections on your face.
Apply a light coat of foundation; use the applicator or your fingertips to well blend the foundation into your skin.
Choose a shade of lipstick that is not too bright; apply sparingly and blot with a kleenex. Keep gloss or chap stick on you to keep your lips moisturized.
Choose a couple of items, like your lipstick, concealer and eye liner to keep with you in your purse to freshen up your makeup, if need be later in the day.
If you have a friend that is good at doing makeup or hair, have him/her come over and have him/her help you. You two can get ready together before you go out.
Be careful not to apply too much makeup. You still want your natural beauty to show through. Make sure your foundation matches your skin complexion well and is well blended.
 Dresses for going out are usually tighter or shorter than you might normally wear. Have fun with it and find something that makes you feel attractive. Your own confidence will go a long way in showing your beauty.


You can find a going out dress at a department store like Macy's or at a local boutique. Additionally, you can go online to buy a dress. Simply search for “dresses for going out” and you will find a lot of great, affordable dresses that will attract guys.
If you go to a store, talk to a customer service representative about the kind of dress you are looking for. He/she will be able to direct you to the dresses that might be the best for what you are looking to wear.
Shop for the dress at a few different stores. Go to a mall where you have a few different shops to explore. Don't buy something that you don't feel good in. If you don't have a good feeling about a dress, don't buy anything. Keep looking until you find something that you love.
 Use your taste in music to direct your choice of venues. You will enjoy yourself more if you like the music, and you may be able to meet more guys who you would be interested in. Find one or two bars, clubs or events where you can find lots of younger people.


Go online and search for music venues, dancing or shows near you.
Get your friends together to go with you. Buy your tickets together and meet up before you go out so you can go together.
Consider planning to go to more than one place, just in case one turns out to be a bust.
Plan to stay out late. You may have to stay out late to meet guys. After a certain time of night, depending on the location, it becomes easier to meet guys. Guys will also feel more comfortable coming up to you when it is a little bit later.
 Walk through the place and find a good spot where you can keep a good eye on the crowd, and where you feel comfortable talking and dancing with your friends.


Keep moving around until you find a good spot. You can change rooms and events as the night progresses.
If your are unable to find a good place with people you are interested in, keep looking.
 If you are at a club, make eye contact a couple of times to let him know you are interested in him. Take notice of whether he seems interested in you as well. You will know he is interested in you if he will move closer to you or he will meet your eye contact.
 Guys want girls who come off confident. You can talk to him or you can talk to his friends in order to get the conversation started. For example, you can ask him about how his night is going. This is a simple and direct conversation starter that shows you are confident.


In this method, you don't have to act as though you are uninterested. Playing hard to get will most likely not work if you are in a setting where you are getting to know people.
If the conversation doesn’t go anywhere, that is okay. Move on and talk to other guys. As the night progresses, there will be plenty of other chances to meet guys.
 Write down the things that make you awesome, and let him know them. Knowing why you are awesome and not being afraid to show it attracts others. Do not be afraid to make mistakes around him. Be authentic to the real you, quirks and all. Relax and laugh when you make mistakes, everyone does.
Do not act like someone you think that he would like instead of being yourself. Imagine if someone were acting in a certain way to please you, you would probably not find it attractive.
 Let him see different versions of you. Hang out with other people who bring out the best version of you with him. Enjoy laughing and hanging out with other people in his company. Showing him that you are fun, independent and have your own friends is important to establish.


This will show him that friends are important to you and will help him see what you are in like with other people.
It could make him a little jealous (in a good way) and maybe he’ll want to hang out with you more than before.
 Most people love to be loved, and the best way to get them to want you is to learn about them first. Listen to what he says or what other people say about him to learn about his quirks and habits. It can be simple stuff, like finding out that he loves to go to all you can eat buffets or that he never misses the cartoons on Saturday morning.


Tease him about those little things about him. If he is going home on a Friday night, for example, you can say something silly like, you must need your beauty rest for those Saturday morning cartoons.
Consider what his sense of humor is like. Once you get a feel for what he finds funny, incorporate his sense of humor into your conversations. If he thinks it is funny when people are a little mean, playfully make fun of something about him.
 For example, if you forget to give him a hard time about the Saturday morning cartoons, send him a text later in the night when you remember.
 Find out about the experiences and people that made him who he is. People want to be known and getting to know a person's story can be a form of intimacy. He will want you because you he will have developed a kind of dependency on the love that you give him.


This is going to take some time and you shouldn't try to get his whole story in one sitting. Often it is more fun getting pieces of the story along the way.
One way you can ask someone about their story is by asking them why they are interested in the important parts of who they are. For example, if someone is a huge fan of baseball, ask them why they love baseball.
Not everyone feels comfortable talking about personal things. If he isn’t comfortable with it, that is okay. You want him to be comfortable, above all. Typically, personal conversations will happen naturally with time.
 If you can start connecting the dots of his life, you will be able to understand him on a deeper level. Combine your knowledge of his history with his current interests. For example, you can say, I can see why you are interested in becoming a teacher, because you said you had to take care of your brothers a lot when you were kids.


Show him you enjoy his conversation. You aren’t just trying to figure him out, you want him to know you like what you see. It is simple, people like people who like them. If you can make him feel good about himself, he will want to be around you more. Nod your head when he talks, maintain eye contact and smile and laugh often.
 Disagreeing is a way of showing him a part personality, and you will be able to see another part of his personality, as well. People respect people who stick up for their views. Explain why you disagree or ask him to explain more about why he thinks the way he thinks about a topic. Sometimes people become more attracted to people who disagree with them. Even in the getting to know you stage, you should not be afraid to be honest. He will like it.


Be respectful when you disagree. Make sure you keep your tone of voice conversational and not confrontational. Don’t raise your voice.
If things are getting heated, consider using humor when you are disagreeing. Come back to the conversation later.
Once you have worked through your differences in your disagreement, you will both like each other more.
 Continue to pursue the hobbies you have that he has no interest in, and don’t change to be more like him. You are a dynamic individual whose interests and personality will mostly likely not match his in all ways, and that is good.


If you can own the ways that you are different, for example, if he loves Family Guy and you think watching television is lame, don’t pretend that you have suddenly decided that television is really cool. Remember, having your own opinions is attractive.

