 You'll need a pot, a styrofoam ball, foam for the pot, a stick to attach the ball to the foam in the pot, and hot glue. For an edible ball, you can still use styrofoam, but you'll also need aluminum foil, meringue powder, powdered sugar, food coloring, and water. Of course, you'll also need the candy you want to use.If you want to skip the glue altogether, you can use stick candy that you stick into the foam, rather than glue on.
You can use any kind of small candy you want, such as jelly beans, peppermint candies, gumballs, candy-coated chocolate candies, or even chocolate kisses. For gravel, try pieces of rock candy or jelly beans.
You can also use paint, ribbon, and/or stickers to decorate the pot.;
, Using a cup to hold the ball makes it easier, as it can give you more space to work on the ball without holding on to the candy while it's drying. For an edible arrangement, cover the ball in foil. Balance the ball on top of the cup before you begin gluing.
 For a simple topiary ball, simply glue your candy on the foam ball, making sure to get it all covered with the candy so you don't see the white underneath.You can also make an edible glue with royal icing, if you prefer.To make royal icing, mix together 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of meringue powder and 4 cups of powdered sugar. Add in 1/4 to 1/2 of a cup of warm water, a tablespoon at a time, and use a hand mixer to incorporated it in. Keep adding it in until it's a thick paste. Thicker is better for this application. You can also add food coloring to tint the glue.
Let the candy dry thoroughly before working with it again. Make sure to leave a spot where the stick can go in.
 Cut the foam to fit the inside of the pot. Decorate the pot how you'd like, using paint or stickers. Place the stick in the center of the foam, ready for the ball to go on top. It can help to use a bit of hot glue on the bottom of the stick to make sure it stays upright., Add candy or other decorations as "gravel" to the pot on top of the foam, or you can use glass beads. You can make it edible by using foil and then the edible glue. Once everything is dry, assemble the topiary by impaling the topiary on top of the stick. It can help to use a bit of hot glue on the top of the stick to hold it in place.