 You can use any size jar, but make sure that the mouth is wide enough for you to be able to stick a paint brush into. You can use a glass jar or a plastic jar. A lid is not needed for this project. Whatever jar you decide to use, make sure that it is clear, as you will be painting the inside of it.
 Wipe the inside and outside of your jar with some rubbing alcohol. Any oil or residue left on the jar will prevent the paint from sticking to it.
 You can use fabric paint or acrylic paint, but make sure that the label says "glow-in-the-dark." Unlike glow sticks, glow-in-the-dark paint can be reactivated once the glow fades. This means that you can use this jar again and again just by leaving it in the sunlight so that it can "recharge."

, You will be making little dots and speckles inside the jar with the paint. You can use a thin paintbrush to do this, or a long wooden skewer. You can even use different sized brushes and wooden skewers to create different sized dots for a more interesting effect.
 Shake the bottle of paint to mix up the glow particles inside.Pour out about a teaspoon of paint onto a dish. Acrylic paint and fabric paint dry quickly, so you do not want to pour out too much paint at once, or it will dry before you finish using it. You can always pour more paint onto your dish if you run out.
 Dip your paintbrush or skewer into the paint and start making little dots and speckles inside the jar. If you are using multiple colors, work with one color at a time.
 This can take anywhere from a few minutes to several hours, but refer to the instructions on the paint bottle for more specific drying times. Consider drying your jar in the sun or under a bright light; this will allow the paint to "charge."

, Leave your jar in a brightly-lit room or in some sunlight for 10 to 15 minutes.
 You can paint the lid a different color, or over it with glitter or fabric. You can even place some filler, such as tulle, organza, or clear, iridescent cellophane inside the jar, For more decorating ideas, refer to the section on decorating your fairy jar.
 Once the paint has been activated, take your jar into a dark room. The paint will glow and look like little fairies. When the glow starts to fade, simply leave the jar in some like for a few minutes before taking it back into the room.

