 Instead of looking at the whole situation as a defeat, try to look at the process and all of the work you did. Even though the outcome was not what you wanted, you can still feel proud of the little victories along the way.

For example, if your team lost a big game, then think back on all of the things that you accomplished on your way to that big game or even during that big game. Did you play well together? Score difficult goals? Or give your best effort? These are all things to be proud of.
 When dealing with defeat for the first, second, or third time, it is OK to feel bad. This is normal. If you feel like crying, then cry. If you feel anger, let yourself be mad. However, it is important to set limits on your feelings. For example, it is OK to feel bad for a day or two, but don’t wallow in your sorrows for a week or two. It is important to acknowledge your mistakes, and to get back on your feet as soon as possible.If you need to, call a friend or family member to talk it out. Often times, talking it out will help you realize where you went wrong, and you will be able to find ways to improve your mistakes.
 You may experience a time in your life where it seems as though defeat is never ending. But don’t let little defeats define who you are. Remember that the real game is you against yourself. If you let yourself give up, this is the real defeat.Tell yourself that you will try again, and put forth your best effort. If you are not going to put forth your best effort, then it is not worth it.
 When handling defeat, always take responsibility for it. Do not act like the world owes you something. Do not blame your coworker, the economy, or the competition for your failure. The sooner you can accept your defeat as your responsibility, the sooner you will be able to learn from your mistakes and move on.For example, perhaps you had too much on your plate and were not able to put forth your best effort. Or, maybe you didn’t assess your competition accurately. Whatever the problem was, take responsibility for it.

