 Footpaths and established trails that attract a lot of walkers, bikers, and runners are the best option for walking at night. This way, you’ll always have someone nearby.


High-traffic areas, in this context, refers to high numbers of pedestrians. Areas with abundant automobile traffic, however, should be avoided.
If you don’t have any high-traffic walking areas, buddy up with a friend or bring your dog along for the walk. Not only is there safety in numbers, but sharing a walk with a friend is great fun.Alternately, you could walk through neighborhoods where you know people.
 Walking inside is a great option if the weather is bad or if the temperature is too cold. If you have a treadmill, you can walk for exercise whenever you want. If you don’t have a treadmill, you could visit a gym and use one there. Alternately, find an open space within your own home to walk at night. Walking up and down your stairs, for instance, is a great way to challenge yourself and get a good workout., Many major organizations and nonprofits sponsor night walks for a variety of important causes. For instance, you might be able to find nighttime walking events to support leukemia, lymphoma, and other cancers. Check your community’s local events calendar online or browse your local newspaper’s event listings for information about nighttime walking events near you., You’ll have a much better time walking if you can see where you’re going. If your path is poorly lit, you might step on sharp objects or broken glass. You might stumble on rocks or an uneven sidewalk. Walking in areas that have streetlights also makes it easier for other people to see if you need help.Look for paths that are not only well-lit, but have regular lighting. In other words, try not to trace a path that leads from a brightly lit street with many open businesses and lots of vehicular traffic to a street that has only a few street lights. It takes your eyes time to adjust to these different levels of lighting.
 The sidewalk is there for a reason. Walking in the road means you’re closer to auto traffic and therefore in greater danger. The sidewalk is reserved for pedestrians like you. Use the sidewalk when walking for exercise at night.If you have to walk in the street – for instance, if the sidewalk ends – walk against oncoming traffic.
 If you walk a route you’re used to, you’ll know it backwards and forwards and even if there are hazards, you’ll know right where they are. New routes that you haven’t walked before, though, present new challenges.This is not to say you should exclusively walk the same trail every time you walk for exercise at night. In fact, you should try to vary your route from time to time in order to avoid becoming bored.But if you want to try a new trail, give it a test run during the day before trying it at night.

