 One good rule of thumb for women looking to perform heavy exercise is to invest in a comfortable, properly-fitted sports bra. Sports bras provide excellent breast support and prevent unwanted bouncing, making them especially valuable for activities like jogging, running, jumping rope, and so on. However, a sports bra has to fit properly to be beneficial — one that's too tight or loose will be uncomfortable and may not look as good.


The benefits of sports bras aren't only in the way you look — some sports bras can provide additional comfort during exercise by wicking sweat away from the body, keeping you cooler. Some modern sports bras even have space for storing your belongings!, Women have many options when it comes to choosing a top for the gym — generally, both loose-fitting shirts (like tees) and tighter athletic wear are perfectly acceptable. If you're especially interested in looking good, you may want to consider wearing layers (such as wearing a track jacket over an inner tee or tank top) and pairing your colors accordingly, though this is by no means required.


If these items aren't prohibited by your gym's dress code, you may also want to consider more revealing tops (like halter tops, etc.) if they're more breathable or comfortable for you. However, these sorts of tops aren't essential to have for a good workout.
 Women also have a great deal of variety when it comes to the bottoms they can wear — sweats, yoga pants, tights, athletic shorts, and so on are all acceptable, so pick the option that's most comfortable to you. Generally, shorts are cooler than pants, so they're especially well-suited to cardio activities that may cause you to sweat a lot.


If you're worried about embarrassing sweat marks on your pants, wear a dark color like black or navy blue for your pants — sweat won't appear much darker than the fabric itself on these items.
 When you're worried about how you look, it's easy to forget that sweating at the gym is a good thing — it means you're working hard! However, a lot of sweat can turn some clothes (especially white clothes) semi-transparent. This can lead to embarrassing over-exposure, so try to wear darker colors or thicker fabrics to counter this effect if you expect to sweat a lot.


If you have to wear thin white fabric to the gym, for obvious reasons, you will want to be extra-sure to wear a bra.
 Generally, you'll want to skip your makeup before you go to the gym. Heavy makeup can be uncomfortable to wear during exercise, especially if you start sweating while you're wearing it. Even worse, sweat can cause your makeup to run, giving it a smudged, messy appearance. Since you should typically be going to the gym to work hard (and not to show off), the benefits of makeup usually don't make it worth it.


Believe it or not, wearing makeup while you workout can also make you look worse in the long-term. Makeup can clog your facial pores while you sweat, leading to pimples, blackheads, bumps, and other blemishes that take time to go away., If you have long hair, letting it hang free while you exercise can sometimes be a problem. Loose hair can fall in front of your face while you run or play sports, impeding your vision and acting as a minor annoyance (not to mention giving you a messy, untidy look). Although rare, loose hair can also occasionally catch in certain types of exercise equipment (like weightlifting machines), resulting in serious injury. To avoid these problems, use a functional, tidy hairstyle like a ponytail or bun to keep your hair secure.


If you don't want to bother fussing with your hair, another option is to use accessories like hair ties, bandanas, and hair wraps to keep it tied up. These also give you the opportunity to get creative with your fashion style!

, Like loose hair, excessive jewelry can sometimes be a liability at the gym. While small, discrete stud earrings and rings aren't usually a problem, hoop earrings, bracelets, necklaces, and ankle bands can be dangerous if they make it hard for you to exercise properly or get caught in your equipment. The smartest policy is usually to leave these things at home — not only will you not have to worry about them, but you'll also avoid looking like someone who's more interested in their glamor than their workout.


Another reason you may want to avoid bringing jewelry to the gym is the possibility of theft. If you leave your jewelry in a public locker room, there's a possibility it may be stolen, even if you use a lock. Leaving your valuables with the front desk is a wiser choice, but the only fool-proof way to keep your jewelry from getting lost or stolen is to leave it at home.
 An overflowing, stuffed-to-the brim purse can be like a ball-and-chain at the gym — not only is it a constant hindrance to your exercise routine, but also a yet another item you'll need to worry about losing or getting dirty. If you need to bring a bag, try using a small, functional sports bag. These usually offer more storage space than purses anyway and usually look fine even when they're dirty or sweat-soaked.

