 Converting your liquid assets to shield them from creditors or others is not something you should take on by yourself. Laws vary significantly among states, and you don't want to risk a conversion that doesn't actually provide any protection.Keep in mind that assets that might be exempt in one state may not be exempt in another. To protect your liquid assets by converting them into exempt assets, make sure you comply with the laws both of the state where you have your primary residence and the state where the assets are located.
If you describe to an attorney or financial professional how and why you want to protect your liquid assets, they can help you find the best way to do that.
You also can find out from an attorney how much control and access you'll lose by converting your non-exempt liquid assets into exempt assets.
 Converting some of your liquid assets into exempt assets may benefit you more than simply leaving them as they are. However, you need to make sure the benefits outweigh the losses.For example, you can use liquid assets to pay down a mortgage. This benefits you in that you won't have as many mortgage payments to make. However, you lose the flexibility that comes from having those liquid assets.
While you may be able to gain more liquid assets by refinancing your home, this isn't necessarily a quick or easy thing to do.
Life insurance polices and annuities also are exempt, but you lose significant control over those assets and won't be able to retrieve that money for a significant period of time.
 The greatest benefit of liquid assets is that they are immediately available. Converting them to other assets may mean you lose access and control.For example, purchasing an exempt annuity or retirement plan may mean you lose complete access to that money.
If you attempt to withdraw funds early, you may have to pay fees and have significant tax penalties.
This may not be an issue if you don't anticipate having any reason to withdraw those funds any time in the near future, but it's something you should understand before converting your liquid assets just to protect them.
Converting non-exempt liquid assets into exempt assets typically is best for people who have no need for those assets in their lifetimes, and are saving them for the benefit of their children or grandchildren.
 If you've chosen non-exempt assets you want to use to protect your liquid assets, all you have to do is purchase them to complete the conversion.Work with a financial advisor to decide which liquid assets you want to convert and how you want to complete that conversion.
Depending on the reason you're converting your liquid assets, you also may need to pay attention to timing.
Converting assets just before a divorce, or before filing for bankruptcy, may raise red flags in the court proceedings that follow.
 Another way to protect your liquid assets from possible seizure is to transfer them to someone else, such as a trusted friend or family member. Before you decide to do this, however, you need to understand the substantial risks involved.If you transfer assets into someone else's name, you lose complete control over those assets – regardless of any promises made.
That person can take your liquid assets and do whatever they want with them, so you have to make sure you fully trust that person.
Timing is a particular issue with transferring assets. If you plan to divorce or file bankruptcy within a year, or have already started either process, you should not attempt to transfer assets to someone else.
Transfers that appear to have been made in anticipation of litigation will still be considered yours, and may result in a bankruptcy case being dismissed.

