 Many people think that you have to lift weights to get fit. This is not the case. You can do a full work out without a gym membership. Push-ups work your chest and triceps massively while crunches work your abs. You also want to try step out of the house for your cardio by biking, running, or swimming.

Do sit ups by putting your calf/feet on the seat of a chair, with your back on the ground. Then put your hands on the back of your head and move your head towards the ceiling.
Exercising not only tones your body to promote your attractiveness, it also gives you more energy and confidence.;
, Dressing your age tells a lot about your personality. It is proven that a guy who dresses like he is 16 isn’t as attractive as a guy wearing a mature look. You don't have to wear a sport coat but a simple upgrade to your style will help. Invest in chinos and nicer jeans instead of continuing to wear old worn out denim. Go for slim cuts in both your top and bottom. Try out several colors and pick the ones that accent your attributes (hair, skin, and eye color) the most.


Look after your shoes. Discard your sneakers after they start to rip or loss their thread. Care for your leather shoes by treating them twice a year.Also a good thing to take into account is the feel of your clothes. When you break the touch barrier, girls like things that feel nice and it's also important that you feel physically comfortable in them.
One technique to attract someone is by wearing an eye-catching outfit.
Scientifically, women are more inclined to be attracted to a man wearing red. It’s the same reason a cop is more inclined to pull over a red sedan over a blue sedan. Red catches the eye., Take care of your body and smell nice. Take a shower everyday and use shampoo and soap products that compliment your body. Find a deodorant that smells good with a pinch of musk. Consider a touch of cologne for those special dates, but never use more than two squirts. Brush your teeth regularly, at least twice a day, and use other dental hygiene-related items like floss and mouthwash.


Consider using lotion for the colder months so your skin stays moist and healthy to the touch., This is something simple that'll increase your daily presentation. It is easy to miss this when most jobs require you to slouch over a computer at a desk. Straightening your posture will make you look taller, stronger, and more confident.

Imagine your upper torso is molded on a coat hanger.
 Eating well not only helps with your body image, but it helps yourself in several ways. Improving your diet can increase your energy, confidence, and your general well-being. These factors will help embellish other features of yourself that a woman may find attractive. Start small and be sure to drink enough water everyday (about eight glasses).


Increase the amount of fruits and vegetables you consume.
Avoid carb heavy meals like bread, potatoes, pastas, and rice. You can eat these as long as they are paired with other foods that hold higher nutritional benefits.