 Be direct and immediately state the purpose of the letter. List the name of the team, how long you have been on the team, and your anticipated last day.


Here’s a sample first paragraph: “After over a year on the team, it is with great sadness that I must announce my resignation from the Pleasant ville Lemon Trees Junior Lacrosse Varsity Squad, effective immediately.”
The first paragraph does not have to be long. A couple of sentences is fine unless you have more to communicate.;
, State why you are leaving using non-accusatory language. This means that you do not want to be disrespectful, sarcastic, or mean-spirited, regardless of what has occurred during your time on the team. While it is fine to be truthful, you should always remain positive.


Include your reasons for leaving the team. Here is an example: “I need to go to a team where I’ll be able to get more playing time.”
Mention what you liked about being on the team and indicate how you have developed as a person. Here is an example: “I am not lying when I say I very much enjoyed my time working under you in this program, and that I learned a lot under your tutelage. In particular, your comments on both my stick- and footwork have helped me greatly.”
Be sure to only communicate truthful information based on your personal situation.
Communicate life lessons that you have learned as a member of the team.Many sports teams include the photos of team members on marketing materials, especially on social media. If you do not want your image to be included in these materials in the future, you should include this information in your letter. Sometimes prior agreements are made that allow the team to maintain your image in marketing materials, so each situation may be different.
 End your letter by communicating your appreciation for the coach. Remember to be truthful. You can always find something nice to say about a person. You never know when your paths may cross again in the future, and leaving things on good terms could be beneficial down the road.Here is an example: "Coach Allen, I want to thank you again for all your time and help in fostering my early junior lacrosse career."


Include your willingness to help the team, if needed, before you depart. If you are leaving in the middle of the season, you can offer to stay longer or provide any needed assistance to your team members before you depart. However, you should only offer to do this if it is something that you will actually be able to do. Avoid making any commitments that you cannot keep.

