 When you're first getting to know her, get her attention by sparking up interesting conversations. She won't be into a guy who sits back and just smiles and nods. Bring up that interesting thing you read the other day or ask her a question about something you have in common. She'll be intrigued by your gusto and intellect.


A Pisces female is sweet, compassionate, and caring. She's not the type of girl you get with and drop! So get to know her a bit first before you make your move. She won't move too quickly, anyway. If you want it to last, you'll be friends before anything else happens.





;
, Gentle Pisces wants a storybook romance. She loves being sent love letters! She expects her man to go through the hoops our grandparents had to go through. Words and intentions should come way before any action! So get to telling her how wonderful she is and how much you'd like to take her out. She'll be weak in the knees.


Don't stop this once the relationship develops! If you courted her with cheek kisses and love letters, be sure to keep this up. Don't let it be just an act -- have it be part of you. It'll spark the relationship and keep it going.
 In case it wasn't already clear, Pisces wants a man who's traditional, unassuming, and sweet. Assure her that chivalry isn't dead by embodying it yourself. Open doors for her. Foot the bill. Give her your jacket. Kiss her hand. Don't ask for too much and she'll want to give you her entire world.


Pisces is definitely a stickler for tact. She won't tolerate if you're the guy yelling at the waiter or the one eating all the pizza but refusing to chip in. Manners are very important to her. Be polite to her and to everyone you're around -- we could all take a leaf out of her book!







, Taking a balloon ride over the French countryside is not the idea of a good, romantic time to a Pisces. The grandeur of something like that just doesn't make sense to them. They want the things that are meaningful and unspoken -- not the gestures that are overstated or blunt. If it's chivalrous, you're good to go. If it seems like you have ulterior motives (what might those be?), she'll drop you like a hot potato.


Put on her favorite song while you're cooking dinner. Bring her a cup of coffee just the way she likes it when you know she's in for a long day at work. It's the small things -- the attention to detail -- that proves to her how much you care.
 Pisces wants a man who knows who she is -- ultimately she seeks protection and support. In order to be her rock, you gotta be confident enough to do so. She needs someone who has it together and can go hand in hand with her on her journey through life.


It's also important to be yourself! If you're not genuine, she'll see through you like you're some Victoria Secret lingerie. She has a keen eye for motivation and character -- fake it in front of her and she'll detect it for sure.
 And this water runs deep. She is emotional, intuitive, and sensitive. She often goes off her feelings instead of logic or rationale. She is compassionate and understanding, mainly because she's so empathetic. With all this emotional prowess, she's quite the nurturer.


She also flows like water -- meaning she's highly adaptable and goes with the flow. Present her with anything and she can morph to it. However, she can also have mood swings and flow to each side of the spectrum. Hopefully you can keep up!







, Pisces wants to explore every inch of your mind. She wants to hear about that one time you scraped your knee in 6th grade. She wants to sit down and take in your stance on lite mayonnaise. Everything. Don't hold back! This is how she'll feel like she truly knows you.


Don't worry about her judging you -- she's far too sweet for that (and you are far too confident to be concerned!). If it's important to you, it's important to her. So while you may feel like you're talking your mouth off, don't worry. It's a means to an end!

, Random gifts (along with the big ones like mentioned earlier) aren't Pisces' cup of tea. She wants ones that you've actually put thought behind -- not something you're doing just to get in good with her. So pay attention to what she says! You'll find little opportunities everywhere.


Instead of getting her flowers, get her that book you two were just talking about. Instead of chocolates, buy her tickets to that comedian you told her you're convinced she'd die for. When she sees the reason behind it, she'll love it.
 When a Pisces girl takes you to bed, it means you're in. She doesn't let those who she doesn't supremely trust get her this vulnerable. She sees it as the most intense form of bonding -- one that can't really be broken. Since this is such a big deal to her, respect it. Only go this far with her if you plan on sticking around.


This isn't a thing to be taken lightly. If you're not looking for a girl who might get emotional on you, stay away from the bedroom with this one. And definitely, definitely call her back.
 Since she's looking for a rock, make it clear that that's you. When you see her growing emotional, be there for her. Comfort her. Ask her how she's feeling if she's not coming out and saying it. When she feels like you're in tune with her, she can let her guard down and open the gates.


She does not respond well to negativity. If you want to get on her good side, use encouragement and genuine compliments (not the fake kind -- those are a total turn-off) to build trust. Be her #1 fan and she'll treat you with the same undivided attention and praise.
 Though some see her as a people-pleaser and far too ruled by emotion, that's not always how it is. When you look at her, see how loving and caring she is. She has compassion for everything she sees, down to the smallest flower in the crack on the sidewalk. Wouldn't it be something if more people were like her?


And above all, don't use it against her. She recognizes when people take advantage of her kind, giving nature. If you're always asking for favors or making it about you, you, you, she'll be gone in a heartbeat.
 Stronger, more fixed may look at gentle Pisces and see someone who lacks a backbone. Yes, Pisces is sensitive. Yep, Pisces has a ton of feelings and sometimes has trouble controlling them. But this isn't necessarily a bad thing!


As a result, she's very in tune to how she feels. She can be open and honest with you because of it. You'll know exactly how she feels about you. On the other hand, you'll also have to deal with the roller coaster ride that is her life. So buckle up!






She also can hold a grudge. Watch out if you really make her angry! She won't forget it anytime soon.
 And if you can dream with her, even better. When you're talking about everything, include your goals and aspirations. It doesn't even have to be feasible -- it just has to be something that would make you happy, regardless of whether or not it will ever happen. She can often be found in her fantasy world and she would love a companion.


This is part of the reason she loves the arts so much -- they take her away from reality and put her in a place she can use her imagination. So get her to the art museum and to the symphony and watch her fade away into dreamland.
 Pisces is naturally drawn to beauty. If you can make an otherwise routine endeavor not so routine, she'll remember it forever. Instead of dinner, go take a picnic in the park while the trees are blooming. Instead of a movie, go to Shakespeare in an outdoor amphitheatre. Get her using all her senses to make her feel like she's at her best.
 When Pisces has decided you're worthy of her care, she will treat you like the only person she's ever known even existed. She can love fully and unabashedly, so hopefully you deserve her. She's not the flirty, fling type of girl. She's in it for the long haul!


You'll be able to tell that your Pisces is in it to win it when she starts opening up to you and depending on you. She doesn't do that with everyone! Don't hide your true feelings in return -- she's looking for someone to be totally and madly in love with. And someone that feels the same way back!







