 One of the more common and easily concealed body piercings is the naval, or bellybutton. Probably more common for women, bellybutton piercings typically look best on fairly trim figures.



Pros: Bellybutton piercings are definitely the most common and socially acceptable body piercing.

Cons: These piercings are typically somewhat painful, and require lots of aftercare to keep them healthy.
 Supposedly, Roman soldiers used to pierce their nipples to show their bravery. For both men and women, nipple piercings are a common and sexy body piercing.



Pros: Many people like the stimulation and added sexual benefits of nipple piercings. They're easy to hide and quite trendy.

Cons: The nipples are extremely sensitive, and the piercing can be quite painful and sore in the short term. Long term, piercings may also affect milk production and the ability of some women to breastfeed., The hips, the back, the nape of the neck, and the wrist have all been pierced at one time or another. Corset-style piercings are popular among body-mod enthusiasts and people looking for something different.



Pros: These are the most eye-catching and spectacular types of body piercing, because of the difficulty of pulling them off. Piercing designs can also be made on the surfaces of the skin.

Cons: These piercings are usually quite advanced, and are prone to rejection. They can also easily rip out of the skin if you make any wrong movements.
 For some advanced piercing enthusiasts, genital piercing is the biggest thrill and the most stimulating experience that piercing offers. For others, it's a terrifying prospect. While piercing can offer added stimulation and excitement sexually, it can also come with the risk of infection, permanent nerve damage, and a loss of feeling in your most private parts. Always consult with an experienced and licensed piercer to get your genitals pierced.



Women often get a vertical clitoral hood piercing, although a horizontal piercing can also be performed. While other types of genital piercings exist such as a fourchette, done to the rear rim of the vulva, or the clitoris itself, many women do not have the anatomy required for these piercings or, like the clitoris piercing, they carry a considerable amount of risk.

Men typically pierce the underside of the frenulum, through the urethra, or pierce across the head of the penis to complete a "Prince Albert." Other piercings exist such as the hafada, performed on the scrotum, or a foreskin piercing. However, the piercer will have to evaluate the anatomy of each individual, as certain factors such as whether or not the penis is circumcised can play an important role in whether or not the piercing can be performed.

