 When a gerbil has a respiratory problem, a liquid discharge will start coming out of its eyes and nose.This discharge may be thick and mucus-like, indicating an infection.


Your gerbil’s eyes may also be half closed and look dull.A healthy gerbil’s eyes would be fully open and bright with an alert-looking stare.;
, If your gerbil has a respiratory problem, it will have trouble breathing. You may see your gerbil’s chest heaving with each breath because of the struggle to breathe. Your gerbil may also breathe very rapidly and have open-mouth breathing. Open-mouth breathing is a sign that the respiratory problem is severe.The normal breathing rate for a gerbil is 90 breaths per minute.This is a rapid rate, so it may be hard for you to see if your gerbil is breathing even more rapidly.
 As you watch your gerbil breathe, listen to its breathing sounds. When a gerbil has a respiratory problem, its lungs will become moist. With each breath, the airways will briefly clear, causing a clicking noise.In addition to clicking, you may also hear wheezing., A respiratory problem can make a gerbil feel pretty lousy. If your gerbil has a respiratory problem, it probably won’t feel like grooming its fur, which is a natural gerbil activity. As a result, your gerbil’s fur will be rumpled and clumped.Its fur may also look dull., When a gerbil has a respiratory problem, it will sleep in strange positions. You might see your gerbil propping its head up on a box or its nest when sleeping. Or, your gerbil may sleep in the corner with its nose pointed up. Also, rather than sleeping lying down, your gerbil may sleep in a crouched position.Propping the nose or head up would make it a little easier for your gerbil to breathe.
 Gerbils like to explore their environments. However, if your gerbil has a respiratory problem, it won’t feel like exploring much at all.Overall, your gerbil will move around less and become much less playful.
 In addition to moving around less, your gerbil won’t feel like eating very much.You’ll notice your gerbil eating less of the food you regularly feed it. Because of the decreased appetite, your gerbil may start losing weight., A sick gerbil will want to isolate itself from other nearby gerbils.If your sick gerbil has cage mates, it will probably isolate itself by hunching in a corner away from the other gerbils., Two possible causes of respiratory problems in gerbils are viruses and bacteria. Invading viruses and bacteria can quickly overwhelm a gerbil’s immune system, making the gerbil very sick, very quickly. As soon as you notice signs of respiratory problems in your gerbil, take it to your vet., When you take your gerbil to your vet, tell them what symptoms your gerbil is having and when you first noticed them. The more information you can give your vet, the easier it will be for them to make a diagnosis.


Scented bedding, such as pine or cedar shavings, can irritate a gerbil’s airways and cause respiratory problems.In addition to describing your gerbil’s symptoms, tell your vet what kind of bedding is in your gerbil’s cage.
 To begin the examination, your vet will observe your gerbil’s appearance and behavior (e.g., breathing, activity level) in its cage. Then, your vet will take your gerbil out of its cage and continue the exam. They will look over your gerbil’s body and listen to its heart and lungs. Your vet may also take a fluid sample from your gerbil to determine what organism has caused the respiratory problem.