 If you're searching for vital records such as birth or death certificates, the National Center for Health Statistics has a list with links that detail how to get those records in each and every U.S. state and territory.These pages also include information on how to get marriage or divorce certificates. You must have as much information as possible about the person or people listed on the record so it can be found. For example, if you're searching for a marriage certificate, you should have the full names of both the bride and groom, the date of the marriage, and the county where the wedding took place.You may be charged a fee if you want a copy of the record. For example, Alabama charges $15 for a copy of a birth, death, marriage or divorce certificate. If you want a certified copy, you may have to pay a little more.For many states, you may be able to order copies online through the VitalChek network for an additional fee.Fees typically are non-refundable, which means if you pay for a record search and no record is found for the information you provide, you won't get your money back.Death records can also be found by searching the Social Security death index, which has digitized records of deaths from 1935 through 2014.;
, If you're not sure where to search for vital records, information collected in a census may help.You can also use the census information for broader demographic data about an area.


The USGenWeb Census Project has digitized census records. Searching those records may help you determine where and when an ancestor was born and lived.Ancestry.com has digitized census records, which you can search on that website provided you pay the subscription fee to access their services. You can also access the same information for free if you visit a National Archives facility in person., The Archives include information about people, places, and events in U.S. history, as well as guides to researching their records both online and in person.For example, if you're doing genealogical research, you can find historical census and immigration records.The National Archives also holds records of all documents transferring public land owned by the U.S. government to private ownership.You also can use the National Archives to conduct research of military records, including military blueprints and architectural plans, records of specific battles and wars, and other service records., More specific information about a particular town or county may be found by searching the archives of that state's library. The National Archives maintains a list of contact information and locations for each state's archives facility., A number of websites such as Legacy.com are dedicated to indexing obituaries and public memorials of U.S. deaths.All states and certain cities such as Chicago maintain death indexes, which you also can use to find obituaries or death information.