 If your parents have to always tell you to clean your room or get your things off of the living room floor, they probably don’t think that you are responsible enough to take good care of an expensive electronic device. Prove to them that you know how to treat your belongings well, keep them neat, and not lose them. Clean your room once a week. This should be often enough for your parents to notice a change.
If you have a habit of throwing your coat and bag down when you get home, stop that habit by just hanging it up instead. When you leave a room for good, make sure you take all your things with you, and turn off the lights.;
, Good grades are a sure sign that you are taking responsibility for yourself. Your parents will be happier with you overall, and more agreeable when you make your request. If you don't have good grades than your chances of get an iPod are very slim. If you don’t get good grades, this may be a long-term goal. You may have to ask teachers for tutoring, and you will have to get in the habit of handing in homework on time. Just remember that it is all worth it!
Keep in mind that a good report card might be a good time to bring up the fact that you want a new iPod. Your parents will be in a better mood.
 This way, you will be able to prove to your parents that you understand money management.You can’t get a part time job until you are 14. If you are younger than that, you may want to ask your parents if you can earn an allowance. Otherwise, you can get jobs around the neighborhood, cleaning up yards for people, mowing lawns, or babysitting.
Ask your parents if you can open up a bank account. This will prove that you are committed to good money management.
 Don’t be afraid that they will think that you are trying to trick them. Let them know that your new responsibility is for a reason, and it will not stop once you get the iPod.


Say, “I’ve been taking the iPod really seriously. I’ve been taking up new responsibilities so that you know that I am not taking it too lightly. I realized that responsibilities are not that difficult, so I promise I will keep doing them if you decide to buy me the iPod.”

