 Sometimes it is well worth it to drive a little bit further if the school is a great fit for you and your child.;
, The quality of their websites will give you an idea of the type of school that you will be visiting. There should be information about the instructor or instructors, styles, and class schedules. If you don't find any of this information on their website, then it would be a good idea to call and ask for this information before you go and visit the school

, The website should tell you about the instructor, but it would be a good idea to ask them in person so you get an idea of who that person is. Ask what their teaching method is and what they are trying to accomplish. Don't be afraid to ask questions. Everyone has certain values that they hold dear and it will be an important part of your child's development to make sure that those values are consistent or left undisturbed.
 Most schools offer some sort of free trial whether it be a single class or several classes. It will give you an opportunity to see how the classes are run.
, The higher ranking students should look more impressive compared to the lower ranking students. The instructor should look and be more impressive than any of their students. Your child will only grow as much as the instructor's knowledge to teach. That instructor should impress you. Remember that the martial arts involve skill and experience. Both are required to teach.
 If there are more than 10 ranks from white belt to black belt (or whatever system or ranking that they use from start to top rank), then be careful. That system may be designed to make money rather than teach good martial arts. Also be careful if there are sub-ranks or testing for stripes. If a school is testing your child every two weeks to a month, and there are sub-ranks, then it might be trying to make money off of frequent testing rather than judging based on ability. Schools with anywhere from 6 to 10 ranks will generally be more involved with your child's goals and achievements.
 The cleanliness of the school is a reflection of the effort that the instructors put into their students. It's also a sanitation issue because your child will be rolling around on the ground doing exercises.
 Some schools will tell you that you have options, but those options may be more beneficial to them than to you.

