 Content does not matter as much as the connotations you associate with whatever you choose to draw. If you find mountains or trees relaxing to be around, try your hand at drawing your very own. Other likely candidates include:


Your pet. Or your imaginary pet.
Flowers, leaves, or bumblebees.
Fruit, or other particularly attractive edibles.
A building or place you admire or have positive memories in.
Made-up combinations of animal parts. For instance, draw a dog’s head on a pig’s body with a turtle’s legs and tail.;
, Experiment drawing with different colors, patterns, and moods. Believe it or not, drawing can help induce physical relaxation by decreasing your blood pressure, slowing your respiratory rate, and lowering your pulse.Color your illustration with bright, exciting colors.
Draw patterns. Start with variations of circles, as they're easier and more soothing to draw. Simply cover a page in a pattern. Losing yourself to abstraction can be a very effective method of providing yourself with a healthy distraction and can boost creativity and memory too!Draw your subjects smiling. Whether mountain, human, or animal, add a smiley face. Sure, it’s silly – but you’ll probably smile back.
 Choose somewhere with minimal distractions. Definitely switch off your phone, and avoid areas with television or computers.


Somewhere private is best, as your drawing will not be inhibited by the presence of others, and you will be less likely to be interrupted.
Get outside. Simply being outside will calm you down. Drawing outside can also give you inspiration and ideas of things to draw.
 Let yourself enjoy the process. Don’t worry about the final product and don't judge your artistic abilities. Lose yourself in the experience of creation!Sitting down to draw for just a few minutes can rekindle your youthful spirit. You'll get a boost in energy and may even feel more open-minded for the rest of the day. Expressing ourselves visually allows us to circumvent some of the barriers we put up as we age, and to access our less critical, less judgmental side more easily.Mount your work. Hang it up somewhere it will catch your eye. Put it in your room or near a doorway you use to leave your house for unexpected boosts in your mood.

