 Having clearly defined goals will help you follow your progress and reward yourself when you achieve your aims. It’s best to start with relatively straight-forward, short-term goals, and then progress onto more ambitious ones. Start with something achievable to give yourself a welcome confidence boost early, but don’t be satisfied with that, and keep your eyes on the bigger picture.


A short-term goal for someone who hasn’t exercised for quite a while could be to walk 10 minutes a day, five days a week.
The next goal could be to walk 30 minutes a day, five days a week.
A long-term goal could be to complete a 5 kilometers (3.1 mi) walk., Research suggests that we are more likely to stick to plans or schedules if we go a step further than just saying to ourselves, “Okay, I’ll do that this week.” Consider making a more formal pledge to yourself and even putting it on paper and signing it. You can do this with friends and make a pledge to do 30 minutes of exercise, five days a week, for a month. Writing down your goals can help you stay motivated.You can even introduce a cash incentive or penalty.
For example, you might sign a deal with a friend that says if you stop exercising you will pay her $50.
There are even websites that specialise in enabling you to make contracts online, which can improve your chances of sticking to them., If you are specifically looking to exercise more to help you lose weight, be sure you record your starting point so you can check your progress as you go. You might just want to weigh yourself, or take a photo. You could also perform a fitness test, such as seeing how many crunches or squats you can do in a row.


Remember that if you are looking to lose weight, your diet is every bit as important as the amount of exercise you get.
 Keep a log and make note of new times, distances or weight lifted. Seeing a chart of improvement will hopefully keep you working towards gains. Tick off the days and the workouts with gusto and look back to see how far you’ve come and how strong you are. If you see you’ve been exercising regularly for two months, this can help motivate you to keep going. You’ve come this far, why stop now?


You can use all sorts of apps and websites to quickly and easily record your progress.
These digital tools often include nice visualisations so you can see your progress more clearly.
You can also take regular pictures or do weigh-ins to check the results of your hard work.
 It’s important that you reward yourself and congratulate yourself on sticking to your exercise routine. After each workout you will be feeling tired, but good, so take a few minutes to savour the feeling and be proud of yourself. Consider the endorphins released during the workout and remember this great feeling you now have.By giving yourself this kind of internal reward you are reinforcing your positive connection to exercise.
External rewards are good too, so be sure to treat yourself when you reach a major goal.
You could reward yourself by buying some new running shoes after completing your first 10k.