  If the name(s) and address are correct, and you agree with the decimal contained in the division order, but you disagree with too many of the terms in the division order (more than 5 terms would need to be stricken to make it acceptable to you), put the division order aside.  You should not sign that form of division order.
 The National Association of Division Order Analysts provides a free blank NADOA 1995 Division Order form that meets every legal requirement of every oil and gas producing state in America.  To download a free copy of the blank NADOA 1995 Division Order form so you can type it into a Microsoft Word document or other word processing software, go to www.nadoa.org:


At the top of the Home Page, click on "Publications".
Scroll down the page until you see "Model Form DO" and click on "User Guide".  It will pop up in a new window as a downloadable PDF document; download it.
Then return to the "Model Form DO" block at click on the button "Model Form".  It will pop up in a new window as a downloadable PDF document; download it.

You will enter as the "Payor" in the new form the same oil company name shown as the "To:" company at the top of the oil company's division order.  Write it exactly as you see it.  Make no changes whatsoever, including no abbreviations.
Transfer your name(s) exactly as it or they appear on the oil company division order, unless there is a misspelling only, then you can correct it.  But it can be only a minor change, not a whole new name or the division order will be rejected.
Transfer your address exactly as it appears on the oil company's division order.
Transfer the decimal exactly as it appears on the oil company's division order, including a zero in from of the decimal point if one appears on the division order.
Transfer the interest type exactly as it appears on the oil company's division order: RI, R, NPRI, NP, or whatever other code that company has shown on the division order as your interest type.
  Read their instruction sheet carefully to learn how many witnesses their management policy requires for them to accept your division order.

Enter your daytime telephone number, the one where you can be most easily reached between 8 and 5 Monday through Friday in the time zone where the oil company is located.  That can be home phone or cell phone.
If you have an email address, or a family member who has an email address you are allowed to use, by all means enter it here!  If there is any problem with your division order, the analyst will immediately email you rather than call, because that is a preferred method of communication for oil company employees.
 Take both of the company division orders and draw a thick black line through the body of each, front and back if they have two sides, starting at the upper left-hand corner and ending at the lower right-hand corner.  On each line, write, "Replaced By Enclosure". Now staple the photocopy of the signed NADOA form division order to the company division order stamped "Keep This Copy" and place it in your files, to keep for your records.
 Mail the stapled "Return This Copy" set back to the oil company, together with a signed IRS Form W-9 if you opted to use one, and any other forms (such as direct deposit request) that were included in the packet and you agree with returning.
 The oil company is required to communicate with you whether they accept, or reject, the division order reflecting all of the stricken language.  To hasten that process, you should:


After exactly two weeks, call the telephone number provided in the instruction sheet or cover letter sent to you along with the division order.  Have your copy of the division order with you.
If you must leave a message, be sure to have your copy of the division order in front of you when you leave the message.
State in the message (1) your name(s), (2) your owner number assigned to you and given in the division order, (3) the date you mailed the signed copy back to the oil company, and (4) give them your telephone number to call you back to verify that they received your signed division order.
Request that they return your call and tell you that the account has been placed in pay status, or will be placed in pay status.
Give them no more than 3 days to return your call.
If you have not received a call from them in 3 days, call them again, and repeat all of the information you gave them in the first call and request again that they call to verify receipt and acceptance.
After your second call, give them only 24 hours to respond.
If they have not responded, call every day for one full business week.
If still no response, call the company main number and ask to speak to the Land Administration Manager.
If still no response in 24 hours, send a letter by certified mail demanding that they place your account in pay status following receipt of your signed division order and give them 30 days to pay your royalties according to the terms of your lease or you will seek termination of the oil and gas lease.
If no payment has been received within 30 days, take all of your paperwork with you (including the certified letter green card signed by the oil company) to an attorney and pay to have the attorney send a demand letter.  Very few companies allow royalty owner relations to get to this point before paying them, so an attorney is the last resort rarely needed.

