 Before you can begin to update your roof, you will have to get an accurate measurement and order your materials. Always try to measure from the ground first in order to keep yourself safe. If you must climb onto the roof to measure the space, be sure to use caution.









Find out the slope of your roof. The slope is given as rise-over-run, meaning the distance up over the distance over. This measurement will typically be a measurement over 12 inches (30.5 cm), something like 4/12 or 8/12. Convert this to the equivalent in degrees and as a decimal.
Use the slope factor to determine the area of the roof. Measure the area (length x width) on the ground, and then multiply this by the slope (in decimal form). This means the slope factor form is: length x width x slope. This will give you the number of square feet that need to be covered.
For example, if your roof measures 10 feet (3.0 m) x 10 feet (3.0 m) and the slope of the roof is 12/12 (45 degrees, which converts to 1.414 in decimal form), you would multiply 10 x 10 x 1.414, to get the total of 141 square feet of roofing.
Find the square footage for the entirety of your roof, and add up the total to find out how much metal roofing you need to order.
Allow for a minimum of 10% waste (extra roofing).;
, You will most likely have to order the roofing metal in the amount and color specific to your house. You will also need a large garbage can, a jigsaw or power metal shear, a staple gun, a drill and assorted drill bits, 1¼ inch roofing nails, metal roofing screws, and self drilling, self-sealing wood screws.
 In order to make your installation as easy as possible, it is important to have a well-organized work area. You will need a large bin for trash (old roofing and debris), a place for tools, and your scaffolding or ladder set up.









Make sure that if you are using electric tools that none of the chords are in the way.
Store the material in a readily accessible area, protected from the weather. The panels are weather-proof but staining can occur if left open to moisture

, Although you can install corrugated metal roofing over shingles, for the best foundation it is recommended that all the old roofing be removed. Work at a slow and steady pace, not trying to rip-up or carry-off too much old roofing at once.









Start from the highest, furthest point and take up all the old shingles, flashing, vents, and boots. You should be replacing all these with the new metal roofing.
If you come across any large nails that are sticking out, either remove them and put them in your debris container or hammer them in deep so that they aren’t a danger to anyone working.
If you need to reposition your gutters, do so at this point.
Always remove the old roofing on a day (or set of days) when the weather is expected to be dry and sunny, as you don’t want any rain or moisture to seep into your building.
 With the old materials removed, the bare bones of the roof frame or plywood sheathing will be exposed. If there is any damage to the sheathing (the wood under the shingles), insulation, or ventilation, fix it now.
 This helps to block out moisture from getting trapped between the metal roof and the sheathing. Use roofing felt to cover the entirety of the roof and secure it with a staple gun or nails.







