 If someone says something really mean to you, it's okay to respond in a calm and collected tone. You can say something like, "Leave me alone" or, "You shouldn't talk to people like that."Yelling at the jerk or responding with an insult will likely only make the situation worse. Your goal should be to defuse the situation while letting the jerk know, in as polite a way as possible, that you find his or her behavior unacceptable.
Maintain eye contact while talking to the jerk. This will make you seem much more assertive and self-confident.
Try reminding yourself at this moment that the jerk you are confronting is probably really insecure in all reality. Don't tell him or her you know this, but smile to yourself with the thought.
 Cliques often operate by controlling their members and threatening them with exclusion if they fail to conform to the rules of the group. If people who you think are your friends start to dictate your actions, you should seriously reconsider your relationship with these people.Having friends in multiple different circles is healthy. Real friends should be okay with you spending time with other people and pursuing a variety of interests.
If your group of friends begins to exclude others, speak up for what is right and encourage them to make new friends.
Never let your friends tell you how to act or what to believe. It's perfectly fine to disagree with your friends sometimes, and real friends will not try to change you.
 No matter how badly the jerk has pushed your buttons, you should always walk away from a fight. If the jerk asks you to fight, just say you're not interested.


Fighting is not only a poor way of managing conflicts, but it can get you into a lot of trouble. No matter who started it or what the outcome is, there is a good chance that you will get detention or get suspended from school for fighting. If you injure the other person, you could even get into trouble with the law.
 In many instances, you may be able to deal with jerks on your own without any help from your parents or teachers, but know when to ask for help. If you are being harassed, stalked, or physically harmed, you need to tell someone about it right away. Don't worry about being a "snitch."If you need to talk to someone about bullying, there are plenty of free crisis hotlines available. If the bullying gets so severe that you feel suicidal, call a hotline or see someone for help right away.
 Don't be a silent bystander if you see a friend or even someone you don't know being bullied by a jerk at your school. Tell the jerk to leave the other person alone and show the person being bullied that you're there for support.You can report bullying even if you are not the victim. If you are worried about someone else who is being bullied, report the situation just as you would if you were the victim. You might really be helping someone who is afraid to confront the situation or doesn't know what to do.

