 They can tell you specifics about the try outs, as well as what the coaches will be looking for. This will show where you should train hardest. The basics you have to know without a doubt are toe touches, herkies, kicks, motions, splits, cartwheels, round offs,front/back handsprings,and handstands.;
, Cheerleaders are required to cheer in front of crowds for an entire game - sometimes up to two hours. Start by running every day, even if you can't run the whole time. By being active you increase strength. Elliptical training and stairs are also helpful in training the leg muscles you will need as a successful cheerleader. Do one of these in 10 minute intervals several times a day. Every week increase the incline or speed by 1 point.
 A popular training circuit counts down from thirty by tens. 30 jumping jacks, 30 crunches, 30 push ups, and 30 seconds of a plank. Do not stop between rounds. Take a ten second break at the end of each circuit and start again with twenty, then ten. Do this circuit once a day everyday.
 The most common is a toe touch, but squads usually require four or five. To increase your height in jumps, place a piece of tape 12" above your extended hand. Start in a crouched position and jump up to touch the tape. Only count the reps where you reach full height, and try to do 10-15 a day to start. Also do the jumps you must know repeatedly, about 5-10 each.
 Stretch twice a day, when you get up in the morning and before you go to bed. Particularly stretch your thighs and legs with straddle stretches. Do the lunge, kneeling lunge, kneeling reverse lunge, straddle, pike, splits, quad stretch, shoulder stretch, tricep stretch, bridge, etc. Hold each stretch for 10 seconds and repeat the stretches 3 times a stretching session.
 Depending on previous flexibility, lean forward on your hands or forearms. Slowly, lift a leg one at a time a few inches above the ground, lower, and repeat. Try for 10 a day on each leg. If your hips lock up, do a pike stretch and try again. When you have mastered lifting, try circling your feet in the air before lowing for a more advanced movement.
 Private or group lessons can give you personalized training on jumps and tumbling. Do not be afraid to ask for help! Tumbling is very important in advanced cheerleading but can be difficult to learn, give it time. In the mean time, teach yourself cartwheels, round offs, handstands, bridges, and back bends. You may be able to teach yourself a back and front walkover, but only if you master the other skills.
 YouTube is a great source for easy amateur routines. So is Activity TV. Cheerleading is heavily dance oriented and having a background in dance can help you.
 Pilates, weightlifting, and swimming are great exercises to increase endurance and muscle.

