 Tonsil stones are usually pale yellow, gray, or white in color, and can be found lodged in the soft tissue of your tonsils.Your tonsils are fleshly lumps, or pads, found on either side at the back of your throat, are oval in shape, and contain crevices, crypts, craters, and pits.Tonsils are part of your immune system and contain lymphatic liquid known also as lymph, the reason why doctors consider them to be two lymph nodes. They work in your body to help fight infections.Food debris, dead tissue cells from your mouth, mucus, and bacteria, can easily get lodged in those pits and crevices and become calcified, causing the hardened areas referred to as stones.;
, With the use of a mirror, and good lighting like a flashlight, you can see your tonsils, and probably see the whitened or yellowed calcification deposits, which are the tonsil stones, embedded in the tissue of your tonsils.In some cases they may be buried within the tissue of your tonsils and are not visible.If you have symptoms consistent with tonsil stones, but they are not visible, seek medical attention to help with getting rid of the stones., One of the most common symptoms caused by tonsil stones is bad breath. The unpleasant odor is caused by bacteria and food debris that gets lodged in the crevices of your tonsils and becomes part of the calcification process that forms the stones that are embedded in your tonsils.Bad breath can also be related to dental problems such as decay, abscess, or gingivitis. Sinus infections or a coated tongue can also cause bad breath. If none of these seem to be the problem, then you should have a complete investigation of your tonsils.
Other common problems related to tonsil stones include an uncomfortable feeling that something is lodged in the back of your throat, a metallic taste, coughing, feeling like you are choking at times, tonsil redness, irritation, inflammation in the back area of your mouth and throat, and coughing up small and smelly lumps.Chronic sore throat and recurrent episodes of tonsillitis are possible complications of having tonsil stones.If your tonsils are painful, inflamed, bleed easily, or if you have a sore throat with a fever, seek medical attention.
 In order to remove the stones at home, you will need to clearly see inside your mouth.


Strong flashlights work well for visibility, however you will probably need both hands free to manipulate the tools you choose.
Some people have difficulty with manually trying to remove the stones because it can be awkward, uncomfortable, and trigger your gag reflex., You may have avoided using your tongue to poke around your tonsils, especially if they feel painful or strange to the touch, but using your tongue may actually be a good tool that can help loosen the stones and get them out.Press on your tonsils and try to break up the stones or push them free. Working the back of your mouth by swallowing hard can also help to loosen the stones. Try coughing to loosen and release the stones.
This method may take patience, as the stones are snugly embedded in the crevices of your tonsils.Gargle with water, a salt water rinse, or mouthwash for 30 seconds to help keep the tissues moist and assist with freeing the stones.
 Scraping the calcification deposits from your tonsils is commonly done by using a regular toothbrush.Use the brush side and the flat side to lift the tonsil tissue to find the calcification deposits. The brush side can help to dislodge the stones from the tissue.Pull your tongue out and say "Aaahh" for a better view

, Wet the ends of the cotton swab to make it easier to manipulate against the stones and be gentler on your tonsils.Use the cotton swab to maneuver the fleshy tonsil tissue to locate the stones, then push up to dislodge them and scrape them away from the tonsil tissue.If you try to remove the stones with your finger, first wash your hands thoroughly with warm, soapy water and rinse them well. Open your mouth and find your tonsils with your finger.Be careful not to reach too far back with your finger to prevent triggering your gag reflex.
Apply pressure and then push up slightly so that the tonsil stones pop out.Rinse your mouth out with water or a salt water rinse.
 The force of the water generated by a water flossing appliance can help to loosen the deposits within the tonsil tissue.Use a water flossing device along with a toothbrush and/or cotton swab to remove the stones.Make sure you use it for just a few seconds, pointed directly to the stone, in order to avoid choking.
 Gargle frequently to help loosen the stones. Salt water gargles are a common method used to remove tonsil stones.Use a salt water rinse following any procedure you use to remove the stones. The salt water can help to wash away residue from the stones and remove any remaining bacteria and food debris in the tissues.Use salt water gargles routinely once the stones have been removed to help prevent them from returning. The salt works against the accumulation of bacteria that can lead to the development of tonsil stones., Tonsil stone removal kits can be purchased at drugstores or online.The kits range in size and price, with some containing several different tools that can be used to remove the stones., This type of doctor, often referred to as an ENT, is trained in managing conditions that involve the throat area, including the tonsils and tonsil stones.The doctor may be able to perform a procedure during your office appointment to remove the stones with little discomfort.If you are particularly anxious, the doctor may be able to apply a local anesthetic.
 In some cases, the symptoms of tonsil stones may overlap with other underlying conditions that may be more serious.Persistent soreness or discomfort in your tonsil area, redness, and tonsil tissue that bleeds easily warrants medical attention.If the pain and discomfort felt in your tonsils extends into one or both ears, seek medical attention., If you have frequent problems with tonsil stones, your doctor may recommend a tonsillectomy. Take into account that tonsils are the first "soldiers" to fight against bacteria or viruses that threaten your throat or respiratory system, and a tonsillectomy may make you more vulnerable to illness.


Having a tonsillectomy only to prevent recurrent tonsil stones is considered a last resort.If you and your doctor decide to proceed with a tonsillectomy, the surgery can be done in most people as an outpatient procedure.Partial tonsillectomies are performed in some cases. This allows the tonsils to remain in the body to help with immune responses, but removes enough tissue to prevent the formation of recurrent tonsil stones.Some risks are possible as with all surgeries. The most common problems following surgery include some additional bleeding, and pain.Pain following the surgery is usually managed by taking prescription-strength pain medications, along with plenty of fluids, and adequate rest., A procedure called laser tonsillotomy or laser tonsillectomy is a type of laser resurfacing that can be done on tonsil tissues.Laser resurfacing leaves the tonsils in place but eliminates the pits and crevices of their surface.
The tonsil tissue becomes smooth, avoiding the bacteria and food deposits that lead to the development of tonsil stones., Developing good daily oral hygiene habits can help to prevent stones from developing.Brush your teeth regularly. To maintain a clean and bacteria-free environment in your mouth, brush your teeth each morning, after each meal, and at bedtime.
When you brush your teeth also brush your tongue to remove excess food debris and bacteria., Rinse your mouth regularly with a salt water rinse or mouthwashes that do not contain alcohol.Alcohol-free mouth care products or those containing a low percentage (.02%) chlorhexidine digluconate can help to reduce the amount of bacteria that remains in your mouth area after use.Salt water used as a mouth rinse on a regular basis can help to prevent stones from developing., By flossing each day, you are removing excess bacteria that contribute to the formation of tonsil stones.Use mouth rinses or gargles after flossing to further remove bacteria and food particles dislodged from the flossing., Discard old and worn brushes. Replace toothbrushes every three months to help in properly cleaning your teeth, tongue, and gums.


Using a fresh toothbrush aids in removing food debris and bacteria that cause the stones to develop.
Rinse your toothbrush thoroughly after each use to prevent the accumulation of bacteria along the bristles.
 Drinking water throughout the day helps to refresh your mouth area, prevent dryness in your mouth area, and rinse away debris that can accumulate in the pits and crevices of your tonsils.Drinking plenty of water also helps to provide adequate hydration for the body and works to prevent an environment that can cause bacteria to grow., Probiotics help to maintain a healthy balance of bacteria in the body. This includes bacteria that resides, or remains, in the mouth cavity.In addition to taking probiotics, maintaining a balanced diet promotes overall good health and can help to prevent the overgrowth of unwanted bacteria.
Include apples, carrots, garlic, and onions in your diet.