 Each state in the US regulates homeschool differently. Many states require little to no notice, while others, mainly in New England, require homeschools to be established at certain dates, and visited and verified by state officials.applicable).


Websites like Home School Legal Defense Association and A to Z Home’s Cool offer state by state legal guides.
Talk to local home school support groups about their experience registering.
If you are moving during your child's school year, follow the requirements of whatever state you are in at the time.
Some states' homeschool laws vary by school district.
Get started with research as soon as possible. You may be required to withdraw your child from school by a certain deadline and register by another.
States require varying levels of documentation. You may need to maintain an "attendance record," and you may need to keep portfolios of your child's work.;
, You will need to establish a curriculum that teachers your child the material required by the state, that prepares your child for the next step (whether that be high school, home high school, or the GED), and that engages your child's curiosity and desire to learn. Check your state's requirements to see if you need to teach certain subjects, and if you need to train your child for standardized tests.Even if you don't follow it strictly, you may want to buy a standard middle school curriculum to use as a basis for your own.
 If there are subjects you do not feel qualified to teach, or if you are simply interested in providing specialized instruction for your child, hire tutors. Your tutors may need to fill certain requirements: in some states, they may need to be certified teachers., Get your child some classmates and playmates, and get yourself some colleagues. Not only do you need support as a teacher, but your child needs to be in touch with peers. Middle school age students are peer-oriented learners, and the presence of other children their age is essential to their cognitive development and personal happiness.


Find homeschool organizations at the HSLDA website, or at your state's education website.You may find groups of parents who keep in contact, debate competitions, extracurricular societies, and meet-up groups for students, and even pools of parents who share teaching responsibility.
Some states allow you to register your child with church-affiliated "umbrella" schools., Make sure your child has space dedicated to work. If you have a spare room, let that be the classroom. If you are short on space, make a corner of the living room your child's classroom. Have material that indicates workspace: bookcases and a large whiteboard to section off the space, a desk for your child, art, lab, and writing supplies, and perhaps a computer dedicated to schoolwork.


Make sure your child's work place is quiet, well-lit, and full of the resources your child will need.
 If you have decided to homeschool, you may already have a curriculum in mind. If not, you can find curricula for purchase at websites like Homeschool.com.Compare carefully, and make sure an curriculum you adopt reflects the curricular requirements for your state.


Get in touch with other homeschool families to find out what they have based their studies on.
 Limit the amount of new information you present in each lesson. A student in middle school can typically retain 5 to 7 pieces of information at one time.Break new information into sections organized around this model.


For instance, if your child is studying the Civil War, you might focus each lesson on one battle or one facet of the war, such as medical care or period weapons technology.
Reinforce each bit of information, and connect it to other parts of the day's lesson.
 Young adolescent brains will not retain information unless they can review it and connect it to new previous learning. After learning new information, give your student a chance to discuss it or write about it. In subsequent lessons, review the information and connect it to what you are currently studying.
 Early adolescent learners need to be involved in the lesson, and their assignments need to be hands-on. Approach each subject from many angles, and give your student a leading role in each activity. Each lesson should involve projects, art-making, pictures, music, video, or discussion.


As soon as information is given, it should be applied. If you teach your student a math concept, you then ask him or her to solve problems.
If your student is reading about slavery in the United States, teach art that depicts slaves and field hands, teach the music slaves would sing, and have your student write essays, debate ethics, and make art reflecting the information he or she is learning.
 Develop your students' deductive reasoning, problem solving, and generalizing skills. Early adolescent minds are just beginning to move from concrete thinking to abstract thinking. You will watch your child begin thinking about and regulating his or her own thought processes.This is a great age for writing that reasons through dilemmas, small research assignments to answer questions of your student's choosing, and scientific problem-solving.
Letting your child develop and maintain long-term projects, such as designing a website or writing and staging a play, will encourage your child to practice problem-solving.
 Students of middle school age tend to develop passionate interests that come and go. Harness your student's focus, and let him or her choose topics of study. Orient lessons around subjects of interest to your student. Encourage your student to develop and complete projects.For instance, if your student is obsessed with fairies and magic, study folklore and its historical context. Locate myths and legends geographically, and study their religious and political backgrounds, as well as the music and literature that proceed from them.
If your child is obsessed with Japanese culture, let him or her learn everything about Japan.
Integrate the topics and approaches that compel your child into other subjects. For instance, if your child only cares about science, math, and engineering, assign science fiction and nonfiction in his or her English classes.
 This is the age when your student will become ready to learn organization and self-regulation. Encourage your child to think systematically about the organization of time and work. Help your child establish and maintain consistent study routines. Patiently remind your child to stay on task, as children of this age struggle to remember and follow rules.At the beginning of long-term projects, make a chart with your child with steps to track progress. Revisit the steps at the beginning and end of each lesson or study session, and mark those that have been completed.
Give your child binders and a filing system, and teach him or her to color-code and organize school materials.
 Bookmark websites you can use for educational media, lesson plans, and worksheets. Make an account with PBS to access the material on their teaching website.Look for science and history teaching material from the Smithsonian.For humanities materials,s visit EDSITEment..


You can get good math material for 6th graders at Math Worksheets for Kids, and lessons, activities, and games for 6th and above at Illuminations., For math, Khan Academy has an extensive curriculum of math lessons, infinite practice material, and video tutorials,while Calculation Nation has entertaining math games.#*To vary your student's reading, have them visit Book Adventure, a virtual library. After your student reads a book, he or she can take a reading comprehension quiz to earn prizes.Get spelling and vocabulary games at Spelling City.You may subscribe to newspapers and magazines, but consider having your child read and compare coverage of different news events across different online newspapers.
 If you haven't already, get library cards for yourself and your child at the public library. Ask about interlibrary loan—some libraries will order books they don't have from other libraries. Take advantage of other public institutions, such as local museums or historical sites. Sign up for museum membership if you can afford it, and ask about classes and resources for students.


Get to know your neighborhood. If there is a community garden, see if your kid can garden there. If there are neighborhood sports teams, community theater, or after-school organizations that homeschoolers can use, sign your child up.
Ask other homeschooling parents what resources they rely on.
Middle school is a great time to start your child volunteering. See if your kid would be interested in helping out in an elementary school or nursery home, or tutoring younger homeschoolers.
 In teaching good study habits, put your child in charge of setting and achieving realistic learning goals. Your child should also be involved in tracking and evaluating his or her own progress. Share these responsibilities with your child. Review your child's structure and suggest amendments.


Leaving your child absolutely unsupervised might cause a depressed or anxious child to lie about progress.
The emotional volatility of a middle schooler often combines poorly with a highly disciplined environment. Your child is

, Middle school is the age in which your child becomes strongly peer-oriented. Home school can be a productively social time if you prioritize social interaction as part of your child's school time and playtime. Sign your kids up for classes outside of the home, participate in a home school cooperative, and let your child participate in your community and in communities outside of your own.


For instance, your child may always go to church with you, but he or she may also play Magic cards or intra-mural sports with kids at the public library.
Middle school students who make motivated, learning-oriented friends do better at their work.Your child should have at least one engagement with peers each day.
 School is often the place that a child is seen to exhibit signs of cognitive difference. Behaviors indicative of ADHD, autism, dyslexia, and even mental illness are sometimes inscrutable to parents and guardians. Cross-check your suspicions against other sources: visit a doctor, therapist, or learning disability specialist, talk to other parents about your child, and investigate your child's upbringing and any traits, such as dyslexia, that run in the family.


Notice if your child is slow to build vocabulary, has difficulty rhyming, or reads much slower than other children his or her age. These could be signs of dyslexia.Middle school age children tend to develop longer attention spans. If your child skips from subject to subject, can't remember where he or she left off on a project, does not finish a project that had been exciting, or cannot follow instructions or break tasks into smaller steps, she or he may have ADHD.If your child has experienced traumatic events, such as violence, sexual abuse, verbal abuse, neglect, accidents, or illness, she or he may be more prone to dissociation, depression, anxiety, and anger.
She or he may have cognitive issues, struggling with language development and abstract reasoning., Your child's emotions will become unwieldy around middle school age. She or he may go through stages of depression, anger, and irritability.This is a great age to teach emotional self-regulation, because it is the age when your child will begin to develop metacognition, awareness of his or her own thinking. Talk to your child about how he or she feels.


Connect each lesson with the memories, feelings, and personal associations your child has. If you are teaching history, ask your child to empathize with the situations of the historical figures, connect the events with events in the contemporary world, and imagine how they might handle a situation. If reading a novel, have your student write about personal crises similar to those in the novel, and what he or she would do differently now.Allow for flexibility in your child's daily schedule: if your kid wakes up on the wrong side of the bed, he or she may do better with solo activities rather than one-on-one instruction.
Don't cancel your planned lessons when your child is rebellious or upset. Rather, reschedule them. Work should not go away if it is difficult, but should be approached calmly.
Provide ample outlets for creative expression of feeling. Have your child keep a journal that is entirely private. Provide your child with art supplies.
Expose your child to art. Take him or her to museums, plays, opera, concerts, dance performances and poetry readings.
Be calm during a blow-up. Take deep breaths, and give your child space.
If you are worried for your child's happiness or mental health, seek help from a doctor or therapist.
 Around age 11, kids often opt out of the subjects that are difficult for them. If your kid asks to give up on a subject because they "aren't good" at it, refocus their studies so that they learn specific skills. For instance, around age 10 many children become frustrated with the lack of realism in their drawing, and give up art. Head this off by teaching new skills at this age, such as perspective, shading, and proportion.An outside class may help head off your child's desire to "give up" a subject. If your kid does not excel at sports, encourage other approaches to physical activity. Sign your kid up for a martial arts class, or a dance class, of their choosing.