 Most stores are open late, which will allow you to work a few hours after school. They also tend to have flexible working hours, and are almost always looking for people to work weekends. Look for stores that have a "Hiring" sign in the window, go inside, and ask how you can apply to work there. Some places require paper applications, while others will make you apply online. Whenever you send in an application, be sure to include a cover letter and a resume.


Your resume should include your skills, past work experience, contact information, and two non-family references (such as teachers or coaches). If you have no past work experience, try to list all of your relevant skills.
Cover letters are not absolutely necessary, but they can help you get the job. Use a cover letter to introduce yourself, explain why you want the job, and why you would be a good fit for the position.
If you are going to apply in person, be sure to dress nice and smile. Be formal and polite, but also relaxed. Also, try to speak with the store manager, especially when turning in your application.;
, Food service is especially popular for high school and college students: servers, hosts, and bartenders (though in some states you must be over a certain age to serve alcohol). The minimum wage for waiters might be less than the state-wide minimum wage, but you may make up for that with the money you earn from tips. Because of this, good customer service is important. The nicer you are, the larger your tips will be. Here is a list to get you started:


Dress nice, smile, and have good manners. Make sure to say "thank you" or "thanks."
If you are going to be late, call and over-quote the time by a few minutes.
Ask the customer how their day has been. This will show the customer that you care.
If you have an elderly or disabled customer, offer to take the order to where they want.
 Much like retail, you will have flexible work hours. And like working at a restaurant, you will earn money from tips. Be polite, on time, smile, and give great customer service.
 Chores, such as lawn mowing and shoveling snow, don't have to be just for kids. You can also offer to mow lawns, baby-sit kids and/or pets, paint fences, and so forth. Print out a few fliers with tear-away tabs on the bottom containing your contact information. Post these fliers throughout your neighborhood, especially in cafes, libraries, and parks.


Try posting your fliers where your customers will go. For example, if you want to do babysitting, post some fliers in the library or the park. If you can do painting or lawn mowing, try posting your fliers near a home improvement store.
 There are many websites out there that allow artists to sell their work. Many of these websites also offer some form of protection to both the artist and customer, in the event payment doesn't go through or something gets lost in the mail. Here is a list of things you can sell:


If you are good at knitting or crochet, you can make some scarves, hats, or arm warmers.
If you are good at drawing or painting, sell prints of your artwork. You can also offer to take requests.
If you like to sew, try making bags or laptop cases.
You can also sculpt figurines to sell as keychains, or make jewelry out of beads.
 Many research centers need participants for their studies. Sometimes they do not pay, but many times they do offer some reimbursement for your time.

