 As the name suggests, tapeworms are long flat worms. They can reach up to 60cm in length, and are a creamy-white color with flat segments along their length.


The tapeworms attach firmly to the lining of the bowel wall, so it is unusual to see an adult worm unless the cat has had a worming treatment.
It's much more common to see tapeworm egg packets on the cat's fur, especially near the anus.;
, When a tapeworm reproduces it fills special segments, called proglottids, which contain thousands of tiny eggs.


The adult tapeworms shed these egg packets into the bowel lumen where they migrate out of the cat's anus.
The proglotids are about the size of a grain of rice and a similar shape. If you see a white rice-like object on the cat's fur then it is highly likely he has tapeworms.
 If in doubt, stick the egg packet to a piece of sellotape (tear of a 6 inch length of sticky tape, and touch the adhesive side to the object, then stick the tape to a piece of card) to show to your veterinarian.
 There are two types of tapeworm that commonly infect the cat, and these tapeworms have different intermediate hosts. Dipylidium caninum (the most common cat tapeworm) uses fleas as its go-between.


Cats with fleas are likely to develop tapeworm as immature fleas feed on tapeworm eggs in cat feces. The tapeworm hatches and develops inside the flea (the intermediate host), and when the cat grooms and swallows the flea, her digestive juices crack open the fleas body and release the larval form of the tapeworms.
Thus, regular flea control is essential to prevent and control tapeworm in the cat.
 The second most common tapeworm, Taenia taeniaeformis, develops its larval stage inside rodents such as rats and mice. Therefore, hunting cats are more likely to be infected with this type of tapeworm.


Rodents infect themselves with the larval form of tapeworm when they eat plants contaminated by cat feces containing tapeworm eggs. The tapeworm burrows into the rodents muscles and when the cat hunts and eats the infected rodent, she infects herself with tapeworm.
Thus, hunting cats need to be wormed regularly, ideally every month.

