 Thinking about becoming a QoL-X intern? Fill out this survey to let the team know: Expressing Interest in QoL-X Internships.;
, One of the most valuable habits to develop is metacognitive review, thinking about your thinking and submitting a few notes. In this internship, you want to submit reviews at least daily, and even more often when you are completing assignments. Your internship record will be the collection of reviews you submit, along with links to whatever else you create. Reviews will be visible to others, so avoid sharing anything confidential unless you select the "anonymous" option.


Review videos or playlist. One of the easiest and most fun internship tasks is to watch a video or short playlist, reflect on it and submitting a Video Review each time. You can start with this playlist of trailers for the new Pixar movie about emotions Inside Out, one of the Phil Zimbardo talks, or simply review something else you've watched recently that you want to remember and share.
Review your day. Each day of the summer, you are doing things, experiencing things, and learning. At some point before you fall asleep, complete an Activity Review about your day and what you most want to remember.
Review the work you've just done. Any time you are working on something specifically for this internship, when you get to a good break point (whether you have finished the task or not), you can reflect and submit an Activity Review. For example, after you try out microvolunteering, submit an Activity Review before you do something else.
 You can find lots of places to help out virtually when you have a few minutes to spare. All of that counts as community service learning, so keep track of what you do! Start micro-volunteering for QoL-X by checking out the current challenges at Skills For Change-QoL-X. You can also micro-volunteer for Zimbardo's Everyday Heroes.
 Create your own account here on wikiHow and post something to this article's Talk page. Write something about yourself on your Userpage, and tell us more about why you are wanting to be part of these experiments. Check out all the various volunteer tasks you can help with all over wikiHow by checking out the Community Dashboard.
 The team wants all incoming interns to be adequately prepared for times of crisis, so we want you to be able to answer these questions well:


If you were found unconscious, would someone looking in your wallet know who to call? Make a card or note to keep in your wallet with the names and phone numbers of your emergency contacts. Then talk to your emergency contacts about what you would want them to do if you were seriously injured. Make sure they have each others' contact info.
If someone you cared about needed first aid, would you know what to do? Simply learning how to analyze a situation when you see someone who might need help is the first step. Learn basic first aid. You can start with a short video for Hands Only CPR. Then keep going with this Free First Aid certification course or ProFirstAid. First Aid training can help you overcome the Bystander Effect and give you far more confidence and readiness for handling sudden crises.
If you have a car, do you have an emergency supply kit in it? Put together an emergency kit for your car. If you drive often, that will mean the kit is most likely to be near you if a sudden emergency occurred. Make a checklist of what you personally need in an emergency kit, then start pulling it all together so it's easy to keep in car. Find ways to add to the kit until you are confident it has what you need.
If a natural disaster forced you to evacuate your home suddenly, do you have a pack of supplies ready to go? What else would you need beyond what you have in your car's emergency kit?
If a massive power outage meant that you had to "shelter in place" at home, do you have enough of what you need to survive for two weeks? Look online for what your checklist of supplies should include. And post tips here!

, When you are ready to get more involved, come up with your answers to any of these questions, and either post them to Dr Mel's Talk Page or email them to drmel@qol-x.org, then schedule a time to talk with Dr. Mel.


What questions or challenges are you most interested in working on?
What goals do you want to set for yourself for this summer?
What would the the deliverables look like?
How do you plan to make those happen?
What mediums or platforms will you use to research and to share your experiments?

, The QoL-X project is in a startup phase, getting ready for the Summer of 2015, welcoming all interested volunteers and interns, and trying to be timely in responding to inquiries. Systems are not solidly in place, though, so if you don't hear from someone, please try again!

