 Paper flash cards are easy to carry around, and writing by hand may help you memorize the words more than typing. On the other hand, you can't lose a phone app or online tool. Some flash card software even lets you speak the words aloud, then writes the cards for you.


If using paper cards, try to find something small that you can carry in your pocket. Cutting index cards in half works well.;
, Write the vocabulary word on one side of the card. On the other side, write the definition. Optionally, write out how to pronounce the word, and an example sentence using the word.


You can find example sentences by searching for the word online. Try to find an online news article or book, since those are more likely to use the word correctly.
 Color coding can help you sort cards if you're studying a large number at once. Pull out your highlighters and color the word side of the card. Here are a few systems you could use:


One color for each vocabulary lesson or chapter.
One color for each topic (food words, traveling words, etc.).
One color for each part of speech (nouns, verbs, adjectives, etc.).
 To test yourself, shuffle the cards and look at the top one. Read the word aloud, then say what you think the definition is. Turn it over and check yourself. Put cards you got right in one pile, and cards you got wrong in another pile.


If you're testing yourself on the go, bring along rubber bands to hold the two piles.
Most electronic apps have the option to test yourself like this. They may also have games and alternate tests you can use.
 Reread the pile of cards you got wrong, on both sides. Shuffle them and test yourself in the same way. Keep setting aside the cards you get wrong, so you can repeat this until there are no cards left. The length of time to do this will vary depending on how many cards you have.
 Shuffle all the cards again, but wait a while before testing yourself again. You might be surprised how many you forget. Waiting a short time between tests can help commit the words to your long-term memory.

