 Never call an agent or editor to query or ask questions if you are not one of their clients. You need to earn a spot on their radar through a great query letter and quality work.As well, do not visit them at their offices in New York or go knocking on doors. Agents, editors, and publishers could consider this unprofessional or rude.
Its important to remember publishing is a business, like Hollywood or Broadway. The publishing industry will support authors and work that will make money and provide a good return on investment. In the current age, this return investment needs to happen fast, usually with one book and in less than one year.
 A hybrid work combines several genres or styles of writing like essays, stories, and poetry. But it can be difficult to get a hybrid work published in the traditional way, as it does not fall into a single, salable category.In fact, even novelists and memoirists often get more rejections than acceptances. But it’s important to persevere and not be too discouraged by rejection.
 These conferences are a great way to meet editors and agents in a professional setting. You can also determine which publishers might be a good fit for your work.Do some research before attending a conference. Select a conference that allows you to meet with a specific author, editor, or agent that is ideal for your work.
Discuss the possibility of a critique session with the chosen editor. Make an appointment with them to discuss your work.
Attending writers conferences shows you want to be part of the writing community. It also shows you are not afraid to put yourself out there to promote your work. You’ll be far more attractive to publishers if they believe you’ll be an active marketer and promoter of your book.
 The quality of your writing matters more than a perfect query letter or the right cover design.Read other authors who relate to your work. Continue to practice your craft through many drafts and redrafts.
Your writing can only get better with time. Once you achieve quality in your work, your letter of acceptance from an agent or publisher will likely follow.

