 The liver receives all exiting circulation (veins) from the small and most of the large intestine, as well as spleen and pancreas, merged in the portal vein.Cirrhotic scarring, swelling, and hardening of the liver interferes with the flow of blood from the vein through the liver, raising pressure. This can overexpand the smaller veins that carry the blood from the intestines, pancreas and the spleen to the liver.

If you're diagnosed bleeding due to pressure requires immediate surgery to relieve pressure on the small veins before they burst

Portal hypertension treatment options may include a beta blocker, or nitrate.

Swelling in the legs and abdomen. Portal hypertension can cause fluid to swell the legs (edema) and accumulate in the abdomen (called ascites). Edema and ascites also may result if the liver cannot make enough blood proteins, especially albumin.

Enlargement of the spleen (splenomegaly). Portal hypertension can interfere with the functioning of the spleen.

Decreased white blood cells (WBC) and platelets (PLT). Blood counts can find these signs of portal hypertension due to cirrhosis. This decreased WBC weakens resistance to infections, and lower PLTs makes bleeding harder to staunch.

Life threatening bleeding. Portal hypertension cause blood to flow/backup into smaller veins in the area of the liver. So this increases their size, becoming varices (varicose veins) in the abdomen, straining the smaller veins may burst and cause hemorrhaging/serious bleeding. This occurs when veins in the lower esophagus (esophageal varices) and/or stomach (gastric varices) rupture and may not be detected soon enough to save the person's health/life. If the liver is not making enough clotting factors, this can also contribute to such deadly bleeding.



Deadly infections. Your body can have difficulty fighting infections. Bacterial infections are then a frequent trigger for bleeding. Ascites (excessive fluids in the abdominal cavity) may lead to bacterial peritonitis, a very serious infection. Tests such as lab-culturing can be performed on the ascites to see if any bacteria grow-in cultures seeded with the fluid.

Malnutrition and Wasting. Cirrhosis makes the liver fall behind and mostly fail in processing venous blood, filtering out enough toxins and in converting glycogen to sugar and vice-versa, and itself not able to use essential nutrients, leading to weakness and weight loss. Eat small meals and snacks -- all moderately sized, balanced, healthy, low-fat, low-sugar, not too much at once.

Toxins endanger the brain, especially ammonia. A liver damaged by cirrhosis isn't able to clear enough toxins from the blood. These toxins can progressively affect the brain and cause mental confusion and difficulty concentrating. Hepatic encephalopathy symptoms may range:

FROM: Fatigue, mild to severe intellectual impairment of cognition, personality changes, impaired memory
TO: Loss of responsiveness while apparently awake -- or periods of unconsciousness and to coma and death.


Jaundice. Jaundice occurs when the diseased liver doesn't remove enough bilirubin, a blood waste product, from your blood. Jaundice causes yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes and darkening of urine.
Weak bones/osteoporosis. Some people with cirrhosis lose bone strength and are at greater risk of fractures. Treatment for bone loss associated with primary biliary cirrhosis often involves calcium and vitamin D supplements -- and exercising moderately 4 days of the week to help increase your bone density.Increased risk of liver cancer. A large proportion of people who develop liver cancer which originates in the liver (not from another cancer spreading) have cirrhosis.
Multi-organ failure can occur. Some people experience the failure of several organs in acute-or-chronic liver failure. It is a complication of cirrhosis in some people. Avoiding it and its causes are not well understand.

