 The illustrations in this article show a repair where a slab reinforcing bar was too near the surface, and the concrete cracked. Other possible problems may include the following.


Ridges or humps left by the finishers.
Expansion or contraction cracks. Properly installed concrete should have joints that prevent this unsightly cracking. For a 4-inch thick slab, joints should be spaced 8 to 12 feet apart. If jointing is not sufficient, or improperly placed, cracks can occur. Typically these cracks are not structural and only need to be repaired for aesthetic purposes.
Debris like chunks of wood floating out of the concrete while it is still plastic (wet).
Damage caused by heavy objects being dropped on the slab before it is cured.
Surface scaling caused by improper finishing or freezing temperatures during curing. Scaling is when parts of the concrete surface flake away.;
, This may include bumps, depressions, or ridges. Small areas of shallow surface irregularities may be concealed with a floor leveling compound, rather than chipping out and replacing the actual concrete.
 For small jobs, a chipping hammer will be all you need, but larger repairs are much easier with an electric chipping hammer or even a jack hammer. Professionals also use grinding machines to prep the surface for repairs.
 This will allow the new material to have a solid surface to adhere to. A wire brush is a good choice for this step. A stiff bristled broom or paintbrush will also work. Depending on the age and condition of the concrete chemical cleaning may be required, it is best to consult a pro.
 Mix the dry ingredients first, using a proportion of 1 part Portland Cement (type I or II) to 2 1/2 parts clean masonry sand.
 Note that some bonding agents are applied directly to the area to be patched, like glue, so follow the instructions on the manufacturer's label.
 Do not flood the area, but make sure all surfaces are dampened, to assist in adhering the new cement mixture, as well as keeping the mixture from drying too quickly. Dry surfaces simply draw the moisture from the cement mixture too quickly, and will cause it to shrink, and ultimately, to crack.
 Place the mixture into, or on the patch location, and work it into the space forcefully with the trowel to force out any air bubbles.
 Allow it to dry and become stiff for an hour or so, depending on humidity and temperature.
 This will flatten and smooth the surface, and cause cement paste to rise to the surface. Very large, deep areas may be floated with a magnesium float to bring more cement paste up. This paste is the material that forms the surface of the finished slab.
 At this point, you may need to splash a little water on the surface to slow the drying, as well as making the finishing process somewhat easier. Use the edge of your trowel to shave, or scrape off any of your cement mixture which has spread to the adjacent, finished surface. Another good choice for patching materials are hydraulic cements. They usually set up in less than 30 min.
