 Go rock climbing, go to a concert, or play pub trivia with your partner. Planning fun, lively activities is a great way to enjoy one another’s company without worrying about possible romantic implications. Active dates are a great way to enjoy time with your partner, and the help keep any level of seriousness at bay.


Try introducing the person to your friends and invite them to participate in activities with your friend-group, such as going to the movies or going bowling.
 In a causal relationship, avoiding romantic situations and milestones is important for maintaining the boundaries of a causal relationship.Romantic getaways, candle-lit dinners, going to weddings, or celebrating anniversaries can, over time, promote feelings of affection and deep connection. To maintain the no-strings-attached policy, it is best to avoid situations that could encourage romantic feelings to grow.


Discuss if there are any holidays or celebrations that the two of you are comfortable celebrating together, such as a birthday or a promotion at work. It may be that you agree to avoid all celebrations and personal milestones completely.
 In a romantic relationship, it is typical for couples to tackle serious, difficult issues and topics. In a casual relationship, the obligation to sort through the heavy emotions isn’t there. You don’t necessarily need to omit sharing personal details and stories from conversations with your partner, but avoiding deep, personal conversations may help maintain the level of simplicity. Discuss with your partner about how you two should approach more serious conversations and situations.


Conversations can be current and cheerful. Discuss books, movies, sports, current events—topics that are interesting but fun and don’t require a level of seriousness. “Did you see the football game last night? I can’t believe they won at the very last second!”

, It is important to feel safe and comfortable with your partner at all times. Talk to your partner and be honest about how much physical intimacy you are comfortable with. Do not feel pressured to do anything you do not want to do, and respect your partner’s boundaries as well. Continue to communicate openly with your partner.

