 Look them in the eye (if they are open to eye contact), and address them directly using a normal vocabulary and tone of voice. Basically, treat them like you would a non-disabled person, with courtesy to any individual needs.


If you feel the urge to stare, give the person a smile instead. Then continue what you were doing.
Avoid pitying remarks such as "I'll pray for you" or backhanded compliments like "you're so pretty for a girl in a wheelchair."
Don't ask about their disability if it isn't relevant; they don't need to answer the same questions 15 times every day.
 Their disability is a part of them, so it's unfair to pretend it doesn't exist or get mad at them when they need accommodations. You can like and respect them as a person while acknowledging that their disability exists.
 They understand their own bodies and experiences best. Good listening skills are always important, but especially when talking to people who are often talked over.


Assume that the disabled person is trying their hardest to manage their disability and get the help they need.
Remember that they know more about their disability than you do.
When in doubt, ask "Are you looking for advice, or just a listening ear?" They'll appreciate it.
 You can't usually assess the degree of someone's disability just by looking at them or talking to them for 30 minutes. Disability is complex, so trust them when it comes to their needs—they are the experts on themselves.


Some people use mobility equipment or alternative communication to make difficult tasks easier (e.g. a wheelchair user who can walk short distances or a partially verbal person who only uses sign language sometimes).
People can have disabilities without "looking disabled."
Not all disabled people perfectly match the textbook definition or popular stereotype.
 Level of difficulty can change based on many things—stress, the weather, lack of sleep, how hard they pushed themselves yesterday—some of which are highly variable or not even understood by the disabled person. When in doubt about their needs, just ask.


A wheelchair user who shows up walking with a cane today is not necessarily faking it or "getting better." He is probably just having an easier time walking today.
An autistic woman who is normally full of hugs may not be able handle the input when she is stressed. Don't take it personally if she says no.
A depressed person can smile and laugh at a party and feel miserable the next day. This is nobody's fault.
 If you mean well and intend to help, most disabled people are glad you asked. This can allow them to be more comfortable or safe, and they'll trust you to respect their needs in the future.


"Do you have any needs that I should be aware of in general?"
"Should I move this chair out of your way?"
"You mentioned that you have PTSD from sexual assault, and this movie has a pretty intense sex scene. Would you prefer to watch something else instead?"

, Many disabled people don't discuss how deep their troubles run—it's often personal, and they don't want to upset you. If they say something is really hard for them, then assume it is, even if you don't personally witness them struggling.


People with chronic pain and other disabilities may have an excellent poker face.
Respond with compassion if they have a panic attack, meltdown, psychotic episode, or other breakdown. (Call one of their loved ones if you don't know what to do.)

, This can be an enormous relief to people who have to put up with others treating them as burdens or curiosities.


Accommodate without a fuss. "Loud noises hurt your ears? Okay, I'll shut the door more quietly from now on."
Don't make a big deal out of difficulties. "Huh, there's no wheelchair ramp here. That stinks. We could get takeout and eat it at the park, or should we try that Chinese place instead?"

