 To properly determine your body shape, you will need to measure your shoulders, your bust, your waist, and your hips with measuring tape.To measure your shoulders: place the measuring tape at the tip of one shoulder and wrap it all the way around you like a shawl until it meets back at the same shoulder. The tape should skim the top of your shoulder, almost as if it is going to slip off. This is the widest circumference of your shoulders. Write this measurement down.
To measure your bust: stand up straight and wrap the measuring tape around your back and across the fullest part of your bust, usually the middle of area of your bust. Pull the measuring tape as taut as you can without changing the shape of your breasts. Don’t squish them! Write this measurement down.
To measure your waist: wrap the measuring tape around your torso, at the smallest part of your waist. It should wrap flat around your back without buckling and meet just above your belly button. Write this measurement down.
To measure your hips: Hold the measuring tape at one hip, below your hip bone, at the fullest part of your hip. Keeping the tape flat, wrap it around the largest part of your butt and your other hip and bring it back to the meeting point. Write this measurement down.
 Using the measurements you took, figure out what your body shape is:You are an inverted triangle shape if: your shoulders or bust are larger than your hips. Your shoulder or bust measurements should be more than 5 percent bigger than your hip measurement. So, if your shoulders measure 36 inches (91.4 cm), your hips will be 34 ¼ inches or smaller.
You are a rectangle shape if: your shoulders, bust, and hips are around the same size. You may have no defined waistline. Your shoulder, bust, and hip measurements should be within 5 percent of each other. Your waist should be less than 25 percent smaller than your shoulder or bust measurements. So, if your shoulders measure 36 inches (91.4 cm), your waist will be 27 inches or more.
You are a triangle shape if: your hips are wider than your shoulders. Your hip measurement will be more than 5 percent bigger than your shoulder or bust measurements. So, if your shoulders measure 36 inches (91.4 cm), your hips will be 37 ¾ inches or larger.
You are hourglass shaped if: your shoulders and hips are around the same size and you have a very defined waistline. Your shoulder and hip measurements should be within 5 percent of each other. Your waist should be at least 25 percent smaller than your shoulder, hip, and bust measurements. So, if your shoulders and hips measure 36 inches (91.4 cm), your waist will be 27 inches (68.6 cm) or smaller.
 Empire dresses hit just below your bustline and taper out at the hem. So if you are a rectangle shape, look for an empire dress that fits snugly around your chest and flares out to give the illusion of a defined waistline.If you are a triangle shape, empire dresses will also look great on you. They will make your legs look long and lean.
 The simple lines of a collared dress will put the focus on your shoulders and neck. You can also wear the top two or three buttons open to create a V-neck to flatter your top half., The wrap dress is created by cross-wrapping fabric and securing it with a tie or bow in the front or side. It also has a nice V-shaped neckline, which looks great on every shape.The surplice is a permanent version of a wrap dress, where the fabric is cross-wrapped in the front and sewn to create a V-shaped neckline.
Surplice tops or wrap tops are also great for any body shape and create a flattering neckline. They can be paired with skinny jeans or cargo pants for a casual look., This style was originally created to hold gear for the military, so they have numerous pockets on the outside of the pants. Cargo pants add weight to your bottom half, so they’re good for an inverted triangle shape and can compliment an already-balanced shape like an hourglass.


If you are a rectangle shape, choose a pair with pockets at the hips to add curves below your waist and make your waist appear smaller than your hips.
 Traditional men’s trousers are cut to fall straight from the hip with slanted side pockets and cuffs. A high-waisted trouser will make your thighs appear long and lean.
 This style of jeans is tight fitted in the waist, hips and thighs. It then tapers down, hugging the calves and ankles, so it makes your legs look long and lean., The cut of this style runs straight from the hip to the knee, and then flares slightly from the knee to the ankle. It’s a great cut for all body shapes, as it creates a long leg and balances your hips.