 Although it sounds counter-intuitive, your landlord or an employee at the management office should be able to tell you if there is a tenant association in the complex or building.Landlords aren't necessarily happy for their tenants to form an association, but they aren't legally allowed to interfere with the association's operations.
Some management companies even have representatives attend the association meetings to address problems that might come up.;
, The tenant association may post advertisements for the next gathering on a community bulletin board or in common areas.In some cities and states tenant associations have the explicit right to post notices about meetings and issues of interest to the tenants, as well as distribute flyers directly door-to-door.
 Tenant association meetings typically are open – all you have to do is show up.


Even if you ultimately decide not to take an active part in your tenant association, it can be a good way to meet your neighbors and discuss common issues.Pay attention to how the meeting is organized and how the residents interact with one another.
Listen to the issues raised in the meeting and consider whether these are problems you've encountered yourself, or whether you have any additional problems you'd like addressed.
 At the end of the meeting, approach the people in charge of the association and ask them what the process is to join.


If the association is relatively unorganized, there may be nothing more formal necessary to join than simply showing up at meetings.
However, some associations may have a more formal structure that requires you to fill out a written form and provide contact information, or even pay dues to join the association.
 If you have particular skills or interests that would be of use to the association, you might want to volunteer to help.


For example, if you have legal experience, you may want to volunteer to make a short presentation on landlord-tenant law and tenants' rights in your state.
If you speak Spanish and your complex has a large Spanish-speaking population, you might volunteer to translate association flyers and literature into Spanish, or provide a written summary of meetings in Spanish, so those who have trouble understanding English can participate as well.
Don't underestimate the value of any connections you have in the community as well. You could be a tremendous asset to the association if you have close friends or associates who are lawyers, or who work in city or county government.

