 The acid in some food and drinks can damage tooth enamel.


Don't brush your teeth for at least 30 minutes after eating acidic food. Generally, fruits are the most acidic foods, followed by some vegetables, especially if they have been pickled. , The sugar provides "food" for the bacteria in your mouth, which can aggravate gum disease and tooth decay, which cause sensitivity.


Follow sugary drinks with milk or water to restore the pH balance in your mouth.Try to brush your teeth within 20 minutes of eating sugary foods.
Consider using a straw, regardless of what you are drinking, so that your teeth have less contact with the liquid. , Garlic and wheatgrass are both antibiotic and can reduce pain. Wheatgrass will help control any possible infection and fights tooth decay. Guava leaves can also relieve pain and have anti-inflammatory properties.


Some foods are also good at relieving pain when they are consumed raw, like spinach leaves or onions.
 If your jaw is often stiff or your teeth are worn down, this can be a sign that you are grinding your teeth. A dentist can prescribe a special mouth guard to prevent nighttime teeth grinding. Grinding is often caused by stress, so taking the time to de-stress can help too., Gargling or brushing your teeth with baking soda paste can help rebuild tooth enamel. For every quarter glass of water, add a quarter teaspoon of baking soda., Dry mouth can occur for many reasons, such as a side effect of medication or treatments, diseases and infections, nerve damage, dehydration, or lifestyle choices, such as smoking or chewing tobacco.Dry mouth can lead to tooth sensitivity, along with increased risk of gum disease, tooth decay, and infection.To reduce dry mouth, try the following:Talk to your doctor about switching to another medication if it is causing your dry mouth or ask if she can prescribe you Salagen, which increases saliva production.
Quit using tobacco products.
Drink lots of water and keep hydrated.
Breathe through your nose and not your mouth.
 Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) or acid reflux occurs when stomach acid flows back into your esophagus and sometimes into your mouth. The acid can eat away at the enamel of your teeth, leading to sensitivity.Acid reflux may be eased by over-the-counter antacids (Maalox, TUMS, Rolaids); H-2-receptor blockers (Zantac, Pepcid AC), which reduce acid production; or proton pump inhibitors (Prilosec, Prevacid 24 HR), which are stronger than H-2-receptor blockers. If OTC treatments don't work, ask your doctor about prescription medication to treat your acid reflux. These may include stronger H-2-receptor blockers and proton pump inhibitors, or medications like Baclofen, which works on the lower esophageal sphincter, strengthening the muscle to prevent reflux.In some cases, surgery may be necessary to control acid reflux.