 Look for a young bird. Baby birds will bond with you most easily. Try to find a bird that was hand-fed by its breeder. This bird will be used to human interaction.You can socialize a bird that was not fed by hand. Get the bird while it is still young or buy a bird that has had some socializing with humans.Call your local wildlife rescue organization if you find an orphaned bird in the wild.;
, Consider the size of the bird. Pick a bird that you can carry comfortably. Make sure there is room in your home for a cage that is much bigger than your bird.Also assess how much time you can give your bird. Some birds require much more one-on-one time with their humans.
 Research which birds get along with others if you live with other people or have other pets. Find a bird that is a good size for children to handle if you have children. Some species, like lovebirds, may become overprotective of you after bonding and will not share you., Keep your bird healthy by trimming its nails. Use clippers made for birds, because scissors can cause injuries if not used properly. Trimming your bird’s nails will prevent them from becoming too sharp or uncomfortable when you cuddle., Buy a cage that is large enough for your bird to fly, climb, and jump. Get a cage that is wide enough for your bird to stretch its wings. Look for a cage that can accommodate perches, some toys, and any retreats that you provide for your bird.Get a cage with strong, non-toxic bars that your bird cannot bend or pull apart.
Be sure to keep its cage clean.
 Give your bird toys. Birds enjoy playing and a happy bird will be more affectionate and cuddly. Find toys that are non-toxic and will not be choking hazards if the bird pulls them apart. Look for toys in the pet store. Consider buying baby toys for your bird, like rattles and blocks.


Research which toys your bird breed likes best. For example, Quaker Birds love to lace string around the bars of their cages.
 Spend time near the cage, talking to your bird. Put your hand on the cage so it gets used to you. Start to finger train your bird. Use your hands to pet and gently pat your bird., Take your bird out of its cage every day. Rub it affectionately and nuzzle it with your chin to teach it cuddling behavior. Play with it, hold it, and snuggle it as often as you can.
 Dedicate time to teaching your bird tricks. Shower it with attention and reward it as it learns the tricks. Your bird will appreciate this extra time and attention. In return, it will be friendlier and more affectionate.Start by teaching your bird to step onto and off of your finger by luring it with treats.
Next, train your bird to ladder (step up from the finger of one hand to the finger of another).
Some birds can be trained to talk or imitate sounds.
Snuggly birds may enjoy training to climb in and out of your pockets and sleeves.
 Give your bird healthy treats, like fruits and vegetables and eat your own portion of the same food when your bird does. Or sit down for a meal with your bird. As flock animals, birds associate sharing food and meals as friendly, social behavior. Cuddle your bird before and after the meal so it associates mealtime with cuddling.Only feed your bird foods that it can tolerate at mealtimes.
 Give your bird plenty of time out of its cage. Supervise your bird when it’s not in the cage so it stays safe. Provide it with perches in areas where it’s allowed to fly and roam. You can also provide toys for your bird to play with outside of its cage. Try getting a play gym so it can exercise. This freedom keeps birds happy. It also give the bird more opportunities to snuggle with you.Make sure windows and doors are closed so it doesn’t fly out.
Keep it away from other pets.
 Provide a bird bath for your bird. Change the water regularly to keep it clean. Take larger tropical birds in the shower or let other birds clean themselves under the faucet. Spray birds with a light mist of water if they avoid the bath. Birds love bathing and need to groom to stay healthy and happy.Bring your bird to the vet if it needs its beak trimmed. This is also essential for your bird’s health.
 Keep your bird happy with praise. Praise it for cuddling and being affectionate. Give it treats and cuddle it to reward good behavior. Focus on rewarding good behavior instead of punishing your bird for behaving badly.Don’t withhold affection, raise your voice, or punish your bird if your bird does something wrong. Doing these things can make your bird aggressive instead of cuddly.

