 Owning most varieties of squirrels is illegal in some regions. If you are caught with an illegal pet, the animal will be seized and euthanized and you will be fined and possibly face jail time. If you aren't caught and the animal becomes sick, most vets will not treat wildlife, leaving you with almost no option.


Before investing time, money, and a piece of your heart in a squirrel, consider volunteering with your local rehabber to see if a squirrel is right for you. If you still feel that owning a squirrel would fulfill you, check with all vets in your area to see if they will treat one and check all government agencies to ensure your little friend won't be harmed because of your actions.
 Having some climbing room and some wood (preferably a stick of hardwood) to gnaw on for the squirrel. This is important for the squirrel's dental health and necessary for teething young. The Author made one out of 2 round pieces of wood, held together with 2X4's on the inside, wrapped in chicken wire. Keep in mind that squirrels need a lot of room and if they are not going to be allowed to roam around the house (which is not a good idea if there is anything you don't want chewed, such as electrical wires), you may want to consider an outdoor cage. However, this may eventually lead to wilding-up, which is when the natural instincts of the squirrel kicks in and he wishes to return to the wild.;
, Build nest boxes, buy lots of fluffy hammocks, cubes, and other lounging areas to give the squirrel lots of choices for bedding. Make sure there is plenty of bedding and a place for it to snuggle in like a pouch. Another idea is a bedding pouch, such as the type you would use for a ferret.
 Too many things can and will go wrong without guidance that may lead to death for the baby. If a rehabber can't be found, TheSquirrelBoard.com is a fantastic resource. A baby squirrel cannot thermoregulate itself, meaning that it cannot stay warm without assistance. Put a heating pad half underneath whatever you are keeping it in, but make sure it does not exceed 100 degrees. Make sure the heating pad is underneath half of the enclosure, so that the baby has a cool half to move to in case the baby gets too hot.


A good internal temperature for the squirrel itself is between 98 and 102 degrees, which means it should feel warm to the touch, warmer than your hand. A cold baby can die very easily, so this is very important.
A cold baby can not digest food as well as a warm baby. Never feed a cold squirrel.



Food for adults: store bought rodent block such as Harlan Teklad, Mazuri or Henry's Healthy Blocks are great along with fresh vegetables and limited fruits and an occasional nut as a treat.
For babies: Fox Valley milk replacement is a must. Check TheSquirrelBoard.com for formula updates. Often, formula recipes change and will cause babies to die. Before purchasing formula, check to see which one is recommended. Feed this to the squirrel using a 1cc syringe slowly as babies will often aspirate milk out through their nose while sucking which could lead to pneumonia.

For ages 2-3 weeks: feed 5 times a day, 5% - 7% of the squirrel's body weight. (Squirrel's weight in grams x 5% = amount to feed. Example 100 grams x 5% = 5ccs each feeding)
Age 4-5 weeks: feed 4-5 times a day. You can stop night feedings if the baby is doing well.
Age 6-7 weeks: feed 4 times a day.
Age 8 weeks: feed 3 times a day. Begin weaning onto small pieces of solid food such as blocks and veggies. Do not start with nuts.
 Healthy squirrels will generally drink from a water bottle, such as the type you would use for rabbits and other rodents. If they do not drink from the bottle, set out a shallow dish for them to drink from, but be aware that they may make a mess.
 This will keep away the painfully fatal disease of Metabolic Bone Disease. Do not feed more than 1-2 small pieces of fruit and 1 nut a day.
 If someone in the house has a cold or a virus, keep them away from the squirrel, just to be safe. Wash your hands before and after feeding, touching or cleaning around the squirrel.
 Most pets have a natural instinct to kill the squirrel. Too many people have trusted their 'harmless' dog or cat only to come home with a house full of blood and a very much dead squirrel.
 If you insist on keeping a wilding-up squirrel as a pet, realize that they will become very aggressive and antsy. They will chatter, growl, bark, snap, bite, and constantly run away from your OR even charge at you. If this happens, you will want to start the release process for the squirrel.
