 Since the iPhone 4 doesn't natively support Siri, the only way you can get it is by jailbreaking your device. This isn't the only way to get voice-command functionality, however; there are a variety of apps available that can mimic and even improve upon Siri's capabilities.


Dragon Go! is one of the most popular voice-command apps available, and is actually made by the same company that developed the Siri technology. It works with a variety of other apps, including Yelp, Spotify, Google, and many more.
Dragon Diction is an add-on app for Dragon Go! that allows you to compose tests using your voice.;
, You may not have Siri on your phone, but did you know you can still perform a lot of voice commands? To access the Voice Control feature, press and hold the Home button until it appears. Your phone will beep and vibrate when Voice Control opens.


Call someone by saying "Call Name" or "Call Phone #".
Start a FaceTime chat by saying "FaceTime Name".
Play a song by saying "Play song name, artist, album". If you say "Genius", iTunes will pick a similar song to the one currently playing to play next.
 The Google Search app contains powerful voice recognition software as well. While it only interfaces with the Google Search app, you can use it to quickly search and browse the web, as well as add appointments to your Google Calendar or set reminders., You can jailbreak your iOS 7 iPhone 4 as long as you don't have any version past 7.0.6. iOS 7.1 has disabled the ability to jailbreak, and there is no sign that a new exploit will be found soon. If you have already upgraded your device to 7.1 or newer, you will need to use the first method of this article to get Siri-like functionality, as jailbreaking your phone is not possible.


You can check your version number by opening the Settings app, tapping General, and then tapping About.
 You will need the latest version of iTunes in order to jailbreak your iPhone. See this guide for detailed instructions on updating your iTunes installation.
 This is the program that will jailbreak your phone. Evasi0n 7 is a free program, and should only be downloaded from the evad3rs' website. Any site that tries to charge you for this program is a scam.
 Before performing any jailbreak, it is always wise to backup your phone so that you can easily restore it if something goes wrong. Since jailbreaking is not an officially-supported action, there is a much larger chance that something could mess up during the process. See this guide for details on backing up your phone.
 Find the downloaded file, extract it, and then run it to begin the jailbreak process. Windows users should right-click on the jailbreak program and select "Run as Administrator".
 If you have a passcode set for your iPhone's lock screen, you will need to temporarily disable it during the jailbreak process. If you don't disable it, the jailbreak will fail.


You can turn off the passcode lock by opening Settings, tapping General, and then tapping Passcode Lock. Make sure to toggle it OFF.
 The evasi0n 7 program will detect that your phone as been connected, and will display the current iOS version that it is using. Click the Jailbreak button to begin the jailbreaking process.
 You can watch the progress of the jailbreak in the evasi0n window. This may take a while, so be patient and don't open iTunes or Xcode while the jailbreak is processing.
 After the first phase is complete, your phone will reboot and the evasi0n program will inform you that your phone needs to be unlocked to continue. Make sure that you do not close the evasi0n program at this time, or the jailbreak will fail.
 Once you unlock your phone, you'll see a new app on your Home Screen called evasi0n 7. Tap it to start the next phase of the jailbreak process. Your screen will go white and your phone will reboot again. You can monitor the rest of the jailbreak process on your phone, but make sure you leave the program running on your computer.
 Once the jailbreak is complete, your phone will reboot one more time and the Cydia app will appear somewhere on your Home Screen. Tap it to open the Cydia store, and move down to the next section of this article to get the Siri tools.
 If you are running iOS 6, you may need different tools depending on which version of iOS 6 you are using. If you have iOS 6.1.3, 6.1.4, or 6.1.5, you will need p0sixspwn, which can be downloaded from the evad3rs website. If you have an older version, you will need an older version of the evasi0n tool. This article will discuss using p0sixspwn, as these are the most common versions of iOS 6. For all other versions, see this article for details.


You can check your version number by opening the Settings app, tapping General, and then tapping About.
 You will need the latest version of iTunes in order to jailbreak your iPhone. See this guide for detailed instructions on updating your iTunes installation.
 This is the program that will jailbreak your phone. p0sixspwn is a free program, and should only be downloaded from the evad3rs' website. Any site that tries to charge you for this program is a scam.
 Before performing any jailbreak, it is always wise to backup your phone so that you can easily restore it if something goes wrong. Since jailbreaking is not an officially-supported action, there is a much larger chance that something could mess up during the process. See this guide for details on backing up your phone.
 If you have a passcode set for your iPhone's lock screen, you will need to temporarily disable it during the jailbreak process. If you don't disable it, the jailbreak will fail.


You can turn off the passcode lock by opening Settings, tapping General, and then tapping Passcode Lock. Make sure to toggle it OFF.
 The p0sixspwn program will detect that your phone as been connected, and will display the current iOS version that it is using. Click the Jailbreak button to begin the jailbreaking process.
 Your phone will enter a quick Restore mode, but don't worry about losing your data. Although a traditional restore will wipe the phone, the jailbreak is using the restore function to install the custom software.


You can watch your p0sixpwn window to see status updates on the jailbreaking process.
Do not unplug your iPhone during the jailbreak process. Your phone will reset several times during the process, but this is normal.
 After the initial jailbreak phase is complete, you will see Cydia on your Home Screen. Make sure to leave your iPhone connected to the computer and p0sixpwn open for the time being. Tap on the Cydia app to launch it and finish the jailbreak process.


When you first launch Cydia, you will see the "Preparing Filesystem" message. This process can take a significant amount of time, especially for older devices like the iPhone 4, so be patient.
When the "Preparing Filesystem" process is complete, your iPhone will reboot. You can launch Cydia again and move on to the next section to install the Siri tools.
 In order to download software through Cydia, you need to add the repository that contains the files you want. Think of repositories like channels that cater to specific needs. In order to get the Siri tools, you'll need to add a specific repository:


Open Cydia, then tap Manage → Sources → Edit → Add.
Enter in the following address: http://repo.siriport.ru

Tap "Add Source" to add the repository to your list.
 Once the repository has been added, you will be able to select it from your list of Sources. Opening the repository will display a list of available files. Loading may take a few moments, as the servers are located in Russia. Tap the appropriate package for your device:


iOS 7 - SiriPort (Original) for iOS 7
iOS 6 - SiriPort (Original) for iOS 6.1.x (Select the appropriate option for the version you are running. If you are running 6.1.4 or 6.1.5, select the 6.1.3 version)

, Once the package has been installed, go back to your Home Screen and open the Settings app. Scroll down until you find the "SiriPort.ru (Original)" option. Tap it.
 When you open the SiriPort option in the Settings app, you will see the "Install Certificate" option at the top of the menu. Tap it and you will be taken to a webpage in Safari that will prompt you to install a certificate. This is necessary in order to connect to the Siri servers for voice command processing. Tapping "Install Certificate" on the website will open the "Install Profile" window.
 You will see the SiriPort.ru name along with the message "Not Trusted". Tap "Install" and then "Install" again to confirm. The "Not Trusted" message will change to "Trusted" and a green checkmark will be displayed. The Siri installation process is now complete.
 Before you can start using Siri, however, you'll need to activate it. To do this, press and hold the Home button until the Siri interface appears. Say a simple command such as "Hello". Wait for Siri to respond. This step can be tricky, as there are often issues connecting to the server. You may have to retry multiple times.


Rebooting your iPhone 4 may make connecting to Siri easier.
Once Siri replies, a connection has been established and Siri is now usable whenever you'd like. Be aware that Siri is much slower than on legitimate versions due to the fact that voice commands need to be sent to overseas servers to be processed and then sent back to you.