 It doesn't really matter what color the bra is, but common colors such as white and black work best. When this is complete you won't see the cups, so don't worry too much about how fancy the bra looks.


Make sure the bra has full coverage and is firm. Padded bras are a good choice.
You may be wearing this bra uncovered, so make sure the bra fits well and does not ride up or slip off the shoulders.;
, You can purchase either silver sequins, mosaic mirror chips or silver glitter (a messier but still effective option). You will also need fabric glue. The sequins or glitter can be found in sewing, craft or even art stores along with the mosaic mirror chips. You can also purchase a shiny metallic fabric, but this is optional.


Sequins attached to a long thread are better than individual sequins - they're faster to attach.
If using glitter, the glitter should be in as large pieces as possible.
 Avoid using any place that will become too cluttered, as you need lots of room to move. You may want to lay out newspaper or a drop cloth under the bra to contain the mess.
 Spread the fabric glue right across the cups of the bra. Depending on what you're using, here is what to do next:


If you bought sequins, then glue them on in even rows; don't leave gaps but keep the sequins tightly packed together. Alternatively, sew each sequin onto the bra evenly by hand. If using strips of sequins, cut to size to fit each bra cup and hand sew or machine stitch in place.
If you bought the mosaic mirror chips, then just arrange them carefully on the bra and glue into place. Again, keep them closely together, without gaps.
If you bought glitter, place fabric glue over the bra, then just sprinkle it over the bra and set it out in a good place to dry.

This step is optional but effective if you're using glitter. If you bought metallic fabric as well as glitter, cut the fabric out to fit the shape of each bra cup (do a few basic measurements to make sure what you're cutting is accurate). Shape the fabric over the bra, glue in place (or stitch around if you're really patient) and wait for it to dry. Then, put fabric glue on top of the metallic fabric and sprinkle the glitter on this glue. The metallic fabric will help to bring out the sparkles of the glitter, making it appear shinier.
 Before the disco ball bra dries, hold the bra out and check its shape. If any adjustments are needed, it's much easier to do before the glue dries, so fix any gaps or mistakes now.


Check that the bra cups are fully covered with the sequins, mirror chips or glitter.
 Check it out in the mirror, then make any adjustments needed to ensure that it fits you comfortably. Once it fits well, it's time to wear it out to the next dance.
