 Ensure the electrical appliances in good condition, without loose or frayed cords or plugs. Avoid overloading plugs and check light fixtures in your home and use bulbs that are the correct wattage.


Check that your home contains GFCIs (ground fault circuit interrupters) or AFCI's (Arc fault circuit interrupters), which prevent electrical shock and fire by shutting off faulty circuits.
Be careful about do-it-yourself electrical projects. Studies have shown that many home fires are caused by improper installation of electrical devices. Get appliances that spark, smell unusual, or overheat fixed.;
, Fires can destroy your most cherished personal items, your home and serious injury or death. Here are the top causes of fires:


The kitchen is the most dangerous room for fires. Cooking is the major cause for fires. The fires mainly occur in the evening between 5 and 7 pm.
Faulty or damaged electrical wires can start dangerous fires.
Incorrect use of portable heaters or appliances pose a fire threat, especially during winter mornings and evenings.
Unsupervised children playing with matches and lights can hurt themselves and others.
Discarded smoking material igniting fires at home.
Fires can occur when candles and incense burners are left unattended.
 Each room has different dangers. Teach your kids about dangers too. Remember to take extra care during the winter months when house fires are more prone.


General:

Install electrical safety switches.
Avoid overloading power points.
Switch off appliances not in use.
Check electric equipment for frayed cords.
Keep matches and lighters away from children.
Ensure central heating and air-conditioning units are checked by a qualified person annually.
Install smoke alarms and check them regularly.
Check that windows and security grilles open for an essay exit.
Keep all paths clear.


Entrance:

Keep all keys in internal locks.
Get fireproof doors.
Handles may be hot in a fire.


Living room:

Place a screen in front of open fires.
Clean your chimney or flue once a year.
Keep portal heaters away from curtains.
Ensure electrical equipment has sufficient air circulation to avoid the build up of heat.
Never leave naked flames unattended.


Kitchen:

Write an escape plan and put it in a central location.
Never leave cooking unintended.
Keep a fire blanket near the exit.
Wear clothing with fitted sleeves when cooking.
Avoid using sprays or liquid cleaners near hot surfaces as they can be highly flammable.


Bedrooms;

Don't run electrical wires under rugs.
Ensure lamps and night-lights are not touching bedspreads, drapes, or other fabrics.
Check electric blankets before putting them on the bed.
Use caution when using electric blankets.


Garage:

Store flammable liquids safely.
Don't let kids use appliances by themselves and supervise any art or science projects that involve electrical devices.
Cover any outlets that are not in use with plastic safety covers if you have toddlers or young children in your home.
Clean your gutters regularly.
 Portable space heaters substantially contribute to the increase of house fires during winter. Before plugging in your space heater, make sure you know how to use it safely:


Carefully read the directions for its use.
Never place a space heater where a child or pet could accidentally knock it over.
Never place a space heater too close to a bed, especially a child's bed.
Keep newspapers, magazines, and fabrics from curtains, clothes, or bedding away from space heaters, radiators, and fireplaces.
Heaters should be at least 3 feet from anything flammable.
 Cooking the leading cause of house fires. Fires can start when food is left unsupervised on a stove or in an oven or microwave, grease spills, a dish towel too close to the burner, a toaster or toaster oven flare-up or a coffee pot accidentally left on.


Always supervise kids while cooking and practice safe cooking habits such as turning all pot handles in so they can't be accidentally knocked over and not wearing loose-fitting clothing that could catch fire around the stove.
 Keep your fireplace clean and covered with a screen to keep sparks from jumping out. Only wood should be burned in the fireplace because paper and other materials can escape while burning and ignite nearby items. Never leave a fire burning unattended and make sure a fire is completely extinguished before leaving the house or going to bed. Have the chimney professionally cleaned once a year.
 Playing with matches is still the leading cause of fire-related deaths and injuries for kids younger than five years. Always keep matches and lighters out of children's reach. Store flammable materials such as gasoline, kerosene, and cleaning supplies outside of your home and away from kids.
 As decorative candles become more popular, candle fires are on the rise. If you light candles, keep them out of reach of kids and pets, away from curtains and furniture, and extinguish them before you go to bed. Make sure candles are in sturdy holders made of non-flammable material that won't tip over. Don't let your children no use candles unsupervised in their rooms.
 Around the holidays, there are even more potential fire hazards to think about. If you use a real Christmas tree in your home, make sure to water it daily and do not tie electric lights strung on a dried-out tree.


All lights and lighted window ornaments should be inspected every year to make sure that cords are not worn or frayed, and all candles should be used with care. The number of fires started by candles nearly doubles during the month of December.
 Having a smoke alarm in the house cuts your risk of dying in a fire in half. Almost 60% of all fatal residential fires occur in homes that don't have smoke alarms, so this may be the single most important thing you can do to keep your family safe from fires.


If your home doesn't have smoke alarms, now is the time to install them on every level of your home and in each bedroom. If possible, choose one with a 10-year lithium battery. If your smoke alarm uses regular batteries, remember to replace them every year (hint: change your batteries when you change your clock back from Daylight Saving Time in the fall). Test your smoke alarms monthly, and be sure your kids are familiar with the sound of the alarm.
Because smoke rises, smoke detectors should always be placed on ceilings or high on walls. If a smoke detector near the kitchen goes off while you're cooking, do not take the battery out of it—you may forget to replace it. Open the doors and windows instead. Or you might consider installing a rate-of-rise heat detector for places like the kitchen, where smoke or steam from cooking are likely to cause false alarms. These alarms can sense when the temperature reaches a set critical point or when it rises by more than a certain number of degrees a minute.
If you're having a new home built or remodeling an older home, you may want to consider adding a home sprinkler system. These are already found in many apartment buildings and dormitories. Carbon monoxide alarms also can be lifesaving.
 Be prepared for any accidents by having fire extinguishers strategically placed around your house—at least one on each floor and in the kitchen (this one should be an all-purpose extinguisher, meaning it can be used on grease and electrical fires), the basement, the garage, or workshop area. Keep them out of reach of children. Fire extinguishers are best used when a fire is contained in a small area, like a wastebasket, and when the fire department has already been called. The best time to learn how to use the fire extinguisher is now, before you ever need it (if you have any questions, the local fire department can help). Fire extinguishers have gauges on them indicating when they need to be replaced and should be checked regularly to make sure they're still functional. If you're ever in doubt about whether to use an extinguisher on a fire, don't try it. Instead, leave the house immediately and call the fire department. The NFPA says to remember the acronym PASS when operating an extinguisher:


Pull the pin. Release the lock with the nozzle pointing away from you.
Aim low. Point the extinguisher at the base of the fire.
Squeeze the lever slowly and evenly.
Sweep the nozzle from side to side.
 A smoke alarm can alert you and give you time to escape. Alarms can be wired to mains with battery back up or battery only. Wired alarms are more reliable in the long term.
 The two main types for home is photoelectric and ionization. Both alarms are very effective, but photoelectric are more effective for detecting smouldering fires. Many homes have the ionisation type installed, however fire fighters recommend that photoelectric type should be installed in bedrooms and adjacent hallways.
 The location of a smoke alarm is very important. It is necessary to have a smoke alarm in each bedroom as you are most vulnerable in bed. If you or family members sleep with the door closed connect the alarm with others in the house. Interconnecting smoke alarms are especially important when there is more than one story or if the bedrooms are located in different parts of the house.


Smoke alarm manufacturers recommend replacing smoke alarms every ten years.
If your house has more than one-storey place one on each level and at the bottom of each stair well.
Avoid placing a smoke alarm near air-conditioning or heating. The air flow coming out of the unit may blow the smoke away and fail to alert you.
 Smoke alarms should be installed on the ceiling, but if this is not possible you may install it on the wall. In this case fit it between 6 in. (150 mm) and 12 in. (300 mm) below the ceiling line. Check with the manufacturers instructions if it is suitable for wall mounting.
 When fitting the smoke alarm near a corner location on the wall, avoid placing it in dead space. The corner can create dead space because it traps hot air and stops it from reaching the smoke alarm. In this case fit the smoke alarm between 12 in. (300 mm) and 20 in. (500 mm) below the ceiling line. For a cathedral ceiling make sure the smoke detector is between 20 in. (500 mm) and 60 in. (1500 mm) from the apex. Check the manufacturers instructions to make sure it is suitable for wall mounting.
 Here are some things you should do:


Test the alarm weekly.
Clean the smoke alarm and ceiling around it with a vacuum cleaner each month.
Change the battery at least once a year with the battery specified by the alarm manufacturer.
 A fire blanket is very effective for smothering flames. You can use a fire blanket to cover a pan of burning cooking oil or burning clothes on a child. Fire blanket contains display instructions for their use.
 A fire blanket can be used to smother a cooking oil fire. Ensure the blanket does not contact the burning oil and that the stove is off. Never use water to put out oil fires.
 A fire blanket should only be used once. When you buy a new one ensure it meets the appropriate country standards.
 Fire blankets should be placed where they can be easily reached in an emergency. Place it near the normally used path to exit the kitchen.
 If you live in a two-storey house find a way to escape from the second level.
 You should have a designated meeting place at the front of the house where everyone should meet. Most people use their mail box as their meeting place.
 Give special considerations to elderly or disabled people.
 You could put it on the fridge or notice board. Practice the escape plan at least twice a year.
 When at home keep a key inside the deadlock so you can leave quickly. Remember you may have less than two minutes to leave.
 Planned escape routes are a necessity, especially if a fire were to occur during the night. Go through each room in your house and think about the possible exits. You should have in your mind two escape routes from each room, in case one is blocked by fire. Inspect the room to make sure that furniture and other objects are not blocking doorways or window.



When there is smoke, crawl low and get under the smoke.
Alert others as you go.
When there is smoke crawl low to get under the smoke.
Test each door with the back of your hand.
Close the door as you go through it to prevent fire and smoke from spreading.
Never go back inside the house, once out you stay out.
Meet at the assembly area such as the letterbox.
Make sure your family know how to call the fire service.
 Fires are frightening and can cause panic. By rehearsing different scenarios, your family will be less likely to waste precious time trying to figure out what to do.
 Remember these may be your only way out in a fire.
 Be sure to know the locations of the closest stairwells or fire escapes and where they lead.
 You should have one escape ladder made of fire-safe material (aluminum, not rope) in each upper-story bedroom that is occupied by a person who is capable of using it.
 The ladder must be approved by an independent testing laboratory, its length must be appropriate for your home, and it must support the weight of the heaviest adult in the house.
 Designate a meeting place outside your house or apartment building that is a safe distance away (a mailbox, a fence, or even a distinctive-looking tree will do) where everyone can be accounted for after they escape.
 Use your finger to set off the smoke detector and let everyone know it's time for a fire drill. See if everyone can evacuate your home and gather outside within 3 minutes which is the time it can take for an entire house to go up in flames.
, There are many types available. Each type may be rated for one or more classes of fire. Some fires can be extremely dangerous to use on certain classes of fire and can increase the fire threatening your safety.



Class A: Wood, paper, plastics, etc.
Class B: Flammable liquids.
Class C: Flammable gasses.
Class D: Metal fires.
Class E: Energized electrical equipment.
Class F: Cooking oils and fats.



Water (Colored red): Dangerous if used on flammable liquid, energized electrical equipment and cooking oil or fat fires.
Wet Chemical (Colored oatmeal or oatmeal label): Dangerous if used on energized electrical equipment.
Foam (Colored blue or blue label): Dangerous if used on energized electrical equipment.
ABE or BE Powder (White label): Specific types of powders available for metal fires.
Carbon dioxide (Black label): Generally not suitable for outdoor use. Suitable only for small fires.
Vaporizing liquid (Colored yellow or yellow label): Check the characteristics of the specific agent.
 They are Rechargeable, non-rechargeable or aerosol.


Rechargeable fire extinguisher: Designed for households in various sizes and different extinguisher mediums.
Non-rechargeable fire extinguisher: These contain a powder extinguishant.
Aerosol fire extinguisher: These are non-rechargeable and cover a wide range of fire classes. Check the manufactures recommendation for specific use.
 Check that the fire extinguisher you use complies with your countries safety standards and read the label carefully before you need to use it. Always have rechargeable fire extinguishers serviced and maintained by a qualified agent. Dispose aerosol fire extinguishers before the use by date.
 Fire extinguishers are for small fires only. Make sure you don't place yourself in danger by using one, be sure that before you attempt to put it out it is small enough to be managed by a fire extinguisher and that you aren't going to spread it.
 Before you use the extinguisher to fight, make sure you have a clear view and can approach it safely. Do not attempt to fight the fire if it is too hot or fierce. Fire can block your escape when they become out of control so ensure your back is towards an exit and you have a clear path to escape. If it is not safe run away and call the fire service.
 Never use a water extinguisher to put out cooking oil or a fat fire. A BE fire extinguisher is recommended to have in kitchens. It is best to place it in the path you use to leave the kitchen, such as the kitchen door.


When using a powder extinguisher on burning cooking oil or fat it is recommend you stand two meters away from the fire and aim over the pan. Do not aim the extinguishant directly into the pan that contains the oil or fat because it might spread the fire around the kitchen.
 Pets are generally curious and will investigate cooking appliances, candles or even a fire in your fireplace. Ensure your pet is not left unattended around an open flame and make sure to thoroughly extinguish any open flame before leaving your home.
 Ensure you remove stove knobs or protect them with covers before leaving the house. A stove or cook top is the number one piece of equipment involved in your pet starting a fire.
 These candles contain a light bulb rather than an open flame, and take the danger out of your pet knocking over a candle. Cats are notorious for starting fires when their tails turn over lit candles.
 Do not leave a glass water bowl for your pet outside on a wooden deck. When filtered through the glass and water, the sun’s rays can actually heat up and ignite the wooden deck beneath it. Choose stainless steel or ceramic bowls instead.
 Take a walk around your home and look for areas where pets might start fires inadvertently, such as loose wires and other potential hazards.
 Keep pets near entrances when away from home. When leaving pets home alone, keep them in areas or rooms near entrances where firefighters can easily find them.
 Especially with young puppies, keep them confined away from potential fire-starting hazards when you are away from home, such as in crates or behind baby gates in secure areas.
 Keep collars and leashes easily accessible in case you have to evacuate quickly with your pet or firefighters need to rescue your pet.
 As an added layer of protection beyond battery-operated smoke alarms, smoke detectors connected to a monitoring center help save pets who can’t escape when left home alone.
 Write down the number of pets inside your house and attach the static cling to a front window. This critical information saves rescuers time when locating your pets. Make sure to keep the number of pets listed on them updated.

