 Kitchens and bathrooms hold numerous dangerous objects that a dog can get into. To prevent an inquisitive dog from opening cabinets to gain access to dangerous substances, fit low cabinets with child locks.


These locks will keep cabinets closed despite your dog using his paw or nose to pull the cabinet open.
 Cleaning products pose a huge danger to a dog. All cleaning problems should be stored safely away so a dog cannot even get near the bottle. A dog's teeth may pierce the plastic container, so do not assume because the product is in a childproof container it is safe.Most cleaning products can cause skin irritation, mouth ulcers, and are toxic when swallowed. The kitchen cabinet containing cleaning products should definitely have a child lock on it.
 Many foods that are safe for people are harmful to dogs. Don't assume that if it is safe for you to eat that it will be okay if your dog gets into it. Never lead food out unattended where you dog could come and eat it.When it comes to food avoid putting temptation in the dog's way and don't leave food out on the counter top.
Typical toxic foods include raisins and grapes, chocolate, avocado, onions, garlic, salt, alcohol, caffeine, and tea.
Also be aware that the artificial sweetener xylitol is extremely dangerous to dogs, so be doubly vigilant with low-sugar cookies and candies.
 Dogs love to dig in the garbage. However, this can be very dangerous for your dog. Spoiled food could contain food poisoning bacteria. Bone scraps, such as chicken bones, can damage the gut or get stuck in the throat. Use garbage cans with a screw lid to avoid clever dogs working out how to get the lid off. Make sure to secure any garbage you leave outdoors for pickup as well.
 People are larger in size than dogs, which means that the strength of human medicines are too strong for dogs. Medications not meant for dogs can be dangerous and potentially life-threatening if your dog ingests them. Keep all medicines in places where your dog can't get to them. Make sure to keep all pain relievers, anti-depressants, cold and flu remedies, diet pills, and vitamin supplements away from your dog.
If your dog gets a bottle of medicine, he will more than likely eat the whole bottle, which could prove deadly.
 Cosmetics can make your dog very ill. When ingested, these are all liable to cause stomach upsets and may be toxic. All cosmetics should be kept away from dogs. Place them in cabinets or on shelves out of your dog's reach.Cosmetics include soaps, toothpastes, sunscreen, make up, shampoo, and other similar items.
Remember, the plastic bottles these items come in are easy for a dog to pierce with his teeth.

