 Generally, preschoolers are becoming very independent, and many will want to pick out their own toys. However, most preschoolers do not always have the best sense of judgement and may want to take their talking toys, or toys with a million pieces, or watercolors that are too messy to be used during travel. Help your preschooler choose by picking out a pile of toys and activities; five per hour is a good rule. 
, Start looking through your child's playroom or cabinets and remember to ditch a toy if it meets any of the following criteria:

It's made up of many small pieces. Avoid toys that have more than three small pieces to go with it. Many small pieces are hard to keep track of and easily lost.
It's noisy. Fellow passengers do not appreciate noise, so skip the electronic toys and any other toy that make noise, except tablets and movies (as long as you bring headphones).
It can easily roll away. Balls and cars with wheels would not be a good idea.
It's large. Pack lightly. No large dump trucks or hardcover books!

, Set out three toys at a time and tell your child to pick one of them and place them in their backpack. Once your child is finished, put away the remaining toys and call yourself done.

Try to do this a few days before you leave. Even though you can't make your child fully forget them, hiding them away for a few days before the trip will ensure your child isn't totally bored of them.
 Be sure to do this while your child is away at preschool or asleep in bed! Walk around your house and look for toys that may work for more entertainment; look for three toys per hour, for half of your trip. Keep this a secret until your child becomes really bored of their backpack., You just want to avoid anything too messy, but a coloring book and crayons should work. Alternatively, you can try Magic Ink or Crayola Color Wonder materials. It is a great way to scribble out energy. Plus, no mess will be made because it only works on special paper., These are great for preschoolers! They're cheap, small, portable, and fun to do. Now, they are safe because your child is finally a preschooler. Try to find your child's favorite character when looking for Play Packs and searching at your local Dollar Tree., The sky is the limit! Read to your child, or work on reading together. Make a visit to the library a couple days before your trip to find plenty of books for your trip (paperbacks are the best because they are lighter)., Bring along movies to watch in the car, or download them onto an iPad or other tablet. Also, download your child's favorite games on a portable device and be sure that it is fully charged!, They are fun to twist, and you can challenge your preschooler to create different shapes., Toys like this are a fun way to "create" without mess, and they can be used over and over again. They're also a good size and shape to hold even if you're a preschooler stuck in a car seat., Nothing passes the time like tunes, especially if you're game to sing along with your preschooler. Make a few playlists of their favorite preschool songs, including a lively one and a more quiet one for when they feel sleepy.