 You may want to look at fan-art and cosplay costumes to better understand what Mangle would look like as a human.;
, The colors you should be looking for is pink, white, grey and a bit of black. You can mix and match any of the following suggestions (guys can also wear pants with matching colors):


Grey leggings with a light pink tu-tu or skirt and pink and grey striped knee-high socks.
Black fishnet leggings or tights with pink or white shorts.
 It can be too plain if you don't do it right.  A button down shirt in either gray or white would look good. If the shirt is short sleeved you can put a grey shirt under it and draw thin black stripes on it so it looks like you are actually an animatronic. Guys can also wear a vest. A good idea would be a pink short-sleeved jacket with a gray long-sleeved shirt underneath.
  Mangle wears a red bowtie. It is important because you may not look exactly like Mangle, but you need to accessorize. If you don't accessorize you are just going to look like some weird kid in a tu-tu and overdone makeup. The bowtie makes it look like you are wearing a costume.
 They can be in a fishnet pattern or in a solid color. You can also mis-match them because Mangle is...well...mangled. She is a bunch of mixed parts.
 It can be white, grey, pink or black, or you can mix and match these colors. You will also need ears. Get a fox or cat-ear headband (they look the same) in pink, white, black, or gray. Sometimes people forget that she is a fox and she should look like a fox. You need to look like an animal.
 You may also want those tentacle things and the exo-skeleton head she has.
 There are two solutions. You can buy a white wig with the color of your choice matching the outfit or, if you don't want to buy a wig, you can do your hair the way you think she would do it with your hair style.
 You can either get real makeup and use that or you can use the Halloween makeup you find in the Halloween aisle.


You should start off by covering your face with the white because Mangle is all white. 

, Make a shape like a cat or dog nose on your nose (or just put a circle where it would be) and put a line to your mouth and stop at the top of your upper lip. Then put a bit of red lipstick to make it look like a heart with a round bottom.  


Draw bright pink circles on your cheeks and put overly bright pink eyeshadow and do the top of one eye.  

, If you have black eyeshadow, put it on top of the other eye and the eyelid this time. Also use eyeliner on both eyes to make them pop a bit more.

