 While it is important to make a good impression, you don’t want to overdo it or try too hard. Your effort to make a good impression should be subtle, yet noticeable. Aim to find a balance in all that you do to prepare yourself for the date and in your behavior as well.


For example, don’t wear overly dressy clothes to make a good impression. Wear something that is comfortable for you to wear, but that is a little nicer than your daily attire.;
, Get clothes that fit you and aren't overly baggy or tight. Choose a style that makes you feel comfortable and confident. Don't choose flashy clothing just to make a good impression. You'll feel more at ease and the date will go better if you feel comfortable in the clothing that you're in.


If you're a bigger guy avoid horizontal stripes or clothing that's overly baggy or tight.
If you are skinny, you'll want to avoid the monochromatic look and choose lighter colors and fitted shirts.
If you're short, consider accessories like a necklace or watch and avoid wearing big prints or graphic t-shirts. Short rise pants may also help you look taller.Button down shirts, clean slacks, jeans, and clean t-shirts are all good options for a casual dining date.
 Once you pick out an outfit that you'd like to wear, it's important that you clothes are washed and pressed. It will show your date that you put in the effort to look nice, and may impress them. Wrinkled or stained clothes give off a vibe that you couldn't care less about the date, and that it's not really important to you.It also serves as an indication of how organized you are in other areas of your life.
 The way you smell has a big impact on whether your date will find you attractive. Remember to shower or bathe before your date so that you smell fresh. Wear underarm deodorant if you are prone to sweating, and consider wearing a cologne or a fragrance if you typically have body odor.Don’t overdo it on cologne, aftershave, and body sprays. Keep it light to avoid an overpowering scent.
 Before you make your plan, talk to your parents and ask for permission. Then, talk to your date and ask them what they enjoy doing to get ideas for the date. If you're going to see a show or movie, you can ask your parents to buy tickets in advance just in case they sell out. Planning in advance will show initiative and will put your date at ease.If you want to go to a nice restaurant, make sure to make reservations.
Planning a date will also show that you're confident in your decision making. However, keeping your plans for the date a surprise can also be a nice way to build excitement.
 Think about how much money the date is going to cost and make sure to bring extra cash to cover all of your expenses. If you don't have your own money, you'll have to ask your parents to help you. If you were the one that asked for the date in the first place, it's good etiquette to cover the costs., It's important that you set the pace for the date. Giving them a hug will set a positive tone for the rest of the date and put it in a romantic tone. Don't go for a hug if the person doesn't look like they want one. You should be able to notice this if you go for one and they pull back. In this case, just shake their hand and start talking to them., Make sure that you talk to your parents before you plan a date to get permission. You will also want to introduce yourself to your date's parents when you pick them up. Shake their hand when you meet them and explain what your plan for the date is so that they know where you are going.


To introduce yourself say something like, "Hello Mr. Green, my name's Gerard and I'm here to pick up Lilly. How are you today?"
Be sure to tell her parents about your plans, but try to keep some of your plans secret from her.
 It's best if you both arrive at the date at the same time, that way you don't have to go looking for each other in a crowd. Make sure to figure out how you'll be getting to the date. If it's not in walking distance, then talk to your parents and ask them to give you a ride. Before you leave to pick them up, give them a confirmation call or text and let them know you are coming.Taking public transit or riding your bike can also get you to the date.
If it doesn't make sense to meet up before the date because you both live far away, make sure to be on time for the date.
 You don't want the date to feel like an interview. Don't be overly concerned with the fact that it's a date. Rather than constantly focusing on acting polite or doing the right thing, be yourself and try to get to know them better. Humor is a great way to lighten up a dull conversation. Try to be funny.
If you are concentrated on saying and doing the right things at all times then you'll come off as dull and boring.
Keep in mind that acting natural can take some practice. Try putting yourself into an uncomfortable situation and allowing yourself to get used to the feeling, such as by wearing a watch and asking people for the time anyways.
 Aim to have fun, while also learning more about her and letting her get to know more about you. Don't talk about serious things too quickly. Instead, talk about what they like to do for fun, their favorite TV shows or musicians, or weird pet peeves they might have. Serious conversations about close friends and family should be reserved for once you're in a more serious relationship with them.If the conversation gets boring, throw out a random question like "If you could travel to any place in the entire world, where would it be?"
If you notice that a topic has struck a nerve or made them feel uncomfortable, back off the topic and talk about something else.
 Get specific with your compliments but don't make them feel uncomfortable. Point out things like their hair, their stylish shoes, or jewelry. You also want to make sure not to shower them with too many compliments or it may come off as fake and forced.You can say something like, "Wow, your shoes really flow with the rest of your outfit. You look pretty."

, One of the rudest things that you can do on a date is to look at your cellphone constantly, browse social media, or respond to texts during the date. This shows a lack of interest in your date and what they have to say. Put your phone on silent and put it in your pocket.When you are more absorbed by what's on your phone rather than your date, your date will feel neglected.
 Talk about how much fun that you had with them towards the end of the date and how much you enjoyed it. This will make them less nervous and self-conscious about how the date went and will show them that you are interested in going out again.


If you didn't enjoy the date at all, be honest and tell them that you're not sure if you'll see them again. Don't give them false hope if you didn't have fun. However, don’t be rude if this is the case. Be direct and tactful.
 If you enjoyed your time with them, you should ask them for a follow-up date. Make sure to get permission to text or call them occasionally. Make the follow-up date for a specific time in the future so that they can free up their schedule in advance.You can say something like, "I really had a lot of fun. I'd like to get together again, are you doing anything next weekend?"

, Watch their body language at the end of the date to see what is appropriate for you to do. If you both had a really good time, you should go in for a hug. If your date didn't seem to enjoy themselves or seemed uncomfortable and handshake will do. Lastly, if the date was very romantic and flirtatious, they may be open to a kiss. See if they are happy and smiling when you hug them. If they pull away, they do not want to kiss or hug you., Make sure that your date gets home safely by driving or walking home with them. Talk to your parents about giving them a ride home. Even if the date didn't go well, you should take it upon yourself to make sure that they get home safely.
 It is common to want to reflect on how the date went, but don’t replay every aspect of the date back to yourself and try to analyze it. Just move on with your day, even if you don’t think the date went well. You cannot change the past, so it’s best to just use the date as a learning experience and move forward.

