 Jesus meant poor in terms of the inner self, and not the outer self. Outer poverty does not lead automatically to inner happiness. Those who let go of outer attachments, can simply exist and find a way to inner contentment in God.;
, Suffering in and of itself does not lead to happiness. However, those who can take suffering in their lives and raise themselves through spiritual exercises, can find solace in inner peace. Mourning can help to let go, but one should not allow the self to be overwhelmed by grief. Grief is not the center of life, rather inner peace.
 Those who can greet their fellow beings with non-violence and placidity, can live in a relaxed and peaceful way and relinquish into a cosmic consciousness. Those who are at peace with all things, are at peace with themselves.
 Righteousness means rightness (correctness) in the Bible.To long for a correct life, means to long for a life in the light. Those who long for happiness and search for it in the right places will receive it one day.
 Those full of empathy, will feel with all other people. Those who love their enemies receive inner harmony. Those who love all other beings get a cosmic consciousness, enlightenment and holiness. They will experience the mercy of God.
 To dissolve inner tension, exercises for the body using yoga, going, meditation and exercises for the spirit through reading, reflecting, positive thinking are required. Those who exercise spiritually enough will reach enlightenment one day. They will feel and see the light of God in the world, in all beings and in themselves.
 Make peace in yourself and in the world. Inner peace is the first step to enlightenment. You will find God in inner silence. Work for a world of love and peace as a world saver. You will find God in the love of all beings. Peace and love are the two big steps to enlightenment. Those who are enlightened can be called holy, a son or daughter of God.
 The ego can be interpreted as Satan or sin. He who sacrifices his ego will be in the light. Without a sacrifice, the breakthrough to enlightenment cannot be made. Those who live strictly according to the Sermon on the Mount, provide such a spiritual sacrifice, because it is causing difficulties in their everyday. Correct to sacrifice is a great art. Who sacrifices wrong, gets inner tensions. Who sacrifices properly, solves his internal tensions. By the time he becomes enlightened and lives in the light (God, positivity, paradise view of life). We should not sacrifice too little or too much. Those who go the right way will be rid of their inner conflict.

