 Now this does not mean you have to start skateboarding just because it might be one of their top "fun" things to do. There are many other fun things they probably like to do. For example, bike riding, playing games on the computer or XBox. Try to play games you both can do. There are also teens who are not into sports but are into other things like cooking, drawing, or even sewing.;
, While obviously, your teen won't want you tagging along when they are having fun, you can create some great memories by going with them to see how good they are at something (or at least having fun).
 Asking them to teach you how to do something new like learning how to play with the Wii (if you have one) or even learning a new recipe. Learning something new from someone younger can improve skills and score you cool points with your friends and sometimes even with your teen's friends.
 It's not about how to do accounting or start a business. Try teaching them how to fish, swim, drive a car, play a game that you grew up playing, or even how to fry an egg. It could trigger something that you both can enjoy doing together.
 Sometimes it just takes a spark of creativity to get someone going. If you both cannot find something to do, Invent it! For example, you both might like to play games, but one might like to play soccer and the other football. Put them both together, or make new rules and call it "Fugibal" (Way to play that is no feet with a soccer ball and hands off if with football)

, Nothing brings people together like a nice meal. You don't have to go all out! Sometimes just pizza and something to drink will do. Talk about each other's day. But do not bring in work related problems in. Talk about the weather, some ad you might have seen on the way home, something in the news either one of you saw, how the economy is functioning, or just how you both are feeling at the moment.
 Sometimes creating a challenge between both the teen and you can cause you both to have quality time every day. For example, both of you might be slightly over weight (guessing the teen a little more than the adult), one might be able to challenge the other to loose 2 lbs per 1 lb one might loose. In the end who ever wins gets a prize (or just satisfaction they beat the other person).
 Sharing stories give your teen an inside look at how you were raised and sometimes can even change their opinion about you. Also, them sharing a story about something happening to them or a memory that they remembered can also help both of you enjoy your time together.

