 It’s the red, orange, and purple camera icon in the app drawer. You may also be able to find it on your home screen.;
, Don’t worry, nobody will know when you’ve saved their post.
 It’s a black outline of a bookmark—the only icon beneath the post’s bottom-right edge. When tapped, the bookmark will fill with black (instead of an outline). This saves the post.


To view your saved posts, tap the profile icon (a person’s head and shoulders) at the bottom of the screen, then tap the bookmark icon above your photos.
You can also organize your saved posts into Instagram collections, viewable only to you. See Organizing Saved Posts to learn how.
 It’s the red, orange, and purple camera icon in the app drawer. You may also be able to find it on your home screen.
 It’s the outline of a head and shoulders at the bottom-right corner of the screen.
 It’s in the row of icons above your posts. It looks like an outline of a bookmark. This opens a list of all of your saved posts.
 It’s at the top of the screen.
, This should be something that describes the type of posts you’ll be saving here.


For example, you may create a “Friends” collection to save photos and videos of your friends.
You may want to create a collection called Photos and another called Videos.
 It’s at the top-right corner of the screen.
 Tapping a post will add a check mark to its bottom left corner. Tap all of the posts you want to add.
 It’s at the top-right corner of the screen. This saves your new collection, adding any posts you’ve selected. You will now see it on the Collections screen.


Now that you’ve created your first collection, you can add additional collections by tapping the + at the top-right corner of the screen.
To save a post directly to a collection, tap and hold the bookmark icon beneath the post, then select a collection (or tap + to create a new collection).
 It's easy to do from your list of saved posts. Just tap any post to open it, then long-tap the bookmark icon beneath it. You'll be prompted to select a collection or create a new one.

