 You will receive neopets from games every time you submit your score. Remember that you can only send your score 3 times a day per game. Some suggested games:


Fashion Fever - Gives 300 neopoints each time you send a score. Send a postcard 3 times to an email address for 100 neopoints each before you submit the last game.
Fruit Machine- This is a chance game. You will win prizes or money, or get nothing. However, it is free to play, so you can't lose!
The Tombola - Located on Mystery Island, the Tombola is a free game similar to the Fruit Machine. Although players usually win nothing, some receive money or a random item.
Meerca Chase - A very enjoyable game, playing Meerca Chase is an easy way to earn some extra neopoints.
Wheel of Slime (AD)- This wheel gives only neopoint prizes. You can spin this wheel every 8 hours.
The featured game - The featured game changes daily, but you will receive 2x the amount of Neopoints for playing than you normally would.
AdverVideo - You can get free Neopoints from watching ads.;
, Most are free, and you are always guaranteed to get something, whether it be Neopoints, food, or any other item. Some things you might get can be sold for many Neopoints.
 Invest in companies by buying stocks. This is in the games section. Buy your stocks when the prices are low, sell the stocks when the prices are high.
 Spinning the wheel of excitement, wheel of knowledge, etc. are fun, but if you are wanting to be rich, save your money. Don't waste it on a little worthless prize.
 The more money you put in, the more interest you can collect each day. Try to resist taking money out of your account to spend it on a high-price item. At least for a while, try to avoid spending what you've put in the bank. Keep about 5,000 Neopoints out on hand to avoid spending on things you may regret buying.
 Buy low priced items (it doesn't matter which items) And sell them for higher. Be be careful! No Neopets user wants to buy an overpriced item.
 After a while, you will receive good prizes that can be sold for a lot.

