 Consider throwing the party at your own place only if your house is large enough; kids need a lot of space to party. Try to make a reservation at a local restaurant or pub, if your teen is over 15 (more sophisticated locations are preferred rather by older teens); if they're younger, a pool party, a picnic, the mall or a richer friend's house will do. Don't forget to consider your kid's opinion; although it's very likely that their wishes are a bit more costly than you can afford, negotiate and try to find something that would match both their wishes and your budget.;
, This is more expensive and more difficult to plan; keep that in mind when deciding the theme for your teen's party.
 Remember that the worst days to host a party is during school week and on Sunday night, because your kid will have to go to school the next morning. Try to host the party Friday or Saturday night. Talk to your kid and ask them how many of their friends are likely to come at that date; maybe they're going on a school trip you don't know about yet, or something.
 If you know most of the kids your teen wants to invite, and they're okay, then you don't need to worry. But if most of the kids on the list are people you don't know, ask your teen if you can meet them. They will most likely be against the idea, but explain them your reasons. Make sure your teen is being honest with you; they could lie and tell you they'll invite only the good kids at their school, when in fact they're not.


If there's someone on the list that makes your teen feel bad about himself/herself but whom your kid desperately wants to fit in with, try to convince your kid not to invite those people, no matter how popular they may be. You don't want them to ruin your kid's party, do you?

, If you happen to know somebody that is good at designing invitations, contact them and ask them to make them for your kid. If they're original and personalized, the better. Don't forget to specify the location, the date, and the hour the party starts at in the invitation; review the text to make sure it gives all the details.
 Hire a caterer and a decoration company if you're on a higher budget. Otherwise, do these yourself.


Keep the food light: no soups, spaghetti or such food. Chips, peanuts, candies, cookies, and chocolate will do.
Decorations are very important at a party. Abandon the classic confetti and balloons and go for something more original. If it's a theme party, make sure the decorations suit the theme. In matters of decorations, you have 2 choices: either you make them yourself or you buy them. Specialized stores have great decorations, but the handmade ones are truly original, if made properly. Check the Hobbies&Crafts section at wikiHow.
 Teenagers do a lot of crazy things at parties and they often need to be set some rules.


Don't allow them to drink alcohol.
Set a reasonable time for the party to end. This depends on your teen's age.

For kids 13 to 14, midnight is the best option; make sure all the parents drive their kids home, though; it's not safe to allow a 13 year old kid to come home by themselves at midnight.
For kids 15 to 16, 01:30 is enough for them to party. Again, drive them home; most of the kids this age are still not safe enough to wander the streets alone at night.
For kids 17-21, you may set a time limit between 03:00 and 'till the morning. No need to drive them home this time. At this age, kids are already mature enough to defend themselves.


Instruct them regarding the things they are allowed to do at a party.

If the party takes place at your home or somebody else's, make sure they don't break anything, search through the host's personal stuff or steal things from there. In this case, somebody must come at regular intervals to check everything is okay.
If the party takes place somewhere else, instruct your kid not to insult the staff, not to break anything, not to fight with food and other things you assume your kid may do.
 Give them enough money to pick a good outfit, make them relax, tell them the party is going to be awesome. A host is often nervous before the party. Drive them to the location if needed.
 Call them or drop by to make sure everything is okay.