 Stones used in this treatment are typically made of basalt, due to their ability to retain heat. The stones should also be very smooth, so they do not irritate the skin in any way. If you can't find basalt stones, however, smooth river rocks are fine.You can order a hot stone massage kit online from Amazon or eBay, however, if you do not want to buy your stones you can try going to a rock quarry.

You should have anywhere between 20-30 stones, though some professional massages may have upwards of 45-60. There should be at least two large ovals around 8” long to 6” wide, seven stones you can fit in the palm of your hand, and 8 small stones between the size of an egg or a quarter.;
, If you do not have a massage table, a bed or the floor will be fine. Once you've chosen where the massage should take place, you should lay out a clean sheet or a thick towel for the person you are massaging to lay down on. This will not only help them be more comfortable but also help absorb any excess oil from the massage.

To really create a relaxing environment, try lighting some aromatherapy candles. Soothing scents like lavender, lemongrass, eucalyptus, and vanilla will help immerse your participant in the massage experience.You can also try playing some quiet classical music, or rain sounds to add to the mood.
 Ideally, you should prepare your stones 30-60 minutes before you begin your massage. The water should be around 120° as the stones will likely cool down to 100-110° when taken out. Remember to wipe each stone down once you’ve removed it.To heat the stones, use a Crock-Pot that can hold at least 6 quarts of water or a large tabletop skillet that has sides close to 3 inches.
As you want the stones to be around 105° when you place them, try putting a candy thermometer in your crock pot or skillet to monitor the temperature. You should also keep the crockpot setting to warm or low, as you don't want the water to boil.You should also rub some massage oil on each stone before it's used.
 Before you start the massage you should check with the participant to make sure they are comfortable with the heat of the stones. Some people are going to react differently to different temperatures, and you don’t want to burn them. To prevent this, it’s best to place a sheet or towel down and then put the stones on top of that.Keep in mind it can take 3-4 minutes for the heat of the stones to penetrate to the skin.
 Before you start the massage you want to put down either a row of large stones where the participant's spine will be or 2 rows of smaller stones to sit on each side of it. You should then place an additional sheet over these stones. After that, have the participant lay down, face up, on top of them. You do not need to remove them until you turn the participant over., Once the participant has settled, take four of the smaller stones, without oil, and place them on the acupressure areas on their face. There should be one stone on their forehead, one under their lips, and one on each of their cheeks. You should avoid putting oil on these stones as it may clog their pores or irritate their skin., Depending on the height and width of the participant, the size of the stones you use may vary. However, you should try to place one stone or more on either side of their collarbone, two large ones along the breastbone, and two palm-sized stones in their hands. They do not need to clasp these, but should instead remain fully relaxed and gently cupping the stones., Once you've placed all the stones on the participant's front side, take a palm-sized stone and rub it with oil. Then follow the cords of muscles in the participant’s body from head to toe to work out any remaining knots. You should take some time to massage the stones you placed earlier into the skin as well. Once you've finished, you can remove them all., After you've finished massaging the front, have the participant turn over to lie on their stomach. This is a good time to remove the first stones you placed before the participant laid down. You can also take a moment to change the sheet or towel to keep everything clean.

You should also make sure that you are changing your stones so they stay warm.
 Pick larger stones for the shoulder blades and the backs of the kneecaps. For the toes, place a small stone between each. You should then wrap each foot in a towel to help hold in the warmth and keep the stones in place.After you've placed these, take a palm-sized, oiled stone and use it to massage the participant from head to toe while removing the stones you placed earlier.
 Do this by moving the stones gently over tense, sore areas. The pressure applied by the stones may be quite strong, but since the participant’s muscles have been sufficiently relaxed by the heating process, the procedure should virtually be painless., You can try a Swedish massage or deep tissue massage. This will help you reap the greatest benefit from the experience. While the stones heat and soothe stiff muscles, other massage techniques can be applied with little or no discomfort - either with the stones still on the skin or after the stones are removed., Most clients find that after a period of time, their bodies become so relaxed from the hot stone massage techniques, they don't even notice the temperature change to the cooler stones. This process is often recommended for soothing injuries that result in painful swelling or inflammation.

