 If a parent asks you to write a character reference letter, have a formal conversation with him and find out precisely what issues are being contested and what he needs from you.


Character reference letters can become essential pieces of evidence in custody cases, so you want to make sure that the information you include is relevant to the matters at issue.For example, if there is no dispute over the parent's sterling work record and reputation, there's no need for you to go on and on about how great she is at her job.
Brainstorm with the parent about instances you've witnessed in which she interacted with her child.You want to try to keep your letter focused on her character and responsibility as a parent rather than as a person in general.
 If the parent for whom you're writing a reference letter mentions any documents such as a letter filed by the other parent, ask if you can read them before you begin your letter.


You want to make sure you have a basic understanding of the matters at issue in the case before you sit down to write your letter.
 Writing a basic outline of your letter allows you to maintain your focus and keep the body of your letter organized.


When you draft your letter, you can use your outline to keep you on point so you don't digress or ramble. Each point of your letter can serve as a paragraph.
 Using your outline, create the paragraphs that will form the body of your letter.


Try to keep the tone of your letter as conversational as possible. There's no need to use legal phrases or terminology.In fact, using such phrases or "key words" may make the judge believe the content of the letter was prepared or coached by the parent.
Keep in mind that courts generally use the "best interests of the child" standard to determine custody arrangements.Keep your letter focused on the child and his best interests.
Begin your letter by introducing yourself and explaining your relationship to the parent and how long you've known her. Then, spend two or three paragraphs explaining why you think she should be awarded custody. Use your final paragraph to summarize the points you've made in the body of your letter.Avoid criticizing the other parent, or comparing the two. Instead, focus on why this one is the best., Ask the parent if there is any special formatting required by the court.


In some cases, you may need to put the caption of the case, or at least the case number, at the top of your letter. Make sure your letter is formatted in the correct format so the court will accept it.
It may be easier to organize your letter by providing headings over each section that give a brief title describing the point or issue to which that section relates., Before you finalize your letter, go over it several times and correct any grammar errors or typos.


You might consider having a friend or an attorney review your letter before you sign it, both to catch any typos and also to make sure that it reads correctly and you've made your points understood., Some courts may require you to sign your letter in the presence of a notary.


Even if it isn't required, signing in front of a notary public won't hurt. It signifies that you are making the statements in the letter under oath and penalty of perjury.
 Find out from the parent for whom you wrote the letter if you need to give the letter to him or file it yourself directly with the clerk.

