 Instead of having a yard sale, sell things on Craigslist. Craigslist is more convenient than a yard sale, and more people will see your items. Over 40 million people use the website every month. Look in your closet and garage for old bicycles, artwork, furniture, housewares - anything you want to sell.Each larger city has their own Craigslist section. Scroll through to see how other people set up their ads.
Craigslist allows you to place items for sale free of charge. Unlike other websites, they do not take part in the transaction. Most of it is done in person, so you do not have to give them a fee. However, there is no buyer and seller protection, so be careful when you sell on the website.
If you have DVDs, CDs, or old textbooks, try selling them on Amazon. Amazon will take a small percentage of your profit with each sale. You are responsible for the shipment and condition of each item on Amazon. The site uses a feedback system so you can build a reputation as a seller.
Try selling clothes through online consignment shops. Sites like Thredup, Threadflip, Twice, and The Real Real send you prepaid shipping bags. You send them your clothes, they go through a quality check, and if they are accepted, they put them online. They take a small percentage of your sale. Poshmark allows you to sell your clothes and ship them yourself.;
, eBay is a great place to sell your unwanted items. On eBay, you can sell anything from clothes to action figures to cars. Choose between an auction or a flat rate buy it now price. eBay takes a small percentage of your earnings each time you sell something.eBay works on a feedback system, so you can build a reputation as a good, trustworthy seller, which will help you sell more.
 If you are a crafty person, try selling your creations on Etsy, an online shop for homemade items. On Etsy, you can sell everything from homemade soaps and candles to hand knitted scarves. All transactions occur through Etsy, either through PayPal or with a credit card.Examples of things you can sell include art prints and postcards; homemade jewelry; crocheted small animals; essential oils; and bird houses.
Think about charging something reasonable so people will be interested, but that reflects the amount of time and effort spent creating the item.
Each listing on Etsy costs a small amount, and they take a small fee from your earnings when you sell an item., If you have written a novel, self-publish it through Amazon, set a price, and sell it. You can sell the eBook for as little or as much as you want. After you publish it, make sure to advertise it to your friends and family. Advertise it on social media so people will know about it and buy it.


Think about writing a non-fiction book on a topic you are an expert in.
 Freelancing your services is a good way to make some extra cash. Provide services such as editing, proofreading, writing short articles, tutoring, horoscope readings, or any other service you are qualified to provide.


Try Elance. They list technical, data entry, accounting, and other freelance jobs. You submit bids to jobs. Be prepared for a few rejections at first.Fiverr is a site where you can sell your professional and unique talents for $5. Anything from fixing Ikea furniture to selling cartoon voice overs can be found on the site.It may take some time to build a reputation, but once you start gaining a reputation, it can be a great way to share your abilities.

