 Fish oil supplements are made from fish, which can live in mercury and heavy metal infested environments. By ingesting poorly fabricated supplements you could bring more harm to your body than good.


Supplements certified to be free of mercury and toxins. Check to see if the supplements were either approved or certified by the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) or the State of California's limit under Proposition 65, which has the strictest standards.






Choose supplements manufactured from areas with low pollution levels. Areas such as New Zealand and the southern ocean typically produce fish that have the lowest levels of heavy metals and toxins versus those harvested in the northern oceans.





;
, You want to take a supplement that contains the highest level of omega 3’s.


Check the EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) level. The EPA level is the most effective component to fish oil and has the highest impact regarding inflammation and heart disease.






DHA amounts. DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) is another important component to making fish oil effective, especially for enhanced brain function.
 Pay close attention to expiration date to obtain the most benefits.
 Children can also benefit from taking fish oil supplements, however it’s important to adhere to dosing recommendations as prescribed by a pediatrician, to not only ensure the maximum benefits but as a safety precaution.


Children under age 18. Studies have shown that fish oil supplements can be helpful with numerous childhood conditions including ADHD, skin disorders, asthma and even depression. However, never administer fish oil supplements to a child under age 18 without the instruction of a physician. Omega 3’s may have side effects that can have an adverse impact on children.
Adults may benefit from taking fish oil according to their ailment. Adults who have normal blood pressure and cholesterol readings should not take more than 3 grams of omega 3 fatty acids per day (high doses can promote bleeding). However, those who are taking the supplements for heart disease should take 1 gram daily of a supplement containing both DHA and EPA. Adults with high cholesterol levels should take between 2 to 4 grams daily and those with high blood pressure can ingest between 3 to 4 grams daily.

