 When falling in love, your hormones go wild and may cause you to feel all sorts of things that seem abnormal. You might feel delirious with joy, anxious, stressed, or even a bit obsessed with your new love. Just keep in mind that the feelings you are having are normal and they will become more tolerable with time.Make sure that you do not allow your feelings to take over your life. Continue to make time for yourself and keep up with your normal routine.;
, To deal with the flood of new emotions that come with falling in love, you might find it useful to find an outlet to express the way that you feel. Consider talking to a trusted friend about your response to the new love or write about your feelings in a journal. Journaling has the added benefit of reducing stress and helping you deal with problems, so it may help you work through your feelings.Writing about your feelings in a journal can be a great way to cope with them. Try to write about how you have been feeling for about 15-20 minutes per day. You may even find yourself feeling more creative as a result of your new love and want to try your hand at some poetry.
 Even if you are so overcome with love that you feel like spending all of your time thinking of your love interest, make sure that you continue to take care of your basic needs, such as diet, exercise, and sleep. To keep yourself looking and feeling your best, consider speaking with a nutritionist, joining a gym, or taking yoga classes.Eat healthy. Look for ways to improve your eating habits, such as by reducing fat and sugar and eating more fruits and vegetables.
Exercise for 30 minutes every day. You should try to incorporate at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity into your routine every day.
Give yourself enough time to rest and relax each day. Try to sleep for about 8 hours every night and allow yourself plenty of time to relax each day. Try meditation, yoga, or deep breathing exercises.
 Making time for pampering and grooming may help you deal with your feelings of love and it will help you look your best for the person as well. Make sure that you are maintaining a good grooming regimen, keeping your hair trimmed and styled, and treating yourself to new clothes now and then.Allow time for grooming. Shower every day. Use deodorant, makeup, hair products, and other products to help you look and feel your best.
Visit a salon or barber shop. Get your hair done or get a new haircut to revamp your current look. While you are there, you might also consider getting another treatment such as a manicure, wax, or massage.
Buy yourself some new clothes. If you haven’t bought yourself a new outfit in a while, consider getting yourself some new clothes. Buy clothes that fit you well and make you feel sexy.
 It is important to take time for yourself in any relationship, especially in the beginning. Having time to yourself may be difficult because you are preoccupied with thoughts of your new love. Make sure that you do things that you enjoy in order to distract yourself. Maintaining an active social life will also show your love interest that you are well-liked and may increase their desire to pursue you.Take up a new hobby.
Go out and do something fun with your friends.
Cook yourself a fancy dinner and watch a favorite movie.
 Falling in love can cause a lot of anxiety and self-doubt, so it may be necessary for you to build yourself up from time to time. Using positive self-talk can help you to overcome some of the negative thoughts and feelings that you may be having.For example, if you find yourself feeling anxious about the person’s feelings about you, try telling yourself “If it’s meant to be, he/she will tell me how he feels. If not, there are lots of other guys/girls that would love to be with me.”

, If you reach a point where you are having trouble functioning in your daily life, you may need to seek professional help. Consider talking to a mental health professional if you feel like you are developing an unhealthy obsession with the person.

