 Not every bank supports every phone or operating system. The most commonly supported systems are Apple phones and Android phones. Check with your bank to make sure your phone is supported., Just like online deposit, you likely need to enroll in the program to deposit a check. However, often if you enroll in one, you are enrolled in the other. Even if you don't need to enroll in the program, you will need to download the mobile app to your phone. You should be able to find your bank's mobile app in the app store by searching with its name., Sign the back of the check with your name. You may also need to add the bank account number or your member number, depending on the bank. Check with your bank for the requirements. Be sure to keep your endorsement in the space assigned to it on the back of the check., Select the mobile banking app on your phone. Once it opens, log into your account., Your mobile banking account will have many options, including viewing your bank accounts. Find the area for mobile deposits. It should be on the main screen, but it also may be under a heading such as "Tools" or "Deposits."

, Following the directions on the screen, take pictures of the front and back of the check. Usually, the app will require you to accept the picture of the front before moving on to the back, meaning you may need to take each picture more than once to get it right. Some applications automatically detect the check, as long as it is on a dark background. Try to capture the whole check, and line up the check as squarely as possible.
 Some banks will ask you to type in the amount of the check. Others will just ask you to verify the amount the software automatically pulled from the check. Make sure they match up.
 Once you have the photographs and amount correct, submit the check. You may need to wait for the check to be reviewed.Other banks will deposit the amount instantly. Check with your bank to find out its policy.


Look for a confirmation email to let you know your check was deposited.If you don't receive an email within a day or two, check your account for the deposit. If it's not there, contact your bank., When you receive confirmation the check was deposited, write "void" or "processed" on it according to your bank's policy. Most banks ask that you keep the check for a certain amount of time, such as 2 months.