 Rather than grinding the oats, leave them whole. Take a muslin bag, thin pair of nylon pantyhose or large coffee filter and add ½ to ¾ cup of oats. When placed in the bath, the bag containing the oats will act like a teabag, infusing the water with nourishing natural compounds.Make large batches of oatmeal bags in advance so that you’ll have them on hand when you feel like plopping one into a bath.
 Depending on the purpose of the oatmeal bath, you might also choose to include other ingredients in the bath bag. A little powdered milk will help soften your skin. A drizzle of olive oil will lock in moisture as you soak. A tablespoon of baking soda can help reset your skin’s natural pH level. What you put in your bath bag is completely up to you, and the choices are nearly endless!If you are using an oatmeal bath to treat an infection or itchy, inflamed or sore skin, it is advisable to either avoid this step or be very cautious, as adding extra ingredients could aggravate the condition.
 Cinch the muslin bag tight or tie off a pair of pantyhose to keep the oats and other additives from being released into the bath water and turning it gritty. If you’re using a coffee filter or some other loose container, hold it closed with a rubber band or a length of ribbon or string. The bag needs to be secure enough to stay shut as it is hit by the running water while it floats around the tub.Coffee filters and other paper-based bags should be handled carefully when wet, as they’re prone to breaking and may come apart if they’re left in the water too long.
Sturdier materials like nylon pantyhose are good for multiple uses, provided they’re rinsed and dried out after each bath.
 Begin running hot water for the bath. Once the tub is about half full, toss in the bag. The heat and motion of the running water will unlock the essences of the oatmeal and other natural ingredients. Let the bath water cool to a comfortable temperature before getting in, and leave the bag in the tub the whole time you’re soaking.Bath bags are easy to make and leave no mess because their contents infuse into the water rather than being added directly to it.

