 Use the cloth to wipe the boots clean. Work the cloth along the boot rubbing off any dirt or dust. Make sure to follow the grain of the snakeskin as rubbing against the grain can loosen the scales and damage your boots.;
, Brush the crevices of the scales with a small soft brush. If there is significant buildup, brush your boots more than once., Do this using paper towels or tissues gently to avoid cracking. Allow for the boots to dry and be stored in an area where they will not be exposed to direct sunlight or any heating elements.
 Make sure you have snakeskin conditioner specifically. Snakeskin differs from other types of leather and can get dried out or even discolored by traditional cowhide leather conditioners. Use a cream wax product as opposed to a hard wax. One coat is all you need. Avoid using colored cream polish on natural colored snakeskin, and instead use a neutral cream polish., Test your reptile conditioner on a small unnoticeable area of your boot to make sure it reacts well to your type of snakeskin using a clean cloth. Apply leather conditioner to your boots evenly in small amounts, as always going with the grain in the leather and never against the scales., Once dry, wipe excess product off with clean cloth and polish gently. Use another clean cloth to polish them, moving the cloth in small clockwise circles., Take a clean soft white cloth and dampen slightly with water. Your cloth should not be excessively wet, as exposing snakeskin to too much dampness can cause drying and cracking which can shorten the lifespan of your boots.
 This is very important because without the snake's natural oils, excessive drying is one of the biggest dangers to your snakeskin boots.
 This will help to prevent dryness and cracking. Make sure this is designed specifically for snakeskin, as other commercial shoe treatments can cause discoloration and damage to the quality of your leather., To extend their life, consider storing in a box or in any place that can provide a cool and dark environment.Leather Honey is one of many companies that make conditioners and cleaners specifically designed for treating snakeskin products.