 Clear away piles of grass clippings, leaves, firewood, mulch, or compost.


Dark places attract wolf spiders, which hide in these areas during the day. By exposing as much of your yard as possible to sunlight, you make the area relatively unappealing to wolf spiders.
Clear away as much debris and clutter from your yard as possible. Even objects like empty planters, stones, and grills can provide a dark hiding place that will attract wolf spiders.;
, Move shrubs and other heavy, ground-covering plants away from the building.


Wolf spiders love to hide in dark places, and low vegetation is among the wolf spider's favorite hiding spots.
If possible, remove all heavy ground-covering plants from the yard. If this is not possible, you should at least move these plants away from the perimeter and to the outer perimeter of your yard to draw the spiders away from your home.



Use caulk to fill in gaps, holes, and cracks in the side of the foundation or along the exterior wall.
Add weather stripping to doors and windows to minimize the risk of allowing a wolf spider to sneak in beneath.
Patch up broken window screens or replace the screens completely.
 Tightly fix a fine-mesh screen over all vents that lead to the outside.


Pay special attention to foundation vents. While wolf spiders can get into your home through attic vents and chimneys, they are primarily ground-dwelling hunters and are most likely to enter in through vents and crawl spaces along the foundation of the building.
 Lights on the outside of your house attract flies, moths, and other insects at night, providing an appealing food source for wolf spiders.


Keep your lights turned off as much as possible to limit the number of insects drawn to your home.
Draw your blinds or shades closed to keep indoor lighting from flooding out.
Switch to sodium vapor lights instead of standard outdoor lights. These lights have a soft yellow hue which is less likely to attract bugs.
This is an especially effective control method against wolf spiders. Wolf spiders hunt at night, so the less food available to the at night, the less likely they are to hang around.

