 This is a pour-over type of coffee making device that makes strong coffee.Boil some water. You will need 1 to 2 cups.
Let it sit for 1 minute to cool slightly.
Ideally, the water should be between 175 and 195 degrees rather than at boiling temperature.
Measure out two Aeropress scoops of coffee. Grind the coffee with an electric grinder.
For an espresso based drink like a latte, make the grinds very fine (as fine as table salt). The grinds will stick together and clump when they are finely ground. This is what you should watch for when grinding.
Assemble the filter in the Aeropress cap. Wet the filter in the Aeropress. This will prepare the filter and remove any paper taste from your coffee.
Place the Aeropress on top of your cup.
Make the coffee. You will need to add the coffee and water to the Aeropress.
Add ground coffee to the cup using the funnel. Add hot water up to the fill line on the Aeropress.
Use the paddle stirrer or a spoon to mix the coffee and water.
Insert the plunger onto the Aeropress and press down until you hear a long hiss.
Taste the coffee. If it is too strong you can add some hot water to dilute it.
 If you don't have a pour over device like an Aeropress, you can use a regular filter coffee maker.

Use 1-2 scoops of coffee per cup of coffee made. You will want the coffee to be very strong to make a latte.
Preferably, you can grind the coffee yourself to a finer grind.
You will need 1-2 cups of coffee for a latte.
 It is a common misconception that you need a milk steamer to froth milk! You can do this using your microwave:Use a non-fat milk, such as 2 percent, for best results.
Pour some cold milk into a jar with a lid. Do not fill the jar more than halfway.
Seal the lid tightly.
Shake the milk in the jar vigorously for 30 to 60 seconds, until the volume has doubled.
Take the lid off of the jar.
Microwave the milk on high for 30 seconds.
The foam will rise to the top.
 Then add the milk to your coffee.


Use a spoon to keep the foam back when pouring your milk in.
Once you have enough milk into your latte, add a spoon of foam on top.
Enjoy your homemade latte!

