 Try giving to others less fortunate than you by helping out at a soup kitchen or food drive.


Believing in a higher power means shifting the emphasis off yourself. Helping others is a great opportunity to look at your life from a different perspective. Interacting with others who are less fortunate often helps you appreciate things you take for granted in your life.
Basic things like having shelter, eating food, or being able to sleep soundly are luxuries that some don't have. These are all things that you can thank God for and can help you believe God is looking out for you.
Be thankful and be persistent. Notice how people who have been not had certain things can still thrive. Tony Melendez, a man born without arms, recently played the guitar for Pope John Paul II using his feet.Being thankful for the things you have shifts attention from all the things that are missing in your life. Focus on the positive; optimism is a stepping stone to believing in something greater than yourself.
 Try extending your charitable acts to everyday life. Volunteering is both unselfish and generous, but don't overlook the little things.


When Peter talked about the healing of the paralysed man (Acts 3:2-8) he described it as a good deed (Acts 4:9) True believers in God can also offer healing of the sick as Peter did


, You can team with God to serve as His hands and feet. Simply holding open the door for someone can brighten that person's day. Little things like smiling, giving up your seat to the elderly on public transportation, or just saying "thank you" can bring you closer to God. Don't underestimate the effect a good deed can have on your feeling and believing how a higher power affects others through you.Think of times when someone, maybe even a complete stranger, has done something good to you. Maybe you dropped your cell phone and someone picked it up and stopped you to return it. Did you ever pause to think about that person's actions? Maybe that person was an answer to your simplest prayer: "Please God, just help me get through today."
"God bless you", have you ever helped someone and been told that? Try letting those words truly sink in and appreciate that deeply. What if a good deed is really God telling you that He hears and sees us and allows your intents and purposes to express His love?

