 Phone sex operators often speak to a variety of clients who have specific sexual interests, which will require you to be familiar with a wide range of topics; including bondage, discipline, and sadomasochism (BDSM).


Read books, stories, and online materials that fall into the erotica genre.
Perform a Web search using keywords such as “sexual fetishes,” “common phone sex topics,” or “BDSM” to learn more about various phone sex topics.;
, In the phone sex industry, taboos are defined as topics that you may be emotionally or mentally unable to discuss with clients for personal reasons. Most phone sex companies prefer to hire phone sex operators who lack taboos; some companies, however, are understanding and will allow you to have one or more taboos.
 For the sake of clients and professionalism, most phone sex companies will require that you work in a quiet space free of any background noise.
 Since most phone sex operator positions are remote and can be done from home, most phone sex positions will be posted online.
 For example, some phone sex companies will require that you have a landline so your connection is fully clear when speaking with clients, while others request that you also have an Internet connection so you can search for and chat with clients online., Most professional phone sex companies will not expect you to use your real name when speaking with clients for privacy and safety reasons, and may request that you develop one or more aliases.Choose aliases that match up well with each of your phone sex personas to help you get into character. For example, if you will be required to talk to some clients using a foreign accent, choose foreign names that go with those particular accents.



Practice reading a script that contains erotic content using your phone sex voice prior to leaving a voicemail recording for the phone sex company. Practicing while speaking in a sexy voice will help you feel more comfortable and confident at the time you call to apply.
 After you have been hired, you may be able to start speaking with phone sex clients immediately.

