 If your dog has or had an injury that is currently impacting its movement, then you should consult with your veterinarian about solutions. Your veterinarian should be familiar with your dog's particular health issues, allowing the vet to understand your dog's underlying issues and what type of continued treatment might be beneficial.It is never too late to attempt to get your dog physical therapy for movement issues. For instance, if you adopt a dog that has limits to its mobility, it's a good idea to get it physical therapy, no matter how old it is or how long ago it was injured.;
, If your primary veterinarian has not been able to fix your dog's particular issue, then you may need a more specialized expert opinion. Search out a certified canine rehabilitation therapist if your dog needs specialized care.Ask your veterinarian for a referral to a rehabilitation specialist in your area. If your vet doesn't know of anyone in your area, do a search online or ask friends and acquaintances that have dogs if they know of anyone in your area.
One reason to get expert help is that unlike people, dog's can't always clearly communicate when they are in pain or when they are uncomfortable. A professional trained in physical therapy for dogs will not only be able to recommend and complete a beneficial treatment, they should also be able to gauge your dog's physical limits when it comes to therapy., There are a wide range of therapeutic options that can be used to help your dog's movement. The effectiveness of these therapies relies largely on whether the strengths of the particular therapy you choose aligns with the specific injury that is impacting your dog's movement.


Your veterinarian may have suggestions for what type of therapy to explore, based on his or her understanding of your dog's movement issues.
Do online research so that you understand the strengths of each type of therapy. This will help you to figure out what type of physical therapy will be most likely to help your dog.
 This type of therapy includes range of motion work, as well as coordination and balance exercises. This type of therapy can help dogs with conditions that are limiting their movement, such as degenerative diseases, as well as dogs that are obese or have injuries they are recovering from.


If your dog has one of these issues, research therapists in your area that do physical therapy.
 Passive range of motion exercises allow your dog's muscles and tendons to be moved without the dog putting pressure on them or the dog exerting pressure on them. Basically, the dog's limbs are moved by the therapist so that range of motion is not lost while the dog is recovering from an injury or surgery.Often, this type of therapy is used during recovery from an injury to the legs, feet, and hips.This type of therapy may require that your dog be held down, so that it does not resist the movement. The therapist should be trained on how to hold a dog without hurting it.
 In addition to range of motion exercises, your dog may benefit from coordination and balance exercises. These exercises will increase your dogs agility and will focus on increasing mobility and flexibility. Common coordination and balance exercises include walking your dog in figure eights, leg lifts, walking stairs or inclines, or simply having your dog go from sitting to standing repeatedly.In order to do coordination and balance exercises, your dog needs to have the ability to stand and move its body weight to some degree, even if that ability is limited.
 Massage therapy is usually used in combination with other types of physical therapy. Massage can help your dog's muscles and tendons to remain flexible, as well as helping to prepare the muscles for movement. If your dog is very stiff, for instance it is suffering from limited mobility in later life, massage before exercising or movement based physical therapy can help limit pain and uncomfortableness.


While you can massage your dog yourself, a trained canine physical therapist will better understand how to incorporate massage into an overall physical therapy plan.In addition, they will know what to massage and what not to massage when dealing with an injury.
 Water therapy can be used to help dogs with mobility issues or dogs recovering from surgery to get much needed exercise.Dogs that are obese, are missing limbs, or are recovering from a health issue may benefit from this type of therapy.This is because exercise in water allows for easier movement due to buoyancy, and thus limited weight being placed on the dog's muscles.


Hydrotherapy requires specialized equipment, which can even include an underwater treadmill. Don't just assume that you can replace professional hydrotherapy by taking your dog swimming.
Older dogs with limited mobility can really benefit from hydrotherapy.
 Your canine physical therapist may suggest that you complete additional exercises and stretches at home, in addition to those done with the therapist.These are usually simple exercises that can be done on a daily basis with ease.


The exercises your physical therapist assigns may be variations on the exercises he or she does with your dog at the clinic. This could be strength exercises, such as having your dog gently roll from side to side, or range of motion exercises, such as moving your dog's limbs without putting the dog's weight on them.If you are unsure how to complete physical therapy exercises at home, ask your physical therapist to show you how to do them. They should be willing to give you pointers and to show you the exact techniques needed.

