 Start by providing a step stool or step ladder for your child, that way he or she can safely and securely reach the dishes in the sink. Also, all sharp and fragile objects should be removed to prevent any possible accidents. Finally, you may also want to line the sink and floor with towels to collect any spills that may happen. These steps will help ensure that your child is safe while washing the dishes.


A step stool or step ladder can be purchased online, in hardware stores, or in children's department stores. Once on the stool, your child's mid-section should be level with the sink. The stool should be safe and secure.
You might consider washing the knives and fragile dishes in front of your child, explaining how you are washing them and that soon it will be their turn to wash. Be sure to place them out of your child's reach once they are cleaned and dried.
Any towel will work to absorb spills, but be sure to have plenty on hand in case of accidents.;
, This will remove excess food to allow easier cleaning later. Explain to your child that larger pieces of food will block the drain of the sink or dishwasher, so this food must be discarded before you can begin cleaning with soap and a sponge. There are several ways you may want to discard left over food, including in the trash, the garbage disposal, and by compost. If you are putting left over food in the trash, use a fork or knife to push the food off the plate into the trash. Be sure to show your child what you are doing and allow him or her to scape his or her plate.
If you have a garbage disposal, show your child how to put leftover food in it safely. Instruct them as to what can and cannot be put into the garbage disposal, and that cold water should be running at all times when the garage disposal is running. If you compost, teach your child the food that can be used for composting and those that cannot. That which can be used should be saved, and that which cannot should be discarded. , You'll need warm water, dish soap, two sponges and two towels. For more difficult dishes, you can use plastic scrubbers or steal wool pads. You may also want to use rubber gloves. You may want to collect warm water in the sink and add soap to it. Alternatively you can place a rubber bin in the sink to collect warm water, and then add soap to it. Lastly, you can leave warm water running from the faucet and add soap to dishes individually.


All of these supplies can be picked up at a local supermarket.
For a fun activity, have your child add soap to the water. He or she will surely enjoy the bubbles!

