 It can be overwhelming to deal with your sexually active teen. You might be emotional. You might also not be sure what information to provide. That's normal.Take some time to find information that can be useful to both you and your teen. If you have a trusted doctor, that's a great place to start.
Ask your doctor for information to give to your teen about STDs, pregnancy, etc. You can also ask for information for parents on how to cope with this change.
Organizations like Planned Parenthood also have great resources. Ask if they have materials on helping parents deal with this emotional time.
 It is important that your teen feels like you can be trusted. However, it can also be very helpful to help your teen find other sources of support. It is always comforting to have more than one person to turn to.Ask your teen's other parent to become involved. Make it clear that your teen would appreciate an additional resource.
Other family members can also be a great source of support. If your teen as a favorite aunt, encourage her to talk openly to your teen.
Offer to take your teen to talk to a doctor. It can be useful to speak to someone who can be completely objective.
 Your major concern at this time is likely how your teen is handling sex. But it is important to also remember to take care of yourself. Many parents go through a tough emotional period when they find out their teen is having sex.Remember that what you are feeling is normal. Many parents aren't ready for their kids to grow up, and feel a little sad and anxious when they become sexually active.
It's ok to feel emotional. Try to find a support system for yourself.
Talk to your partner. Or ask your best friend for a shoulder to lean on.
Try to remember to keep living your life. Your teen's sex life doesn't have to become the center of your world.
 If either you or your teen is having a hard time coping, you can seek professional help. It might be a good idea for one or both of you to talk to a counselor. This can be helpful anytime you are dealing with emotional changes.You can also get professional advice from other sources. Consider talking to the school nurse or guidance counselor.
There are also many online resources to help both you and your teen deal with changes.

