 Many sports psychologists talk about visualization all the time and many of the athletes across the globe use this kind of technique to boost their performance. The night before you exercise, try to take at least ten minutes to visualize the entire session in your mind. Imagine yourself getting up, working out and at least feeling energized and accomplished afterwards. You need to go through the entire exercise routine in your mind. By visualizing, you will able to adjust and at least prepare yourself for your fitness routine the following day.;
, Many people usually underestimate the power of having fun and enjoying the routine when it comes to exercise. A recent study shows that if you are not happy and perceive your exercise as work, then you are more inclined to slack.
 Try to pick up a certain sport or join dance classes that you used to love or always wanted to try. Why not pump up your workout with music? Music can change your perception of how difficult the tasks are. And breathing throughout heavy routines can give you the added stamina you need.
 It is always important that you remain positive throughout the whole fitness routine. You can reframe your negative thoughts to some positive ones. Reframing is a type of cognitive-behavioral method that can support people to become higher functioning in all areas of life. Doing self-talk has a very powerful ability on your motivation and ability to perform. Focus your thoughts on your own strengths, like how you made time to exercise or how you worked out even though you did not feel like it.
 You may already know from research that some “feel good” chemicals like serotonin, dopamine and norepinephrine are released in your brain every time you perform an exercise routine. Yet, when you do your workout consistently, some of the new dopamine receptors are made in the motivation center of the brain. Through exercising, it becomes a self-reinforcing behavior. Consistency is the key to achieve optimal results.
 A positive reinforcement can be an effective way to keep yourself on the right track. Rewards throughout the process are also well-deserved when you start and maintain a fitness routine. Try to give yourself some rewards daily or weekly. Or take a trip to the spa or get a massage to unwind. The short and long-term rewards are very important. Try planning a celebration one to four months in advance where you can show off the results.
 If you miss a day or a few days working out, tomorrow is another opportunity to thrive. Be kind to yourself during your process, there will be ups and downs. Don't give up!

