 Use the scroll wheel located on the front of your device to navigate the menus on your iPod. To use the scroll wheel, simply run your finger in a circular motion around the wheel. From the Music menu, you can select songs to add to your playlist. With the song title selected, press and hold the center button until you see the song title flash.At the top of the scroll wheel is the "Menu" button. The scroll wheel also contains the buttons to play, pause, and move between tracks.The center button is located in the middle of the scroll wheel.;
, For each song you want to add, you'll need to repeat the process. Scroll through your songs and hold the center button on each song you want to add until you see the title flash.You can also add entire albums to your playlist. To add an album, select the album title and hold the center button until you see the title flash., Once you've finished your playlist, you can find it by selecting Music > Playlists > On-The-Go.To move from one menu to the next, simply press the center button once. To return to the previous menu, press the "Menu" button at the top of the scroll wheel.From here you can play all the songs on the playlist, or select a specific song from the playlist. Use the scroll wheel to find the song you want to listen to and press play., If you decide you don't want a certain song on your playlist, you can delete it the same way you added it. Use the scroll wheel to select the song and hold the center button until you see the title flash.If you want to delete the entire playlist, go to Music > Playlists > On-The-Go > Clear Playlist and click Clear.
 You can save your On-The-Go playlists by going to Music > Playlists > On-The-Go > Save Playlist.The On-The-Go Playlist will be cleared and the name of the playlist will change to "New Playlist 1." You can save as many playlists as you want, but once they are saved you can't remove songs., If you want to add the playlist to iTunes, connect your iPod to your computer. If you have your iPod set to sync automatically, your playlist will be copied to your computer when you connect your iPod.Once you've copied your playlist to your computer, you can rename it, and add or delete songs.