 Free food and drink is available sometimes in the most unlikely places. Most big banks offer free coffee in the lobby, which you can load up on quickly and high-tail it out of there. If someone asks if you need help, say that you've got a check from a different bank that you need to deposit and you want to know if you can deposit it here. When the employee asks if you're a member, say no. No transaction required.


You can also get free coffee at Starbucks, Dunkin Donuts, and Caribou Coffee by enrolling in their rewards program, which is free. Sign up, print the coupon, and redeem it at the store for some coffee on the house.
 Time to polish off your acting skills again. Find a good hotel chain in your area and locate the continental breakfast room for a free pastry, piece of fruit, and maybe even a waffle if you're lucky. While some hotels keep the breakfast locked away in a room you've got to access with a key card, most of them have the breakfast out in the open, making it easily available to anyone who looks the part.


Don't worry too much about getting caught. Because most guests don't stay longer than a day, and because the front desk employee turns over each morning, it's unlikely you'll be caught. While it's not illegal, it's better to just leave quietly if someone catches you and threatens the cops. There's a difference between "against the law" and "against corporate rules." Still, don't make a scene.
 One of the biggest secrets about farmers' markets is that most of the vendors are itching to get rid of everything before they have to pack back up and head home. Do a quick sweep through the market to see what looks good, then wait to approach any of the booths until 10 or 15 minutes before the end of the day. The less produce the vendors have to lug back, the better. Ask about two for one deals or whether or not they've got any overripe stuff to get rid of.
 Street fairs and other festivals will commonly offer free samples to try to hook passers-by, and these locations are also great places to nab a free energy drink, energy bar, or other new products, which will often send employees to give out free stuff to try to drum up interest in the products. Look for people carrying backpacks full of Red Bull, Yoo-hoo, or Luna Bars.
 Wine, beer, chocolate, fresh produce, and lots of other types of high-end goods are commonly given out as samples for no cost at retail locations. The presumption is that you’ll love it so much you’ll buy something for a hefty price tag, but there’s no contract involved, and no shame. Try everything and tell them you'll think about it.
 If you're willing to get dirty, head to the alley behind a grocery store and find the dumpster. Legally, restaurants, grocery stores, and other food outlets are required to throw out a crazy amount of perfectly-edible food. It requires some digging (literally), but finding "out of date" canned goods and partially-bruised produce can be a great way of nabbing free food. Avoid meat and dairy.


In some places, this technically counts as trespassing, if you're wandering into or onto the property of the business. Be discreet and be careful.
 If you're a fan of nature walks and free produce, learning to recognize edible plants in your area can be a great way of getting outside and enjoying the wider world, as well as finding free food. Greens, berries, and nuts are available if you know where to look. Invest in a good field guide in your area and learn to recognize the local edibles. Wash things thoroughly, make sure you're not wandering onto private property, and you'll be in good shape.


Euell Gibbons, a survivalist and writer, lived primarily off of foraged food for the majority of his life, and not just in places like Hawaii. He foraged extensively in Pennsylvania, Indiana, and Ohio, finding plenty of unexpected food to sustain him. Wherever you live, there's food to be had.

