 If you still don’t have one, or accidentally misplaced yours, just head on over to the Town Store. It’s one of the main structures in the game and is generated randomly when your town is created. Like many of the other tools, it costs 500 Bells, so make sure you have enough!


Note that if your store is Nook's Cranny, the fishing rod may not be in the store, as Nook's Cranny only sells two tools per day.;
, Since the game runs in real-time, even when shut off, it’s best to keep an eye on dates, times, and seasons, especially if you’re trying to catch a specific fish. Octopuses are generally available from September to January and from March to July, making them available for most of the year. Some fish are only available during certain times in the day, but thankfully octopuses are available in any hour of the day.
 The ocean is always found south of the town proper, and often has an abundance of fish swimming around in it. The ocean is also where you can find your octopuses, as well as assorted other fish, and is often the best fishing spot in the game if you’re just catching fish to sell.
 To do this, press Y to open your inventory. Select the rod with the D-pad and A, or by tapping it with your stylus. Scroll to your character until he or she is highlighted, and drop the rod there. The character’s icon will then be holding the fishing rod.
 There are eight kinds of fish silhouettes: tiny fish, small fish, medium fish, large fish, very large, eel, huge and shark. Tiny and small fish are just about as small as your bobber, medium fish are barely bigger than your bobber, and large fish are just about as long as your character. Eels are very thin, snaky shadows, and both huge fish and sharks are considerably bigger than the large fish. Sharks have a distinctive large fin poking out of the water. In Wild World, octopuses use the large fish silhouette, so make sure to try and catch the larger fish!

, Press A or tap the water to cast your bobber, preferably in front of the fish silhouette you think is an octopus.


Fish are tenacious creatures, so once your bobber goes down, tap the screen or press A as fast as you can to reel it in!

, Octopuses, while fairly common, are still tricky to catch at times if you don’t have the best reflexes. Be patient and don’t be disappointed if you keep catching Sea Bass or other, more common large fish before you find your octopus!

