 Use a shotgun to hunt rabbits, or, alternatively, a .22 rifle, a pistol, or a bow and arrow.When hunting, be sure to follow licensing and hunting season laws in your area. If you live in a densely populated city, you may not be able to discharge weapons in your yard. Check your local laws to ensure you are able to hunt rabbits on your property. Also, be sure to practice gun safety when hunting. Always keep the barrel of your gun pointed in a safe direction, such as toward the ground, and do not put your finger inside the trigger guard on your gun until you are ready to shoot. Also, treat every weapon as though it were loaded, wear a bright orange vest to keep yourself visible, and always be aware of what is in front of and behind your target.Gun safety courses may be available in your community.
Hunting with an expert may help you with hunting safety and effectiveness at thinning the rabbit population on your property.
You may be able to find people who want to hunt on your property if you do not want to do so yourself. The game is often compensation enough, and some hunters may even pay you for allowing them to hunt on your property.
 Live traps can allow you to capture rabbits and remove them from your property. Traps are available at many stores and online. This is an excellent alternative to shooting rabbits. Bait traps with apples, brussels sprouts, carrots, or lettuce. Monitor the traps regularly and release rabbits as quickly as possible after they are captured. Wear protective gloves when handling traps and releasing the rabbits. Drive the rabbit at least a mile from your property to release to ensure they won't come back.Contact your local animal control officer or parks and recreation department to learn about release laws in your area.
 Find a pest control company in your area that can deal with your rabbit problem. They can help you confirm that rabbits are responsible for any damage you may have found. They can also help implement techniques for repelling rabbits and protecting property, including fencing, traps, tree guards, etc. A pest control service will generally schedule follow-up or maintenance appointments and they will ensure any removal or control techniques are consistent with local wildlife laws.If you have been confounded by rabbits and are ready to use a pest control service, look for pest control services in your area that specialize in small animals like rabbits—not all pest control services are experienced in rabbit control. Ask them over the phone if they have dealt with rabbit infestations before and what measures they took to control the problem.

