 Drip coffee or pour over coffee tends to have less bitterness than other brewing options like french press or espresso brewing. If you are trying to avoid bitter coffee, you may go for drip coffee at home or when you are getting coffee at a coffee shop. Avoid espresso brewing, such as an espresso shot or an Americano style coffee, as these tend to be the most bitter.If you brew your own coffee at home, the bitterness of the coffee will depend on the type of bean you use, the roasting method used on the beans, and the amount of beans you use. You may need to play around with your drip coffee method to find a brew that is not too bitter.
 If you prepare your own coffee at home, you should grind your own beans for the freshest coffee possible. When you do this, make sure you are not grounding the coffee too finely. Brewing methods like french press and drip brewing will require different grind sizes. Often, french press tastes less bitter if the grinds are coarse and not too fine. Drip coffee tends to taste less bitter if the grinds are medium fine rather than very fine.You may need to experiment with the grind size for your coffee depending on what type of brewing method you use. Finding the right grind size may improve the overall taste of your coffee, including the level of bitterness in the coffee.
 Another reason why your home brewed coffee may be bitter tasting is because you are using water that is too hot to brew the coffee. Using water that is too hot to brew the coffee can lead to more bitterness in your cup. You should aim for water temperatures between 195 degrees Fahrenheit (91 degrees Celsius) and 205 degrees Fahrenheit (96 degrees Celsius). Do not let the water boil to beyond 210 degrees Fahrenheit (98 degrees Celsius).It may also be good to get into the habit of letting the water sit for a few minutes in the kettle so it can reduce in temperature before you pour it over your coffee grounds.
Stirring the coffee grinds rapidly with a spoon once you have poured the water over them can also improve the flavor of the coffee.
 Make sure you rinse out all your brewing equipment every time you brew coffee. Residue grounds can end up getting into your next cup, affecting the flavor and perhaps making it too bitter. Use hot water to rinse out the drip coffee equipment as well as the french press equipment so it is clean for the next time you brew coffee at home.You should also let your brewing equipment air dry so it is clean and ready for use the following day.
 If you use the french press brewing method, you should always pour out any leftover coffee in the french press into a thermos to keep it warm. Leaving the coffee in the press will make the coffee more bitter as it will sit longer with the grinds. When you go to pour the leftover coffee in your cup, you may end up with a very bitter cup of coffee.You may also try to avoid having leftover coffee by measuring out the water by cup when you brew the coffee. For example, if you are planning to have two cups of coffee, one for you and a friend, you may measure out enough water for two cups exactly so you do not have to worry about leftover coffee sitting in the press.

