 A check is a defensive move aimed at an opponent's stick, or the hands holding the stick. You are not allowed to strike the legs, back, above the shoulder, or an arm not touching the stick.
 It's very difficult to legally check from behind, and some refs won't allow it at all.Save your checking for situations where you're facing a player's front or side., Hold your stick directly outward and poke it at the opposing arms or torso. Keep up this check to disrupt the player's ball control. This is easier to control than a swing check, and more difficult to foul with., While you're checking with a poking motion, you're in the perfect position to disrupt a throw. As the throw starts, get your stick under the opponent's lower hand, and push it upward. When done correctly, this will disrupt their aim completely., Check with a swing if you have a clear line to the other player's stick, and he looks off balance or vulnerable. Plant your feet at shoulder width and swing with a fast, short motion in front of you. Strike at the center of the shaft or directly at the pocket, with just enough force to jar the ball loose.

Never swing your stick like a baseball bat when checking. A wild or overly strong check will earn you a penalty for "slashing."
If you're playing an offensive position, your shorter stick is generally less effective at checking, but you do have more control over your swing. You should still wait for a vulnerable moment, but be aware you can react a little faster.
 You may "body check" a player only on the front side, between the shoulders and the knees. You may not do this while the other player is scooping up a ground ball, or is in another unprotected position where the contact may cause injury., This gives you more power at close range, but puts you at risk of a "cross check" foul if you push with the stick shaft instead. To avoid this, make sure your hands are together on the stick as you are pushing. They should never be more than six inches (15 cm) apart on the stick, and if your referee is strict you may want to hold them closer.

Be extra careful not to hit from behind or above the shoulders, or you could easily injure the other player.

