 You may have heard the “eight glasses a day” rule, but research suggests that you may actually need more than that. The Institute of Medicine recommends that men drink about 13 cups (three liters) of fluids per day. Women should drink about nine cups (2.2 liters) of fluids per day.If you’re sick or you exercise a lot, you’ll need to drink more.Water is the best choice. Drinking a half-cup of fresh-squeezed lemon juice daily raises the citrate levels in your urine, which can help reduce your risk of developing calcium kidney stones. Experts no longer recommend orange juice, as it raises oxalate levels.Be cautious with grapefruit juice, apple juice, and cranberry juice. Several studies have linked grapefruit juice to an increased risk of kidney stones, although not all studies agree.Apple and cranberry juice both contain oxalates, which are linked to the development of kidney stones. Cranberry juice may increase your risk for calcium oxalate and uric acid stones. However, it may help prevent the less-common types of stones, such as struvite and brushite stones, and it’s good for overall kidney function.Talk with your doctor about whether consuming these juices is a good idea for you.
 Consuming too much salt can cause kidney stones by increasing the calcium content of your urine. Read nutritional labels carefully and avoid processed foods, which tend to be high in sodium. Use the following sodium guidelines:Consume no more than 2,300 mg of sodium daily if you are a healthy young adult. According to the US Department of Agriculture, most Americans eat far more than that recommended allowance, 3,400 mg.Restrict your sodium to 1,500 mg per day if you are at least middle aged or you have certain conditions, such as high blood pressure or diabetes.
Look for “lower sodium” or “no salt added” labels on canned foods. Canned vegetables and soups often have high levels of salt. Luncheon meat, hot dogs, and frozen prepared meals often have extremely high levels of sodium, so check labels before you buy., A diet high in animal protein, especially red meats, increases your risk of developing kidney stones, especially uric acid stones.Limiting your animal protein intake to 6 ounces or less per day helps reduce your risk of forming all types of kidney stones.Red meats, organ meats, and shellfish are high in a substance called purine, which increases your body’s production of uric acid and can cause kidney stones.Eggs and fish also contain purines, although at a lower level.Substitute some of your animal protein with other rich sources of protein, such as nuts and legumes.
 Citric acid from fruits acts as a protective factor by coating existing kidney stones, making it difficult for them to increase in size. Your doctor may prescribe medications such as calcium citrate or potassium citrate; these are not dietary sources and work differently.Lemons and limes are the best source of citric acid. Drinking lemonade or limeade (especially low-sugar varieties) and squeezing lemon or lime juice on foods are excellent ways of increasing your citric acid intake.
Increasing your fruit and vegetable intake will help boost your citric acid consumption.
Some sodas, such as 7UP and Sprite, contain high levels of citric acid. While you should avoid high-sugar beverages, the occasional clear soda may be a good way to increase your citric acid intake., If you have a history of kidney stones made from calcium oxalate, the most common type of kidney stone, avoiding foods that are high in oxalate can help prevent future kidney stones.If you do eat foods that contain oxalates, eat them at the same time as foods that contain calcium. The calcium and oxalate will bind to each other, making them less likely to cause trouble for your kidneys.Limit oxalate to 40-50mg daily.
Foods that are high in oxalate (10mg+ per serving) include nuts, most berries, wheat, figs, grapes, tangerines, beans, beets, carrots, celery, eggplant, kale, leeks, olives, okra, peppers, potatoes, spinach, sweet potato, and zucchini.
Beverages that contain high levels of oxalate (more than 10mg per serving) include dark beer, black tea, chocolate-based beverages, soy beverages, and instant coffee.
Don’t over consume vitamin C. Your body may turn high doses — such as those from supplements — into oxalate., The calcium you eat from foods doesn’t affect your risk of developing kidney stones. In fact, diets that are too low in calcium may cause kidney stones to develop for some people. However, calcium supplements may increase the risk of developing kidney stones, so don’t take them unless your doctor has recommended them.Children between four and eight years old should get 1,000 mg of calcium daily. Children nine to 18 years old should get 1,300 mg of calcium daily. Adults 19 and older should get at least 1,000 mg of calcium daily. Women over 50 and men over 70 should increase their intake to 1,200 mg of calcium a day., Studies suggest that fiber-rich foods may help prevent kidney stones.Many high-fiber foods contain phytate, a compound that helps prevent calcium from crystallizing.


Beans and rice bran are good sources of phytate. While wheat and soybeans also contain phytates, they are also high in oxalate, so it’s recommended that you avoid them unless recommended by your doctor.
 Alcohol increases the level of uric acid in the bloodstream, which can contribute to kidney stones.If you do drink alcohol, choose light-colored beers or wine. These beverages don’t appear to increase your risk of kidney stones.Dark beers contain oxalate, which can increase kidney stones.