 The number one way to remove unwanted fake tan is to exfoliate your skin in the shower. Exfoliating removes the top layers of tanned skin, revealing the new, untanned skin underneath. You can exfoliate using a body scrub (preferably one with large gritty particles, such as a salt or sugar scrub) and/or a loofah.


Exfoliate in the shower every morning, really focusing on the areas where fake tan tends to stick, such as the knees and elbows. Massage the skin with the body scrub or loofah using circular motions. Just don't scrub too hard or you might damage the skin.
Only use scrubs and loofahs on the body. Removing fake tan from the face will require a gentler exfoliator, such as a facial scrub containing fine particles or a damp washcloth.;
, Swimming can help fade sun tan and fake tan. If stubborn patches of real or fake tan remain despite your exfoliating, consider hitting your local pool. The chemicals added to the pool water, such as chlorine, will help to strip fake tan from the skin, leaving you streak free.Try to swim for at least an hour, to give the pool water enough time to do its thing. Don't just splash around, do as many lengths of the pool as you can throughout the hour. This will provide a great cardio workout! Two bird, one stone.
 Hair removal creams can be used to remove particularly resistant patches of fake tan. This is due to the fact that hair removal creams contain chemicals that break down substances in the fake tan, allowing it to be easily wiped away. All you need to do is apply a light layer of the hair removal cream to the patchy or streaky tan you want to remove, let it sit for about ten seconds, then wipe it away with a cleansing wipe or damp towel.Obviously the main use of these creams is to remove hair, so don't use this technique on any areas of the body where you may wish to keep your hair -- such as arms.
People with sensitive skin may not react well to these creams, so do a patch test on a small area of skin, such as on your wrist, before applying it all over. Hair removal creams designed for the body should never be used on the face.
 Hitting the steam room can be a very effective way of removing fake tan, as the hot steam causes pores on the skin to open up, releasing the tanning product. Try to sit in the steam room for at least 20 to 30 minutes, then immediately rub down your skin with a damp towel once you come out.The removed fake tan should be visible on the towel, so you may want to use an old one.
 Many good fake tan brands also produce products designed to help remove the tan when you're done. These come in a range of forms such as body scrubs, tan removal wipes and bath oils and can be very effective, particularly when used to remove fake tan produced by the same brand. Follow the instructions on the label for details on how to use specific products.


Depending on the brand, these products can be a little on the pricey side but are worth the investment if you need to get your tan off in a hurry!

, There are certain things you can do before applying fake take to ensure that it fades evenly, without leaving patchiness or streaks. The main thing you need to do is ensure that your skin is well exfoliated and moisturized before applying the tan. This prevents the tan from getting trapped in dry patches of skin. You should begin this prep work 2 to 3 days before applying your tan.


You can make an extremely effective exfoliator at home by mixing a little lemon or lime juice with some baking soda. Pour this mixture onto a new sponge and heat in the microwave for two minutes before using it to scrub all over your body. Do this once a day, in the 2 to 3 days before tanning.Moisturize with a rich moisturizer after each exfoliation, but never moisturize on the day you apply the tan as the moisturizer will dilute the tanning product and cause streaks.
Remember that cheaper tanning products are more likely to cause streaks and to fade unevenly than more expensive brands. However, some tanning products will just not react well with your skin type, so shop around to find one that works well for you.
 Unfortunately there's not a huge amount you can do to remove a natural tan in a hurry, but you can prevent the tan from becoming any darker by wearing sunscreen. In fact, if you want to keep your skin light in color and free from sun damage, you should be wearing sunscreen every day, all year round.


Liberally apply a sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30 all over the body, 30 minutes before sun exposure.
You should use a separate sunscreen for your face, potentially one with an even higher SPF. Look for the word "non-comedogenic" on the label -- this means that it will not clog your pores.
 Similarly to wearing sunscreen, covering your skin with light layers will prevent your tan from developing even further and protect it from sun damage. If you're living or staying somewhere very hot, try wearing light, breathable materials -- such as cotton -- in loose, airy styles.


Protect your face by wearing sunhats or baseball caps and sunglasses, or by carrying a parasol during the hottest hours of the day.
 In addition to removing fake tan, exfoliating your skin will also help to fade natural tan by sloughing off the top layers of dead skin, leaving fresh new skin behind. Exfoliate in the shower using a body scrub and loofah, at least once a week, using gentle circular motions.


Use a separate facial scrub for exfoliating the skin on your face, or use a clean washcloth soaked in warm water to gently massage the skin.
 It may be possible to use skin lightening or bleaching products to remove tan on small areas of skin, but be aware that these products are usually reserved for discolorations and dark spots caused by sun damage, and it is important that you consult with your doctor before use. Skin lightening creams work by reducing the amount of melanin in your skin. The more melanin pigment your skin contains, the darker your skin will be.


Skin lightening creams are available over-the-counter and by prescription. The safest, most effective lightening creams usually contain either steroids or retinoic acid (a form of vitamin A) as their active ingredient. Other creams use natural ingredients such as arbutin, kojic acid and azelaic acid.
Hydroquinone is the active ingredient in a number of effective skin lightening products, available over-the-counter and (in stronger percentages) by prescription in the US. However, hydroquinone has been banned in many European and Asian countries due to links with cancer, so consult with your doctor before using.
Mercury is the active ingredient in some skin lighteners made in Asia. The use of such products can lead to mercury poisoning, which can have very serious side effects, including the death of unborn children. The sale of mercury products is banned in the U.S., however be sure to check the labels of all skin lightening products before using, just to be safe., Keeping your skin well hydrated encourages this important organ to work at full capacity, increasing cell turnover and allowing skin to rejuvenate itself. These processes will help a natural tan to fade more quickly. You can hydrate your skin internally, by drinking plenty of water and eating fresh fruit and vegetables, or externally, by regularly applying a rich moisturizer (preferably one with natural fruit acids to aid with tan removal) all over the body.
 This mask works wonders to brighten skin and reduce facial tan, when used on a regular basis. Simply mix two tablespoons of gram powder with 1/4 teaspoon of turmeric powder, the juice from half a lemon and a drop of milk to form a thick paste.Apply this mixture all over the face and neck and leave to sit for 15 minutes before rinsing off with lukewarm water. For best results, apply this mask once every two days.
If you have oily skin that's prone to breakouts, you can replace the drop of milk with a little rosewater.
 The citric acid contained in lemon juice is an effective skin lightener, and can be used to fade or remove both natural and fake tans, particularly from stubborn areas such as hands and feet. Juice three or four lemons and dilute the juice in a basin full of warm water. Allow hands and/or feet to soak in the lemon infused water for 15 to 20 minutes.


Lemon juice can be quite drying, so be sure to moisturize hands and feet with a rich moisturizer after using this treatment.
Undiluted lemon juice can also be applied directly to tough tan-stained areas like elbows and knees and left to sit for 15 minutes before rinsing off.
Lime juice or, at a push, orange juice can replace the lemon juice in this treatment, as they both contain a certain amount of citric acid.
 Raw potato contains quantities of vitamin C, which is used in many skin lightening treatments. Some people claim to have successfully lightened tanned skin by rubbing the juice from a raw potato on the darker areas.


Simply cut a raw potato in half and rub the exposed, moist flesh on the tanned skin. Repeat as often as possible, until you begin to see results.
Tomatoes and cucumbers, which also contain high quantities of vitamin C, can also be rubbed on the skin to produce the same effect.
 It is surprisingly easy to make a great homemade exfoliator with added tan fading benefits from natural ingredients in your kitchen. Simply mix a cup of crushed sugar with some high quality olive oil and a little freshly squeezed lime juice.The sugar will slough off dead skin, the lime juice will lighten the skin and the olive oil will add moisture.
Rub this mixture all over the body with clean towel or washcloth dampened with warm water. Wash off in the shower.
 Aloe vera is said to help fade dark tans, in addition to relieving burns and helping to heal wounds. For best results, purchase an aloe vera plant from your local garden center and use the gel-like sap directly from a broken leaf. Aloe vera is completely safe to use, with no common side effects, so you may apply it as often and as liberally as possible.


However, aloe vera may make your skin extra sensitive to sunlight, so be sure to wear sunscreen outdoors when using this treatment.
 Coconut water applied topically to the face and hands is said to fade tan while also leaving skin soft and supple. For best results, it should be applied on a daily basis, no need to rinse off.Drinking coconut water is also a great way to hydrate your skin from the inside out -- it is low in calories and provides a tasty alternative to regular water.
 Mix a tablespoon of oats with a drop of buttermilk and spread this mixture over your body, using circular motions to work it into the skin. The oats will exfoliate the skin, while the buttermilk will soothe and soften. you can also try putting on gram flour, milk, lemon juice, turmeric paste for good tan removal results.