 Infections can cause your skin to emit a bad smell. This is because the bad bacteria causing the infection, which are called anaerobic bacteria, begin killing your cells, which causes a bad smell to occur.
 It is normal to feel pain right after you get the tattoo, but it should start to fade gradually. Pain caused by an infection will persist and get worse as time goes on.


If you are experiencing a serious, sharp and shooting pain in the location of your tattoo, you should consider going to see a doctor.
 When your body senses that you have an infection, it will increase your internal temperature in an effort to burn and kill off the bacteria or virus causing the infection. This makes you have a fever.


Keep track of your fever. If it continues to go up, consider going to see a doctor.
You may also experience muscle weakness when you develop a fever. This is because your body is putting a lot of effort into raising your temperature to combat the infection.
 If the infection has persisted for quite a while, there is a chance that you might develop blood poisoning. If this occurs, red lines will start to form that shoot out from your tattoo and travel up your veins.


If this is left untreated, you could become very seriously ill. Go to the hospital right away if you notice these signs of blood poisoning.
 When an area of your body becomes infected, swelling and inflammation are generally some of the first symptoms that you will notice. If you tattoo is infected, it may look puffy or distorted in appearance.


You may also experience itching and irritation in the area.
 If your tattoo is infection, it may being releasing pus from the wound sites. This pus could be greenish or yellowish in colour. If you see this pus, it means that you have a pretty bad infection and should seriously consider going to the doctor.
 When you have an infection, your lymph nodes may swell up while your body tries to fight the infection. This is because your lymph nodes are part of your immune system, the system in your body responsible for fighting infections.

