 Before getting involved in a cause, it’s important to be informed about the issues involved. Check out books related to your cause from your school library or your local public library.Charities or other activist organizations devoted to your cause may be able to recommend some books to you. Check out their websites for reading lists.
Ask teachers or professors you know who may be familiar with your cause to recommend some books.
 If you are in high school or college, you may be able to sign up for classes that will help you understand your cause better. For example, if you are concerned about environmental issues, an environmental science class would be a good place to start.


Taking a class can not only help you become more informed about your cause, but it can also help you connect to others who are interested in the same issues.
Talk to your teacher or professor outside of class to get more ideas about how to get involved or educate yourself further.
If you’re not in school, or if your school doesn’t offer courses that are helpful to you, you might be able to find a free or affordable online course related to your cause. For example, Smith College offers a free online course on Women’s Activism through the edX website., Watch the news or browse newspapers, magazines, or online news publications for information about new developments related to your cause.If you are a member of a charitable or activist organization for your cause, then they may offer a regular newsletter or roundup of recent stories related to the cause.


Keep in mind that not all sources are credible or reliable. Carefully evaluate any sources you read, especially on the internet, and be aware of the author’s possible biases., If you are interested in a cause that affects other people, then one of the best ways to understand how to help them is to listen to what they have to say. If you can’t reach out to them in person, then try connecting to affected people and communities via social media, or read their stories in books or online.For example, if you are interested in helping with issues related to LGBT+ rights, speak to members of your local LGBT+ community about what kinds of issues matter the most to them, and what you can do to help. If your campus has a Gay-Straight Alliance club, that might be a good place to start., If you know other activists in your community who are involved in the cause you are interested in, talking to them is a great way to find out what work is already being done in your area and what you can do to help out.Try connecting with other activists in your area via social media, or attend meetings for organizations in your area.
If you are in school, talk to other students or teachers who are interested in your cause. Find out if there are any student organizations on campus related to your cause.
 Do a search to find the websites of activist or charitable organizations that support your cause. Read their summaries of the issues, read up on what they are doing to help, and look at any information they have about how you can get involved.

