 Chickenpox will generally run its course without medical help if the infected individual is under the age of 12. If you are older than 12, however, you need to see a doctor as soon as you notice the pox appear. Major complications can arise.


Your doctor will likely prescribe you Acyclovir, which is an antiviral medication that helps shorten the duration of the virus. Try to see your doctor within the first 24 hours after the pox appear for this medicine to be the most effective. An 800 mg pill of it should be taken four times a day for five days, but the dose may be different for smaller or younger teenagers.Antivirals may be particularly helpful for people with asthma or eczema, especially children.
 There are certain situations where you need to see a doctor, no matter how old you are. If you have a fever for more than four days, have a fever over 102 degrees Fahrenheit, if you develop a serious rash that oozes pus or gets near or in your eyes, become confused, have a hard time waking up or walking, have a stiff neck, have a severe cough, vomit frequently, or have difficulty breathing, you need to see a doctor immediately.


Your doctor will examine you and decide the best course of action. These symptoms may be from a severe form of chickenpox, a bacterial infection, or another virus., You are at risk of secondary infections if you are pregnant and get the chickenpox. You also may pass it to your unborn child as well. The doctor may give you Acyclovir, but you also may be prescribed immunoglobulin treatment. This treatment is a solution of antibodies from healthy individuals that is injected to help people who are at high risk of getting a severe case of the chickenpox infection.


These treatments can also help prevent the mother from spreading it to the unborn child, which can have serious effects on the baby., There are individuals need to get special treatment from the doctor if they get chickenpox. If you have an immune disease, are immunocompromised, have HIV or AIDS, or are being treated for cancer or with steroids or other immunosuppressive drugs, you should get checked out immediately. Your doctor may give you intravenous acyclovir, but immune disorders may cause you to be resistant to the medicine.


If you are resistant, your doctor will give you foscarnet as a substitute, but the dosage and length of treatment will depend on your case.