 If your blisters and rash don’t go away after a week, or you become very uncomfortable, see your doctor. The doctor may prescribe oral medications, steroid creams, or light therapy to treat your spongiotic dermatitis.


See your doctor if: you're so uncomfortable that it disrupts your sleep or ability to function daily, your skin is painful, self-care and home remedies haven’t worked, or you suspect your skin is infected., A doctor may prescribe phototherapy (light therapy) to help heal spongiotic dermatitis. This very effective treatment can be as simple as limited sun exposure or may use artificial light, but it does not come without risks.Phototherapy exposes the skin to controlled amounts of natural sunlight or artificial ultraviolet A (UVA) and narrow band UVB. This treatment can be used alone with in conjunction with medications.Light exposure increases your risk for premature aging and skin cancer., If the itching or rash is not relieved by applying an over-the-counter topical corticosteroid, your doctor may prescribe either a stronger topical or oral corticosteroid such as prednisone.Oral steroids and strong topical steroids can have serious side effects when used long term. Follow your doctor's instructions and don't use these medications for longer than advised.Continue to moisturize your skin while using oral and topical corticosteroids. Not only will they keep your skin hydrated, but they will help prevent flare-ups when you discontinue use of the steroids., In case your blisters or rash area is infected, you can get an antibiotic to help make sure you remain healthy. Talk to your doctor if you see signs of infection, such as redness, swelling, warmth, or pus.


The type of antibiotic your doctor prescribes may vary. Common antibiotics include erythromycin, penicillin, dicloxacillin, clindamycin, or doxycycline., When no other treatment works, get a calcineurin inhibitor cream that will help repair your skin. These drugs, which include tacrolimus and pimecrolimus, will help maintain normal skin, control itching, and reduce flares of spongiotic dermatitis.


Calcineurin inhibitors directly affect the immune system and come with potential side effects including kidney problems, high blood pressure and headaches. Serious but rare side effects include an increased risk of certain cancers.These drugs are prescribed only when other treatments have failed and are approved for most people over the age of 2.