 With World Adventures installed, explore the Al Simhara tombs and look inside sarcophagi to awaken mummies. Let the mummy catch your Sim, and there's a chance that it will curse you (adding a moodlet). It will take two whole game weeks for your Sim to die, but you get a cool white ghost haunted by a black cloud.


Sims with good martial arts skills can fight the mummy off, avoiding the curse.
There are several ways to end the curse, but most are hard to do by accident. Avoid meditation, time travel to the past, unicorn blessings, snake kissing, and sleeping in sarcophagi.
 There's only a tiny chance of this happening, but you can increase the odds by using a telescope outdoors.If you hear ominous music and see a shadow, rush the Sim with a death wish to that spot. The ghosts of meteor victims are orange like fire victims, but also smolder with black sparks.


If you also have the Seasons expansion and control an alien, the alien can summon meteors.
Meteors never fall on children, ghosts, or aliens, but those Sims can run toward the meteor impact site to die.
 Surprisingly, vampires in the Sims 3 can survive sunlight. The only special death they get is their version of starvation, death by Thirstiness. After about two days without Plasma, the vampire will turn into a red ghost with a beating red heart, and get a bat-shaped tombstone.


To become a vampire, look for NPC Sims with neck tattoos and bright eyes. (You'll get a "Hunted" moodlet when one is nearby.) Become acquaintances with the vampire and choose "Ask to Turn" while interacting.
 Each rant has a chance of attracting the Grim Reaper. The first time gets you a warning, shown by a moodlet. Keep ranting about death while the moodlet is active, and the Reaper won't be gentle next time.
 This is another easy death in the University Life expansion. Open the bed, put the Sim on it, and close it. Squish.


This might take a couple tries.
 Shake the vending machine repeatedly. Each time you shake it, there's a chance it will fall and crush your Sim. All worth it for the free soda.
 Send your Sim on the Magician career, and entertain the crowds with your suicide. Actually, the Box of Danger is surprisingly safe, but the Buried Alive and Watery Escape tricks have a small chance at death.


Skilled magicians and lucky Sims may try the trick hundreds of times without dying. Since these are hidden traits, it's hard to predict how likely a Sim is to die this way.
 This is the only death that leaves behind a new piece of furniture: a golden statue of your Sim! Fulfill enough wishes to cash in for the Philosopher's Stone lifetime reward, then transmute everything you can find into gold. Each touch includes a small chance of killing yourself.
 Add a Magic Jelly Bean Bush to your house and keep using it. There's a 5% chance your Sim will be set on fire or electrocuted, plus a 1% chance of a special jellybean death. This death leaves a purple ghost with blue hair.
 Each time a witch casts a haunting curse on another player, there's a chance it backfires and kills them. This can only happen once your witch reaches a certain level of power, so keep on practicing that spellcasting.
 You'd think an island paradise would be death-free, but you'd be wrong. Sims can drown or starve while scuba driving, and even get killed by a shark if they don't find a place to hide. Mermaids can die by spending too much time on land, but a nearby Sim might splash water on the mermaid to save her life.
 The Into the Future expansion introduces two additional ways to die. Flying a jetpack too long comes with a high chance of crash, which may or may not kill the Sim. Using a time machine can cause the Time Paradox Sickness moodlet, leading to Do I Even Exist? and Blinking Out of Existence. Finally, the Sim can disappear completely... sometimes along with their descendants!

, This form of death requires the "Door of Life and Death" from the Sims store. Knock on it to greet Death and challenge him to a guitar contest. Fail, and meet the deadly Pit Monster!, One of the weirdest ways to die involves the Cow Plant from the Sims Store. Scold the plant and let it sit there without food for a few days. Eventually, it will offer your Sim a slice of cake, then eat you if you try to take it.

