 If your mate is obese or considerably overweight, he or she is at risk of many health problems, such as cardiovascular disease, joint pain, and certain types of cancer.


Have a private conversation in which you focus solely on your worries for his or her health, mentioning your concern for his or her well-being. Let your friend know that you do not want to see him or her go through any of the common problems that extra weight can cause.
Express tenderness and let your mate know you are genuinely concerned that his or her weight will prevent the two of you from being able to fully enjoy life together (such as the birth of a child or grandchild of yours or getting to enjoy retirement or even a 40th birthday together).
 Avoid focusing your comments on your friend’s weight, and instead emphasize the fact that you feel he or she is not healthy. Let your mate know that you care about him or her and would like to see him or her make a commitment to a healthy lifestyle.


Pointing out difficulties your mate has controlling blood pressure or completing simple physical tasks without getting out of breath will show that you are genuinely concerned about health issues and not just a full figure.
Consider making the conversation solely about the health issue, like working to reduce cholesterol, learning to better manage diabetes, or preventing a repeat heart attack.
Addressing particular health problems through dietary changes or increased exercise may have the effect of improving health measures and dropping pounds without focusing your intervention on excess weight alone.
 Providing a good example and being a friendly companion may help your friend decide to adopt healthy changes. Even if you do not need to lose weight, you may be able to benefit significantly from adopting a healthier lifestyle.


If you can personally commit to changing your diet (drinking less alcohol, eating less fast food, cooking more vegetables, etc), you can make a joint commitment to improving health with your mate.
Encourage your friend to make a pact to improve health for both of you by joining a fitness club together, trying a new sport or physical game, taking a class on healthy cooking, or simply taking walks together every evening.

