 If your trash can is full or the vanity is littered with crumpled tissues, your bathroom is definitely going to look messy. Getting rid of the garbage can instantly make the space appear cleaner. Start by emptying the trash can into a plastic garbage bag, and toss in any other trash that might be in the room. It’s a good idea to leave the garbage bag hanging on the bathroom door so you can add any additional trash that you might come across.To make it easier to get rid of garbage in your bathroom, consider lining the trash can with a plastic bag so you can easily empty it when it’s full.
You may want to invest in a covered or closed trash can for the bathroom. That way, even if there’s garbage in it, guests won’t see it so the room will appear tidier.
When you’re gathering up trash, make sure to put away any items that might be lying on the vanity or countertops, such as toothpaste, makeup items, or razors.;
, The areas of the bathroom that are the dirtiest will likely require some extra time to get clean. Choose your favorite bathroom cleaner(s) and apply it to areas such as the shower, toilet, and sink and allow it sit until the end of your cleaning. That will give the cleaning products time to really penetrate and break down the dirt and grime. Make sure to follow the cleansers’ instructions carefully.When it come to cleaning the shower, tub, and sink, it’s best to choose a cleanser that will remove mildew and soap scum.
To get make sure your toilet is as fresh and clean as possible, you’ll probably want to use a targeted toilet cleaner.
The longer that you allow the cleaner to sit, the better -- but make sure to wait at least five minutes.
Don’t forget the door or liner when you’re applying the cleaner to your shower.
Bathroom cleaners usually contain strong chemicals, so check that the space is properly ventilated to avoid any effects from the fumes.
 There may be other surfaces in your bathroom that need cleaning, but aren’t quite as dirty as the sink, shower, and toilet. Use a glass cleaner on any mirrors and windows, and wipe down the countertops and other surfaces with a rag dampened with warm soapy water. Be sure to rinse thoroughly to remove any soap film.Use a lint-free rag to wipe down the mirrors and windows, so you don’t wind up with fibers on your surfaces.
If your bathroom countertops are tile, it’s best to avoid cleaning with soap or detergent because they may cause a film. Instead, create a solution of equal parts water and white vinegar, and use that to wipe down the tiled surfaces.
 If you have time to vacuum or throw washable bath mats or carpets into the washer, it can help make the room look much cleaner. However, when you’re in a rush, just picking up the mats and shaking them outside can help remove any crumbs, dirt, or other debris and fluff them up so they appear as if they’re freshly vacuumed.If you don’t have any mats or carpeting in your bathroom, run a damp rag across the floor to pick up any dirt and debris.
 Once you’re almost done cleaning and the cleanser on the dirtiest areas has been sitting for 10 minutes or so, it’s time to rinse the surfaces clean. Wipe down the sink and faucets with a hot damp rag. Next, clean the outside of the toilet, including the top of the tank and bottom of the bowl, before moving onto the seat, under the seat, and inside the bowl. Use a scrub brush or sponge to clean the shower, tub, and door, and rinse with the shower head.Don’t forget to wipe down the top of the seat lid when you’re cleaning the toilet.
If you have time, wipe down the shower walls and tub with a clean, dry rag.
 No matter how clean you keep your bathroom, dust, dirt, and other debris will inevitably collect in the corners of the room. Even if you don’t have time to vacuum or mop the bathroom floor, take the time to wipe out these areas with a damp paper towel to remove the dirt.If there’s some dirt and debris that you can’t remove from the corners of the room, you may want to use a small handheld vacuum to quickly clean those spots.
 Like many people, you probably dry your used bath towel in the bathroom. You don’t have to remove them to make the space look clean. Just set out a fresh set of hand towels because those are the only ones that guests are going to use. Arrange them neatly on the towel rack and give them a quick fluff so they look neat.You don’t have to remove the damp bath towels. Just place the fresh hand towels over them on the bar, though take the time to make sure that they’re straight.

