 Remember to be clean yourself, but also to clean each separate part of the aquarium before installing an undergravel filter.

Thoroughly wash the undergravel filter base plate and air stone tube that will connect to the base plate.  Use fresh, clean water. Dechlorinated water is best.
Soak the airstone in clean, fresh, dechlorinated water for five minutes to ensure the airstone has been fully saturated with clean water.
Carefully rinse the airstone using clean, fresh, dechlorinated water to remove any remaining factory dust. Use caution to avoid damaging the air stone or breaking off the plastic connector valve.;
, These are important, as the steps below may differ from how you should assemble the UGF.

Remember to always read warnings, and keep warranty and original instructions in a safe place. While it easy to get caught up with the excitement of a UGF, do not be careless.
 Add 6 inches or 20 centimeters to that length.  Thoroughly rinse the measured section (tank height + 6 in/20 cm) of airline tubing with fresh, clean, dechlorinated water. Avoid using particularly hot or cold water to protect the structural integrity of the plastic tubing., Be aware of where the airstone housing tube will connect to the base plate. The vertical, hard plastic airstone housing tube is generally placed at the back of the tank so that the bubbles it produces do not obscure the observer's view of the aquarium. Try to center it as best you can. It should align easily with the walls of the aquarium if the undergravel filter was specifically designed to work in the aquarium you chose. If the undergravel filter was not designed to fit the bottom of a specific aquarium, but rather a limited range of aquarium dimensions, it may be a little more difficult to keep the base plate centered during installation.,  The connection point should be fairly obvious to identify. Ensure that the tube is securely connected so that it will not be dislodged by bubbles from the airstone, but be careful not to use too much force when connecting the tube and base plate to avoid breaking/warping the plastic., Make sure the tubing is securely attached while taking care not to break the plastic valve from the airstone., Using the airline tubing, thread the airstone down to the bottom of the hard plastic tube so that it sits near the level of the baseplate., Then gently place the gravel on top of the baseplate. A scoop or cup of sorts may be helpful in transferring the gravel into the aquarium. Be careful not to let the gravel scratch the sides of the aquarium as you place it inside. Try to keep the baseplate centered and avoid letting gravel get underneath the baseplate or inside the airstone housing tube. Cover the baseplate and any exposed aquarium bottom completely with about 2 inches or 10 centimeters of gravel., At this point, the aquarium must be place in its permanent location. A nearby outlet will be necessary for powering the air pump. Only place an aquarium on furniture specifically designed to withstand the weight of a full aquarium; water is deceptively heavy. Some aquarium hobbyists place a towel or padding on top of their aquarium furniture before placing the aquarium on top to help keep the aquarium level and absorb any droplets that may drip/splash out and roll down the outer surface of the aquarium., Try not to disturb your decor or expose the undergravel filter baseplate.  Be patient during this process., Make sure not to force the tubing onto the valve too hard to avoid splitting the soft plastic tubing., You will hear a gurgling sound as air begins to travel through the tubing into the air stone inside the aquarium. If installed correctly, a column of bubbles should form inside the plastic airstone housing within a few seconds. This indicates that the undergravel filter installation is complete.