 From 50’s flapper glamour to refined English countryside, focusing on a certain style of time period can be a creative way to come up with the perfect centerpiece. Some ideas for a period inspired center piece might be:Hollywood Heyday: Think old Hollywood glamor, with dashes of fur to compliment the champagne and sparkles on the tables and luxe colors like gold and silver on the centerpieces.






Renaissance Revival: Decorate the tables with rich tapestries and luxurious silks, as well as bright flowers and fabrics on the centerpieces.






Victorian invasion: Go regal and set a scene Queen Elizabeth I would feel right at home in, with heirloom silverware, dainty fine china, and vivid floral centerpieces that really personify a classic English garden.






Vintage: Indulge in the kitsch and deck out the wedding tables with old wooden Coca-Cola boxes, mason jars, or vintage stemware., Really commit to the theme by being very detail oriented in every facet of the centerpiece. Some ideas include:


The Great Gatsby: Create centerpieces with whimsical gold spirals and long white feathers or use the book’s famous blue and yellow cover as a color palette for the floral arrangements.Harry Potter: Gather your magic wands, create labels for each of the houses of Hogwarts, and pepper the centerpieces with white owls.The Wizard of Oz: Break out the monkey statues, wicker baskets, and accents of shiny red (a throwback to Dorothy’s famed ruby slippers). And don’t forget to add emerald green florals to represent the city of Oz.Game of Thrones: If you’re a fan of the fantasy epic and want to bring a bit of the TV show’s intrigue, glamor, and magic into your special day, create centerpieces based on the colors or animal symbols for the five noble houses in the realm, roaring dragons included, as well as darker reds and purples for the floral accents., One of the simplest ways to create eyecatching centerpieces is to use a color scheme, with an anchor color and complementary shades or tones of another color. Some of the more popular color schemes for a wedding includes:Gold and green.
Pink and chocolate brown.
Teal and yellow.
A neutral hue and a bold or bright complementary color.

