 There are many different genres in publishing, from literary fiction to mystery to romance to thriller. Choose a genre to write in so you can target a specific audience. Having a target audience can make your novel more appealing to publishers, especially if you choose a genre that is popular with readers.Genres like romance and mystery, for example, are popular with a large number of readers and are often read very fast. This means that publishers tend to accept more novels written in the romance or mystery genre to keep up with demand.;
, You want your novel to stand out among the stack of unpublished novels on a publisher’s desk. To do this, you should strive to create a story idea that is unique and not like other novels that have already been published in the past. Go for a unique idea that will catch the eye of publishers and the reading public.You may want to go on a tour of your local bookstore and look at the books that have been published in the genre you are writing in. You may flip through the first few pages of the books and read the synopsis on the back cover to get a sense of what is being published and what is being read.
You should then think about how you can create a story idea that is different from what has already been published. Maybe you add a unique twist to a common story idea, such as a thriller story about a serial killer who is a computer, rather than your run of the mill loner type killer.
Or, perhaps you pull from your own experience, where you use moments in your life to create a romance novel that stands out from what’s already out there. You may add in details from your personal life, for example, to create a romance novel that is about the pitfalls of finding love, rather than the more familiar images of fulfilling love in the romance genre.
 Your novel can also stand out by having a main character that is compelling and memorable. Give your main character unique traits or specific quirks that make them come alive on the page and feel different from characters that have been written before. You may also have supporting characters who are also strange and unique in your novel. This can make your novel feel distinct from what has already been published.You may include teenaged characters that identify as queer, for example, or characters that are biracial in your novel. This can make your characters more unique and compelling to readers. It also allows you to appeal to readers who have never seen themselves represented in a genre of writing before.
 Make your novel feel distinct by approaching plot in a non-traditional way. Though you can still use a plot outline to help you plan out your novel, you may play around with the standard idea of plot. This can help your novel stand out and allow you to expand your creativity as a writer.Rather than have the events in your novel appear in chronological order, for example, you may go back and forth in time. This can make your novel feel experimental and unique, especially if you are writing in a popular genre.
 Writing a novel takes discipline and focus. You will be more likely to complete your masterpiece if you follow a writing schedule, where you write a certain number of words or pages a day. You may also choose a certain time of day to write and commit to writing during this time every day for weeks, months, or years, depending on how long it takes to finish the novel.For example, you may set up a schedule where you write 500 words a day in the morning at your desk before you go to work. Or you may create a writing schedule where you write 10 pages of your novel when you get home after work, before dinnertime.
 Regardless of which genre you decide to write in, your novel should have some kind of central conflict. Having a central conflict will ensure your novel is engaging for publishers and readers. The central conflict should involve the main character of the novel in some way and it should make their life difficult or tricky. The central conflict should also propel the action of the novel forward.For example, if you are writing a novel in the mystery genre, you may have a strange murder that occurs at the beginning of the novel. The murder could then be the central conflict of the novel that causes the main character to get involved in the case. The main character will then need to deal with the central conflict throughout the novel.
 A strong novel will have a strong narrative voice. The narrative voice of your novel could be the first person narrator who is also the main character in your story. Or you may use a third person narrator who comments on the action of the story. Having a strong, distinct narrative voice in your novel will make it stand out to publishers and be more attractive to potential readers.For example, your mystery novel could be narrated by the person who has been murdered at the start of the novel. Your narrator may then watch the action from above as a ghost and follow around the main character, a detective trying to solve the case. This is a unique approach to narrative voice that could help your novel stand out from other mystery stories.
 A novel riddled with cliche will likely not grab the attention of publishers or readers. As a writer, you should strive to create the most original descriptions and details you can come up with. Avoid cliches in your writing, which are phrases that have become so familiar they have lost their meaning.You should try to describe your characters in ways that are not cliche or familiar. For example, rather than use vague descriptions like “he was tall, stunning, and handsome”, be more detailed and specific. You may write, “He was tall for being so young, with green eyes and a dark complexion that would be considered ‘attractive’.”
Use sensory details in your descriptions of settings and scenes, where you describe how something or someone smells, sounds, feels, tastes, and looks. For example, you may describe a room based on how it smells and how the furnishings feel against the hands of one of your characters.
 Though you can try playing around with plot in your novel, it should still build to a strong ending. Having a memorable ending to your story can leave a lasting impression on a publisher and on your readers. You want to leave your readers satisfied by your ending but also a little unsettled. This will make your ending linger in the mind of your readers and potentially make your novel more likely to be published.For example, you may have a twist ending to your mystery novel, where the killer turns out to be the detective herself. This type of ending could leave your reader unsettled and surprised.
 Once you feel your novel is in good shape, you should take some time to polish it so it is at its best. This means reading the novel to yourself and out loud to ensure it reads well on the page. You may also show the novel to others to get feedback on it so you can improve it and make it as good as it can be.You may join a writing group or find a writing partner and get your novel workshopped. You can then take feedback from the group or your partner and improve your novel.
You should also make sure there are no spelling or grammatical errors in the novel, as you do not want to send it to publishers with typos.
 To increase the chances of your novel getting published, you should try to get into the hands of editors who are interested in the genre and style you are writing in. You should research published authors whose writing is similar to yours. You may then send your novel to the author’s literary agents and publishers.You may also make a list of the major publishing houses and then send your novel to an editor there who is interested in your genre of writing. For example, you may look for the editor of mystery novels at a publishing house if you are writing a mystery novel.
Keep in mind you may end up sending your novel to many different publishers and literary agents before you find the right fit. Be patient and be smart about who you send your novel to, as you want to try to contact editors and publishers that you think will show interest in your work.
 A query letter will be your first contact with potential agents and publishers. The letter will be a one-page summary of why your novel is worth reading and publishing. It should be concise, professional, and grab the reader’s attention. You should try to create a query letter that will really sell your novel, as this will increase its chances of getting published.Your query letter should include the title of your novel, the genre, the word count and a short summary of the novel. You can also include a short biography and mention any published work you have done in the past.
 You can improve your chances of getting published by attracting the attention of a literary agent. A literary agent acts as the go between publishers and writers. They will act on your behalf to help sell your novel to publishers. You can send in your work to literary agents or publish your work in respected magazines and literary journals. Your work could then catch the eye of literary agents who may offer to represent you.


Many literary agents take a small percentage of your book deal with a publisher. You may negotiate this with your agent once the time comes.
 If you do not seem to be able to land an editor, a literary agent, or a publisher for your novel, you may consider publishing the novel yourself. As a self-publisher, you will be responsible for the editing, distributing, marketing, and selling of the novel. But you will have complete control over your work and get your novel in the hands of readers.If you decide to self-publish your book, you may not reap as much money from your novel as you would if you landed a big publishing deal with a major publishing house. However, you may be eager enough to get your book out there that making money or getting the approval of a big publisher may not matter to you.

