 Stand with your feet about shoulder width apart. Place the foot opposite of your hitting hand in front of the other foot. Your shoulders and hips should be aligned with the net. Make your sure your knees are bent. It is extremely important that your weight is on your back foot.A server's posture is one of the most important parts of her serve. The power of the serve isn't from upper body strength, but from the legs. A powerful serve is achieved by being able to transfer weight from the back foot to the front foot correctly. Getting a strong starting posture is pivotal to a strong serve.;
, Place your non-dominant hand directly in front of you, straight but with a flexible elbow. The palm should be face up with the ball in it.Another way to set up is to cover the ball with your hitting hand.
 Swing your serving arm back next to your head. Make sure that your elbow is pointing upwards and your hand is at or slightly above your ear. This stance opens your body.
 Lift the ball with your palm about 18–36 inches (46–91 cm) in the air. Keep the ball in line with your hitting shoulder and about 1 foot (0.3 m) in front of you so you can step into the serve. Your right hand should be at a 90 degree angle behind your body. Remember that you want your dominant hand to make contact with the ball just after it changes direction and begins to drop back down.









Don't toss the ball too high, too low, or too far to any side. This means you will have to chase the ball, resulting in a bad serve.In some variations, the hitting arm is readied as you toss the ball up, not before.
 The majority of the power of your serve is gained from the legs as you transfer weight from your back leg to your front leg. To transfer your weight properly, make sure your starting position is correct. Add momentum by stepping forward with your dominant foot as you serve, transferring the weight forward for a powerful serve.








The ball will go where your hand and toes face, so aim your palm and toes for accurate shooting.
 Lead with your elbow to bring your dominant hand forward. Smack the ball with the heel of your hand or the bottom of your palm.Don't hit the ball with your fingers or fist. Make sure your serving hand is slanted slightly upward. This will help loft the ball over the net. Aim for the middle of the ball to achieve the straightest trajectory for the ball.Stop the motion of your hand when you make contact with the ball.








Watch the spin on the ball. This will show you if you're contacting the ball correctly. If you see the ball sidespin or backspin, then you know your contact was off-center.
Swing fast at the ball from the shoulder., After striking the ball, use your momentum to run to your defensive position.

