 A potential attacker would rather assault someone who is looking at the ground, and is looking unsure. You will be less likely to be attacked if you maintain a good posture and look directly ahead of you. Keep your phone in hand and ready to make a call if necessary, but do not look down at it while you walk. Walk with purpose and pay close attention to your surroundings.


Always know where you are going before you go there. If you plan out your route before leaving, you will be confident as you walk and less likely to get lost or have to ask strangers for directions.
 If you should return home and there is a new car nearby or a new person standing outside, take precaution and stay alert. Many times, this will be harmless, but sometimes this could be a potential threat. Call a neighbor who can make sure you get inside safely., As far as it is possible, avoid walking alone at night. The more people you have to walk with at night, the safer you will be. Never walk alone at night if possible. Walking with strangers can be dangerous, as well, so walk with friends that you trust.If your friends want to stay out longer, ask them to walk you to your car and then drop them back off at the door.
 When you are approaching your car, you do not want to be fumbling to find your keys, particularly at night or when you are alone. Before you leave your destination, have your keys in your hand.You can also use your keys as weapon if you wedge the key between your fingers and punch.
 Being out while your cell phone is dead can be dangerous. Should you need to call a friend or even 911, a dead phone will render you unable to do so. Take at least an hour before you leave home to charge your phone and make sure that all of your contacts are updated should you need to dial a friend in a hurry.Consider putting some numbers on speed dial so that you can access them more readily.
Consider buying a portable charger and taking that with you when you go out.
 It is easy for a potential attacker to sneak up on you without you having seen them if you are walking with traffic. But if you are walking facing traffic, you will know should a car slow down.
 Though you love your friends and enjoy spending time with them, you likely know the ones who often get you or themselves into trouble. Spend less time with these types of people and more time with people who you trust. Work to also be a trustworthy friend who keeps your friends safe.

Try to avoid going out with friends who regularly get arrested or who drink too much.
 Though it is normal and healthy to have a few drinks when out with friends, you should refrain from binge drinking at all costs. Know your limits and try to have no more than one to two drinks per hour, depending upon your size. Also, should someone want to buy a drink for you, make sure that you watch as it is being made to assure that no drugs are being put into it.It is perhaps safest to purchase your own drinks. Make sure you keep your drink with you at all times. Don’t leave it unattended.
Avoid drugs, as well. They can alter your judgment and make you do things that you normally would not do.
Avoid “party punches” at parties unless you know and trust everyone there. These could be spiked with drugs, as well.
 If something were to happen or if someone were to attack you, there is a smaller chance that someone might hear you and be able to help. It is better to go the long way around than to risk being harmed.If you have an iPhone, you can share your location via the iMessage app while you are texting a friend so they can make sure you arrived home safely.
Apps for those without iPhones who are interested in sharing their location include Glympse and Life360 Family Locator.

