 When picking a place to keep your puppies, choose a warm area of your home. The area should be away from drafts and vents for optimal warmth. If you're keeping the puppies outdoors, store them in an area away from the elements like a shed or the garage., Insulation is important for adequate warmth, especially if you're keeping your puppies outdoors. Make sure to properly insulate any shelter you use so your puppies stay warm.Lay several sheets of newspaper at the bottom of the box. In addition to preserving warmth, these will help collect droppings and other messes.
You should also lie plenty of fresh, clean towels and blankets at the bottom of the crate.
 You should invest in a thermometer in the room or area where your puppies are kept. The temperature should always be between 85 and 90째F (29.5 and 32째C) for the first four days. After this, the temperature can be reduced to 80째F (26.7째C). Indoors, a heating lamp can be used to achieve this temperature. You do not need to keep the entire room at these temperatures.Outdoor heating is important if you're keeping your dogs inside. Heating pads, heating lamps, space heaters, and water bottles can all be used for outdoor heating., It's important the sides of the shelter are low enough that the mother can hop in and out as necessary. You want the shelter to be clean, so the mother should be able to leave to urinate and defecate., Puppies will make messes in their shelter, so regular cleaning is important. Each day, replace the newspaper, blankets, and towels. Wash blankets and towels completely before returning them to the shelter., For the most part, the mother will take care of cleaning newborn puppies. However, if the mother rejects the litter, that task is left to you. It's important that you keep newborn puppies clean to prevent infections and other complications.Use a warm and wet washcloth to clean the puppies. Use gentle wiping motions to clean your puppies.
Clean the puppies around their faces. You should also clean around the anal area after they eat, as this will encourage them to eliminate.
 When cleaning a puppy's cage, take this as an opportunity to check the stools. Healthy stools are a sign your puppies are developing safely. In general, stools should be brown and firm. Loose or discolored stools should be evaluated by a doctor., As puppies get older, have different areas of the cage for eating, sleeping, and eliminating. This will help the puppies stay clean on their own.Use a low board to separate the sleeping and eating area from the bathroom area. Lay down newspaper or cedar pines to encourage the puppies to eliminate here.
Move stools to the bathroom area to encourage the puppies to eliminate here.
 If you notice anything abnormal while cleaning, such as discolored or bloody stools, consult a veterinarian. You should also consult a vet if puppies seem cold or shivery despite your efforts to keep them warm.If you need to keep your puppies warm because their mother has rejected them, talk to a vet about this as well. A vet can give you advice on how to best keep orphaned or rejected litters warm and safe.
 When cleaning out the crate or box, make sure all puppies are accounted for. Puppies can sometimes slip under towels or blankets and they can get injured if you accidentally disturb them while cleaning., You want to make sure your puppies are developing at a normal rate. Keep an eye on the puppies to make sure they're showing normal signs of development.During the first two weeks of life, it's normal for puppies to sleep for about 90% of the time. Their eyes will be closed during this time. As they get older, their eyes will open and they will become more active.
Weigh your puppies regularly. Puppies should continue to gain weight over time. If your puppies are losing weight, consult your vet.

