 You should only write a character letter if the defendant or the defendant’s lawyer contacts you to write one. The defendant’s lawyer will have a plan for how to effectively argue for the defendant to receive a light sentence. You don’t want your letter to undermine that plan in any way. Accordingly, you shouldn’t write a letter until the attorney says you can.


If you receive permission to write, then you should start early. Try to get the letter to the lawyer a few weeks before the sentencing hearing. Ask for a deadline and commit to finishing the letter before then., If you are a professional, then you can use your own letterhead.Otherwise, you can print the letter off on regular paper, but be sure to have your address included. You can insert your address in a left-justified block just above the date.


Set up the letter exactly as the defendant would: your address, then the date two lines beneath that, then the judge’s address two lines beneath the date. Line everything up to the left-hand margin.
Do not use the lawyer’s letterhead. This will make it look like you had the lawyer draft the letter for you to sign. You want the judge to believe that the letter expresses your own ideas.
 In the first paragraph, you should explain who you are and your relationship to the defendant.Also tell the judge your profession and how long you have known the defendant.You could say, for example, “I am Madelyn Cross, the mother of Adam Cross.”
Or, if the defendant is not a family member, you could write something like, “I am Lupita Sanchez, President of Intel Bank. I have known Adam Cross, a teller at my bank, since October 2012 when he came to work for us.”

, In the second paragraph, you should state that you are aware of the crime.Also briefly summarize the charges. You want the judge to know that you are writing the letter with full knowledge that the defendant has been charged with a crime.


For example, you could write, “I am aware of the events surrounding Adam’s arrest for assault and battery. I also know that he has suffered personally for his actions. We had to let him go from his job because of the time he spent in prison waiting for trial.”

, You can spend one or two paragraphs describing the defendant. Instead of being general, you should try to come up with anecdotes that reveal the defendant’s character traits.For example, you might want to emphasize that your son’s violent outbursts were unusual because he is normally peaceful. Instead of just saying “My son, Adam, is always peaceful,” you should come up with a story that illustrates his calmness.
For example, you could write, “I was surprised by Adam’s arrest for assault, because he has always been a peaceful person. In high school, his father was laid off from work and, as a result, began drinking. Sometimes my husband became violent and would break things around the house. One time he even threw a vase at me. Adam always intervened, but he did so in a way that projected calmness. When his father hit him once, he didn’t strike back. Instead he hugged his father and eventually my husband calmed down.”

, If the defendant is given probation, then he or she will be released back out to the general population without spending time in jail. A judge will want to know that the defendant is a good bet not to commit more offenses.


In a separate paragraph, you should emphasize how much support the defendant will have outside prison. Highlight what support you will provide. Also talk about any other support that you are aware of.
For example, a mother could write, “We will gladly welcome Adam back home so that he can focus on his schooling and getting his job back. We live only twenty minutes from the local community college, which he attended briefly. I also know that his job at the bank is waiting for him, and we will do everything we can to make sure that he succeeds.”
If you are not a family member, then you could type, “I know that Adam comes from a loving family, which I have met briefly on a few occasions. They no doubt will provide him with the emotional support that he needs. For my part, I will happily give him his old job back once I know that he is out of prison for good. Adam was an excellent worker, and we would be proud to have him rejoin our team.”

, Although you can certainly talk about how the defendant’s criminal actions were unusual or atypical for him or her, you should not minimize the defendant’s culpability. Don’t blame anyone else for the crime.Also avoid making negative comments about the police, judge, or the prosecutor. Now is not the time to attack the other people in the criminal justice system.You also shouldn’t comment about the unfairness of the trial or the criminal justice system in general. That will win you no points with the judge.
 If you are the defendant’s spouse or child, you should talk freely about how much you rely on the defendant. For example, you could state how much you rely on the defendant’s income and what losing that income would do to your family.


Give this information its own paragraph: “My husband is also the primary breadwinner, as I stay home with my two youngest and have only been able to fit part-time work around my schedule. Without David’s $2,500 a month from his job, my family will not be able to pay our mortgage. Instead, we will have to support ourselves solely on my part-time wages, which only cover groceries and medical care. Because my family lives across the country, my children and I will probably have to move into a shelter.”

, In the final paragraph, you can thank the judge for reading you letter. Make sure not to insert any request for a specific sentence. The purpose of the letter is instead to shed light on the defendant’s character.Type: “Thank you for taking the time to read my letter.” Then include “Sincerely,” and type your name. Sign with a pen., You should not send the letter directly to the judge. Instead, the defendant’s attorney will want to read the letter and decide if it is helpful. If not, then the lawyer will not send it on to the judge.You should also keep a copy for your own records, in case you are contacted about the letter and need to refer to it.

