 Place a 1M icing tip in a decorator's bag. Fill the bag with your desired icing. Holding the bag at a 90-degree angle to the top of the cupcake, pipe a swirl around the outside edge. Lift the tip and begin piping a second swirl inside the first swirl, lifting up in the center.


Be careful not to drag on the surface! When you hit the end of the line, lift up and quickly cease pressure on the bag. This will create a peak in the center. If you desire, add a dash of sprinkles to the top as a finishing touch.
The Wilton 2D will give you almost the same look but with a few more ridges and a little more jazz.
 And this time, go a bit slower. If you start in the center and slowly move in a spiral toward the outside, you'll create a rose shape.


Make sure not to move the angle of the tip; to get the rose shape, the lines need to stay uniform.
 There's one more method you can try with the 1M tip. Make little rosettes by making tiny swirls all over the cupcake. Start on the side and work your way to the center.


Draw a teeny circle with your tip very quickly. With the tip you're using, this should create a fancy rose-like shape. A normal-sized cupcake will have around 12 rosettes on the outside rim, to give you an idea.
 Using the same method as described in the first step, start on the outside and work your way in, holding the bag at a 90-degree angle. Lift up a bit as you go -- this will give your cupcake volume and keep you from dragging on the surface.


The large round tip will a cute, classic, basic swirl. Especially adorable with sprinkles.
The French tip looks like a firework and the result is similar -- like a firework frozen in stop-motion.
 If you have a Wilton 123, this'll be easy. First, make a bud in the center. Basically, put on a small glob of frosting. What you're going to do is make small arches all the way around this center -- like petals. The thin line of the 123 makes this simple. They should overlap a little bit and get bigger as you go out. This takes a bit of skill, so set aside a few cupcakes for trial and error that will wind up not so pretty.


Once you've covered the rose in petals, take your Wilton 123 and squeeze out a line of frosting all the way around. This covers the odds and ends of each petal, making the rose come to life.

