 Of course, you're not always going to like everyone you work with, and you certainly aren't required to like them. However, it is important to treat the people in your workplace with respect and professionalism. Throwing fits or getting in arguments with people you don't like is unprofessional and will slow down the team's work significantly., Sometimes, you may want to rush to get certain tasks done. However, in a team environment, that can lead to mistakes or an ineffective work process because you're not taking the time to work with other people or communicate what you're getting done. Make sure to spend the proper amount of time to do your work well while working with others at the same time., When you're not in a team environment, your job description may be fairly well defined. In a team environment, you may need to jump in to help in areas that aren't exactly in your job description because someone else needs the help. Being willing to help out makes the group work more efficiently and builds good will.In addition, jumping in when you see a need looks good to your boss, earning you brownie points, which is never a bad thing.
Also, you may find yourself needing help in the future, and if you've given help in the past, others will be more willing to offer you help when you need it.
 If you're excited, you'll get others excited. When you're working together, that excitement can lead to better results, as you're all motivated to do your best on the projects you're working on. On the other hand, if you constantly criticize or talk down about a project, that can be catching, too, and it can bring a project down.For example, don't start out the day by saying, "I wish we didn't have to work through these ridiculous budget reports." Instead, you could say, "I know a budget report isn't everyone's cup of tea, but just think, going through these budget reports means we get the money we need to do the projects we love."

, Remember that no two people are alike, and that each team player has strengths, weaknesses, likes, and dislikes. Knowing what makes your teammates tick is necessary to develop strong and productive working relationships, where you complement each other rather than work against each other.

Spend some time each day talking to your coworkers. Ask how they are and really listen to their answers. Let them talk about their home lives if they feel like talking about them.
 It can be tempting to take credit for other people's work. While it creates animosity no matter what environment you're in, it's especially detrimental in a team environment, as it can create major rifts. On the other hand, offering up who deserves credit for each part of the project goes a long way to building bridges.Offering up who deserves credit will make others feel appreciated, and feeling appreciated for hard work can help create the feeling of being on the same team.

