 You will need at least 15 full stacks of sand. This will be used for the stone construction of your house. You will also need coal, but we will need a mine if there isn't any on the surface, so we will come back to that.;
, This is a simple but boring task. Place 4 piles of sand in your crafting square. Keep on clicking on the Yellow Stone (Sandstone) on the right of your square. When you're done, repeat the task until you have ran out of sand.
 Once you have done the following, start placing your Sandstone in the gap. Once you're done you should have an almost 100% smooth Sandstone floor for your house.
 You will need a wall for your house. So build a wall high enough for you to jump, then that's about right. maybe about 4 blocks high from the Sandstone floor. This is so if you do find wood and you make a bed, you won't suffocate when you wake up.
 This is a bit easy, at the highest block on your wall, place a Sandstone block. Fill in the giant gap in the Sky until it goes dark. Once you're done, Break a 1x2 gap to place a door so you can get in and out without anything going in your house.
 This will be your coal/iron mine. Sadly, you will need wood for this part so you can make a pickaxe, or you can get TNT and blow up some stone for cobble, but that will take a lot longer. So, dig down until you have about 3+ coal.
 Yes, you do need wood, but you can't survive without it. Travel away far to get some wood, but don't get lost. Return and make some sticks. Get those sticks, and make a few torches. Place them around your house.


Keep saplings from the trees you cut down to make a tree farm. Oak trees are best for growing compactly, because they need the least space to grow. Excavate a few stacks of dirt for making farms.
 You will need wood again, once you have made a door, go outside your house and place it on the block you made the gap/doorway.
 You have made your first desert house! (Well, most likely) you can celebrate if you want. Don't forget to add beds and decorate your pad. And daytime you could add windows as well. Don't forget to go to your mine and see if you can find caves, dungeons, diamonds, iron, redstone and maybe even Lapis Lazuli! Enjoy your new house.

