 This form is available at supremecourt.ohio.gov. By filling out this form, you can request a parenting plan and child support obligation from the court. You can also request that the court determine whether you are the child's biological father through genetic testing., This form is available at supremecourt.ohio.gov. Enter information about the parties and the child, including the names and addresses. There are boxes you can check to indicate that you would like the information you provided to be kept confidential., This form is available at supremecourt.ohio.gov. Write in how much money you make and your household expenses. The court will review the information you have provided when making a determination of how much you will owe in child support., Visit a notary a public before you sign your affidavits. The notary will notarize your paperwork, verifying that you signed the document in his or her presence. Bring a valid form of identification, such as a driver's license or passport, so that the notary can verify your identity.


Visit http://www.notarypublicdirectory.com/ to find a notary online.
Most banks have a notary public on staff and do not charge a fee for notary services if you are a bank customer. If you are not a bank customer, you can usually use the bank's notary service for a small fee.
 Make copies of your forms and take them to the court clerk. The clerk will stamp them, keep the original, and return the copies to you. The clerk will contact you later to give you a hearing date. The filing fee for a custody action or one for custody and parentage ranges from approximately $115.00 to $190.00.If you cannot afford to pay the fee, ask the clerk how you can apply for a fee waiver.
 Fill out a "Request For Service" form, which is available at supremecourt.ohio.gov. Give the completed form to the court clerk, who will serve the other party according the method you indicated on the form. You can instruct the clerk to serve the other party by mail, or to arrange to have the sheriff's department serve the other party., At the hearing, the judge will ask you questions about the information you provided on the forms you filed. The other parent will have a chance to argue why he or she might object to you having custody. You can make counter arguments. If you disagree with something the other parent says, do not address him or her directly or interject. Instead, wait for the other parent to finish speaking, then tell the judge your side of the story.

