 Removal includes the paint tray, the paint tray trolley, the paint can, the can lid, the screwdriver to open, the hammer to close, etc. Keep working area clear & free from all objects. This will help performance when painting and upgrade the all around safety factor. Shift heavy furniture to one side forecasting opposite shifting at execution mid point. If you are working outside, to impose yourself the same discipline is good practice.    ;
, (the table in the kitchen or the picnic table will do the same). For security matters, it is best to keep the room area to be painted totally clear and free from all unnecessary object. Concentrating on one task at a time highly contributes to remove stress & fatigue. This is the road of the easiest execution and for the finest results. No stress no mess.
 The front part is easy to flip while the rear part stands sturdier with the container. The inside of the lid provides a hook for the paintbrush. The bucket inside shows a composed horizontal & vertical rolling surface serving also to support the roller. The holes in the rolling surface are made for roller traction also returning excess paint to the container for continuous mixing paint effect preventing separation of the paint. There is full access for brush & roller to reach the paint in the bottom. The arrangement makes for quick move and no spill compared as with the traditional paint tray.
 There is a clip inside the lid provided for the paintbrush.  Grab the lid with one hand four fingers outside while pushing the spring clip inside with the thumb. This easily opens the spring clip so you may put the paintbrush handle between the clip's' two jaws. Then release pressure from the thumb and the paintbrush will hold solid inside the lid. Whenever you need the paintbrush it will be readily available in a second. This way you will stop experiencing the lost paintbrush syndrome and repetitive solid dry.(old timers understand what I mean) Paintbrush can be clipped into place whenever clean, dry, wet or fully paint loaded and instant ready anytime to resume.
 Just deposit the sleeve part of the roller onto the inside rolling surface and then deposit the handle on the rear support. This way the roller will always be available within a second. Anytime the paint roller drops onto place may it be clean, dry, wet or fully paint loaded and kept instant ready to paint.
 Poor the paint into the new bucket. This is the hard part because if you ever experienced some kind of discomfort when dropping the first paint into a new and clean traditional paint tray, well this could give you an even stronger scary discomfort feeling. Don't worry it is for the better. Pleasure will come accordingly ten time folds and even stronger with the new set-up. Close the lid now. Most important is all done. You have reached the set up final point..You may feel to start painting right away do it, or later maybe. It is now fully up to you and in no time, with no paint lost, no paint dry skin, no tools dry out or paint tray dry out. You may have a coffee break or even come back next day or next week and always at no extra time cost or material lost. You are now Paint Time Master. Always ready to paint or to stop with instant paint & tools protection. (Do not throw the paint can to the garbage you may need it later)

, The bucket with ladder hooks is strongly recommended. Maximum one gallon paint capacity. It hooks in the outside part of the ladder respecting painter's body safety space entirely. Inside paint-bucket arrangement set-up is similar as explained above and same preparation is recommended from step 1 to step 6.


Allowing the safe traveling up and down the ladder with one hand for load, one hand for safety hold and to be open when ready to paint at the appropriate level. The arrangement can stay hooked unattended in the ladder for a minute or for a month and be always ready provided it is not cooking under the sun. Closing the lid takes a second. Simple basic logic tells that the painter must not hold a paint can or tray in one hand while concentrating with the other with a paintbrush or a roller. It is only more evident in the ladder where the free hand shall be used for safety purpose. Working with good safety habits always comes to big pay someday. Always use the extra hand for holding safe. A painter can imitate a clown but not a bird without damage.  

, One is just as good as the next but for sure do not throw the paint away to garbage neither to a reseller. Put the left over paint back into the original paint can and seal it for your own further use. Wash the tools using the bucket as a sink for soaking. Second best way is to leave all the left over paint in the bucket with all the tools paint loaded and always instant ready. Give it to the neighbor and make a new friend if not already. This way there will be more than one happy people and we go for a better world. This is the path to saving some more fresh water, sink, sewer, river and paint too. Thank You.
 Count how many steps you eliminate not traveling in stairways or ladders because all tools are at hand always. Multiply the saved time by your hourly rate. Evaluate and compare with the tradition way. This exercise will convince you about the quick and reliable pay back of the arrangement. The Instant Protection is 1sec. for all Paint & Tools. Traditional runs ou 10min.= 600sec.= 600 times fold. Compare Bolt is 27 mph (43 km/h) versus Ferrari is 337 mph (542 km/h) = less than 12 times fold).

