 It’s your teacher’s job to make sure you begin to understand the world around you. Your social and academic education is a long process, and all of your teachers play an important role in providing a basis of knowledge that you’ll continue to expand upon for the rest of your life. In order to learn anything, let alone befriend any of your teachers, you need to participate in their classes!Pay attention during class, and always put forth a serious effort to understand what your teacher is sharing with the class.
At the very least, come to school prepared to learn, with the books and writing utensils you need for each class, and your homework assignments complete. Never skip class!;
, If what your teacher is saying doesn’t make sense, ask questions about anything that is unclear. Believe it or not, teachers usually like when students ask questions. Your curiosity indicates you’ve been listening, and that you’re ready and willing to learn. Further, your questions will help other students better understand the content as well.Feel free to ask questions that expand upon the content in class. For instance, after a lecture about what stars are made of, ask something like "Why is it that some stars in our sky are brighter than others?"
Catch your teacher after class to ask for personal insight. Say something like, "Miss Markey, I've really been enjoying the section we've been studying on the night sky. Do you have a favorite place to look at the stars?"

, If you have a favorite teacher that you want to get the chance to speak with more often, ask how you can be more involved in the classes you have together. Tasks you may be able to help with are dependent on the classes you’re taking. For instance, if your teacher teaches science, offer to come to class a few minutes early to help setup the experiments for that day.This will allow you to get to know your favorite teacher better. You’ll also likely wind up learning more about the subjects they teach, and may find that you share some of your teacher’s interests.
It’s alright if you don’t have any ideas about how to be more involved in. Ask your teacher how you can contribute by saying something like, "Is there any way I can dive deeper into this material with you? I'd be happy to help set up for our next class!"

, You may have one or two teachers that you especially admire. If a teacher you favor coaches an athletic team or advises a club at school, consider joining. In the classroom, conversation should focus mostly on the content that is being taught. Extracurricular activities offer a great way to learn from your teacher about things other than academic subjects.


Outside of the classroom, you and your teacher will get the chance to talk more about other things that are important. These conversations may even prove to be equally important as the discussions held during class.
For instance, these conversations might touch on facing challenges and finding creative solutions to address them, or working hard to achieve personal goals.
Ask general questions as well as specific ones. Ask something like "How can I make my drawing look more realistic?" or "Have you ever tried to learn something that was really hard at first? How did you get better?"

