 By reflecting on your own strengths and the good things you have in life, you’ll put yourself in a positive frame of mind. Thus, your challenges will seem minor in comparison to what you do have.


Think about your capabilities. For instance, are you successful at work, are you a star athlete, or are you a friendly and outgoing person who can win people over easily? This may help you to be more optimistic. Because it can sometimes be hard to think of positive qualities that you see in yourself, try enlisting the help of your friends and family to help you make a list.
Be appreciative that you have caring family and friends.;
, Always focus on the opportunities presented by challenges you encounter daily. By looking at challenges as opportunities, you’ll build a more positive frame of mind and come to view things that seem unfair in a different light. It’s important to remember that challenges are good for growth. If things seem too easy in your life, then it may mean that you are stagnating.


Instead of getting depressed when you notice extreme poverty, instead see it as something that can motivate you to change the world.
If you’re generally depressed about the state of the world, take some time to look at some statistics about progress in the world. For instance, look at graphs about the decline of poverty or infant mortality.Steer clear of negative news and media. News often skews media to get people’s attention, and consuming too much of this type of news may also skew your perspective of the world to see it in an unrealistic or negative way., By focusing on the big picture, you’ll be able to keep small, bad, events in perspective. This perspective will allow you to more easily overcome challenges that seem unfair.


Remember that individual events that seem unfair may seem miniscule with some perspective. For example, if your significant other break up with you, remember that over the course of your life you will potentially have many fulfilling relationships.
Reflect on prior events that seemed big at the time, but now seem small or insignificant in comparison. For instance, you may recall a poor test grade you received years ago, and realize that now it means nothing.
Think about how big the world is and how a small an unfair event might seem if you moved beyond yourself. Try going up to a high spot to view the world, such as a mountain top or out the window of an airplane. Or, check out videos that show earth from space.This may help to provide you with some perspective.
 By showing gratitude in things large and small, you'll help build a positive perspective. In the end, you'll not only be a more outwardly gracious person, but you'll exhibit an undeniable optimism.


Let others know you appreciate them. Say "thank you" to friends, family, and strangers who do things for you. In addition, let others you care about know how much they mean to you.
Get excited over small gifts. For instance, view small things like a green light or free doughnuts in the break room as signs that life is looking up.
Give to others. By being generous and giving to others, you'll grow more thankful for what you have.
Start your day off by giving thanks. Whether you are religious, spiritual, or agnostic, give thanks every morning to all that you have.Consider volunteering at a hospice if possible. This may help to give you some perspective on your health and help you to feel more grateful for it.
 Worrying about problems will only make them worse and it will not accomplish anything. It is important to live in the present and to avoid projecting your fears. Instead of being overwhelmed by problems, take a proactive stance and try to solve problems you are presented with. By taking a proactive stance and responding to things that seem unfair, you’ll take concrete and immediate steps to improve your life.


Approach events that cause you problems – like losing your job – as an opportunity to improve yourself. For instance, after losing a job, look for a new job that offers better pay and working conditions.
Be ready to bounce back and take steps to remedy the situation whenever something unfair happens. For example, if someone backs into your new car on the first day you got it, be ready to take it to the body shop to be repaired.
Put in the time to fix the problem. For instance, if your computer ran out of power before you saved a project you were working on, redouble your efforts and put in the time to complete the project even quicker than before., By focusing on your goals, you’ll be able to put unfair setbacks in perspective. You will also gain a more positive perspective on your situation when you accomplish goals, no matter how small they may seem. In addition, you’ll give yourself something to work toward.


Make a list of long-term personal and career goals.
Remind yourself of your long-term goals when you experience a minor professional set-back. For example, if your 5-year professional goal is to advance to a managerial position, missing one promotion likely won’t stop you from accomplishing your goal.
Try to view minor setbacks as opportunities to achieve your goals. For example, view a career set back as an opportunity to gain more experience so you can be a more effective professional later.
Become single-mindedly focused on your goals. As a result, any set-backs will roll of your back as you set yourself to the work of overcoming them., After experiencing a setback that is unfair, you may need to step back for a minute and take a break. By distancing yourself from the problem, you’ll allow yourself to reflect upon the situation.


Do something fun. For instance, go to the county fair, see a movie, or play a video game. Afterward, you’ll likely be more positive about the future.
Walk away. Walking away from a stressful and unfair situation will give you the opportunity to cool off.
Taking a break from the situation will probably give you energy and help you to move on and take steps to remedy any problem., Friends and family offer a great source of comfort for turning your day around when you encounter something that seems unfair. Talking to positive people and loved ones can also help to ground you in reality and the present, especially if you are stuck focusing on negative things. Ultimately, friends and family will console you and help give you the perspective to put the problem in the proper context of your life.


Look to a friend you know is a positive person. Your friend may be able to comfort you and to help you move past present challenges.
Have a simple discussion about your life with a friend or family member. For example, if an undeserving colleague was promoted over you at work, use the opportunity to vent to a family member. By simply talking about the issue, you’ll likely feel better., Negative people have the habit of undermining our ability to look past challenges towards a better day. Thus, you should consider staying away from or avoiding negative people altogether.


Don’t contact negative friends or family on days you know will be hard. For example, if you know you’re going to have a bad encounter with a supervisor at work, do not schedule dinner that night with your negative brother.
Stay away from coworkers or acquaintances who are not supportive or who may not have a positive outlook. For example, if you have a coworker who is overly critical, don’t walk by their cubicle on the way out of the office., By living in a positive environment, you’ll create a support network for yourself that will help fill you with optimism when you experience something unfair in life.


Build a home that is cheerful and makes you happy. For instance, put up art work, motivational posters, or use bright colors to decorate your home.
Limit negative stimulation. For instance, avoid watching depressing TV shows or movies. If horror movies scare or depress you, don’t watch them.
Rely on positive stimuli. For example, listen to uplifting music or listen to motivation speakers after you experience something unfair.