 Cooktops can be useful because you put them in an island or peninsula. They are also helpful when you want to install a built-in oven, which is easier on the back than a normal oven.


Cooktops also allow two people to work with separate appliances at the same time.
Cooktops are also less visible than normal ranges because you can install them virtually flush with the countertop.
Cooktops can also be easier to clean than normal ranges., If you have want to install your cooktop over an island and do not wish to have an exhaust hood then you can choose one that comes with downdraft ventilation.


This kind of ventilation brings the air from the surface to down below the cooktop.
Some cooktops come with telescoping vents that rise above the cooktop while cooking and then can be pushed below the surface between meals. , Traditionally gas cooktops were chosen because they provide an immediate response once lit and they can be seen for adjustments. However, modern electric cooktops also gain heat very quickly and come in very low heat versions.


You should also look at style, size, number of burners, color, cost, materials and safety features when deciding on a cooktop.
Examine the cost of operation when choosing between gas and electric. You can also compare the prices of gas and electricity that will be used for your cooktop. , In most cases of typical family cooking a four burner unit would be sufficient. However, if you host parties or family gatherings, or if you routinely host people at your home, additional burners could be incredibly useful. Decide on how many burners you will need for your particular uses. , If you are replacing an old cooktop, check to see that the new cooktop will fit in the place of the old cooktop. If it is a different size then you should make sure there is space to cut the correctly sized hole for the new cooktop. , Gas stoves can be a little more expensive to purchase but will usually cost less in the long run because fuel is cheaper than electricity.


You should also consider the costs of installing wiring (for electric stoves) or gas lines (for gas stoves) if there is no wiring or gas lines to begin with.

