 If your toddler always expects you to play with them, they'll probably have trouble if you leave the room when they begin to play. To help your child become more comfortable with playing alone, ease your toddler into it.For example, you might start playing with your toddler. When your toddler is absorbed in playing, step back and let your child play alone. You should stay in the room, just don't engage in play.;
, You'll need to give your toddler space to play and imagine. If your child is playing with something, avoid jumping in and showing them the "right" way to play. This can make your child think that they need you to show them how to play and they'll be less likely to play on their own.Instead, just let your toddler play how they like. This might mean that your kitchen scoops become stacking blocks, but it's important for encouraging their imagination.
 Expect a balance between adult-led play time and physical activity with unstructured free play time. The National Association for Sports and Physical Education recommends that your toddler gets at least 30 minutes of structured play and at least 60 minutes of unstructured play every day.If you find that your toddler doesn't spend this much time playing independently, add unstructured play time gradually. You might try encouraging your child to play alone 5 minutes more every day.
 You may feel uncomfortable about letting your child play out of your sight if there are dangers in your home. Take the time to babyproof your house so your toddler can explore and play without fear of getting hurt. Consider creating a designated playroom or an area where your toddler is safe to play independently. Some things you can do to keep your toddler safe include:


Covering electrical outlets.
Latching doors.
Covering sharp corners with padding.
Keeping some doors closed.
Using baby gates.
 If your toddler struggles to play independently, try making a routine that includes small amounts of unstructured play time. You can keep these play times to a minimum at first (around 5 minutes). As you continue the routine, gradually increase the amount of time. Your toddler will be more likely to play alone if they know that that's usually what happens at the designated time.


For example, you might give your toddler lunch, read a story and then play a little. Once your toddler has begun to play, sit aside and let your little one play on their own.
 Your toddler may have a difficult time playing alone if they don't like what you've offered them to play with. Teach your toddler to play alone by giving them something that sparks their curiosity. They'll be more likely to play independently if they're trying to understand it.For example, if your toddler loves watching you put on your makeup or tries to get into your makeup bag, consider making a little toddler kit that contains brushes, small jars to open, and a little mirror.
 Kids can become bored with their toys, even if they loved them when they first got them. If your toddler has become more clingy and plays less with their toys, it might be time to put them away for a while. Bring out toys that your child hasn't played with in a while. Your toddler will probably be excited to see these "new" favorites return.


You should also keep toys to a minimum. If your toddler has too many toys out, they may feel overwhelmed and be less likely to play with them.
 Consider how easy it is for your toddler to get to their toys, art supplies, and books. If they're boxed away and stored out of your toddler's reach, it will be a lot harder for your toddler to simply start playing. You may want to keep several baskets with entertaining materials around your house so your toddler can easily play whenever they feel like it.For example, keep a basket of books next to a comfy seat that your child can crawl onto.
 If your toddler seems restless with their toys, it may be time to introduce something new. This doesn't mean you have to go out and buy a new toy. Instead, you could look around your house for an object that your child hasn't played with or experienced. It could be just the thing that your toddler wants to play with.


Look in your kitchen for ideas of objects that could easily entertain your toddler. Toddlers love scoops, plastic cookie cutters, funnels, and measuring spoons.
 Toddlers grow and develop at different rates. You may be surprised when your child learns a new skill almost overnight. To help your child play independently, ensure that they have toys that match their abilities. For example:For 12 to 24 month olds, you might set out push and pull toys, shape sorters and floor toys that they can scoot around.
For 24 to 36 month olds, set out imaginative toys like blocks, figures, cars, and dolls. You could also let your older toddler play in the yard while you supervise.
 Although toddlers don't often play with other children, they do parallel play alongside other toddlers. Meet up with another friend with a toddler so your children get a chance to play near each other. Over time, the toddlers will begin to play together (around age 3).


Make sure there are plenty of imaginative toys for the toddlers to play with. This way, they're less likely to fight over toys and they'll be able to play imaginatively.

