 Look for the freshest, most barely-ripe corn available, preferably at a farmer's market. Choose bright green husks, tightly attached to the ear. The stalks should be a light yellow and the ends of the silks a light brown. While you are at the market, don't be afraid to peel back the husks just enough to reveal a few rows of kernels. They should be white or pale yellow, look nice and plump and be tightly packed into straight rows from one end of the cob to the other.Fresh, young corn is full of natural sugars which will caramelize beautifully over the heat of the grill. As the corn ages, these turn into much less flavorful starches.If the ear has an unusually thick layer of husks, remove the outermost two or three before you continue.;
, Preheat your grill to a medium-high heat, about 350–400 °F (177–204 °C). For a coal grill, arrange coals in an even layer and heat until grey.The best way to heat a gas grill is to fire it up on high, then lower it to the desired temperature. This ensures a hot rack.
 At this point, you may soak the ears of corn in cold water to increase juiciness and reduce the amount the husk burns.Submerge the ears completely, soak for about 15 minutes, then shake off excess moisture.


If you hate the smell of burned corn husk, soak for 30–60 minutes instead. (Many people do not mind this smell, or even enjoy it.)

, There's no real flavor difference between adding spices now, versus waiting until it's cooked.If you go with the first option, peel back the husks just enough to expose the kernels. Brush on olive oil or room-temperature butter with a pastry brush, and season with salt, pepper, and/or savory herbs (or try these fancy options). Pull the loose husks back up over the kernels.Tear off the silk and discard it just before seasoning.
Don't melt the butter first. This can make it more difficult for herbs to stick., Tie a piece of string or loose husk over the tip of the husk to keep it on the corn. Place the corn on a lightly oiled grill rack, either just above the coals for a shorter cooking time, or high above the coals to lower the risk of charring.Close the grill and cook for about 15–20 minutes, turning every 5 minutes or so. Check the corn ready when the husks start to get kernel-shaped char marks and pull away from the tip.If the kernels don't feel tender when poked with a fork, it's fine to leave the corn on until the husk chars black.


Be careful not to overcook your corn or it will become soft and mushy. If you can flex the corncob easily in your hands, it is probably overcooked.You can cook corn directly on the coals instead. In this case, the corn will be ready when the husk is completely charred.Check frequently to avoid burning.
 Using a pair of tongs or an oven mitt, remove the corn from the heat. Cover both hands with oven mitts or a dishtowel, and peel back the husks from the tip down. Serve the corn while it's still hot.


Be careful. The corn inside the husk will be extremely hot.
If you didn't season the corn in advance, serve alongside butter, salt, and pepper.
If any ashes get on the corn, just rinse them off in warm water.

