 After watching a horror movie, you may be worried about zombies, ghosts, serial killers, or a myriad of frightening things. Think about what it scares you, and acknowledge the things that you fear. Recognizing what is making you scared can help you deal with that fear logically.For example, you may be afraid of someone breaking into your home, or you may be afraid of being haunted by a ghost.;
, It can be very helpful to tell someone else how you are feeling. Speak to your partner or roommate, or call or text a friend or family member. Choose someone who is supportive and will listen as you explain what is upsetting you.You can call a sibling and tell them “I just watched Saw IV and now I’m scared that someone is going to torture me.” They may be able to calm you down and help you realize that you’re not actually in danger.
 Remind yourself that you are just as safe as you were before watching the movie. Tell yourself that it was a movie, not reality, and realize that the movie was designed to scare you. Hundreds of people worked hard and millions of dollars were spent creating costumes, putting on makeup, and adding special effects to create a horror flick. Consider the likelihood of your fear coming true and use rational thinking to pick apart your fears.Though it may seem scary and plausible in the movie, zombies are not going to flood your neighborhood. There’s no boogeyman out to get you, either.
 The best way to overcome your fear is to face it. Expose yourself to your fear if you have access to it, or imagine exposing yourself to it if you don’t have access to what frightens you. Breathe deeply and tell yourself that you are okay, even if you are frightened.For example, if you are afraid of the dark after watching a scary movie, turn off the lights in your home. Try to sit in the dark for a few minutes before turning the lights back on and realizing that there’s nothing there to hurt you.
For instance, you may be afraid of spiders after watching a horror movie about them. Look at pictures of spiders online. Remind yourself that while they might be creepy, but they aren’t going to swell to an enormous size and try to take over your town.
 Watching a blooper reel or behind the scenes footage of the movie can reinforce the fact that it’s all fiction. Seeing the set and the characters in their regular forms may help ease your fears. Watching a scary scene dissolve because of mistakes, laughter, or other issues can help you understand that there’s nothing to be afraid of.You can also watch extras included in the film, like interviews with cast members, or short clips on how the movie was made, how the costumes were prepared, and how makeup was applied to characters to make them look scary.

