 One awesome, completely free way to have a lovely day is to head to the beach with your pals! If it's warm out, the beach can be an amazing place to go swimming, play volleyball, boogie-board, and much more. Even if it's not the greatest weather, you can still build sand forts, skip rocks, and go on hikes in the surrounding area, so go for it!


If you don't live near a body of water, you can still do many of the things you'd do at the beach at other places. For example, you can go swimming at a public pool, a gym, or most universities, and you can play volleyball anywhere you can set up a net, so get creative!

, The only thing you need to have a ball with your gang of friends is just that — a ball! Grab a football, a basketball, a soccer ball, or your sports equipment of choice, and head to a local park for an informal scrimmage. You can play as "hard" or as casually as you want — it's up to you and your new teammates!


Sometimes, for casual games, you may need to improvise your own equipment. For instance, if you're playing soccer, you may need to set some old rags or your t-shirts on the ground to mark the edges of your goals.
 There's nothing quite like watching your favorite song or play get performed live on stage. For a fun night out, try getting your friends to agree on a play or concert in your local area, pool your money for tickets if necessary, and go! You'll be enjoying the performances the way they were meant to be experienced and supporting the arts at the same time!


Big-name concerts can be pretty pricey, so if you're short on cash, look for cheap or free concerts in your local area. Many art schools, community theaters, and local hangouts will occasionally have live music or theater. Though you won't usually be able to see major acts this way, you'll save tons of money and maybe even find some new local favorites!

, Getting a camping trip together with your friends is a fantastic way to enjoy the great outdoors for a day or two. Often, planning, packing, and traveling to the campsite is the funnest part of the entire process. With bonfires, s'mores, wilderness hikes, late-night tent conversations, and more, however, the campsite itself can offer its fair share of fun.


Depending on where you live, camping can sometimes be an arduous process. If you're not sure whether you have the right equipment or know-how to enjoy your camping trip, try browsing our "camping" category of articles.
 Building, tinkering, painting, and crafting are all things that are fun on your own, but even more fun with the right friends. For example, try getting your friends together to finish the home improvement project you've been putting off for months in a single day. Or, alternatively, pick a project just for fun — here are a few ideas to get you started:


Set up a "hangout" room
Build a treehouse or fort
Sew some clothes or accessories
Build your own skateboard (most skate shops will sell wheels, trucks, and so on)
Do some creative landscaping (like hedge-trimming or grass-planting)
Tune up your car
Make a five-star, multiple-course meal

, Sometimes, the absolute best days are the ones where nothing gets done. Don't be afraid to crash on your couch for hours on end playing video games and shooting the breeze with your friends every once in a while as long as you can afford to responsibly waste a day. Almost everyone can benefit from enjoying the simple, mindless pleasure of doing nothing of importance from time to time


It goes without saying, of course, but you won't want to rely too heavily on this method for having a good time. The world around you is full of exciting, interesting things to do, but you won't get to experience them if you spend all of your time on the couch, so try to take "veg out" days sparingly.
 This is a great idea for cold winter nights, although it can be done any time of the year if you have a good spot for it. Agree on a movie with your friends, then have them come over in the evening with refreshments of their choice. Make homemade popcorn and other treats to share. In fact, if you've taken our advice above and done some cooking or baking earlier in the day, feel free to share it now.


Ask those coming along to suggest one or two preferred movie titles, which you can throw into the mix when selecting the movie (or movies) for the night. Although it's unlikely you can accommodate everyone unless only two of you are attending, you can at least choose movies that reflect the interests of most people in the group.
 What's better than hanging out with three friends? Making a fourth! Don't be too shy to talk to the people you may meet when you're out with your own friends — there's a decent chance they'll find you just as enjoyable as you find each other. Certain activities give you more opportunities to meet new people than others, but it's possible to meet interesting people almost anywhere, so have an open heart and mind and don't hesitate to introduce yourself and your friends to someone new!


For instance, if you and some friends have gone out to see a live music show at a local hangout, the odds are that you'll probably spend a lot of time waiting for the band to set up its equipment before the set. During the time when people are aimlessly milling about and waiting for the show to start is a great opportunity to meet strangers who are interested in the same music as you!

