 This recipe for chicken curry serves 4 people. Here's everything you need to make tasty chicken curry:


1 kg whole chicken (cut into 12-16 pieces)
3 large onions (chopped)
3 medium tomatoes (chopped)
4-5 tbsp tomato puree
2 tsp coriander powder
1 tsp turmeric powder
1 tsp garam masala powder
2 cloves
1 bay leaf
1 inch (2.5 cm) cinnamon
1 black cardamom
1 tsp cumin seeds
1 tbsp ginger (chopped finely)
1 tbsp garlic (chopped finely)
1 green chili
1 cup water
Salt to taste
2 tbsp fresh coriander, chopped
1/2 tsp red chili powder (to taste)
3-4 tbsp oil
;
, You can use vegetable oil or olive oil, though ghee will give your curry chicken the most authentic Indian flavor. Here's what you should do:


As soon as these spices begin to crackle, you can add the cumin seeds, wait about five seconds, and then add the diced onion.
Turn the heat down to medium and sauté the onions until they're soft and translucent, which should take about 2-3 minutes.
After that, add the ginger and the garlic.
Then, turn the heat up to medium-high and continue sautéing the onions until they are light brown.
Continue stirring the ingredients to combine the flavors.
 Let the turmeric and coriander blend in with the other spices for a minute and then add the chicken pieces, just a few at a time, until they fill the pan. If you add too many pieces of chicken at once, then it'll make the oil in the pan spurt up, so be careful. As you add the chicken, keep stirring the ingredients and flipping over the chicken so that it is sealed and evenly cooked and coated in the onions.
 Here's what you should do next:


Add a cup of hot water.
Cover and cook till the chicken is almost done.
Add the garam masala and about half of the chopped coriander (you'll need the other half for the garnish).
Add little hot water to make gravy of a desired consistency. Cook till done.
 This process will allow the chicken to fully cook and to stew in the vegetables and spices for a bit. Sure, frying it or cooking it over higher heat will get the job done faster, but your chicken won't get that same authentic flavor. 

, Once your chicken curry is cooked, take a bite and add salt and pepper or any spices to taste as needed. Garnish with fresh coriander and serve with plain rice or chapati (Indian bread).
 Enjoy this tasty chicken curry dish while it's hot.

