 The dentist’s office can be a busy place and most likely the dentist will require you to multitask and have a good attitude towards customers. A dental assistant has to balance helping the dentist with patients while performing administrative duties at the same time for at least eight hours or more per day. Since different dentists will require different skills and abilities, make sure you read the job posting closely. An internet search of “dental assistant” at the various job recruitment sites will also inform you of the general responsibilities of the position.
If you are confident enough in your abilities, then either ask your local dentist office if you can observe a day at the office or inquire about possible internships to visualize what a work day looks like.;
, Texas does not require any type of degree to begin a career as a dental assistant, but classes, credentials, and certifications exist for higher levels of compensation and responsibilities. If you want to be a dental assistant as soon as you graduate high school, make sure to take biology, chemistry, mathematics, computers, and psychology classes to better prepare yourself for the profession.
Consider attending a dental assisting school. In most cases, these schools do require a minimum of a GED to enter their classes. It is much easier to find a job in the dental assisting field with a relevant education, especially if you have no experience.
Without experience, expect it to take three to four months before you can competently complete all the necessary job duties.
 Registration with SBDE is optional. Only dental assistants who want to take x-rays need to obtain a RDA (Registered Dental Assistant). Be aware that Texas does not accept Radiology Certifications from other states. A practicing dental assistant who has performed x-rays in a different state and plans to relocate to Texas must register with the Texas Dental Board. In order to register with the SBDE, a certification for Radiology, Infection Control, and Jurisprudence must be obtained. Typically, this certification is taken online and does not require advanced study or additional materials. In fact, Texas uses the exam only as a learning tool as it is a “no fail” question and answer format.
Although out-of-state dental assistants who relocate to Texas cannot administer x-rays while waiting for their state registration, new hires, recent graduates, or any dental assistant who has never given an x-ray are permitted to take x-rays during their first year of work while they take classes that enable them to apply for an official registration.

