 You'll need an H8/5 millimeter crochet hook and yarn. Pick a yarn that matches your hook size. Size 3 or "light" yarn is generally recommended for an H8 hook.However, double-check your yarn's label, which should list its recommended hook size.


You may also choose to add some beads, but these are optional.
Because this pattern is very simple, this is a great project for people new to crochet. However, you should practice your stitches before starting this project.
If you're already an advanced crocheter and would like to try something more challenging, try looking for more complicated patterns online.
 Start off by making 11 chain stitches. Join the two ends of this chain together using a slip stitch.The ring you've just made will loop around the wearer's second or third toe. If the wearer has very small or large toes, you will need to start with a shorter or longer chain. Try measuring the width of the wearer's toe before you begin to ensure a perfect fit.
 Do four more chain stitches. Next, make two double crochet stitches off of the third chain stitch from the hook. Turn your work for the next row.When making a "turn" in crochet, you want to make it so that the row that was previously closest to you is now furthest. Likewise, your crochet hook should now be on the opposite side from where it was before.
 Start by making two more chain stitches. Next, double crochet into every chain stitch from your first row. You should finish this row by double crocheting into those two chains stitches you made coming off of your first row at its third chain. Turn your work to start the next row. You should notice a triangle beginning to form., Make two chain stitches, double crochet into every chain of the previous row, and finish in what were the two chain stitches of the previous row. Be sure to turn at the end of each row.


How many times you make this repeat will depend on the size of the wearer's foot. The average adult woman's foot should take about three repeats after the second row. Check your work against the wearer's foot or an outline of it. The sandal top should end near the beginning of the ankle., Make 100 chain stitches, creating a long string. Finish the chain by binding off. This section will make one side of what will tie around the ankle.If you'd prefer a simpler look without complicated bows, you can make the chain shorter. Just remember that it has to be about the length it takes to wrap around the wearer's ankle.
 Attach yarn to the opposite end of the last row in your triangle. Make either another 100 chain stitches on the other side or however many you did for the first long chain. Complete your barefoot sandal with one final bind off.Wear the sandal by looping one end around one toe and tying the long chain around your ankle. One hundred chain stitches should give you a lot to work with. Try getting creative by tying a fancy bow.

