 Take off your shoes and socks before elevating your feet. Shoes can cause blood to pool in your feet and encourage swelling. Socks can do this too, particularly if they are tight around the ankle. Give your toes a quick wiggle to get your blood flowing., Stretch your body out on a long couch or bed, lying on your back. Make sure you have lots of room and that you don’t feel you’re going to roll off the couch. Prop up your back and neck with a pillow or two if it makes you feel more comfortable.Avoid lying flat on your back if you are pregnant and past the first trimester. Your uterus can put too much pressure on a central artery, actually suppressing blood flow, which is the opposite of what you want to do. Place a couple of pillows behind your back so you are propped up at a 45-degree angle., Place pillows underneath your feet and ankles to elevate them. Stack as many as necessary to elevate your feet to the level of your heart. Raising your feet to heart level will help drain pooled blood from your feet and make it easier for your heart to increase circulation.You may be most comfortable putting a pillow or two underneath your calves as well to support your elevated feet.
 The number of minutes you perform at a given elevation session doesn’t matter as much as the total time. You can use this opportunity to catch up on email, watch a movie, or accomplish other tasks that don’t require you to stand. Exceeding this amount of time is not recommended.If you find that your foot swelling doesn’t go down by using this routine for a few days, you should make an appointment with your doctor.
 Even if you don’t have time to elevate your feet for 2 to 3 hours a day, elevating them even slightly will reduce everyday swelling. Use an ottoman or footstool to lift your feet off the ground whenever possible while seated. Raising your feet will increase blood circulation.You can purchase a small footstool for under your desk if you spend lots of time sitting at work.
 Use an ice pack wrapped in a tea towel to ice your elevated feet for up to ten minutes at a time. Wait an hour between ice applications.Doing this can reduce swelling further and ease any discomfort you’re experiencing. Always use a barrier between the ice and your bare skin.If you’re feeling the need to ice your feet more frequently due to swelling and pain, make an appointment with your doctor.
 Get up once an hour and walk around for a minute or two just to keep your blood flowing. Long periods of sitting can cause blood to pool in your feet, which causes more swelling. If you have to sit for a long period of time, use a footstool to help promote circulation., Wear full-length support stockings to increase blood flow and ease swelling in your feet. Stockings are most effective if you wear them all day, particularly if you’re going to be standing a lot. Avoid compression socks, which may squeeze above the ankle and encourage foot swelling.You can purchase support stockings online at health supply stores, such as ExMed and Walgreens.
 Drinking enough water can flush your body of extra salt and reduce foot swelling. Some adults may need more or less depending upon pregnancy or other health conditions. For most people though, drinking at least 48 ounces (1.4 liters) of water a day will keep excess swelling to a minimum.While the occasional soda or coffee is fine, do not count these beverages as part of your daily water intake. They can have a diuretic effect.Don't force yourself to drink more if you can't.
 Aim to work out for at least 30 minutes 4 to 5 days a week to keep your blood flowing. Even a casual walk will keep your heart rate up and discourage blood from pooling in your feet. If you’re sedentary right now, slowly work your way up to 4 days a week by starting with a 15 minute session one day at a time.Exercising with a buddy can be a great way to stick to a new fitness routine.
Certain yoga poses, such as lying on the floor with your legs up against the wall, can reduce foot swelling, too., Wear shoes that fit you well and ensure that the ball of your foot fits in the widest part of the shoe easily.When you wear shoes that are too small, it can cut off circulation, causing pain or even injury., Thick-soled sneakers can provide your feet with additional cushion for running and jumping when you exercise. You can also buy gel inserts for added support. Always wear shoes with lots structure and stability if you’re going to be active.Shop for shoes at the end of the day when your feet are at their most swollen. Shoes should fit your feet well, even when they’re at their largest.
 Try to maintain a healthy weight for your height through diet and exercise. Additional pounds can put pressure on your feet and strain your blood vessels, particularly if you’re active. Even losing a pound or two will decrease everyday foot swelling.Your doctor can advise you on a healthy weight range for you.
 Opt for high heels shorter than two inches and try not to wear them often. High heels can pinch your feet, and they put lots of pressure on the ball of your foot. Putting so much weight on a small area like this can cause swelling, pain and even displace bones.If you want to wear high heels, a chunky heel rather than a stiletto will provide more stability.
 Smoking taxes your heart and makes circulating your blood more difficult. Particularly since your feet are so far from your heart, they can get swollen and shiny as a result. Your skin can even start to thin. Consider a regimen to quit smoking to improve your overall health as well as the health of your feet., Rub the sole of your foot with a rolling pin to get your blood moving. You can even ask a partner to rub the soles of your feet, which will increase circulation and clear pooled blood. Use your fingers to massage any areas of tightness or discomfort., If your doctor has ruled out more serious conditions, it is usually safe to take over anti-inflammatories to manage foot swelling. Take 200 to 400 milligrams of ibuprofen every 4 to 6 hours as needed to diminish puffiness and reduce discomfort.Always check with your doctor before taking any medication. Certain health conditions are not compatible with non-steroidal anti-inflammatories, such as ibuprofen.

