 Lay your quilt batting on a flat surface. Measure, mark, and cut the quilt batting so that each edge is 1 inch (2.54 cm) longer than the corresponding dimensions of the canvas. You will pull this extra material up and around the wooden frame., Place your canvas face down in the center of the quilt batting. Pull one edge of the material up and over the wooden frame—make sure it is pulled tight. Use a staple to gun to insert staples along the entire edge of the frame. Repeat on the three remaining sides., Run a warm iron over your fabric to remove any creases or wrinkles. Lay your pressed fabric on a flat work space. Measure, mark, and cut the fabric so that each edge is 1 inch (2.54 cm) longer than the corresponding dimensions of the canvas., Lay your fabric wrong side up on a flat work space. Place your canvas face down in the center of the fabric. Pull one edge of the fabric up and over the wooden frame. Insert a line of staples down the entire edge of the frame. Repeat on the three remaining sides., Run the ribbon diagonally across the canvas from the top left corner to the bottom right corner—pull the ribbons tight. Staple the ends of the ribbon to the back of the wooden frame. Run a second length of ribbon diagonally from the top right corner to the bottom left corner. Staple the ends of the ribbon to the back of the wooden frame. The two lengths of ribbons will form a “X”., Using the “X” as a guide, add additional ribbons to your board. Each ribbon should run diagonally from right-to-left or from left-to-right. Use a ruler to make sure the ribbons are spaced evenly.


Don't forget to pull the ribbons tight., To prevent the ribbons from moving, sew a button at each point where the ribbons cross. Flip the canvas over. You will see a knot of thread where you attached a button. To prevent these knots for slipping, place a dab of hot glue onto each knot. This will prevent the knots from unraveling. Once the hot glue is dry, you can start adding memories to your board.