 In this method, you'll be removing most of the leaf and leaving just a network of veins behind. A sturdy leaf that doesn't bend or flop around is a good choice for this project. Freshly fallen autumn leaves from maple or oak trees work well, as do waxy leaves like ivy or magnolia leaves., You can use a smaller pot if you only have a few leaves. If you do, remember to reduce the amount of other ingredients proportionately, or simply use half the amount listed below.
 The mixture you'll be making can damage your skin, so put on latex or rubber gloves before handling the other ingredients. After you're done, remember to wash all utensils used thoroughly in running water while wearing gloves.
 These chemicals are usually found in grocery or drug stores. Whichever you use, two tablespoons (or 30 grams by weight) should be enough.Either of these chemicals will slowly turn the leaf into pulp while leaving the stem and veins alone., You can fit a couple handful of leaves or more, as long as you can easily stir the pot without spilling.
 You may set the heat to low and leave it to eventually simmer, or bring it to a boil, then reduce the heat to low. The mixture should barely or occasionally bubble.


If you can measure the temperature, aim for about 175ºF (80ºC).
 Depending on how thick the leaves are, this could take up to a full day, but should probably only take a couple hours. Stir occasionally with a gentle motion, checking to see whether the leaves are soft and falling apart.


You'll need to add more water as it boils away. Optionally, you could replace the liquid with a fresh water and baking soda mixture every four hours to speed things along., A glass baking dish works well for this step, since it will make it easier to see what you're doing.Carefully remove each leaf with a spatula or other utensil and lay it out onto the baking dish without overlapping the others., The leaves should be thin, with a mushy layer of pulp stuck to them. Gently and patiently remove this pulp from the leaves, leaving only a network of veins or, depending on leaf type, a thin translucent layer.


You may need to rinse off the leaves in a trickle of cold water to remove the pulp one or more times during this process.
 Rinse out the pot, stirring utensil, and other objects that came into contact with the simmering mixture. Wear gloves and use soap and warm water., You can either let them air dry on paper towels, or pat them dry gently and press them between book pages or a flower press. After a day or two, you will have a unique way to alter the appearance of a dried leaf crafts project. Because these are transparent, they work particularly well on glass surfaces.