 It should be able to hold 1 or 2 kg. You can buy pouches and cases that fit in binders or carried separately. You can also make your own out of fun things like duct tape, but everything must have a clip to secure the item in the loop. Here are some advantages and disadvantages of different styles:


Binder Pouch Style: It fits into binder, usually has 2 or more compartments, and is readily available during class. However, you may forget to take it out at locker breaks (if you use separate binders for classes), and it can make binder hard to close or even break.
Separate Pouch or Case: It doesn't need to be taken out of binders, and usually has one big, visible open compartment for quick grabbing. It's easier to carry outside of a binder and allows for more capacity. However, it can easily be left behind if it falls.
Duct Tape Craft Case: This is a fun, water resistant and inexpensive design that provides a modern look and is fun to make. However, it can only hold items with a pocket clip.
Choosing the correct case is crucial. If you get a case you don't like and neglect it, you'll be back at square one, nagging for basic supplies. ;
, It is important that you check all of your supplies periodically. Do I have all of the supplies I started with? Did I find any? Did I lose any? Did someone borrow or take any? Keeping a supply list right in you case is a good idea. You also need the correct supplies. These items will get you started more or less. Experiment with what you need and what you can do without.


Pencils (wood or mechanical; get a hand sharpener if you prefer wood or leads and erasers for mechanical)
Pens (find out what kind you like, plain ballpoint, gel, roller-ball, etc.)
Highlighters (3 or 4 different vibrant colors)
Sticky Notes or Index Cards (keep a good supply and don't waste! Index Cards are probably better to keep in the case, Stickies can be put in book pages or in lockers.)
Correction Tape (don't get liquid because it's messy, takes time to dry, and can spill.)
A glue-stick.
Decent scissors.
Ruler
Calculator. Always be sure that you set your pouch right as before.
 Tie pencils together, highlighters, colored pencils, etc.
, If you have multiple pockets, use them! Find out your perfect system and make it work. Don't stray from a tight knot of order!

