 It's a blue app with a white "4" on it.

First download 4shared from the App Store if you haven't yet done so.;
, This button is at the bottom of the screen., It's at the bottom of the screen.

The information listed on these pages gives you a brief summary of what 4shared can do.
 This option is at the bottom of the screen. Tapping it will take you to the login screen, where you can proceed with creating your 4shared account., It's a blue button at the bottom of the screen.

If you already have a 4shared account, tap Log In, enter your account credentials, and proceed to the next part.
You may also tap Connect with Facebook or Connect with Google to use your Facebook or Google+ account information respectively. If you do this, simply enter your email address and password for the pertinent site and then proceed to the next part.
 You'll do so by filling out each of the following text fields on the "I am new here" page:


Email - A working email address to which you have access.

Password - A password for your 4shared account. Be careful when typing this out since 4shared doesn't verify the password before accepting it.

First name - Your first name.

Last name - Your last name.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Doing so will create your 4shared account.

You'll need to tap OK when asked if you want to let 4shared access your files to continue.
 This should be the same email account you used to create your 4shared account., It will likely be in your email's Spam folder, but make sure to check the "Updates" or "Other" folders if your email address has them.

The email from 4shared isn't dangerous, so you can open it even though it's in your Spam folder.
 This is a blue button in the body of the email. Doing so will verify your email account, which unlocks the full scope of 4shared's features., It's in the bottom-left corner of the screen. This is the tab to which 4shared opens by default. All of your non-music files and folders will appear here., It's in the top-right corner of the "My 4shared" screen.


Add File - Select a photo or video from your iPhone/iPad/iPod or from another downloaded app (e.g., Google Drive).

New Folder - Create a new folder in which you can store files.

Select Items - Places your 4shared page in "Select" mode wherein you can tap items to select them.
 Doing so will display a search bar at the top of the page, as well as two icons to the right of the search bar:


Grid View - This icon has six squares in it. Tapping it will display your 4shared items in a grid fashion with large icons.

List View - This icon has three horizontal lines in it. Tapping it will display your 4shared items in an organized list.
 You'll see this option to the right of the My 4shared tab. Any files that you've shared with other users and vice versa will appear here., It's at the bottom-center of the screen. Any files you've made available offline (but not downloaded to your device) appear here., This option is a musical note icon to the right of the Saved tab. As long as you allowed 4shared access to your iOS device's music library, you'll be able to stream music from here.

4shared will continue to play music even when you switch to a different tab or minimize the app.
You can't access music synced to 4shared on a desktop computer.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the screen. You'll see several settings here:


Account - You can change your first and last name as well as your password from here.

Space Used - View how much space your files are taking up.

Clear cache - Tap this option to clear the temporary browsing files from 4shared.

Camera Upload - Enabling this option automatically uploads any photos you take to 4shared.

Push Notifications - Enabling this option allows 4shared to send you notifications.

Passcode Lock - Enabling this option allows you to place a passcode lock on 4shared.

Version - View the version number of 4shared. It's best to keep 4shared up to date.

Help Center - Use this option to reset a forgotten password and troubleshoot other common 4shared problems.

Remove Ad Banner - Prompts you to purchase the ad-free version of 4shared ($0.99 USD).

Log Out - Sign out of 4shared.
 Doing so will take you back to the 4shared Home page from which you can upload your first files., It's in the top-right corner of the "My 4shared" screen., Doing so will invoke a pop-up menu with locations from which you can upload photos., It's at the top of the pop-up menu at the bottom of the page.

You may need to tap OK to allow 4shared access to your Photos before continuing.
You can also tap Camera to take a picture and upload it from within 4shared.
 All of your device's photo albums are listed on this page. If you don't know which item to select, tap Camera Roll (or All Photos for iCloud Library users) to browse every photo on your device., Doing so will select it; you can tap as many photos as you like to select all of them for upload., It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Your selected photos and/or videos will be uploaded to 4shared.

You'll be able to access any files that you upload here on the 4shared website if you log in.
 Doing so will open it. If you tap … in the top-right corner of the screen, you'll see the following options for the photo:


Save to Device - Saves the photo onto your iPhone, iPad, or iPod. This is useful for transferring photos between devices.

Move - Allows you to choose a folder to which you'd like to move the photo(s)/video(s).

Rename - Change the file's name.

Delete - Remove the file from your 4shared account. You'll need to tap Delete again when prompted to finalize this process.
 It's in the top-left corner of the screen. Now that you know how to upload and view files, you're ready to look at the other features of 4shared., It's in the top-right corner of the screen., This is the second option on the drop-down menu., Consider using a title that will adequately describe the information stored in the folder., Doing so will add the folder to your 4shared Home page and open it for you., To do so, tap … in the top-right corner of the screen and then tap Add File.

You can also select New Folder to place a folder inside of this one.
 It's in the top-left corner of the screen. You'll return to the 4shared Home page., It's in the top-right corner of the screen., This option is at the bottom of the drop-down menu., Doing so will place a white checkmark on a blue background in the item's bottom-right corner, meaning you have successfully selected it.

If your 4shared items are displayed in a list rather than in a grid, simply tapping them will select them.
If you don't tap the bottom-right corner of the item(s) while in grid view, the item(s) won't be selected.
 It's in the bottom-left corner of the screen.

You can also tap the trash can icon at the bottom of the screen to delete the selected folders.
Tapping the downward-facing icon at the bottom of the screen will make any selected items available offline.
 Doing so will open it., It's in the bottom-right corner of the screen., It's an option at the bottom of your screen., This button is in the middle of the screen., It's at the bottom of the screen., You can tap any of the photo or video options here., It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Doing so will open the "Sharing settings" page; you'll see the following options listed:


Public - Tap this option to choose "Public" (default) or "Private" for sharing. "Private" means that only people you invite can view the folder or file.

Invite friends to folder - Tap this option to select friends to invite to view your files/folder.
 It's in the middle of the page., This is at the top of the screen; as you type, contacts' names will appear below the bar.

You may first need to tap OK to allow 4shared access to your Contacts app.
 Doing so will add it to the invite list., It's in the top-right corner of the page. Doing so will invite your selected contacts to view (and potentially edit) the files you've uploaded.

You can also select Can view only or Can edit to change other users' permissions.

