 Most Affenpinscher’s coats need trimmed only every couple months. In general, you’ll want your Affenpinscher’s coat to stay about one inch in length on the shoulders and body. Its coat should be longest between its shoulders and shortest around its rear end. Brushing and combing your dog’s coat will take care of most of the long, unruly hairs, but you’ll need to pluck any remaining ones that did not come out. To do so, separate any long hairs by lifting them up with a comb so that you can grab them with your index finger and thumb. With the other hand, pull the skin around the hair you’re working with taut. Then, with a quick motion, pull the long hair towards you, removing it.


If you have trouble grasping the long hairs, try wearing a pair of latex gloves. This will allow you to get a better grip on the hairs.
The long hairs you’re pulling out are dead, so plucking them won’t hurt your dog., A stripping knife is a grooming tool that helps to remove any loose hairs and trim your dog’s coat without making any blunt lines. Once you’ve plucked any long hairs from your dog, take your stripping knife and work through its coat, starting at the base of its neck and working your way back to the base of its tail. Move your stripping knife along the natural lay of the hair, which is usually vertical down the back, but may vary around your dog’s neck and tail.


Blend its coat as you go, keeping the hair around its shoulders and rib cage longer and the hair around its rear shorter.Use the stripping knife in a raking motion, moving your arm from the shoulder without flexing your wrist. Position the knife at a 45 degree angle to your dog’s coat with the teeth facing in the direction you are raking.Depending how you want your dog’s coat to look, you may only need to do this every six months or so., Affenpinschers can have either docked or undocked tails. If your dog has a docked tail, take small trimming shears and trim the hair closely around the tail, moving along with its natural curve. If your dog has an undocked tail, hold the tip of its tail between your fingers and gently pull it over its back, toward its head. Using your scissors, trim the hair on the underside of its tail in the shape of a crescent moon., Next, brush the hair on the inside of your dog’s legs toward the middle of its body. Use trimming shears to trim the hair in this area, making it an even length around the entire leg. Your dog’s legs should look rectangular in shape, like small columns., Using blunt-nosed scissors, trim the hair around your dog’s anus. Make sure you get any areas that are soiled or starting to mat.