 One of the principles of baby led weaning is giving your child real food instead of baby food. So, instead of buying jars of baby food, you will be giving your child the same food the rest of your family eats. The food may need to be prepared differently, like steamed so it’s soft and cut into appropriate-sized pieces.For example, you may feed your child steamed carrots, steamed broccoli, toast cut into strips, thin cucumber slices, banana slices, mashed potatoes, spaghetti, macaroni and cheese, or chunks of mango. Soft fish or other meats can be introduced as they progress, and you can also try beans, spinach, hard-boiled or scrambled eggs, zucchini and squash, sweet potatoes, and ripe avocado.Be careful of the amount of salt and sugar in your baby's diet. Avoid buying processed foods that have a lot of sodium; try to make your own food whenever you can. Don't add more salt or sugar to food., One thing you want to do while you are transitioning your child to solid food is offer a variety of textures. You should combine mashed or pureed food with real food. Make sure the mashed or pureed food has soft lumps in it. This helps your baby get food as they learn to chew and swallow, and also helps them get used to different textures.Think about food that is easily chewed, picked up, or squished between their fingers.
Children who are not introduced to different textures early often become picky eaters and refuse to eat certain textures, like lumpy food. Getting your child used to the textures early can establish healthier eating habits from the start.
 When you transition from breastfeeding to solid foods, you will offer your child solid foods. These foods should look like what the rest of the family is eating instead of separate baby food. When you serve your baby food, it must be given in small finger foods that are easy to pick up.Start with pieces of food that are large enough for a baby to grasp, but not large enough to choke on. Think about the size of a chip or an adult finger.
 At first, your child won't be able to eat all foods. This will develop as their motor skills develop. To start with, don’t give your child whole grapes, cherries, or nuts. These foods are too large and won't be chewed, so they pose a choking hazard when swallowed.Avoid round foods, especially if they are hard or large.
Don’t leave hard peelings on fruit, and refrain from giving them hard fruits, like apple, or hard vegetables until they are old enough to chew.
Avoid foods like hot dogs, marshmallows, raw carrots, and similar foods because they can get stuck in their throat.
Stick with foods that small and easily mashed or squished.
 One of the main downsides to baby led weaning is the lack of iron in a baby’s diet. They are not able to eat meat yet, so they may not get enough iron. To help with this, give your baby iron-rich foods. These foods include:Soft fish
Eggs
Beans and legumes
Spinach and other leafy greens
Tender pieces of meat, like roast, small pieces of ground beef, or soft meatballs

, The transition between breast milk and formula to real food may take awhile. Your baby may not start eating the food immediately. They may play with it, learn how to hold it, suck on it, throw it, or practice trying to bite and chew it. This is all normal, but means your baby might not get enough food. Feed them formula and breast milk between meals.You can slowly transition between liquid to solid as your baby starts to eat more food.
 You may not realize if your baby has any food allergies yet. This means you should be careful when you introduce certain foods. Watch your baby closely after giving them new foods for signs like swelling, trouble breathing, rash, or other abnormalities.Common foods that cause allergic reactions are nuts, especially peanuts, wheat, and eggs.

