 Many companies have tuition reimbursement programs, typically aimed towards helping their employees with their professional development and advancement. Many times there are restrictions on areas of study and institutions.


Some companies require that you stay with the company for a certain period of time, or else you'll have to pay them back. If you can find a tuition reimbursement program that works for you, however, and you can balance school and work, you'll be making money while your employer picks up the educational tab.;
, Most institutions allow eligible employees to pursue an education at no charge, meaning that you'll be working and making money as well as getting schooling for free. If you can get hired at a school, you can probably go there for free, whether you're an administrative assistant or a cook.


Eligibility varies, of course, and some schools are more generous than others. You'll have to do your homework, but there are many opportunities to be had with this route, like taking classes for free at Harvard University while working 20 hours a week as a janitor., Various branches of the military in several countries have programs which will pay for your school, and then some. Most of them have a service requirement that you must fulfill during and/or after school. To learn more about the programs in your country, visit the recruiting office for each branch of the military and ask lots of questions. Here are a few programs you might be interested in:



Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC). In the US, you can join ROTC and get up to a full four-year scholarship plus an annual stipend. It's also a good idea to check out service academies. American cadets who get accepted into service academies earn a monthly salary and a commission when they graduate.
 While these positions are usually only available to students who've already completed a Bachelor's degree and are applying to graduate school, most Graduate programs hire qualified candidates to teach introductory courses in their degree field, or to assist in the classrooms of full professors. These positions come with a stipend and a remission of all tuition costs, meaning that you'll be making a profit while attending school.

