 Hardcore punk is rooted in a reactionary response to the commodification of punk rock, and the wholesale rejection of consumer-culture and capitalism in music. While the umbrella of hardcore has grown large enough to include bands with ideologies to the far left and far right in the political spectrum, as well as Christian, Rastafarian, and Muslim hardcore bands, each of these bands still position themselves in reaction to some mainstream establishment culture they oppose, making it an integral part of the subculture.


What's hardcore for you in your community may not be hardcore for someone else. What it means to be hardcore in San Francisco may be very different than what it means to be hardcore in Des Moines, Dusseldorf, or Dakar. Embrace issues of social justice that are important to you and get informed about them to take part in active engagement.Hardcore punks generally avoid making an antagonistic presence in the community. Anarcho-punks and nihilistic hardcore punks in the vein of GG Allin, Richard Hell, Brainbombs and other bands in the powerviolence subgenre center themselves around an anti-everything stance that's in some ways linked to the hardcore tradition, but also distinct from it. Hardcore isn't defined by what it's against, although it is against some things.
 An early Minor Threat song called "Straight Edge," which promoted an anti-drug message, gave rise to a popular anti-substance position in the hardcore community known as "straight edge." Straight edgers actively, and sometimes aggressively, abstain from alcohol, drugs, tobacco, and sometimes meat and casual sex, and are notable for often confronting other hardcore fans who engage in these substances and behaviors. It's a very common subculture in the hardcore subgenre.


Practitioners of the straight-edge lifestyle will often wear an "X" on the back of their hands, or as a patch on a jacket to display their allegiance to the lifestyle.
While you don't have to be straight-edge to be a hardcore punk, straight-edgers are most commonly associated with the hardcore community, so it's a good idea to familiarize yourself with the philosophy, at least, regardless of whether or not you embrace it. It's usually bad form to offer a beer to someone with an X on the back of their hand.
 More than any other genre of music, hardcore punk is a local movement. The touchstone hardcore bands in Boston and Rhode Island were completely different than the classic hardcore bands in Southern California and the Bay Area. A titan of the genre on the East Coast might be practically unknown on the West Coast, because the goal of the music was never world-domination, national-touring, or record sales. It was putting on a killer show for a room full of fanatics.Find an all-ages venue in your town that puts on hardcore shows and start attending. Make contacts in that world and find out about local bands and other more underground venues where the great shows happen.
If your town doesn't have an all ages venue, start putting on shows in basements, warehouses, or other locations. Call bands in neighboring cities and ask them to come play. In Florida, one of the most punk venues for a long time was run out of a padlocked storage container.
You don't need to move to the Brooklyns of the world to find a thriving artistic scene to engage in. Resist the pull of "Portland." Make it happen in your own neighborhood. Love where you are.
 Hardcore punk bands got signed by record labels because they started their own record labels, and booked shows by calling up venues themselves and making them happen. Tours were run out of broke-down vans and played on short-circuiting equipment. Bands didn't make anything but gas money. Don't complain about the lack of resources at your disposal–work with what you have.


If there's a show on, volunteer to put up flyers, or make some flyers yourself. Help out at the venue, cleaning up afterward, if necessary. If the band cancels, call up your friends to fill in if necessary. Book bands yourself.
Apply this philosophy to all corners of your life, learning to become as self-sufficient as possible. Depending on where you live and what you're interested in, urban farming, wild fermentation, or cobblering could be considered "hardcore."

, Slam-dancing and violent-looking chaos in the crowd is often a big part of live hardcore shows, and it can be a fun way to experience live music and relieve tension. It can also be a way to break your nose. Learn to toe the line between throwing down in the pit and staying safe, and you'll be able to slip right into your local hardcore scene.


Survey the scene. How are people dancing? Does it look unapproachable or scary? If so, avoid the front of the stage. Slam dancing happens when the crowd's energy becomes so intense people just start moving, and slam into each other as a result of it. It's a way of building camaraderie and enjoying yourself, not of starting fights. Scope it out and see if it looks fun. If so, join in.
Don't go after other people, just get into the spirit of the pit. A common misconception about slam-dancing or "moshing" is that you run to the front of the stage and start pushing other people. If you do this, you're going to get punched in the nose.
Remove any loose piercing or sharp items of clothing that could hurt someone before slamming. The safety pins holding the band patches on your leather jacket make you look rad, but they can also jam into someone's arm while you're raging, or into your own.

