 Few would be surprised to hear that among the myriad benefits healthy eating provides, stress relief is one of them. Don’t let junk food and sugary sweets bog you down and increase your anxiety hormones. Instead, incorporate healthy grains, fruits, and vegetables into your daily diet, and your body will compensate by creating more stress-fighting hormones., The infamous ‘runners high’ isn’t a phenomenon isolated solely to runners; exerting yourself physically releases endorphins that make you happy. That means that if you’re stressed, you can cheer yourself up and throw your anxiety out the window just by making your heart work a bit harder. Head for a bike ride or swim, pick up some weights, or play your favorite sport to gain both physical and mental health., When people get stressed and overwhelmed with a million and one things to do, often one of the first things to be sacrificed is sleep. However, this is one of the biggest health mistakes you can make. Getting adequate sleep allows your body to recharge and refresh, leaving you with a clean slate in the morning.If you don’t get enough sleep, your body can’t get rid of the excess hormones and toxins that have built up and cause stress, making your stress a never-ending cycle. Try to get 7-9 hours of sleep on a nightly basis.
 If you are in a healthy relationship, try going to your partner for a bit of physical touch. Studies have shown that regular cuddling, kissing, and sex all release oxytocin - a hormone that produces happiness and reduces stress.That’s right - some of your favorite activities actually improve your mental well-being. Do these on a regular basis to keep your hormone levels up in general, making it less likely that you’ll get stressed out in the first place.
 A top reason many people participate in religious practices -- to find relief of stress and anxiety. If you are already a part of a religious group, try turning towards it more during your times of stress for its peaceful benefits. It is likely you will find relief with the support of your faith community, while growing stronger spiritually simultaneously. If you suffer from chronic stress, consider joining a religious group, and see what inner guidance and comfort it has to offer.
 It’s easy to get stressed when the people you surround yourself with are unhealthy and co-dependent. Rather than maintaining negative relationships with people that annoy you or cause anxiety, begin to nurture relationships that support you and make you feel better. You’ll feel better in the long run, even if it’s difficult in the short run, to seek and keep happier, healthier friendships in your life.

