 It can be frustrating trying to meet the right guy. It might make you anxious, or even sad. That's normal, but those types of thoughts won't help you to find a boyfriend. Shift your mindset so that you focus on thinking positive thoughts.Release negativity. If you find yourself thinking, "You'll never meet someone", let that thought go. Replace it with a thought like, "I'm proud of myself for putting in effort."
Try a gratitude journal. Spend 5-10 minutes a day writing down things you are thankful for. This will help you reflect on the positive aspects of your life.
You could write things such as, "I'm grateful that my best friend and I both got cast in the school play" or "I'm glad my parents trust and respect me.";
, Try to spend some time each day reflecting on what you most like about yourself. You can choose any attributes you like! You can give yourself compliments out loud, or you can try writing them down.For example, you might look at yourself in the mirror and say to yourself, "You have a great smile!"
You might leave yourself a note on your laptop that says, "You are an excellent writer!"
Try hanging a note in your locker that says something like, "You're an awesome singer!"

, Conquering your goals is a great way to build your confidence. First, set specific goals. Remember to include both long term and short term goals. Then, make a plan to achieve each one.A short term goal could be, "Avoid going out to eat for 1 week." You can accomplish this goal by meal planning and packing lunches to take to work.
A long term goal might be, "Get promoted in 1 year." Write down specific ways to accomplish this, such as taking on more responsibility at work.
You could try, "Make the honor roll this semester" or "Join a new after school club".
Checking each goal off of your list will be a serious confidence boost!

, In today's society, it is easy to feel like you might be overweight. It can be hard to feel good about yourself when constantly faced with photos of super thin celebrities. Try to remember, these images are often airbrushed. And the ones that aren't are often not realistic for most people.Remember that everyone's body is different. People are different heights, builds, and everyone has a different metabolism.
Think about what you like about your body. For instance, "I'm glad my legs are strong enough to let me go on these long hikes that I love."
Tune out negativity. Don't listen to negative comments or any type of body shaming.
Find a female role model who looks real and healthy. This could be anyone from your mom to Amy Schumer.
 Sometimes you can boost your confidence by focusing on feeling great about the way you look. Spend some time each day carefully grooming and putting yourself together. You'll find it to be an instant mood booster!Wear clothes that make you feel confident. Do you feel you look best in jewel tones? Find a great ruby red sweater to wear to work.
Try a new hairstyle. Have you always wanted to try shorter hair? Go for it! Experimenting with new looks can be a lot of fun and help you feel great.
Polish your smile. A great smile is everyone's best accessory. Try using some whitening strips to brighten yours.
Don't worry about being trendy. Maybe the latest trend at school is high waisted jeans. Those just don't look good on everyone, and that's ok. Dress for your body type.
Ask a friend for advice. You can say, "Do you think this tight sweater is the best look for me?" Be open to feedback.
 You might dread going to the gym if you don't feel confident about your body. But exercise can actually elevate your mood. Working up a sweat is a great way to feel good about yourself and increase your energy.Meet with a trainer. Many gyms offer a complimentary introductory session with a pro. Get tips on the workouts that are right for you.
Try a group class. Grab a friend and hit a spinning or barre class.
Head outside. Exercising outdoors can help you get more fresh air and sunshine, which can also boost your mood.
Join a team. Tryout for soccer or field hockey.

