 Many scammers now operate through the internet, specifically through social media and email. Be wary of any messages you receive from people claiming to be businesses, particularly your bank or a government agency. These entities will never ask for sensitive personal information, like your Social Security Number or driver's license number, or money through email, but scammers will impersonate them and ask for it.Other types of scams include "free" trials where you must input your credit card information (though there are many reputable companies that do this as well), depositing a check to get money wired to you, and paying upfront for some service or reward, among many others.
If something you have received online seems suspect, type in the sender's name or information into a search engine with "fraud," "scam," or "complaint" to see if others have reported a scam matching the description.;
, Getting something for nothing is a hallmark of many of these scams. Virtually no one offers something for nothing, so if that is at the heart of a suspicious pitch, further investigation is necessary.


If it sounds too good to be true, it almost certainly is. If someone claims they have an inheritance from a long lost relative, a high-paying-do-nothing job, or unclaimed lottery winnings from a ticket you don’t remember buying, be very leery.
There is almost never a reason to send money via wire transfer anymore. It is permanent and nonrefundable, which is why scammers like people to send them money this way. If a stranger asks you to send money via wire transfer, find an alternative method of money transfer.
 Lottery and inheritance scams work in similar ways. The recipient receives an official-looking check or notice that they have won a lottery or are slated to receive an inheritance.The recipient is then asked to pay a fee outright to cash the check, or “deposit” an amount of money (smaller than the supposed prize) in order to claim their prize. Of course, the deposit is never returned, the prize or inheritance is never given, and the victim is responsible for any bank fees., With the advent of the internet, relationship scams are becoming far more common, and they can affect anyone who dabbles in online dating. Relationship scams typically go like this:


The victim meets a new love interest online, and the courtship is fast and intense.
After the relationship becomes official, the new love interest is visited by a tragedy, such as a medical emergency or a robbery. Alternatively, they need money in order to visit the victim.The money is sent, whether it be by wire transfer, traveler’s checks, or money order.The love interest is never heard from again.
Another type of relationship scam involves receiving a call from a scammer who claims to have abducted your child. The scammer will demand a ransom payment immediately and say that the parent must not try calling the police because the kidnappers will know and harm the child.When faced with this situation, immediately call your child's school or wherever they are supposed to be to make sure they are safe.
 Work-from-home scams are some of the simplest scams around. Often the victim is lead into the scam via a roadside sign, a comment in an internet forum, or a pop-up ad. Common “employment” fields are medical transcription and billing or envelope stuffing.Like a person would with ordinary employment, the victim gives their “employer” a host of personal information, such as Social Security numbers, driver’s license numbers, addresses and dates of birth.
The victim loses money in two ways — first by being robbed of their labor and then by being robbed of their identity.
 High-profit-no-risk scams are the most common way that people get roped into pyramid schemes, where the reward is contingent upon roping other people into the scam.However, they are often straightforward theft-by-deception schemes.


The scammer solicits a loan for some investment scheme involving gemstones, oil and gas, or precious metals; however, the money loaned is never invested.
The scammer may very well ask for some type of service from the victim, such as check cashing, in exchange for promises of riches.The “investment opportunity” is often billed as a “limited time offer,” or a “once in a lifetime deal.” If any seller or solicitor uses this terminology, be very wary. It is often just a tactic to pressure the victim into acting hastily., An overpayment scam starts when someone purchases a product from a seller and overpays. These days, it almost invariably occurs online, although there are exceptions.


The scammer sends the victim a check in excess of the purchase price. For some extremely complicated reason, the “buyer” can’t simply issue a new check.The scammer has the victim cash the check and send them the remainder (along with the goods, of course).The check or money order that the victim has cashed is in fact not a real check, and in reality, a very convincing counterfeit. The victim’s bank won’t detect it right away, and therefore cashes the check; however, when they do discover the forgery, the victim is held liable for the loss. So the scammer gets the victim’s goods and money., Most people who fall victim to these con jobs don’t report them out of embarrassment or despair of any chance at recovery. If you fall victim to a scam, don’t be this person. Alert the proper authorities. Doing so can save the next person from the scammer.


While you should notify your bank and the major credit reporting agencies ( https://www.equifax.com, https://www.transunion.com, and https://www.experian.com ), you should also notify governmental authorities. You can find a list of which agencies handle which types of fraud at https://www.usa.gov/stop-scams-frauds.
 The first person you need to protect your financial assets from is yourself. Without a budget, it is easy for your spending to overtake your earnings, leaving you in debt and exposed to greater financial risk. Create a budget by tracking your expenses and earnings over a month. Then, adjust your budget to lower spending to match your earning, preferably while leaving some room for savings as well. Stick to your budget and seek ways to reduce spending each month as expenses arise., Health insurance can also be a great way to protect your money from risk. A robust plan can protect you from potentially sky-high healthcare costs that can arise unexpectedly. Even if you lose the rest of your assets, your health insurance plan will still allow you to pay for healthcare if you need it., Many Americans live with small or nonexistent financial safety nets, one or two paychecks away from disaster. One of the most common reasons for financial hardship is medical disability. Although disability is always unfortunate, there are ways to financially protect yourself from it.


Social Security disability insurance is a program paid for by individual taxpayers and the US government. If the beneficiary will be medically unable to work for at least a year, or has a condition which is expected to result in death, they are eligible; however, the amount of money per month that the beneficiary receives is based on their work and salary history.Workman’s compensation programs are state-funded programs that compensate you if the injury which caused your disability happened on the job or is due to the job. It usually pays a portion of the employee’s wages for as long as they are unable to work.Employer-sponsored long-term disability insurance is offered by about half of the larger private sector employers (that is, companies and businesses that are not owned or run by the government).In the event an employee is disabled for more than three months, the employee receives 60% of their salary for as long as the disability persists. Short-term disability insurance works the same way, just for shorter amounts of time, making it less expensive.Long-term disability insurance is also offered to individuals by private insurers, and is a great way to safeguard against financial hardship. But compared to the group plans bought by employers, it is very expensive, typically costings five to 10 times more than premiums under a group plan.Coverage options are complicated, so you probably won’t find a quote online, and some insurers don’t offer it. Inquire at larger, more stable insurers that have been in existence for many years.
 Although the insured won’t be around to spend it, the decedent’s assets will quickly be depleted without the proper level of insurance coverage. Educate yourself on the various ways to safeguard your loved one’s standard of living after your passing.


Social Security survivor’s benefits can be collected by your dependents. As with Social Security disability insurance, the amount varies based on the length of time the decedent has worked and the amount of Social Security taxes they have paid into the system.
Employer-sponsored life insurance is open to most employees of mid-sized and large companies.The amount will vary from person to person and company to company, but by talking with your human resources or benefits manager, you can find out exactly what kind of coverage you have.
It is also a good idea for an individual to purchase additional life insurance policies above and beyond what is offered by Social Security and their employers. The prices and terms of each policy can and do vary, but you can calculate what your family will need at www.lifehappens.org.In addition, make sure that your life insurer is rated highly by a rating company like Moody’s, Fitch, or Standard & Poor’s — you don’t want your insurer to go bust. You can find out more information about insurance companies in your state (via links to your state insurance commissioner’s website) at the National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ website, www.naic.org., For most families, their home is their largest single asset. When the value of their home declines, their net worth declines. It is paramount that every homeowner take steps to ensure that their largest asset is safe and secure. The same holds true for other valuable assets, like vehicles or boats, particularly if they are necessary for earning income.


Homeowner’s insurance is the most common way to protect the home investment. In most jurisdictions, a buyer has to purchase homeowner’s insurance when they sign the contract to buy the home; however, that doesn’t mean that all insurance is created equal. Do your research to find a stable insurer that will give you the biggest payout for the smallest premium, and make sure to read and analyze the contract carefully to see what it does NOT cover.Insurance is only as good as what it covers.
If you must borrow against your home equity, borrow conservatively. Home equity loans cancel out what you have already paid on the home. Aggressive liquidation of home equity has ended in disaster for many homeowners.
Flood insurance is a must for most areas. Human beings congregate around bodies of water, which means that most places where people live are prone to some type of flooding at some point. Moreover, flood damage is usually not covered in a homeowner’s policy, putting them at risk for severe financial harm in the event of major flood damage. Go to www.floodsmart.gov to find out more., Some investments go sour and some pay off. It’s the nature of investing. But a diversified investment portfolio, with a mixture of safe, moderate, and risky investments, is a must for any wise investor.The Securities Investor Protection Corporation is a federal agency that will work to protect you in the event of fraud, bankruptcy, or other financial problems with your brokerage firm. They do not protect from bad investments, and they often do not make the investor whole, only mitigating their losses. Make sure your firm is registered with the SIPC at www.sipc.org.Background checks of your investment managers and partners are always a good idea. They can cost as little as $20, and may save you from far greater losses. Background check services are widely available online and through local private investigators.
Conservative investments, like Treasury Bills and municipal bonds are a necessary component of any portfolio. Backed by the US Government and municipalities, they are among the very safest investments available.Another way to safely invest is in retirement accounts, such as Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) and 401(k)s, which are offered by employers. These accounts allow you to invest your earnings without paying taxes on them (taxes are paid when you withdraw the funds in retirement). In this way, the portion of your earnings you set aside is protected.
 Umbrella policies are supplemental insurance policies that protect you from liability over and beyond what your homeowner’s and automobile policies will pay.


Some umbrella policies offer protection both in excess of the amounts in your homeowner's and auto policies (excess coverage), but also offer coverage for items that are not covered in those policies (drop down coverage). Most insurers offer them, so check with yours about rates and pricing., Although it's not very romantic to think about, divorce is an extremely common source of financial loss. Completing a prenuptial agreement with your partner, which agrees on the division of assets beforehand, can help avoid it.Due diligence with lawyers is a must. A prenuptial agreement is only as good as the lawyer who wrote it. Make sure that you employ sharp and honest counsel.
 Retirement accounts, such as 401(k)s, are often protected from litigation (legal action, such as being sued) by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Furthermore, money in 401(k) accounts is also protected from creditors during bankruptcy proceedings. It is therefore a good idea to put as much into these designated retirement accounts as you can., A legal proxy is a person or entity that is authorized to act on your behalf.Forming a legal proxy, like an LLC or a corporation, can also be a good way to protect your assets. These legal entities protect the individual from personal liability if their company is found liable for some type of wrong, but this protection also goes the other way. These corporate forms can be especially useful if the corporation owns your real estate holdings, instead of you as an individual.A corporation is a common legal structure that can protect its owners' assets from litigation. Others include certain types of partnerships and limited liability companies (LLCs).
One example of proxy would be if you owned an apartment building. Instead of having the building in your name, you would create a company that owns and manages the property. This would keep your financial assets separate from the company's financial assets. Then, if one of your tenants has an issue and wants to sue, they would sue your company and not you directly.You can also create a trust or foundation to protect your assets from taxation and litigation, provided certain requirements are met. It is advisable that you work with an attorney and/or a financial planner to set up these structures.
 Life insurance can also be a great way to protect your money from litigation, as most life insurance policies are exempt from an individual’s legal liability in many states. Also, buying any kind of insurance obligates an insurer to defend you in court if a litigant tries to go after assets contained in the policy. Since many umbrella policies cover items in excess of amounts in auto and homeowner's policies and losses not covered by either type, buying an umbrella policy can be a great way to shield money from litigants.