 Almonds are one of the best nuts and rich sources of vitamins A, B and E. Consuming up to five almonds a day, every day – whether eaten directly or crushed or grated or even mixed with food – have been found to be beneficial for vertigo.The exact mechanism isn’t known, but it is suggested that the vitamin B and E content in almonds helps combat free radicals that cause vertigo.
Almonds may also be soaked in water an hour before being consumed.
 Adding a lemon peel or a drop or two of lemon peel extract to your food every day not only enhances the taste of the food but also provides a good source of antioxidants and trace minerals that help with vertigo.


Lemons are rich in vitamin C which works by combating free radicals that cause vertigo. You can also mix it with apple juice and ginger if you'd like., Honey has been known for its curative properties for centuries. Add two parts honey to one part apple cider. Consume one tablespoon of this mixture two to three times a day.This may prevent vertigo from developing or treat it if you are suffering from it, since honey and apply cider facilitate blood flow to the brain.
 For vertigo that is associated with nausea and vomiting, mix together one glass of warm water with four crushed black peppers, seven to eight drops of lemon juice and a pinch of salt. Stir well before consuming. This is to be used only to relieve the acute episode of vertigo you're experiencing and not for regular consumption every day. It may calm the wave of nausea occurring with your vertigo. The acidity of lemon and salt will calm down your agitated stomach.
 This plant is rich in vitamin C, vitamin A and antioxidants, flavonoids and pectin. All of these keep your body nourished and revitalized. The vitamin C present in amla neutralizes the free radicals that are released in the body and helps your body combat vertigo.This is an Ayurvedic treatment, which is a form of holistic medicine from India.


Amla can be had raw, one to two a day. It can also be consumed as a juice, tea, blended or pureed into a paste or a juice – one glass (about 200 ml) once a day, preferably in the mornings.You can also marinate amla to make a pickle-like consistency which can be consumed as an accompaniment to food. About two tablespoons of this would suffice for the day’s requirements.
 A mixture of yogurt/curds with freshly cut strawberries also may help treat an episode of vertigo almost instantaneously. This can be consumed on a daily basis as well.Make yourself a small bowl of yogurt (about 120 gms) with about five or six freshly cut strawberries at the very first sign of any dizziness. However, if you suffer from migraines, you may want to avoid yogurt as it contains tyramine, a migraine exacerbator.Flavonoids are found in all different kinds of berries like strawberries, raspberries, gooseberries, and cranberries. They are rich sources of antioxidants which makes them very effective in helping with vertigo. In addition, the vitamin C in berries is also beneficial in treating vertigo.
You could also add some chopped almonds to the yogurt and berries for an added boost.

