 This may depend on your hair's thickness, chemical processes you've used, and/or your scalp condition.


Fine hair is characterized by a small diameter of the individual hairs. This hair tends to fall flat and may be more difficult to style. It also may be more susceptible to damage from styling and chemical processes.
Thin hair is hair that has a lower density per square inch. While these hairs may or may not be fine, thin hair has many of the styling issues that fine hair has.Thick hair, by contrast, has a higher density per square inch. No matter whether it's straight, wavy, or curly, thick hair tends to be drier than fine hair and requires daily moisturization.There is a wide range of types of curly hair, from tight kinks to loose waves. The important thing to know about curly hair when choosing products is that it tends to be drier than straight hair.
Color-treated hair has been dyed using chemical processes. Dyes strip the protective outer layer of lipids from hair, leaving it vulnerable to damage. Products designed for this kind of hair are meant to protect it and keep heat and water from leaching your color.Dry hair is usually the result of over-processing, be it coloring, heat-styling, or overuse of products containing alcohol. It is fragile, so tends to break easily.
Oily hair usually refers to oily scalp. Hair may be difficult to clean, feel greasy, or have an unpleasant smell. Dandruff also results from an oily scalp. This can be due to a number of factors, including hormones, vitamin deficiencies, and heredity. Ironically, it could also be that your scalp was dry–and the body, in compensation, is now overproducing oil.;
, Hair types include normal, fine, dry, oily, color-treated, and dandruff.


Fine and thin hair may benefit from products labeled "volumizing," which boosts body.For thick and/or curly hair, avoid products with sulfates in them (ammonium laureth sulfate, ammonium lauryl sulfate, sodium laureth sulfate, sodium lauryl sulfate). These are detergents that can strip curly hair of its moisture and leave it frizzy.For dry hair, look for moisturizing ingredients, especially natural oils like coconut, argan, avocado, jojoba, and grapeseed. Stay away from products containing alcohol.Color-treated hair should be washed with products specifically formulated not to strip the color. Steer clear of "clarifying" shampoos, as they are meant to remove product buildup and may be too harsh for your hair.For oily hair, choose a mild, oil-free shampoo, such as baby shampoo, and a conditioner formulated for oily hair.You can also use a clarifying shampoo, but do not use it every day.
Contrary to popular belief, dandruff is caused by an oily scalp. Yeast lives in the oils and creates irritating by-products that cause flaking in the scalp. Consider a shampoo and conditioner with tea tree oil, which acts as a natural anti-fungal., You want to target where the oils are produced, which is at the hair follicles, located under the scalp. Massage a small amount of shampoo into your scalp, and when you rinse, let it flow through the length of your hair., Giving yourself a little scalp massage helps increase circulation; more blood to your hair follicles means that nutrients can reach them more quickly.While you can do this any time, washing your hair is a good opportunity, since you have to massage the shampoo in anyway. After you apply the shampoo, work your fingertips gently into your scalp, starting from the back of the neck and ending at the hairline., Very oily hair may need daily washing, but dry and even normal hair can often do with a shampoo once every couple of days.Shampoos contain harsh detergents that strip the hair of its oils, so using them less frequently can help your hair look and feel better., Conditioner can increase shine, improve elasticity, reduce tangles, and even provide some UV protection. Conditioner only needs to be applied to the ends of the hair, however, so skip the scalp. It is also really good to rinse the conditioner out of your hair with cold water before getting out from shower.This will help to close hair cuticles and seal in the moisture.

