 Whether you've told your friends about your move a month before, or even a week before, the actual event, say your "goodbye's" properly. It doesn't matter if they were your friends, or just some people you see in the hallways, get their phone numbers, emails even, or Instagram.


Saying goodbye is hard, but don't worry, you'll be able to visit them during their football games (yes that's actually normal) or any other time. If you don't want to throw a goodbye party, then have a night of hanging out with your best friends. Remember to keep in touch with them, because it'll be worth it during your high school move.;
, It's the day of the move! Don't be afraid to cry, or sulk, or give your parents the silent treatment (it's all normal). Take one last look at your neighborhood, no matter how hard it is, because you're going to regret not being able to remember it if you don't.
 So your first day of High School -again- is coming up. What, you ask, should you bring to school?


Pen or pencil
Notebook (one or two)
One or two binders
Binder paper
Folder, you'll be getting a lot of syllabuses
Lunch money, or pack your own lunch
PE clothes money (around $30)

,


Don't wear your most fanciest, coolest, or prettiest outfit. Then people are going to expect a lot more from what you own in your closet.
Wear something casual and cute. Wear something that's you, but toned down. You wouldn't want to wear a gamer's shirt, and meet a bunch of theater people. Or wear a preppy outfit and hangout with a bunch of laid back people.
Know the weather of your new neighborhood, and dress accordingly. It might have been 50 degrees where you used to live, but 90 degrees here.
 Crazy right? But it's true, if you want to change anything about yourself, now's your chance.


Get a haircut, or don't get one.
Wear makeup, or stop wearing makeup.
 Obviously your new high school's not going to be the same as your old one. All high schools are different, but here's a gist of what to expect.


You'll either have to wait an hour or two to get your schedule done, or you'll get it right away. If they are making your schedule with you, remember, it's a new school so you can change your electives or sign up for a 0 period class.
They'll either chuck your schedule and a map at you or send someone to give you a tour.
Unless it's a small high school, no one is really going to notice you being the new kid in the hallways.
 Remember, stay cool not nervous. Some teachers will make you introduce yourself, and others will barely acknowledge you.


Whatever you do, do not lie about yourself. It's a bad idea, because there's always going to be that one obnoxious know-it-all who can see through it, and it's going to unravel later to bite you back ~because you know, it's high school.
Know that depending on how late you come in the year, you'll probably be getting most of the bad teachers. JUST because those are the classes with the most spaces available for incoming students (after everyone has tried to transfer out).



Try making a friend before your lunch period. Preferable in the class right before lunch, because then you can just walk with him/her after the class ends to Lunch.
Be friendly. It doesn't matter if you're antisocial. Say hi, smile, and pretend you're okay (even if you're not).
 You'd think things couldn't get worse. The new friends you've made, are nothing like your old friends. You hate your teachers, some classes just are terrible. And to top it off, you're still the new girl/guy even after a full month. But here's a list of things of things to expect once you've (not really) settled in and how to deal with them.


The friends you first make, will most likely not be the friends you'll have later on. But it's not like you can keep searching for new friends, or else you'd be that annoying person people try avoiding. Go with the flow. You're bound to meet some cool people throughout your year.
The popular people might either obsess over you, or ignore you. Here's a tip if they do obsess over you: Stay you. If they like the person you're not, then you'll just be bitter. And if they don't like who you are, then it's their lost.
At one point, you'll realize how bitter you are. Confusing right? But you'll get what that means sooner or later. The trick is, let go. If you keep holding on to it, it's just going to drag you down.
Keeping in touch with your old friends (especially your best friends) will come in handy during the first few months/year. You won't have any best friends right away at your new school, so it's always good to keep in touch with your old friends in order to avoid depression or insanity.



Join clubs, sports, or any other extracurricular activities to meet cool people, and to feel like you belong. Not exactly the ideal idea, but it only gets easier after you're rock bottom.
Find some cool people to hang out with. They might now be your best friends, but at least they'll help you get through the year.

