 Mentally beating yourself up for your perceived shortcomings doesn’t change anything and only makes you feel worse. Instead, identifying and focusing on your best features can help reduce stress.To help focus on your best features, practice self-affirmation -- the process of transforming your thoughts to de-emphasize the negative and instead focus on the positive. Remind yourself at least once a day that you love yourself no matter what, that you have made the conscious decision to accept your body, and that you have made an active decision to reach your goal of becoming comfortable naked.Acknowledge the vulnerability inherent in nudity. Exposing yourself -- literally and figuratively -- inherently makes you more vulnerable.But psychologists argue that you must be willing to be vulnerable in order to open yourself up to new opportunities and experiences. Recognizing that vulnerability requires great courage can help boost your overall self-esteem and make it easier for you to allow yourself to be vulnerable in the future., If you are uncomfortable or fearful of a situation such as being naked, you will tend to avoid it. This sets up a vicious cycle in which fear leads to avoidance which leads to more fear. Psychologists use exposure therapy -- gradual and systematic exposure to the situation or object you fear -- to treat people with phobias.Research shows that acceptance-based exposure therapy can even help treat body dysmorphic disorder, a serious mental illness that causes you to obsess about the flaws in your appearance.Exposure therapy can involve imagining the feared situation, being exposed to the situation through virtual reality, and eventually in real life.Exposure therapy is a psychological treatment that should be supervised by a trained therapist. However, you can apply the basic principle -- that the more often you do something you fear without negative consequences, the less fearful you will become -- on your own., You will find it easier to see the good points of someone else's body than it is to see your own good points. So will your friends. Instead of trying to identify your own best features, ask a friend what she thinks. Because this is such a sensitive topic, it may be best to wait for your friend to ask you to evaluate her before you reciprocate. Just because a friend is willing to help you feel more comfortable naked doesn’t mean that she is ready to do the same.
 Instead of focusing on your appearance, decide that you are going to strive for a higher level of health and fitness. This will make it easier to motivate yourself to exercise because you will be focusing on a positive goal (better health) rather than a negative goal (less weight).One way to shift your focus from appearance to health and fitness is to exercise with the goal of developing tangible physical skills. If you can do 10 inverted yoga push ups, you will feel pride in your body regardless of what it looks like.