 This is a huge, scary moment for your friend. Your friend is probably very worried about your reaction and the possibility of losing your friendship, or worse, being ridiculed or betrayed. No matter how you feel about your friend coming out, the first thing you should do is thank her for trusting you enough to confide in you.Your first reaction is important. This is a big moment for your friend. If you need a second to catch your breath, that's okay.
 Even if you are surprised or immediately repelled by your friends confession, your friend deserves your undivided attention. Don't give your gut reaction, but instead give your friend the time he needs to explain the situation and how he feels.


This means that you should avoid preaching to your gay or lesbian friend. Be a good friend and listen instead of telling your friend he is wrong.It's okay to ask respectful questions. You will probably have a lot of questions. You can ask things like "Who else have you told?" or "How long have you known?"But avoid questions that undermine what they've just told you, such as "Are you sure?", "Do you think this is just a phase?", or questions that are too intrusive, such as if they've had any sexual experiences with another person., Maybe being gay conflicts with your beliefs, or you're just so shocked and confused you really don't know how to react. Keeping in mind that this is far more difficult for your friend than it is for you, it's okay to tell your friend you need a few minutes or even a few days to process the information.But if you can, give him a smile or even a hug to reassure him.


Remember that your friend is likely terrified of your potential reaction and that he may have risked a lot by telling you. Keep any negative feelings like anger or disappointment to yourself., Once you make the decision to continue being friends, either treat your friend normally, or in a calm respectful manner.When you really think about it, not much has really changed in your relationship with your friend and your attitude should reflect that.


This doesn't mean that there won't be any changes in your relationship. If just means that your friend is still your friend.
 You need to remember that your friend will be more affected by her coming out than you will be. She may lose the support of her friends or even her family by coming out, and she'll need your support more than ever.Your job as a friend is to provide that support and a shoulder to lean on when your friend needs it.


In the long run, your friend's sexual orientation is about her and not you. Remember not to make the situation all about you.
 It's your friend's decision where and when and if he comes out to someone, not yours. If your friend confides in you, respect his confidentiality and don't tell anyone else unless he has given you the okay.Even if someone else asks, this is not your news to share. Don't make any assumptions about who knows about your friend's orientation, and definitely don't say anything on social media unless your friend says it's okay.