 If you encounter someone apparently asleep on the floor or in an uncomfortable position, or suspect a health-threatening injury, medical condition, or drug abuse, do not hesitate to disturb her slumber. Speak loudly and gently shake her by the shoulders. If she does not respond, call for medical assistance or spend no more than a minute trying one of the tests below first.


If the person reacts but is not behaving normally, ask her to wiggle her fingers and open her eyes. If she cannot do this, she needs medical attention.
 Gently lift one of the sleeper's hands and hold it a couple inches (a few centimeters) above his face, then let go. If awake, the person will usually flinch or move his elbow so the hand does not land on his face. A dedicated faker can remain still for this as well.


If this does not work but you're still suspicious, try again with the hand six inches (15 cm) above his face. This time, put your own hand a couple inches (a few centimeters) above the sleeper's face, so you can catch his hand if it falls straight down.
 When someone is already in an ambulance or a hospital bed, and their general status is already known, it is not always necessary to "call them out" on a fake. Have a professional check for signs of danger; if none are present, let the person continue to fake sleep until doctors require her to be awake.


In non-urgent hospital situations such as the arrival of a meal or the need for a non-urgent test, try using verbal cues such as "Bob, you've never stuck a tube down someone's throat before, right? Want to try it on this patient?"

, This technique can be painful or severely obnoxious, and even many EMT professionals prefer to try the methods above first to maintain good will with the patient. If nothing else works and you are concerned for the sleeper's health, place the knuckles of your hand in the center of the person's chest, along her sternum. Rub up and down until she reacts, or for 30 seconds.Try it on yourself first to discover how much pressure is needed; it doesn't take much to cause discomfort.
Because this can take 30 seconds, it is not advisable in a serious emergency situation.
 When an EMT (emergency medical technician) needs to know the status of a patient immediately, the EMT may use one of the following methods. These cause significant pain and discomfort, and should never be used unless there is immediate need for information, even if the patient is "clearly" faking.


Trapezius pinch: Grasp the muscle at the base of the neck with your thumb and forefinger. Twist as you watch and listen for a response.Supraorbital pressure: Locate the bony ridge above an eye, and press against the middle of it with your thumb tip while watching and listening. Always press upward toward the forehead, never down toward the eye.