 (You will be standing on your non-dominant leg.) Extend your leg as far out as you can.;
, Keep your upper body up at this point. Your leg should be straight, and your toes should be pointed. Keep your shoulders open, point straight up at the ceiling.
 Move your dominant leg up higher, keeping it straight. You can bend you lower leg slightly. Squeeze your inner thighs and push through your shoulders. Give a good, well-aimed kick backwards to give you enough momentum to carry both legs back over you. Your dominant leg will reach the beam first--push into the beam with it to keep your balance.
 Try to reach a 180 degree split, but if you can't, try to at least make an 120° split. Point your toes, and push through the beam with your shoulders.
 Keep both legs straight. Try to keep your whole body in a line. Keep your arms 'glued' to your ears.
 This stabilizes you, and helps you stay on the beam. Hold it until you are completely stable.
 Hold your arms back, and up.
 A back walkover on the beam is a tricky skill, so find a line on the floor at the gym to practice wobbling less. Practice staying/landing on the line.
 This is a beam that touches the floor, through the middle. This is a safe way to practice, but it's shaped like a beam from the sides, and it's really thin, so make sure your aware of this. Before using it, be sure that you have actually mastered the moves on the floor line consistently.
, Here are some ways depending on your level:


Level 5: Slightly off the beam/touching the beam
Level 6: 30 percent or near horizontal.
 Keep your eyes on the beam.
 Your legs should be in full splits.
 Kick over all the way.
 Land gracefully. Finish, smile!

, Doing a back walkover on the low beam can be a little scary and challenging at first, so get a coach to spot you. If someone else you know can do it perfectly, they can spot you too.
, Not higher than horizontal.
, Then just push off your non-dominant (weaker leg), and kick over as quickly as you can.
 Don't forget to finish, and smile, and also minimize wobbles.
, A back walkover on the high beam requires a lot of bravery, courage, flexibility, balance, and overall skill. So, don't be sad if you don't get it right for a while. This skill can also be your first backward skill from a standing position on the high beam, so just think of it as your second backward skill, and don't look back, until you can see the beam.
 This skill can be crazy! You could roll over and fall, slip, and get a wrist injury, so you really need a spot, for your first week or two practicing this skill!

, Keep your chin down, even if you are scared to go back.
 None above horizontal.
 Still tuck in your chin. Keep your legs split the whole time.
 Instead of looking at your legs, kick over with straight legs and pointed toes.
 Finish, smile and take care of wobbles.
 Don't give up, practice makes perfect!

