 No matter what your college major, you can pick up an internationally recognized ESL teaching certificate in as little as 5 weeks. Some programs combine study with teaching so that you can hit the ground running. Some certificates can be completed by distance learning. However, some top schools don't recognize online certificates.;
, Several such programs are available in TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) or Applied Linguistics. You will command higher pay and easier access to the best jobs with a Master's degree. However, an M.A. or M.Ed. is usually not necessary to teach at private language schools and some public schools as well, depending on country and need.
 Foreign ESL employers almost always require you to email a resume, copies of your degrees and other qualifications, the photo page from your passport, and sometimes your transcripts, a criminal records check and/or a health certificate. Often employment recommendations or contact information of references are also requested. Have everything scanned digitally so that you can respond to job notices quickly and effortlessly.
 Check eslcafe.com and tefl.com for certification programs and worldwide job postings. Korean and Chinese ESL positions are often posted on US job sites such as monster.com and careerbuilder.com.
 Before you accept a position, get the contract in writing, ask questions, and scan the ESL teacher forums for the experiences and opinions of other ESL teachers (e.g., the forum on eslcafe.com) and to check the reputation of the school.
 (Employment decisions from a distance are based on appearance more than is commonly acknowledged!) Some types of visas and especially work permits, are often handled by the school after arrival, but sometimes long-term visas cannot be obtained in-country and must be applied for prior to arrival.
 Consider renting a mailbox and mail-forwarding service such as available at The UPS Store. Set up online banking and automatic bill payments for bills that must be paid while you are away. Ensure that your ATM and credit cards are cleared to work abroad and accept foreign charges. Check the fees for foreign transactions, which sometimes incur a surcharge. Learn the procedures and fees for foreign currency wire transfers from abroad to your home account.

