 Dragon includes its own text editor, “DragonPad”, but will also work with other programs like Microsoft Word. Say “Start” or “Open” followed by the name of the program you want to use.

Dragon will work for other text-based applications as well, like email clients.
 There is a slight delay between your speech and the text displaying on the page but by design Dragon is designed to capture your normal speech and match a good typing speed.

State “Period” at the end of a sentence. Dragon will not enter punctuation automatically.
 Say “Spell” followed by the letters to spell a word. You can also re-spell a typed word by saying “Select <word>” followed by “Spell that”. A window will appear to dictate a new spelling for that word.

Say “cap <letter>” while spelling to capitalize a letter.
Say “Switch to spell mode” if you will be spelling out a lot of words”
You can also use the phonetic alphabet to spell (alpha, bravo, charlie, etc.).
 Say “Set font <number> points” or “Set font <name>” to change the font size or style.

Your word processor must support whatever font style or size you command Dragon to use.
 Commands like “Go to end of line”, “Page Up/Down”, or “Go to Top/Bottom” can be used to move the cursor large distances quickly. For finer adjustments, use “Insert before <x>” or “Move left/right <x> characters”., Say “New line”, “New paragraph”, or call out specific keystrokes, like “Press Enter” and “Press Tab”.

You can perform multiple keystrokes by saying “Press <key> <number> times”.
 Use words like “this” or “that”, combined with commands, to manipulate you last word or phrase. You can also use words like, “Previous line” or “next word” to make changes based on your cursor placement., Commands like, “Bold”, “Underline”, “Bullet”, “Strikethrough” will all perform their usual word processing functions.

Combine these commands with contextual commands to make formatting changes on the fly, like “Bold selection” or “Bullet that”.
 The “Correct” command will bring up a window of other word options when Dragon makes a mistake. Regular word processing commands can be used as Dragon edits as well.

Commands like “Undo,” “Cut/Paste” will work like normal. “Delete”, “Backspace”, or “Scratch that” can all be used to remove small or large amounts of text when paired with an amount.
 Use commands like “Save As” or “Send”. Remember, you can always use voice commands to browse the menus if your program of choice is having trouble with the functional commands like these.