 Menstruation is controlled by hormones, which are released from both the pituitary gland and the ovaries. This process prepares the uterus to accept a fertilized egg and grow the child for nine months. Some women can suffer from more symptoms of fatigue and discomfort during the time period immediately prior to and in the first days of menstruation., Some fatigue during your period is normal so it is important to plan your life around this very normal part of being a woman; however, while some fatigue is normal, extreme fatigue is not. That feeling that you have to take a nap can seem overwhelming. You may not have the energy to go out with friends and your fatigue may interfere with work or your social life.


These symptoms can be a part of both premenstrual syndrome (PMS) and premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD).Note, too, that these are both premenstrual, so they should generally be resolved when you actually begin menstruating. If your extreme fatigue continues during menstruation or starts when you begin menstruating, then it is likely caused by something else.
 If you have a difficult time dragging yourself to work in the week before and during your period, don’t go out with friends or find that you can do nothing more than sit on the couch for three days a month, it’s time to take other measures to address what is now extreme fatigue. Your first step is to determine if the fatigue you experience is related to your menstrual period. This will help you to plan a strategy which can help reduce symptoms and help recognize when it may be necessary to see a physician.


Other illnesses, such as severe depression, anxiety and seasonal affective disorder can also cause fatigue but are not also related to the timing of your menstrual period., Pay close attention to your symptoms throughout the month. Keep a calendar in which you chart how energetic you feel each day. Use a ranking system of one to 10 to help chart the days of the month you feel fatigued. Also chart your menstrual periods, both ovulation and menstruation.


This is to help determine if there is a correlation between when you begin to feel fatigued each month and when your menstrual period is starting.
 If you have abnormally heavy periods or feel that your blood loss has gradually increased over time, you may be suffering from fatigue related to iron deficiency; however, before running out to the pharmacy to get an over-the-counter iron supplement, it is important that you determine you are not losing blood from loss through your stool or any other source of bleeding in your body.You and your physician can discuss testing which may be necessary to evaluate your anemia.
 PMDD is a combination of symptoms related to the menstrual period and the hormones which control this event. The disorder is more severe that Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS) and will cause greater fatigue and other more severe physical and mental disturbances. You and your doctor will develop a plan to help relieve the symptoms of PMDD, including fatigue, which will include exercise, exercise, and possibly medications.Common symptoms include:


Lack of interest in daily activities
Sadness, hopelessness, sometimes thoughts of suicide
Anxiety and out of control feelings
Food cravings
Binge eating
Mood swings, crying attacks, and irritability
Bloating, headaches, breast tenderness, muscle pain, and joint pain
Problems sleeping and concentrating