 Emma Watson is always seen with medium-brown hair. Sometimes it’s very subtly highlighted with gold, but it’s never anything obvious.


Emma usually wears her hair parted in the middle, although you will occasionally see her with her hair parted to the right side. She is never seen with bangs but rather her hair is all one length.
Emma’s hair color does vary slightly from a darker brown to somewhat lighter brown, and from golden hues to somewhat redder ones. However, her color doesn’t change dramatically.;
, Typically Emma doesn’t wear her hair too long or too short. It usually falls just past shoulder length.


She either wears her hair straight or with a slight wave. To get the waves, you could use sea salt spray or texturing spray in your hair, use a large-barreled curling iron, or sleep in braids.
Emma once had her hair shorn into a severe, short pixie cut, but that didn’t really feel like a look that was innate to her, and soon her more common medium-length hair was back. That seems to really suit her.
 When she’s going out, Emma is a fan of pulling her hair back into an updo. She’s a fan of a slightly tousled look that doesn’t seem overdone.


Often you will see her with a messy style natural look, in which tendrils of long bangs fall out to frame her face. She’s also been seen wearing her hair in large messy side braids.
When she wears her hair in an updo, you will sometimes also see Emma wear her hair parted to the right side, with her bangs slicked down.
 When she’s dressing up, especially, Emma is a fan of bright red lipstick. She usually chooses hues that are closer to orange-red than magenta.


You will also see Emma wearing nude or neutral colors on her lips, especially when she’s dressed down. She is often a fan of the natural look. She has said she exfoliates her lips with a toothbrush.However, it's the bright red that she's becoming most known for, especially set against her creamy, unblemished skin.
 Emma is not a young woman who spray tans. She goes more for the milky skinned natural look. So if you want to look like her, don’t tan. Moisturize your skin before applying makeup. Emma’s makeup artist has said she uses jojoba oil..


Emma’s pale skin is set off by her dark hair. Wear foundation and primer that you apply to your face with a makeup brush. Her makeup artist uses Lancome La Base Pro. Cover with translucent powder to complete the unblemished look. Her makeup artist prefers Armani Luminous Silk foundation.
At the most, Emma will apply light pink or peach blush to her cheekbones. However, this look is never overly dramatic. She wears makeup – other than the red lips – that looks like she is barely wearing any at all.
 Emma plays up her eyes, but she does it subtly. She doesn’t wear false eyelashes, and she’s not known for bright or garish pastels or sparkly colors.


Her look is classic and understated. She’s most likely to apply a taupe or gray or brown eyeshadow to her upper lids, along with kohl or brown eye pencil. She is a fan of smoky eyes.
She wears black mascara on both her upper and lower lashes, but it’s never overly dramatic.
 Her eyebrows are nicely shaped but on the fuller side. However, she takes care of them.


Her makeup artist points out that brows frame and enhance the eyes, saying she uses Benefit’s tinted brow gel and Anastasia’s Brow Pen to further shape Emma’s brows.
Don’t overpluck or tweeze your eyebrows if you want to look like Emma Watson. Her thicker brows contribute to her young look.
 Although Emma is sometimes seen without earrings, she’s also been seen wearing multiple earrings for effect.


Her jewelry is classic and understated, as with her makeup. Go for small black circles in the ears. If going out, perhaps tear drop amber pendants are a good idea.
Pearls or small silver hoops are good earring choices if you want to look like Emma. Sometimes, she’s been seen wearing only one dramatic earring with the other ear free of jewelry. You won’t see her wearing necklaces much. She has also said she doesn't like wearing nail polish., Emma is often seen in black, especially when she’s dressing up. She is almost never seen in patterns or anything that’s too revealing or too clingy.


Think classic and elegant with monochrome colors. If you don’t choose black, go for gray, white or red, as those are also colors she favors. She is often seen on the red carpet in all white outfits.Frilly, lacy frocks or overly short won’t capture her look. Think simple. A long caramel skirt with silk black blouse. A white paints suit. A black blazer.
 Emma loves to wear tailored suits. You will see her in both black and white pantsuits.


She’s a fan of jackets and blazers, which she might pair with a buttoned-down shirt. It’s sort of a business look, but in an elegant, feminine way.
She doesn’t wear menswear in a way that it looks like menswear though. Think Katharine Hepburn if you want a sense of Emma’s style. One magazine described this look of Emma’s as being a wardrobe of “own-it-forever” pieces., That’s how one magazine described Emma’s look at times. It’s never too fuzzy, and it’s sometimes very relaxed.


For example, Emma has been seen wearing a headband across her forehead or flowers in her brown hair.Above all, have the courage to be yourself, and always show confidence about who you are. Emma has pointed out her imperfections (which seem small to everyone else) in interviews. She has said she’s not stick thin and doesn’t regard her teeth as perfect. However, she also has said she doesn’t want to look like everyone else and has criticized Hollywood plastic surgery trends.