 Whether you are spraying your pinecone or dipping it in paint, you'll want to cover your counter or table with newspaper. If you are using a spray sealer, it would be even better to step outside. Once you have your space set up, choose a sealing method from the list below., Choose a non-yellowing spray varnish. Lay the pinecones on their sides, then spray them using an even coat. Wait for the pinecones to dry, then rotate them and spray the other side. Let the sealer dry before applying another coat.


Spray sealers come in many different finishes: matte, satin, and glossy. Choose one that you like the best.
If you don't have any spray varnish, you can try using hairspray instead., Purchase a marine varnish from a hardware or home improvement store. Put on a pair of disposable gloves and hold the pinecone by the tip. Use a cheap, disposable brush with stiff bristles to apply the varnish to the pinecone, except for the bottom. Let the varnish dry, then hold it by its sides, and coat the bottom and tip. Let the pinecone dry on its side.


You can apply more than one coat of marine varnish, but you have to let the previous coat dry fully.
Alternatively, you can tie some thread to the top of the pinecone, then dip it into the varnish. Lift it out, and let any excess varnish drip off, then tie the string somewhere so that the pinecone can hang dry.
 Wrap some string or thin wire around the top of a pinecone. Dip the pinecone into a can of paint or varnish. Lift the pinecone out, and hold it about the can for about 1 minute to let the excess paint/varnish drip back. Use the string or wire to hang the pinecone some place so that it can dry.Keep a newspaper or tray under the pinecone to catch any drips of paint or varnish.
Keep in mind that this method may cause the pinecones to close up again.If the paint or varnish is too thick, thin it with water. Use 4 parts paint or varnish to 1 part water., Melt enough solid beeswax in a crockpot to fully submerge the pinecone. Tie string around the tip of the pinecone, then use it to dip the pinecone into the melted wax. Lift the pinecone out, then dip it into a bucket of cold water.You may have to repeat this step a few times to get an even coverage.The more you dip the pinecone into wax, the more visible the wax will become. Your pinecone may end up yellow or white.

