 If you're assaulted by a coworker at the store where you work and sustain injuries as a result, seek medical treatment as soon as possible. Before you get treatment, though, have someone photograph your injuries.Depending on the gravity of your injuries, you may need to seek medical attention immediately. However, for simple cuts and bruises, you may simply avail yourself of the store's first aid kit.
If you can afford to wait, it may be best to report the injury to your employer first, then get your injuries checked out.
You also should keep in mind that some injuries, such as bruises, don't seem that bad at first but will get worse over time.
Don't neglect treatment to finish your shift, or wait until your scheduled break. If your workers' compensation claim is accepted, you'll be compensated for any time you had to take off work.
 State workers' compensation laws have different deadlines by which you must report a workplace injury. If you miss this deadline, you won't be eligible for workers' compensation coverage.To be on the safe side, try to report the injury within 24 hours of the assault. Your employer typically will have a workplace injury form for you to complete.
Many retail stores require this form to be completed anytime you seek basic first aid treatment, even if you don't end up going to a medical professional.
Make sure you're reporting the injury to the right person. Typically you need to find a manager or supervisor – it's not enough simply to tell a coworker.
 After your employer has notified their workers' compensation insurance carrier of your injury, you typically will be provided with insurance claim forms you must complete and submit.Make sure you include all factual details on the claim form, including the date and time of the incident and the identity of the person who assaulted you.
You typically will be asked to provide a brief description of the assault and the injuries you sustained. Be honest with your answer, and include as many details as possible.
If any other employees witnessed the assault, include their names on your claim form.
 The insurance carrier will assign an adjustor to your claim. After reviewing your claim forms, the adjustor will make a preliminary decision. They may contact you for more information about your claim.The adjustor may ask questions that offend or insult you. Put that out of your mind and try to answer the questions as calmly and politely as possible.
If the adjustor asks something that doesn't seem to be related to your claim, ask them about it, but be polite. For example, you might say "I'm sorry, but I don't understand what that has to do with my assault."
After talking to you, the adjustor may offer you a settlement. You don't have to accept it right away, and you should get it in writing. Tell the adjustor "Thank you. I'd appreciate getting that offer in writing so I can think about it and get back to you. How much time do I have to give you a decision?"
If the adjustor tries to pressure you into taking the settlement, reiterate that you want it in writing and tell them you won't make a decision until you get a written settlement offer.
 There's nothing straightforward about the workers' compensation process, and you may feel as though your employer or the insurance company is giving you the runaround. An experienced workers' compensation attorney can be helpful.Since workers' compensation attorneys typically offer a free initial consultation, you won't lose anything by talking to someone.
Particularly if you have a settlement offer on the table, an experienced attorney can evaluate it for you and tell you if it's fair and reasonable given your injuries.
If your injuries are relatively minor, you probably don't need an attorney. Keep in mind that workers' compensation attorneys typically are paid a percentage of your ultimate recovery.
If your workers' compensation award is small, any additional amount the attorney might be able to get you would be eaten up by their fee.
However, if the assault left you with significant injuries that required surgery or caused you to miss a lot of work, an attorney may be able to get you a larger settlement offer.

