 You now have a good idea of what caused each feeling you have about the person. Now you can determine your choices. Write down every way you might respond in this situation. Even if the choice is not ideal, write it down anyway. This will give you a full picture of your choices. For example, your list for a co-worker or acquaintance may look like this now:


Feeling: Bewildered
Situation: I was praised by a friend for a project I completed, but this same person criticized me an hour later.
Possible choices: Approach the friend, keep it to myself, talk about it with my parents, start school gossip, tell the situation to my teacher, etc.
 Next to each choice, write down all the possible consequences or outcomes that you can think of. Your list may look like this:


Choice: Approach friend about the issue

Possible consequence: Friend becomes offended
Possible consequence: Friend receives the message well
Possible consequence: I feel vulnerable telling how the situation affected me


Choice: Keep it to myself

Possible consequence: The problem will continue
Possible consequence: The problem may go away on its own
Possible consequence: It will continue to bother me


Choice: Talk to my parents about it

Possible consequence: I will feel better about the situation
Possible consequence: Nothing at school changes



, Evaluate the possible outcomes. Think about your level of comfort with each outcome. Consider how you will feel when you make the choice. Consider how the other person will feel.
 Based on all the possible outcomes, choose one that you feel most comfortable with. This choice should be the one with the best outcome for yourself and the other person involved. Start with the choice that provides a needed outcome coupled with a consequence you are willing to experience.


In the friend situation, for example, starting school gossip would probably not be ideal. The consequences could be painful or could jeopardize your relationship with other friends. At this moment, maybe you would like to start by keeping it to yourself. Maybe your friend had a bad day and took it out on you. Perhaps you were feeling sensitive that day.
Be ready for the consequences you listed above.
 If you find that keeping it to yourself does not provide the outcome you expected or needed, go back to your list of choices and try a different approach. Be sure that what you choose is respectful to you and others you are dealing with.

