 The patent bar consists of 100 multiple-choice questions. To study for taking a multiple choice test, simulate the activity ahead of time by taking other multiple choice tests. The most important thing is to practice answering questions that you haven't asked yourself.

The information for the patent bar comes from the Manual of Patent Examining Procedure (MPEP). Once you've prepared to take the exam, have a study partner prepare questions for you based on this material.
Take other sorts of multiple choices test. Although the material may be different, you should try hard to do your best in order to simulate the tension of an actual exam.;
, Rather than cramming the information needed to pass a test, research suggests that you'll retain the information more accurately if you spend the same amount of time over several days.Begin studying early. If you have more time to space out your study sessions, you'll be more likely to retain what you learn.
If you have a very busy schedule, make sure that you set aside for studying several hours, multiple times per week.
 These aren't absolute, but general guidelines that are often true when taking multiple choice exams, like the patent bar. These guidelines are drawn from multiple choice exams in many disciplines.In a multiple choice exam like the patent bar, the answers are usually not found in absolutes. If you see words like "always" or "never", these answers are more likely to be false than answers including the words "sometimes" or "often".
"All of the above" as an option is often correct. "None of the above" is less likely to be true.
If you can't answer a question in less than 60 seconds, skip it and come back to it later. Sometimes you just need to move on.
If you have to guess at an answer, chose a middle response, i.e. the answer marked b or c. This is more likely to be correct.
 If possible, study for the patent bar with a friend. Having a study partner will help you stay focused on studying. If they're also studying for the patent bar, you can work together on learning the material and test each others knowledge.Studying with a partner allows you to benefit from the other person's strengths. A friend can help you understand things that you may not get on your own.
Many people are more motivated to study if it's a social activity. If you want to study, you'll be more likely to do it.

