 A checked bag will allow you to bring more with you, and you will have to carry less in your carry-on. Put as much as you can in the checked bag instead of your carry-on. The less you bring in your carry-on, the less likely you are to be pulled for a bag search.Clothing, toiletries, and souvenirs can all be packed in a checked-bag.
Pack books in a checked bag unless you are planning on reading them on the plane.
Electronics, like cameras and laptops, and valuable possessions, like jewelry, should always be packed in a carry-on.;
, You should only put necessities in your carry-on. If you have too much in the bag, the security agents may not be able to use the X-ray properly, and it can increase your chances of being stopped for a bag search.Things you need may include:


Phone
Laptop/Tablet
Camera
Chargers
Magazine or book for the plane
Medication
Food or milk for young children
Extra set of clothing in case your checked bag is lost

, Before you pack your carry-on, lay out everything that you are planning to bring. You can do this on a bed, desk, or table. This will allow you to see if you are bringing too much, and it will help you organize your belongings in the most efficient fashion. It can also help you notice if you forgot anything.


When laying things out, keep similar things together. For example, stack all of your clothes together while placing any chargers with their appropriate electronics.
Make sure that you have your ID, passport (if travelling internationally), and ticket ready to go.
 Some objects can only be checked on an airplane while others are prohibited entirely. Always double-check that you are not bringing these items onto the plane. If you are caught with one of them, you may be delayed.


Bleach, lighter fluid, gasoline, aerosol cans, or any other flammable or explosive material are all forbidden from planes.
Weapons (like guns, Tasers, and knives), sporting equipment (like baseball bats, golf clubs, or ski poles), and electronic cigarettes must all be placed in a checked bag., Big, oddly shaped items are not technically prohibited, but they can get your bag pulled from the x-ray for a manual search. If you must bring items like this, pack them in a checked bag, or remove them before going through security.Some things you may want to watch out for include:


Large electronics, like Xboxes, portable DVD players, or CPAP machines
Bulky books, manuals, or dictionaries
Large crystals like geodes
Dense metallic objects

