 It’s a good place to start, but after you’ve written your piece, you should come back and revise it.Example: Women have fought for their rights for hundreds of thousands of years.
Example: Painting is an expression of the human soul.
Example: World War One was a horrific period in human history.
 Here, repetition of the main point of the paper is used in (close to) every sentence. While repetition has a very powerful rhetorical role, it can be overdone, especially in the introduction. That being said, don’t be afraid to keep the central idea apparent in the introduction, but do come up with more ways to state your point.Example: Salt built the Roman Empire. While salt’s importance may seem trivial today, salt was one of the most important goods used by the Romans. Salt's importance came from its many uses, and it was also very prominent indicator of status, and was even used as a tool for rebellion. Salt was important because it linked the classes together.
 This is pretty self-explanatory: beginning your paper with “Webster’s Dictionary defines….” It’s a bit of a cliché, and looking up a dictionary definition is something anyone can do. A better idea is to define the central topic of your essay within the context of your class, or even from an original viewpoint, and then tie that into your thesis.Example: Webster’s Dictionary defines diversity as “the condition of having or being composed of differing elements : variety; especially : the inclusion of different types of people (as people of different races or cultures) in a group or organization.” Therefore, it is easy to see why diversity is so important to society.
 Starting a paper with “Since the dawn of humanity…,” or something similar, is a bit generic and often overdone. It also is very difficult to forge a meaningful link to your thesis. A better way to start is to draw a similarity between a well-known historical figure, or even bring up an interesting ancient historical fact that you could draw the reader in with, and eventually tie into your thesis.Example: Mankind has always strived to create.
 Although a comfortable classic, the book report introduction is no way to hook a reader. Even though beginning a paper with a straightforward, logical statement may seem look like a good place to begin, it’s usually very bland.Example: Queen Victoria came to power in 1837, and her reign lasted more than 60 years.
Example: Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence in 1776.

