 Each state provides certain exemptions for some wage earners to prevent too much of your income from being garnished.For example, most states have a head of household exemption that protects all of your wages from garnishment if you provide more than 50 percent of the support for a child or other dependent.Additionally, all states limit the percentage of your wages that can be garnished, provided that you make below a certain amount. The maximum percentage of your wages that can be garnished typically will be between 15 and 25 percent.Some states allow exemptions for financial hardship generally, without requiring you to prove that you provide over half of a dependent's support. However, you must provide proof of your expenses and your inability to pay your necessary bills without the money the creditor wants to garnish.You can contact the clerk of the court that issued the garnishment order to find out what options are available in your state., If you believe you fit into one of your state's exemptions, you typically must provide documentation that supports your claim.


For example, you must gather income statements as well as bills or other documents that show your basic living expenses. These documents may include utility bills or rent statements.The exemption law you reviewed typically will include a list of what expenses can be included. Keep in mind that expenses such as cable or internet may not be considered basic living expenses under the law, even if they are things you feel you cannot live without.
 You can find a form by visiting the clerk's office of the court where the judgment was entered.


Some courts may have the form available online – just search for the name of the court that issued the garnishment order.The form requires you to enter information about yourself and the garnishment. Typically you must then select the exemption that applies to you from a list. You may be required to include additional documentation to support your claim.You also may need the name of the creditor and the case or file number of the underlying judgment that gave rise to the garnishment. This information should be located on your garnishment notice., When you've completed your form, you must take it to the clerk's office of the court where the judgment was entered.When you file your form, the clerk will set a date and time for your hearing. If you don't attend your hearing, your claim will be dismissed.Make copies of your form after you sign it but before you file it. The clerk will keep the original, but you'll need at least one copy for your records.
In many cases you won't have to pay a filing fee to file a claim of exemption.If a fee is required, you might want to ask the clerk if you can fill out an application for a fee waiver. If you meet certain income requirements, the court will waive any required fees.
 Typically the court will hold a hearing so a judge can listen to both sides and determine whether to grant you an exemption from wage garnishment.Bring your documents with you to court that prove your income and expenses so you can show them to the judge.To change your wage garnishment, you must prove to the judge that the exemption applies to you. If he or she agrees, your garnishment will cease.Keep in mind, however, that this doesn't mean you no longer owe money to the creditor – it just means that the creditor cannot get that money by garnishing your wages.

