 Knowing your audience is a basic key to success in fundraising, business, and public speaking.There is already a wealth of information available on products and companies; researching this information can provide essential background research such as product reports, annual earnings, customer demographic, etc.


Often, you can find national market reports online under specific market demographics. For example, in the US, you can view agricultural market reports under the United States Department of Agriculture website.Non-profit organization must publish (at least in the United States) an annual report that accounts for their yearly spendings and earnings.These must be published publicly in order for the organization to keep their 501c3 non-profit status.
You can also find out a wealth of information at organizational conferences, trade shows, or exhibitions.
 Before you fundraise, do direct customer research to find out what customers think about your product or cause. This information will not only help you adapt your message, cause, or product, but also will provide great quantitative statistical information.


You can hire a Direct Market Researcher as a consultant to research your client base. These consultants have the know how to directly gather information.
You can publish a survey online using social media sites to poll your clients.
You can email your customers to gather information.
You can track anything that can be recorded to analyze for client/customer data. This may include attendance, sales, page views, page clicks, social media posting, etc., Language is very powerful, and very fluid. In marketing, a customer base may carry different generational labels. Knowing these labels, and their differences, can be a powerful marketing tool.Gen 1 or Gen Z -- This is the “internet” generation, and are known as the kids from the youngest baby boomers. They are more technologically inclined than any other group.
Gen Y -- This generation may also be known as millennials or “echo-boomers.” They are the children of the baby boomers. Studies have shown this generation is less likely to spend money, and more likely to stay at home.Gen X -- This generation was born between 1965-1975. Research shows they are entering their “peak buying years,” where these members have the most disposable income.Boomers -- Boomers, or Baby Boomers, are the generation right after WWII. It is thought there are 76.4 Baby Boomers in the United States.This large demographic are shown to be more affluent than the generation preceding them.
The Greatest Generation -- This dwindling generation makes up those born between 1909-1945. From a marketing standpoint, these members have seen a vast history of marketing, fundraising, and advertising.

