 Before you go buy more of the same old deodorant at the store, you need to think a bit about what exactly your problem is, to get the right product for the job. For some people, the biggest problem with sweaty pits is body odor, while for others the biggest problem is unsightly sweat stains and the resulting embarrassment.


If you struggle from body odor and sweat stains, you need to use an approach that addresses these problems individually. Applying deodorant will do nothing to stop your armpits from sweating though it will mask the odor.
You can't stop your body from perspiring completely without medical procedures, which are typically only performed in extreme cases. If your body stopped excreting salts and toxins through the skin, you would die.;
, Depending on your problem, you may either need commercial deodorant, antiperspirants, or a hybrid product, or you may need to talk to your doctor about more powerful prescription anti-perspirant products on the market.



If you've got a problem with body odor, you need to use deodorant that uses gentle, natural ingredients that will mask the odor, and practice other good hygiene practices that will remedy the problem. Read the section for general hygiene tips.

If you've got a problem with sweat stains, most commercial anti-perspirants that use aluminum chloride hexahydrate are effective at controlling the amount of sweat that your underarms produce.
 There are all-natural commercial deodorants, but you can also create your own natural deodorant to control sweat produced in your underarms.


Mix equal parts of baking soda and water to create a sweat-controlling paste, then let it sit for 20-30 minutes. After that time, rinse off the mixture with water.
Try using apple vinegar or other malt vinegar to neutralize the armpits' natural odor-causing bacteria. This in turn creates a drying effect in your underarm, which conditions your armpits to sweat less and to stay dry.
Try a mixture of lemon juice and tomato pulp before bed. Let sit for 15 minutes.
Make a paste from ground walnut leaves and eucalyptus.
Some people think that sage tea helps to act as a "coolant," keeping the body from sweating.
 In general, if you struggle with underarm sweat, you need to apply your anti-perspirant or deodorant to clean underarms before bed, first thing in the morning, and any time after bathing. Always wash your arms thoroughly with clean water and soap, dry, then apply a thin layer of deodorant or anti-perspirant to your dry underarms.


Some people will only apply deodorant before going out, or before getting dressed. If your underarms have already gotten sweaty, you're doing nothing to control odor or sweat. You need to clean your underarms first, always.
If you've noticed that you're already sweaty, don't apply products over the sweat, which won't do anything to control odors. Instead, you need to wash your armpits using soap and water, try to cool yourself down, then apply fresh product under your arms.

