 There is a lot of literature available about how to manage PCOS with diet. Meeting with a registered dietitian can help you sort out which advice to follow, which foods to eat and how much to eat.


These nutrition professionals are a great resource to those with PCOS who want to manage symptoms and/or lose weight. Speak to your dietitian about your medical history, symptoms and what your goals are.
It might also be helpful to bring copies of your medical records, weight history, list of medications and supplements so that your dietitian will have a full background on your health.
Some dietitians may focus only in women's health or clients with PCOS. You may be able to ask your physician for a referral or search for a specialized dietitian.
 Although not all people that have PCOS also have weight problems, a high percentage are overweight or obese.It's helpful to moderate calories to prevent weight gain and induce weight loss if needed.


PCOS affects your body's ability to produce insulin and use it effectively which can cause weight gain. This same problem may also make it difficult to lose weight.If you need to lose weight, aim to do so safely. That means, losing only 1-2 pounds per week. This slow and steady rate of weight loss has been shown to be safe and more sustainable long-term.To lose 1-2 pounds a week, you'll need to cut out about 500 calories daily from your diet. You can also "cut" calories by burning them through exercise.If you want to maintain your weight and/or prevent weight gain, you'll need to consume adequate calories daily. This amount will differ for everyone based on age, weight and activity level.
If you search online for calorie calculators you'll be able to figure out about how many calories you need to eat daily to maintain your weight.
 Since insulin resistance is highly associated with PCOS, it's important for all people with PCOS to be mindful of their carbohydrate intake.


All types of carbohydrates increase blood sugar levels. Foods that are high in carbohydrates or are simple carbohydrates can spike your blood sugar very high which is problematic for those with PCOS.Carbohydrates are found in a wide variety of foods. These include: fruits, grains, legumes, dairy products and starchy vegetables. Since carbohydrates are found in so many foods, it's not advised to follow a very low or no carb diet. You'll be limiting too many foods. Aim to reduce the amount of carbs in your diet and choose foods that also contain a lot of other nutrients outside of carbohydrates.
Focus on consuming complex carbs. These foods are higher in fiber and other nutrients and do not cause a quick spike in your blood sugar and insulin levels.Examples of complex carbs include: whole grains, starchy vegetables, dairy and legumes.
Limit simple carbohydrates as these are generally lower in fiber and cause big spikes in insulin and blood sugar.. Refined sugars, white bread, white rice, processed grains, sweets or sweetened beverages all fall into the refined carbohydrate category. Try to limit or avoid these as much as possible.
 Some types of fat have been shown to be beneficial to your health. Omega-3 fats have been shown to be beneficial to PCOS patients as well.


Omega-3 fats are found in a wide variety of foods including: fatty fish (like salmon, mackerel and tuna), olive oil, avocado, nuts and nut butters and seeds.
Healthy fats help you stay satisfied longer compared to other foods. In addition, they can help slow the digestion of meals which helps manage insulin and blood sugar spikes.Try to avoid more unhealthy fats like trans fat or saturated fat which are found in fried foods, processed foods and fatty cuts of meat.
 Fruits and vegetables are a healthy part of any diet or weight loss program. These low calorie, nutrient dense foods can help you manage a healthy weight or help support safe weight loss.


It's recommended to consume anywhere from 5-9 servings of fruits and vegetables each day. Aim for 1-2 servings of fruit and the rest should be vegetables.If you have PCOS and are also insulin resistant you may want to choose lower sugar fruits (like apples and berries instead of bananas, for example) and non-starchy vegetables over higher sugar and higher carb fruits and vegetables. This can help manage blood sugar and insulin levels.
To keep calories low in your meals and snacks, make half of your plate a fruit or a vegetable. This is a simple way to cut back on extra calories.
 Some health professionals have also recommended that patients with PCOS follow a Mediterranean style diet. This style of eating can help manage a healthy weight and insulin resistance.A Mediterranean diet focuses on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, healthy fats and moderate amounts of animal protein.
Eating 1-2 servings of healthy fats each day. The Mediterranean diet generally recommends olives or olive oil and fatty fish as sources of healthy fats.
 Adequate hydration is an important component of a healthy diet. When you have PCOS drinking enough fluids can also help manage fatigue - one common symptom of PCOS.Dehydration can cause a variety of side effects including fatigue.If you're not drinking enough fluids, dehydration can worsen or exacerbate the typical fatigue that is associated with PCOS.
Many health professionals suggest aiming for about 8 glasses of sugar-free, decaf beverages daily. You may need more or less depending on your weight and activity level.
Keep a water bottle handy throughout the day. This can help you track how much you've consumed and how much more you need to drink to meet your daily goal.
 If you skip meals regularly, you can increase symptoms of PCOS.


When you skip meals, you increase your chances of fatigue, mood swings and binge eating. These are also associated with PCOS. Skipping meals can worsen these.When you skip meals you will also have disturbances in you blood sugar and insulin levels making it more difficult for your body to manage.Eat at least 3 meals daily. If there is more than 4-5 hours between any meals, you may need a snack to help maintain blood sugar levels.

