 Make sure that you read the instructions that come with the car seat thoroughly before you attempt to install the seat. This will help you to understand the correct installation method and save you time.


If you cannot follow the instructions or they seem too complicated, ask a friend, family member or even a salesperson at the place where you bought the seat to install the car seat for you.
Do not risk installing the car seat incorrectly, as this could put your child's life at risk in the case of an accident

, Most car seats are secured into the correct position using the car's own seatbelt. The seatbelt usually needs to pass through the base of the seat in a specific way. When installing the car seat, make sure the belt follows the correct path. If it is positioned correctly, you should not be able to move the seat more than an inch in any direction., Check to see whether the car seat's own straps are routed through the right holes, in the right order and in the right direction. If not, there should be diagrams in the instructions to show you how to set them up. Test the position of the straps by placing your child into the seat and looking for the following:


Make sure the straps are tight, but not so tight that they are digging in or causing the child to be hunched over. You should be able to adjust the tightness of the straps easily.
Make sure that the straps follow the correct path, over the child's shoulders and between his or her legs. Make sure that the shoulder straps go across the child's chest and not across his or her neck., Try buckling and unbuckling the child several times until you get the hang if it. This is important, in case you need to remove the child from the seat in a hurry.


However, it's important that the seat is not so easy to unbuckle that the child can do it themselves. This could be very dangerous if the child were to unbuckle themselves while the car was in motion.
Opt for car seats that have two-piece retainer clips, as these are harder to release and your child will not be able to open it by his or herself., Get to know your car seat by practicing how to change it's position. Learn how to adjust the head rest and the straps, practice lifting the seat in and out of the car and be familiar with how to switch the seat from rear-facing to front facing (if you have that kind of seat). Knowing exactly how you child's car seat works will make your life much easier over the coming months/years.
 If you opt for a used car seat, which you've bought second-hand or borrowed from a family member, make sure to check it for damage and ask the previous owner if it was involved in any road accidents in the past. It's extremely important to be aware of any damage the car seat may have sustained.

