 A woman may influence others more if she demonstrates motivation for her life. Females with aspirations and commitments can be very appealing.


Be intentional and specific in your goals and aspirations.You can create daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly goals. Write them down and remind yourself of them regularly. Amend any goals as you go along.
One way to get motivated is through creative means. Try drawing out your goals. What do you want for your life and yourself?

, If you smile, laugh and speak with enthusiasm about what you have going on in your life---men may see that you are motivated and confident and take you seriously.Keep in mind this can depend on how long you keep up with a task. If you are constantly changing your goals and are indecisive with what you want from your life this may leave doubt in people's minds.


If you have children, discuss their latest successes in school with a smile and comment on how proud you are of them.
Discuss any new business ideas you might have, or creative thoughts if they appear interested. Working on a new art piece? Writing a poem? Finishing a degree? Taking a new yoga class? You already have so many interesting things to talk about.
 Apart from having self-respect, confidence, motivation and being competitive; you need to ask yourself for each aspect of your life, "Why am I doing this?" If your goals are contrived to impress a man, or men in general, you may be doing it for the wrong reasons. In the same light, trust your instincts; only you can make decisions about your life and where you are heading. Not anyone else.
 Experts are taken more seriously than novices.Whatever you do decide to do or excel in, be an expert. Learn as much as you can about the topic, and gain a variety of experiences.


Do your research. Spend some of your free-time exploring and learning more about your field of study or occupation. This can make all of the difference in the business world; if you give your all and make the extra effort, people may notice you more.
Do your homework. Focus on your tasks and obligations and don't drop the ball. Being a true expert is about becoming someone that people can count on and trust.
Be prepared. If you have a big speech coming up or a presentation at work, don't wait until the last minute to prepare. Give yourself plenty of time so that you can appear confident and educated about the topic.
Help others. When you are an expert, you help other people understand or complete work. Help as many coworkers, colleagues, or classmates as you can. However, don't overdo it and remember to have balance. You need to be able to complete your own work before you can help others.
If you have the resources and financial ability, you can earn an extra certificate or degree in your field. Some businesses even pay their employees to get advanced degrees.
 Men tend to enjoy healthy competition among themselves. Connecting with males on their level can be helpful in increasing a sense of unity, solidarity, or equality. Be sure when you participate in the activity that you bring your A-game and put forth your best effort. Even if you aren't a pro at any sport or hobby, by being open to new challenges and giving something your best effort; men may respect you for it.


If you enjoy a hobby that is physically demanding such as rock climbing, swimming, basketball, running or biking-share it with a male friend.
Finding your balance by trying methods that work and don't work will ensure you get more comfortable with yourself and therefore, with men. This can apply to work, school, hobbies, social gatherings, and the like.

