 Federal, state, and local laws all prohibit discrimination on the basis of certain characteristics. You need to read the applicable laws so that you don’t accidentally violate them. Generally, these laws protect against discrimination on the basis of the following:sex or gender
race or color
religion
national origin
disability
familial status (i.e., if the tenant has children)
sexual orientation (usually state or local);
, You should steer clear of asking any questions related to a protected characteristic. To help streamline the application process, you might want to use an application form. The applicant fills out the application form and then you rely only on that information when making a decision to lease to someone.


The application form should ask for the applicant’s legal name, social security number, date of birth, and income sources.Ask another landlord in your area if you could see a copy of their application form. You could revise it to suit your purposes.
If you have staff involved in screening tenants, then make sure that you have trained them not to ask questions that a tenant might interpret as discriminatory. For example, do not have your staff ask how many children the applicant has or ask the applicant about their religion, race, or sexual orientation.
 Typically, you can check an applicant’s criminal and credit history. Doing so will allow you to screen out applicants who are too risky to rent to. In most states, you can charge the applicant for the cost of the background check, which usually costs about $30-50.Federal law requires that the applicant fill out a credit report authorization form. The applicant must also sign the form. You should have those available for any prospective tenant to fill out.
You can hire a credit reporting agency to screen your tenants. This agency should have an authorization form that you can use.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has created a list of companies that perform tenant screening. You can find the list here: http://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201501_cfpb_list-consumer-reporting-agencies.pdf.
If you decide not to rent to someone because of their background check, or if you choose to charge a higher rent, then you must give the applicant the name, address, and telephone number of the credit reporting agency that you used. Give this notice in writing. You must also tell the applicant that they can get a copy of their report from the agency within the next 60 days and challenge the accuracy or completeness of the report., You should request references from all applicants. Ask for the names of the applicant’s prior landlords. You can then call the references and ask the following questions:Was the tenant current on their rent?
Did the tenant have pets?
Did other tenants complain about the person?
Did the tenant cause any maintenance problems with the apartment?
Would you be comfortable renting to this person again?

, A security deposit helps protect you in case the tenant causes serious damage to your property or leaves without paying rent.For example, the tenant might split at the end of the lease and leave behind broken walls, damaged appliances, etc. You can then use the security deposit to make repairs.


It is standard to ask for at least one month’s rent as a security deposit. Your state law will set the maximum. Typically, states limit you to one or two months of rent as a security deposit.Your state might closely regulate what you can do with the security deposit. For example, you may have to hold it in an interest-bearing account and give your tenants an annual update about how much interest has accrued. You should read your state law or ask an attorney.
 Before the tenant moves in, you should walk through the apartment and document its current condition. You can take photographs or make a video recording.By doing this, you can protect yourself in case the tenant trashes the place but later claims the apartment came that way.
You might also want to walk through the apartment with the new tenant and complete a form together. On the form you will note anything wrong with the apartment, such as marks on the wall or water marks on the ceiling. Get the tenant to sign the form once you have walked through the entire apartment.
 A written lease, which the tenant signs, provides much more protection than an oral agreement. Should there be a legal dispute, you will struggle to prove the substance of any oral agreement. Also, the lease must be in writing if it is for one year or longer.


If you already have a lease that you use, then go down through and make sure that the following information has been included in your lease.
If you are a new landlord, then look for sample leases on the Internet. Then make sure that it contains all of the following provisions to protect your rights.
 You need to state that you are entitled to a timely rent payment. Make sure that you include the following details:The date the rent is due. You could write, “Tenant agrees to pay in advance $750 per month on the first of each month.”
How rent may be paid. For example, “All payments are to be made by check or money order and cash shall be acceptable.”
Any grace period and late fees. You might want to give the tenant a few days to make the rent payment before you charge interest or fees. You could include, “A late fee of $50 shall be added and due for any payment of rent made after the fifth of the month. Any bounced check will be treated as unpaid rent, and will also be subject to an additional fee of $25.”

, Your state law allows you to enter the property to make repairs, but you should still include a provision in the lease explicitly granting you that right. Doing so will give the tenant notice that you can enter.


“Tenant agrees to allow Landlord to enter the dwelling upon reasonable advance notice in order to inspect the premises, to exterminate for pests, to make repairs, or to show the dwelling to prospective tenants or purchasers. The Tenant will not unreasonably deny entry. Landlord may also enter the premises without prior written consent if it appears to be abandoned or in case of emergency.”

, You can also restrict the tenant’s use of your property to lawful purposes. This limitation will help protect you in case a tenant uses the premises illegally, such as to grow and sell drugs.


Include this provision: “Tenant shall use the property for residential purposes only. Tenant agrees not to engage in or allow any guest, relative, or household member to engage in unlawful use of the dwelling, common areas, or grounds.”

, You can also protect yourself by prohibiting alterations to the apartment. Include this provision in your lease:


“No substantial alterations, additions, or improvements shall be made by Tenant in or to the dwelling unit without the permission of the Landlord in writing. Such consent will not be withheld unreasonably. However, permission may include the Tenant’s agreement to restore the dwelling to its prior condition before moving out.”

, Although you can’t discriminate against people with children, you can still limit the number of people in the unit. You can do this by including a provision where the tenant agrees not to have guests who stay too long:


“Tenant shall not permit the premises to be occupied for longer than a temporary visit by anyone except the individuals listed on this lease and any child born to or adopted by these individuals. However, Landlord reserves the right to terminate this lease if additional occupants would render the dwelling overcrowded under the State Sanitary Code.”

, Depending on your state or municipal law, you can generally prevent a tenant from subleasing the apartment. Make sure to include a provision to that effect in your lease.


For example, your provision could say, “Tenant agrees not to transfer, assign, or sublet the premises or any part thereof.”Check with your state or local housing authority. Some laws guarantee a tenant the right to sublease. If you include a provision in your lease that is illegal, then it will be void.
 Make sure that you get the tenant’s signature on the lease. You should sign it as well. The signatures will make the lease an official agreement.


Give a copy to the tenant but keep the original for your records.
 It is best to communicate in writing so that you will always have a paper trail. If you find sending letters burdensome, then you might want to communicate using email.


You can request the tenant’s email address on your application. Encourage your tenants to send you emails or written letters so that you will have proof that the tenant contacted you about problems.
You could also include a provision in your lease where the tenant agrees to give all notices to you in writing. Also provide the address for the tenant to send the notices.
 You should give your tenants notice before entering their apartment, even when entering to make repairs. Your state law may require notice. Even if it doesn’t, it is still a good idea to provide written notice.


You should state the date and time you will enter and give the reason for entering.
Generally, you need to provide 24 hours’ notice before entering the apartment, although this differs by state. You also can only enter during normal business hours.To find your state law, you can search the Internet. The website Nolo has a good chart summarizing state notice requirements., Most states allow landlords to enter a unit to deal with an emergency without providing advance notice. If you ever enter the tenant’s apartment because of an emergency, then you should inform the tenant of that fact in writing.


State what the emergency was and what you did while in the apartment. For example, you could write, “I entered your apartment yesterday at 2:15 because your neighbor reported the smoke alarm had been sounding for a half hour. Once inside, I checked the apartment for a possible fire and then replaced the battery.”

, Your state law will explain the precise steps you need to take in order to evict a tenant. If you don’t follow the law, then the tenant can win the lawsuit. The tenant might even turn around and sue you.


You should get information about the eviction process. Some state housing authorities publish handouts for landlords which describe the eviction process.You should contact your state housing authority and ask if they have any information.
You can always hire a lawyer to help you. If you don’t already have a lawyer, you can ask another landlord in your area if he or she would recommend their attorney. You can also get a referral through your state’s bar association.
 Your state law will require that you give particular notices to the tenant before beginning eviction proceedings. You must also give the tenant enough time to cure the violation.


For example, if the tenant has missed paying rent, then your state probably allows the tenant a certain amount of time to pay all rent due. If the tenant pays the rent in time, he or she can stay in the apartment.
Your state can be very strict about the contents of the notice. For this reason, courts often have sample notices that you can use. You should stop into the courthouse and ask. You might also find sample notices on your state housing authority’s website.
States are also strict about how you deliver the notice. If you want the eviction to go smoothly, you need to follow the letter of the law.
 If the tenant doesn’t cure the defect, then you can sue to evict the tenant. You can begin the lawsuit by going to the courthouse and filing a petition or complaint for eviction. The complaint should state the names of all residents to be evicted and include their address and the reasons for the eviction.Courts should have forms you can fill out.
Whatever you do, don’t lock out the tenant or try to forcibly remove him or her. You also can’t shut off utilities or use any other self-help action.You will be breaking the law and opening yourself up to a lawsuit.
 You must send the tenant a copy of the complaint and a summons.You can get the summons from the court clerk. It states the reasons for the lawsuit and gives the tenant a deadline for responding. Ask the court clerk for acceptable methods of service.
 At trial, you have the burden of showing that you are entitled to regain possession of the property.To succeed, you should show the court a copy of the signed lease and introduce other evidence that supports the eviction.


For example, you can show emails you sent to the tenant asking for rent. You can also introduce bank records which show no payment was received.
You can also introduce photographs of any damage the tenant has caused.
 Once you win your trial, you must get an order to vacate from the judge. The sheriff typically must serve the order on the tenant. The tenant then has a certain amount of time to vacate the property.You should never use self-help, not even after you get an order to vacate. Leave it to the sheriff. If the tenant refuses to move out by the deadline, you should contact the sheriff, who will have to schedule and supervise the removal of the tenant.To protect yourself, don’t start moving the tenant’s property out onto the sidewalk. You could be sued if you did that.

