 In the United States, most property records are handled at the county level.;
,


In the case of mobile homes, these are usually classified as personal property, rather than real property, so they may not have an address associated with them.
 In some cases, you can research the person to find information about the property.
,, You may need to go to several sites or locations to get a detailed property record.


You can obtain property tax records with the county's Assessments and Taxation department. This will show the property tax payments for a given property.
You can search for land records and deeds with the Clerk and Recorder's office of vital records.
You can search Foreclosures and Tax Liens in your county through the Assessments and Taxation departments and through public notices.
 Some states map out locations that have liens, foreclosures or other public records.
 Request a public records search on the location of your choice.


Find the state office you want for a property search. Some websites post links to property records offices in all 50 states.
,,,


The free online report will not include the name of the property owner or the sale price of the house, but it may include the year it was built, the number of bedrooms and bathrooms it has and information about the lot size and area.
This is a good option if you are looking to buy a house in the area.
 This free public records search has detailed records in those areas, similar to the listings on Realtor.com.
 You can request a detailed property record search for approximately $3.50. You can also view the ownership and encumbrance report for $75.


Paid search sites use the same public property records that you can search for free through county websites and offices; however, paying the fee can save you time and return a detailed report.
 A cursory search is likely free, but you must pay for detailed reports.
 If you plan to make a number of inquiries, this site provides them for $.25 to $8. You can search for people or property.

