 Walking at a brisk pace is generally considered a moderately intense exercise – although this may not be true for you if you're out of shape or have heart or respiratory issues.Many ordinary daily activities, such as gardening or cleaning your house, also are considered moderate-intensity activities.
Other physical activities that typically qualify as moderate-intensity activities include cycling (provided you're traveling less than 10 mph or 16 kph) playing with children, practicing yoga, golf, or ballroom dancing.
Keep in mind that the line between moderate and vigorous can blur for some of these activities. For example, playing with children generally is a moderate-intensity activity, but if those children are running at an all-out sprint and you're chasing them, you're crossing over the vigorous-intensity threshold. Likewise, gardening typically is a moderately intense activity, but with continuous digging or hoeing it can progress to a vigorously intense activity.
 If you want to stay in your target zone, begin your moderately intense aerobic activity and set a timer or a stop watch so you can stop and check your pulse after you've been exercising for a brief period of time.Once you've been exercising more frequently, you won't have to stop as often. However, if you're just getting started it's better to stop at 10-minute intervals so you can make sure you're staying in the zone.
If you've been doing the same sort of activity for several weeks, you may not have to stop at all. You'll become accustomed to how it feels to be in the intensity zone you want.
 If you don't have a heart-rate monitor, take your pulse using the radial artery in your rest or the carotid artery in your neck so you can find out your heart rate after 10 minutes of exercise.Many cell phones are also capable of measuring your heart rate.


Your radial artery is located between the bone and tendon on the thumb side of your wrist. It doesn't make any difference which arm you use. Your carotid artery can be found to the side of your windpipe on your throat.
Use your index and third fingers to check your pulse, not your thumb. Apply light pressure, but don't squeeze. Breathe normally.
You can keep time with a watch that has a second hand, but you may want to set a timer on your mobile phone if you have a hard time watching the second hand without counting.
You can count the heartbeats for 15 seconds, or for 30. If you took your pulse for 15 seconds, multiply by 4 to get your bpm. If you took your pulse for 30 seconds, you would multiply by 2.
 Your heart rate tells you whether the activity you're doing is moderate or vigorous for you, or if you are overworking yourself. Use this information to stay in your target zone.For example, suppose you previously calculated your target heart rate for moderate intensity exercise as 140 bpm. After 10 minutes of brisk walking, you take your pulse and find that your heart rate is 150 bpm. Provided that rate doesn't fall into the vigorous range for you, there's no need for you to adjust your activity.
If your heart rate is significantly higher than your target range, slow down your activity until your heart rate falls into the appropriate range. Don't resume activity at the same level. It may take some trial and error to find your sweet spot.
On the other hand, if your heart rate falls below the bottom line you calculated for moderate-intensity activity, you need to go a little harder to reach the appropriate zone. Again, you'll have to go by trial and error. For example, your heart rate may initially be too fast, but then when you slow down you find that after ten minutes your heart rate is now too slow.
Once you can consistently perform within the target range, take stock of how your body feels so you know what it feels like to be in the target zone and you can get there without having to constantly check your heart rate, which can interrupt the flow of your exercise routine.
 Exercise is not the only thing that affects your heart rate. Particularly if you're exercising outside, the weather conditions may play a role. Health conditions and other issues, both internal and external, may increase or decrease your heart rate.Your heart rate fluctuates throughout the day. If you took your resting heart rate first thing in the morning, but you're exercising in the late afternoon, you may want to get another resting heart rate during the time you'd ordinarily be exercising and make sure there's not a significant difference. If there is, do your calculations again.
Certain types of foods and drinks, especially those that contain sugar or caffeine, can affect your heart rate. This is also the case with some medications.
Stress or anxiety can increase your heart rate, and your natural hormone fluctuations also may play a role.

