 If you don't have an audio-recording app, click here to skip to our recommendations. Most modern smart phones, however, come with a basic audio-recording app. On the main app screen, there should be a fairly well-marked "record" button. This will often (but not always) look like a red circle.


In this section, we'll use the Smart Voice Recorder app running on Android for example purposes. Most mic apps should be quite similar.
On Smart Voice Recorder, the large red circle in the middle of the main app screen starts recording.;
, On most smartphones, the mic is at the bottom of the phone on the same side as the screen so it's near your mouth. For the best results, put the mic as near as you can to the source of the noise (up to an inch or two away). If you can't get very near to it, just point the microphone towards the noise.


If volume isn't an issue (like if you're in a silent room), you can usually place your phone face up on a table next to you.
 Try to avoid the following common recording mistakes as you use your mic app:


Don't record in a large, empty room full of hard surfaces. These can give your recording a distracting echo. Rugs, carpets, soft furniture, and blankets all work to dampen an echo.
Don't record with ambient noise in the background. Things like construction work, lawnmowers, and airplanes can be loud on the final recording.
Don't record outdoors. It may seem completely silent, but even minor breezes can sound like windstorms on the mic.
 Don't forget to end your recording. Often, the "record" button you pressed to start the recording turns into a stop button after you press it. If not, look for a red square, the word "stop", or something similar.


On Smart Voice Recorder, the red circle will pause, but not stop the recording. To stop, press "Finish" at the bottom of the screen.
 Usually, once you finish a recording, you'll be prompted to save the new audio file. Follow the on-screen prompts to complete the process.


On Smart Voice Recorder, as soon as you hit "Finish," you'll be asked to name your new file. Type in a name or use the default one and tap "OK" to save it. Pressing "Cancel" automatically uses the default file name — it doesn't delete the recording.
 Even basic mic apps usually have some options for using your recordings after you've made them. Often, you can browse your files, play them, and even send them to other people. The exact way to do this depends on the app, but it's usually straightforward.


On Smart Voice Recorder, when you finish a recording, you'll be brought to a screen where you can see it along with your past recordings. Tap the recording, then tap the arrow in the bottom right to see the additional options, which are:

Share...: Share and send the file via email, text messenger, cloud drive, and more. Tap the sharing option you wish and continue by following the on-screen prompts.

Set as...: Set the audio file as a ringtone, notification tone, or alarm tone.

Rename...: Change the name of your file.

Delete: Delete the recording.

