 Afrikaans is spoken in South Africa and Namibia, along with parts of Botswana and Zimbabwe., You can also use the informal selam, pronounced "sall-aam". Amharic is a Semitic language and is the official working language of Ethiopia., to a male and moni mayi! to a female. Muribwanji, pronounced "moori-bwanji" is used often as a generalized greeting to everyone. Chichewa is also known as Nyanja and is the national language of Malawi. It is also spoken in Zambia, Mozambique and Zimbabwe., Chubby is a Somalian language., This language is spoken in the Ivory Coast and Burkina Faso., This language is spoken in Nigeria., A more informal greeting is sannu. Hausa is one of the most widely spoken African languages, it is spoken by approximately 34 million speakers. It's spoken natively in Nigeria and Niger, but is used as a lingua franca in many other African countries., Igbo is spoken by the Igbo people in southeastern Nigeria., Lingala is a Bantu language spoken in the Congo., Northern Sotho is a Bantu language spoken in South Africa., To a female you would say wa uhala po, meme?. To a male you would say wa uhala po, tate?. A more informal way to say hello is ongaipi?, which translates as "how is it?". Oshikwanyama is also known as just Kwanyama and is a national language of Namibia and Angola., You can also say akkam?, which means "how are you?" and nagaa, which means "peace by with you." Oromo is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken by the Oromo people in Ethiopia and northern Kenya., You may also say habari gani, which means "what is the news?". Swahili is a Bantu languages spoken by the Swahili communities in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Mozambique and the Democratic Republic of Congo., You can also say "ola" which is a modern form of the Spanish "Hola", Tarifit is spoken by 8 million speakers in Arrif (Northern Africa) and Europe.
 You can also say haderkum which means "good morning" and t'ena yehabeley which means "may good health be upon you". This language is spoken in Ethiopia and Eritrea., Tshiluba, also known as Luba-Kasai, is a Bantu language and one of the national languages of the Democratic Republic of Congo., This language is spoken in South Africa., E kaaro means "good morning", E kaasan means "good afternoon", E kaaale means "good evening and O da aaro means "good night". Yoruba is a Niger-Congo language spoken by the Yoruba people in West Africa., Sawubona translates to mean "we see you" and you should respond by saying yebo, meaning "yes". Zulu is a Bantu language spoken in South Africa.