 This silly one-person car goes around a guided track using arm-power. Using a row-like motion in front of the child, this fun little ride is definitely something to get the children motivated for the rest of the park. However, some of the cars need a little grease on it's track, as is apparent by the squeakiness of most of the cars when the child powers the car. The child may become confused later on in this ride and the length is quite large and long for it's current theming.
 Although it's got a neat and interesting-looking name, there's nothing real special about this area other than that's it a slide like most found at most elementary school playgrounds nationwide with a yellow theme.
 In 2015, this area started with a Halloween maze (utilizing a story-like read on attraction barricades featuring the Sesame Street characters. Something or someone is missing in the Sesame Street group you read to find what it is they are missing and also where it can be found and where it ended up at the end.
 This is seasonal, and during the summer months include the water attractions. The walking tracks area eventually come back out to the area where you started allowing you to continue walking around the path. In 2015, this area includes the "Not So Spooky Hayride" that takes guests around a track on a slow-moving journey into "The Count's" world.


,,, Although this ride doesn't go very high or very fast, it can give your children their very first drop-ride experience. With a warning that it's about to launch you up, it will seconds before drop you down again and then gradually build you up and drop-you back down again until it doesn't drop you very far. This ride will generally take about 5 minutes, but can be shorter due to other line lengths of waiting riders. Adults are permitted on this ride and actually are encouraged to ride (even if they have no other children in tow.)

, Styled after the Dumbo rides at the Disney parks, this ride will have you flying around in fish-like vehicles. Press the red button in the front seat to move you up and down in the fish for several minutes worth of flying fun. It takes several moments for the fish to get up in the air from the beginning, so keep the button pushed in if you'd like to get raised from the beginning. Depress the button later, if you'd like to decrease your height. All riders will later be decreased to the standing point on the ground for a later debunking.
, Themed on the Sesame Street characters, this Carousel will have you wishing you could spend every day with the characters.
 Although some children are afraid of a ride that swings as quickly as this one, this one can please some of it's riders on a daily basis and some actually come out liking the ride towards the end.
 Other than having your kids be able to race each other on double-slides, it's got little to no attractable value anymore.
 Most viewers want tea-cup rides in parks, and here's this one in Sesame Place that's fun for all ages alike.
 Much like olden days curve rides on some midways, this ride takes Oscar's best ideas and reaches out to show it's guests his idea of things and pokes fun into every rider.
 This ride is much like The Flying Fish nearby but with theming towards blue, furry Cookie Monster, in yellow "Ahoy Matey"-like ships.
 This is one of the few places where you can actively let your kids roam free and play, but do keep an eye on them.
 Similar to some "Scrambler-like" rides, this ride will give you that same thrill. This ride might not be suitable for all ages, though some ages are more easily enthused into riding it.
 Although styled in the manner of the tea cups ride, when you couple those types of rides with the ride soaring you a few yards above the top of people heads-high, spin your cookie jar vehicle around as fast or as slow as you want and you'll have some fun on this ride.
 Although this roller coaster is short and features no "flying and high-intensity features most roller coasters do, if you are thinking there's nothing in it for you, you must be kidding yourself. It is pure fun and could potentially be a child's first roller coaster experience (that's more for later elementary school and tweens than for early elementary school and younger children). Like the Elmo says "Wave to your mommy!" at the top of the first lift hill.
 Meet with friends near the "Sesame Neighborhood".

