 As soon as you receive an unexpected medical bill, call the care provider and ask for an itemized statement. Call the hospital or provider for help understanding each item line. The itemized bill will be your most vital resource during each step of the process: error checking, getting an advocate, contesting, and negotiation., Does the statement include a hospital stay for an extra day, when you can verify that you were released earlier? Have you been charged for an extra half hour in the operating room? Does the bill charge for a medication administered through Friday but you know your IV was taken out on Wednesday?If your insurer rejected a charge but the procedure and medical professional were both covered, call your insurer to rule out any coding errors.
 Surprise medical bills are a common occurrence in the United States and there are many organizations that can offer you assistance. Find the right advocacy agencies for help understanding your bill, to launch a complaint, or to contest a bill or file an appeal with your insurer. Be sure to ask any advocacy group you contact if they charge for their services or if they offer free assistance.Get in touch with the Patient Advocate Foundation for assistance with mediation, arbitration, co-pay relief programs, and online informational resources: http://www.patientadvocate.org/.
Look to Families USA for links to state-based advocacy groups and state government health advocates: http://familiesusa.org/health-action-network.
Check the National Association of Insurance Commissioners website for more information about your state’s insurance regulations: http://www.insurance.naic.org/state_web_map.htm.
Search online for your state’s medical board to launch a complaint against a doctor.
 If you are stuck with a bill, remember that it never hurts to negotiate. If you have insurance, ask them if there’s any possibility of them taking your plan.If they won’t take your plan, tell them that you cannot afford the bill out of pocket. Ask them if there’s any way they can agree to a lower rate.
If you feel that you were left the dark about excess fees even though you did your research, talk to your doctor. Ask, “Why wasn’t this procedure covered by my insurance, and why didn’t you inform me about these fees ahead of time?”
If all else fails, set up a payment plan with your medical provider in order to avoid sending the bill to collections. If it goes to collections, your surprise bill will damage your credit score and you’ll end up owing a collection fee.

