 The most fabric-friendly way to remove an oil-based ink stain is with Ethanol (Ethyl alcohol,) which is a common ingredient in many household products. Rubbing alcohol, hairspray (preferably aerosol, not alcohol-free), or an alcohol-based hand sanitizer are all great choices.


Prepackaged hand-wipes and some brands of baby wipes will also do the trick in a pinch.
 You can use a dry white (bleachable) towel, or several layers of paper towels or napkins. This will give the ink somewhere to go. Make sure that only one layer of fabric is resting on the towel, otherwise, you risk spreading the stain to another part of the garment, as well.
 If you are using rubbing alcohol, soak a cotton ball in it, and dab it liberally onto the stain. If you are using hand sanitizer, squirt some out and rub it into the stain using a cotton ball or your fingers. If you are using hairspray, spray it on until the fabric is saturated. .If you are using a wipe, blot the fabric firmly, trying to really squeeze the solvent into the stain. You can also leave the wipe on the fabric, and place something heavy on top of it (like a dinner plate weighted with a book, or can of food) for several minutes.
 The solvent may need a few minutes to break down the oils in the ink, depending on how strong it is, and how long the stain has been there.


Alcohol-based products can dry out quickly, so dab/spray more on as needed to keep the stained-area damp long enough for the ink to break down.
 Use a clean, dry cloth to blot the stain. You want to try to press the ink out of your garment, into the blotting cloth and the absorbent surface underneath. Most, if not all of the ink should come away readily at this point.
 If you were able to remove most of the ink using your alcohol solvent, you are on the right track! If some ink remains, move the garment to a clean part of the towel, or put some new paper towels down under it. Apply a bit more solvent, wait, and then blot it once more.
 If there is just a bit of ink remaining, or you think you got it all but want to make sure, apply a small amount of your normal laundry soap or to the affected area. Let it soak in for a few minutes. Then rub the fabric together to agitate it, and rinse it thoroughly under warm water.


If the stain is completely gone, you can launder the shirt as usual.
If the stain is not gone, repeat the above method, or try one of the methods for other types of ink.

