 If you were blocked, there will be a notice explaining why when you try to edit, and the administrator who blocked you will have probably left a message on your talk page explaining that you were blocked and why he/she blocked you.


It's important to understand that there's a distinction between blocking and banning in Wikipedia. Banning usually occurs by community consensus or Arbitration Committee decision. If you were banned in this manner, understand that your appeal will likely not even be considered unless it's been a long period of time after your ban initially started. Typically, for an unban request to have any sort of chance to succeed, you must wait at least a year or two before submitting a request.;
, Take your block as a chance for you to become more acquainted with Wikipedia's policies and guidelines so that you can move on from the block and become a well-respected user. Focus specifically on the policy that you were against so that you don't make the same mistake again.
 This page explains how the appeal process works and how you can make an appeal.


, Replace the "Insert your reason to be blocked here" with the reason you want to be unblocked. A good unblock reason will:


Show that you understand why you were blocked and your understanding of the policy you were against. Address the reason for your block in your reasoning.
Admit that you did something wrong and that it won't happen again.
Show that the block is not necessary to stop you from causing further problems on the site.
Show that what you were blocked for is not your normal behavior. This will show that you can be trusted.
Give links as evidence.
,, It can take anywhere from a few minutes to a few days for a review to happen. If your appeal is accepted, you'll be unblocked and able to edit again. If it's declined, on the other hand, you'll remain blocked, and the reviewing administrator will explain why he/she declined your appeal. Should your appeal be declined, go through the steps again to make another appeal, this time taking the declining administrator's comments in mind.

