 If you're going to be a good house guest, you need to help out around the house. Most importantly, don't wait for her to ask you to do something if you notice it needs to be done. Staying with someone requires both sides to work together to keep the space happy and livable. Some chores to look out for include:


Watering plants
Doing dishes
Washing sheets, blankets, and towels
Tending to pets
Vacuuming.
 There are going to be some things that she likes a particular way, even if they don't make sense to you. Maybe her spice rack is particularly organized for easy cooking, or she likes the towels folded particularly. Everyone, including you, has little quirks and preferences for your living conditions -- so be sure to respect hers. Being considerate is not so much about the spice rack or the towels. It is about understanding her personal space and preferences.


She likely has her things in very particular orders and places -- be respectful and ask questions when storing your own stuff.
You may have ways of doing things you may think are "better" or "more logical," but remember that this isn't your house. At the end of the day, her preferences for her stuff take priority., If you're staying at her house, you should be willing to help cover at least some of the expenses, particularly food. While she may have it covered, she may also want to split rent or utilities, depending on how long you'll be staying. Don't just assume that "everything's good." Make a point to ask her about finances before unsaid arguments become a problem.


Talking about money is never fun, but it is essential to preserve a strong, healthy relationship.
 Maybe she needs a little quiet time when she gets home from work. Perhaps you both really like to shower before leaving, but need to work out a way that you both have enough time. The best way to handle these situations is to talk about them as they come up -- finding compromise early on instead of waiting until one of you is upset. Common things to cover include:


Who does what chores or house maintenance tasks?
Etiquette for inviting other people over for visits/dinner/hanging out/etc.
Your usual routines, including sleep schedules, and how to be respectful of them., Talking about romance may be the least romantic thing you can do, but it is absolutely necessary. Whether you're sharing a bed with a partner or just friends living together, sit down and talk about physical intimacy together early on.


If you're a couple, think about how often you'd like to be together and promise each other to be honest about your mood and feelings. If one of you says no, remind each other that is a firm no, not something to be negotiated.
If you're just friends, talk about when and how it is acceptable to bring someone home with you, and the etiquette about dating and the house.
 Staying with someone for a long time, whether you're dating them or not, tends to lead to some relaxed "rules" and ideas. But just because you get comfortable in the house doesn't mean it is suddenly yours -- all of your basic manners still apply. Clean up any of your messes, put things back where they belong, and respect her rules and preferences and you should be more than okay. How to act at a girl's house is about being a considerate, kind person -- it's not rocket science.


Keep in mind that you're in her house, meaning your footprint is going to impact her directly. If, for example, you know that she pays the water bill, don't take 30-minute showers.

