 Speak with your healthcare provider if your newborn baby is on a diet of formula and develops diarrhea. It may be that your baby just needs to find a formula that works for her.


Often, parents have to try out several different types of formulas before they find the right fit for their baby. While most babies thrive on dairy-based formulas, others must special formulas, including lactose-free and soy-based formulas. In general, babies who have a sensitivity to their formula are also gassy and fussy.For babies who have a weak or undeveloped digestive system or a true milk allergy, there are specific formulas that are developed for sensitive tummies. These include formulas made from broken-down proteins or an elemental formula. Speak with your doctor to get a recommendation. Some require a prescription.
Talk to your pediatrician before changing your baby's formula.
 Whether your baby is formula-fed or breastfed, it is important that you increase the milk that you offer while a baby is sick with diarrhea or vomiting, as both can quickly lead to dehydration in such a small body.


If you normally nurse or offer a bottle every three hours, try offering every two or even every hour. A newborn cannot drink too much formula or breastmilk, especially while sick.
If your baby is vomiting, offer smaller amounts at each feeding, but offer it more frequently.
Do not offer the baby water or water down the formula. This is very dangerous for newborns, as it can dilute the blood and cause kidney failure.To increase hydration, you must increase breastmilk or formula intake only.
 Diarrhea can cause dehydration to occur rather quickly. Any bouts of diarrhea that last for more than 24 hours indicate that your baby needs medical assistance. Any signs of dry diapers for longer than six hours or the absence of tears when your baby cries are clear indications that your baby has become dehydrated. Seek medical assistance promptly.


Discuss with your baby’s healthcare provider the possibility of giving your baby an electrolyte solution as a way to rehydrate her for the time being. These include Pedialyte and Enfalyte as well as other brands. They are especially useful if your baby is vomiting.
Your baby's pediatrician may also suggest a probiotic to help replenish the natural bacteria in her gut.
 It is not uncommon for bouts of diarrhea to leave a baby’s bottom literally raw with open sores. Extra attention is needed to prevent this from happening.


Coat the baby's bottom and genital area with a thick diaper rash cream or petroleum based product like Vaseline or Aquaphor to prevent further irritation.
Keep your baby’s bottom clean and dry. Sometimes, regardless of how often you change your baby’s diaper baby, he will still develop a red, sore bottom. Diarrhea can be harsh on sensitive skin. Promptly remove the diaper and gently cleanse diarrhea from the skin. The less time the skin is exposed to the irritant, the better it is for the skin.
Remove baby's diaper, clean the baby's bottom, and allow your baby to rest on a blanket with no diaper on. Fresh air may help clear up the diaper rash. Avoid excessive wiping of your baby’s bottom. His sensitive skin can become very tender when wiping is increased drastically.
Call your healthcare provider if you notice a rash developing in the genitals, skin folds or thigh areas as this could be a sign of a yeast diaper rash. This is often very red, and may have red bumps spreading out from the red areas. You will need to get prescribed medication to treat a yeast diaper rash.
Refrain from using unnecessary cleansers on your baby’s bottom right now. Try to purchase a cleanser that is specifically designed to sooth sensitive skin. Organic products, even if you don’t usually use them, are worth a try to help alleviate irritation.
Switch to extra soft chemical-free baby wipes for the duration of the diarrhea. You can also try soaking your current wipes in clear water to remove some of the irritating ingredients before wiping your baby’s bottom with them, or using soft squares of flannel fabric from the fabric store soaked in water and a tablespoon of coconut oil. You can also use a clean washcloth with warm water to cleanse the diaper area.

