 Doing research can save you money in the end, and the following information can help you get started:


Vintage typewriters are generally those made before 1920. These machines can often command a price between $300 and $10,000.
There are a number of vintage typewriters that use other methods than the "QWERTY" keyboard. These command much higher prices.
Common American typewriter models include: Remington, Royal, Underwood, and Smith Corona. A popular German brand is the Olympia. Other vintage models to look for are the Blickensderfer, Hammond and Oliver.
The Underwood number 5 is possibly the most common vintage typewriter on the market today. It was mass-produced for the first half of the 20th century. It is renowned for being convenient, fairly light and striking.
It is rare to find a typewriter for less than $100 (64 pounds, 74 euros). Jewelry makers are willing to pay that much to deconstruct a typewriter's keyboard and use the keys for jewelry. A typewriter under $100 is very unlikely to work, and it may need to be refurbished.;
, Some good titles for research are American Typewriters: A Collector's Encyclopedia by Paul Lippman or Antique Typewriters: From Creed to QWERTY by Michael Adler.
 This will help you determine if a typewriter is in need of a major repair, or a simple replacement. Become familiar with the keys, type bars, carriage, platen, ribbon and carriage return mechanism.
 Unless the typewriter is listed on a collector website, it is unlikely the person is qualified to determine the condition of the typewriter. A "like-new" typewriter, listed on eBay, may be broken and require several hundred dollars of refurbishing before it can work.


Typewriters are bulky and heavy. They can be easily damaged during shipment. If you buy an old typewriter online, be sure you can return it if it is packaged poorly and damaged upon arrival.
 Pawn shops in both cities and small towns often have typewriters in fairly good condition. Although pawn sellers often have a good grasp on what a typewriter is worth, you may be able to barter to get a lower price.
 Antiques dealers are aware of the value of antique typewriters, so it is likely that they would sell you something in very good condition.
 People who worked in an office during the last century, often used typewriters at home. It is not uncommon to find an Underwood at an advertised estate sale or garage sale.
 Ebay typewriter auction can be a gamble, because there is no guarantee of condition. There is a wide selection, but overbidding is very common.
 These sites guarantee their typewriters and offer a wide variety. Prices for typewriters in working order may be more expensive and include a high shipping price, but it may save you on repair costs.
 Freecycle.org connects groups that give items away, and Craigslist's classified encourage low prices for people looking to get rid of items quickly. These typewriters are ideal for repurposing because they are likely to be in poor condition.

