 If possible, it may be helpful to have someone hold your horse in place. If you do not have anyone to help hold your horse, you may want to tie your horse to a stationary object.You want to make sure that your horse doesn't try to move away while you're lifting her feet, as this could cause injury to your horse and to you.


Be sure to use a quick-release mechanism or a quick-release knot when tying up your horse for hoof maintenance.;
, Where you stand is crucial when you're going to perform hoof maintenance. If you're standing in any way behind your horse's foot, she could easily kick you, which can cause you significant injury or even death.When lifting the front legs, stand perfectly in line with your horse's front leg, facing her rear. Stroke your horse's neck with the hand closest to her body. Use your other hand to run down the back of your horse's leg and grasp the cannon bone, right above her ankle.When lifting the hind legs, stand with your shoulders in line with your horse's hip bone, and remain facing the rear of your horse. Keep the hand closest to your horse firmly in place on her hip. Use your other hand to stroke her rear and gently run your hand down to the cannon bone (just above the ankle)., For the front legs, press against the horse's shoulder with the hand you were using to stroke her neck. For the hind legs, press against the horse's hip with the hand you were using to stroke her rear.When you properly apply pressure to the cannon bone, your horse should shift her weight to the other leg that you are not holding., Once your horse shifts her weight to the other foot, move your hand from the horse's shoulder or rear to the front of her ankle on the foot you're trying to lift. Gently cup the hoof in your hand. Then release the hoof, praise your horse, and offer her a treat., This should be done several times in a row until your horse learns what you're expecting of her and is no longer startled. Be sure that your horse knows where you are in relation to her body at all times, and be careful to avoid getting kicked., Once your horse is accustomed to having her cannon squeezed and lifting her leg on command, grasp the hoof and hold it in place., While holding your horse's hoof in place, use a hoof pick to pry away any large debris, such as rocks, grass, and manure.Use the hoof pick to gently pry debris out of your horse's frog (the cloven V-shaped part of your horse's hoof).Work the frog from heel to toe, being cautious not to accidentally poke the frog itself.Use the side of the pick to scrape the surface of the sole and the outer edges of the hoof., Once you've picked away large objects with the hoof pick, use a stiff-bristle brush to gently scrub away mud, dirt, and sand.Once you've picked and brushed the hooves, you should be able to clearly see the sole of your horse's hoof.Don't be alarmed if your horse's frog appears tattered or worn. Horses shed the frogs of their hooves one to two times each year., It's important that you thoroughly clean each hoof every day, especially after riding or performing field work with your horse., Thrush is a bacterial infection, typically acquired from standing for prolonged periods on wet or dirty ground. Thrush should be treated with an over-the-counter medication, and the stall should be thoroughly cleaned and dried to prevent future occurrences of thrush.Signs of thrush include:


foul smells in the frog of the hoofa dark ooze secreted from the froga "cheesy" texture on the frog, Inspect the sole of the hoof closely. If your horse stepped on something sharp that subsequently fell out, you may not notice the wound until an abscess forms. If you find a foreign object that is still stuck in the hoof, it's important that you do not pull it out. Call your veterinarian as soon as possible to have the vet examine your horse's puncture wound.If an abscess has formed, you will most likely notice it during inspection. In addition to visual signs of an abscess, your horse's hoof will probably feel warmer to the touch, and her digital pulse will most likely throb stronger than usual. Have your vet inspect the abscess as soon as possible to prevent infection.If both of your horse's front hooves are warm to the touch and throbbing with an unusually strong pulse, and your horse is shifting from side to side uncomfortably, call your veterinarian immediately. Your horse may have laminitis, which is fatal if left untreated., Horse hooves often experience minor, "superficial" cracks that do not cause any real discomfort or harm. However, some cracks can develop into bigger, deeper, more painful cracks. If you notice a crack, it's best to stay ahead of the problem and let your farrier or vet know where the crack is and how big it is. Either your farrier or your vet should be able to tell you whether the crack needs to be addressed or not.Keeping your horse's hooves shoed can help prevent cracks and abscesses from forming., Flares, or hoof walls with an incorrectly-trimmed edge, should be rasped off every two weeks or as often as necessary. The walls of each hoof should be straight without any irregular flares on any sides of the hoof.Use a rasp in a side-to-side motion across the quarter section of the hoof walls until all quarters are flush with the ground., When trimming hooves, balancing the hoof is one of the most important concerns. Make sure that the the hoof wall's inner and outer size and shape are equal.If you have never trimmed a horse's hooves before, it's best to have a vet or farrier show you how to trim the hooves. An even better option would be to have the farrier perform the trimming, to ensure that you do not accidentally injure the horse.
 Hooves will generally need to be trimmed every 10-12 weeks for light-use, unshod horses. Some horses, depending on use level, will need to have their hooves trimmed every five to seven weeks. Each horse's needs will be different on a case-by-case basis. Consult with your vet or farrier on how often your horse's hooves need to be trimmed., Before you can shoe a horse's hooves, you need to ensure that the hooves have a balanced trim. If a hoof is unbalanced, you may have to rasp the walls until the walls are straight and the quarters are flush with the ground., There are many materials that horse shoes are made of, though typically a shoe will be steel, aluminum, or plastic, depending on the horse's anticipated use and activity levels.Once you've selected a material, you'll need to measure the shoe to your horse's hoof.


A good-fitting shoe should run the circumference of the hoof wall, covering the heels without extending out past the edge of the hoof. If a shoe sticks out past the edge, the horse may accidentally step on the rim of the shoe, and it could get pulled off or dislodged., Horse shoes are usually fastened in place using short nail clinches. Use square clinches that are not too coarse, and fasten the clinches approximately 3/4 inch up the wall of the hoof.If you are unfamiliar with how to fasten a horse shoe to a horse's hoof, have a farrier or qualified vet show you how to shoe a horse hoof.

