;
,


News and updates are a typical feature of homepages.
Once you have settled on the content, try to group similar items together conceptually.
 You can do this with a pen and paper. You can find resources, like HowStuffWorks.com, that will help you familiarize yourself with the terminology of web design and set reasonable expectations for the site's layout.


If you aren't overly creative, consider surfing the web in search of homepages that are similar to the look that you want to create. You will notice that homepages for different types of entities tend to follow certain conventions. For example, most university homepages have a nearly identical layout. This familiarity helps visitors navigate their sites.
 There are multiple options available to build the page itself.


Learn html, css and php, and write your homepage in a text editor. The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) offers a variety of free tutorials.
Install a WYSIWYG ("What You See Is What You Get") web authoring system. Instead of typing out the html code, this software allows you to build a website without demanding too much experience from you. You can find sophisticated (and not free) web authoring systems on the Internet, as well as some that cost less but may not operate as smoothly.
Hire someone to do the implementation for you. This could be very expensive, but it can free up your time and possibly help you sidestep the stress of designing the site yourself.



Open your file in a few of the popular web browsers to see whether the result matches your vision.
Visit the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), and upload your homepage. This will help ensure that your homepage looks the same no matter which web browser a visitor uses.
 Or consult sites, like HowStuffWorks.com, that have evaluated and ranked different hosts.


Free hosts are available, but they usually impose limits on the disk space you can use, the format of your page and your domain name. An Internet search for "free web hosting" will turn up a variety of hits.
For a monthly or annual fee you can get more freedom. You can choose your own domain name (for example, you could have .com for your home page's address), have access to virtually unlimited disk space, and have more control over the format of your content. An Internet search for "web hosting" will lead you to a number of reviews and services. Companies like Network Solutions or Go Daddy will let you see if your desired domain name is available.

