 The moment your suspicion turns into true fear, you should call the police. Simply pick up your telephone and dial 911 or whatever number will help you reach the police in your area.Tell the police someone is following you and you are scared for your life.
Give them as much information as you can about your location.
Follow their directions.
 If the person shows that they’re about to aggressively come after you, you should try to get away from them as quick as you can. By this point, it won’t hurt you to either run or drive away very quickly. In the end, you may be able to get to safety before they get you. When planning your getaway:


Don’t box yourself in traffic. For example, at a stop light don’t pull all the way up so your bumper is close to the car in front of you. Leave yourself room to drive around the car in front of you.
Avoid walking down any corridors, alleyways, or streets where there is only one or two ways in or out. The more open the street, the easier it will be for you to get to safety., If a person is moving toward you in an aggressive manner, you may want to yell or honk your horn to draw attention to the fact that you are in danger. By honking or simply yelling “help me,” you could both scare off the offender and get someone to come to your assistance.If you’re in a car, consider honking and turning on your emergency lights. This will alert passersby and emergency service personnel that you need assistance.
While making noise could alert others to the fact that you are in danger, it could also anger the person following you and cause them to hurt you.
 If your efforts to avoid them fail and they physically get ahold of you, you should seriously consider giving them your money or valuables so they don’t hurt you. The best-case scenario is that they just wanted to rob you and not hurt you. There is no good reason to put yourself in danger for some money or a piece of jewelry., Sign up with for a self-defense class. In these classes, instructors will teach you ways to defend yourself against attackers. Then, after learning self-defense, you’ll be able to make a choice as to whether you want to defend yourself or relinquish your valuables to an attacker.

Some common moves include kicking the assailant in the groin, striking them in the face with your open hand, or block their attach with your arm and then hit them back.
Remember, physically defending yourself could increase the chance that you are injured during a robbery or another type of assault.