 Highlight the important steps, including how you'll escape your bedroom and when you'll attack the kitchen. Take note of your parents' bedtime, and make sure your route is clear beforehand in order to avoid tripping over objects.


Unorganized raids rarely go as expected, so it is best to lay out a clear plan.
Plan for any relatives listening or trying to catch you in the middle of your raid.;
, While it isn't necessary, it lowers the chance of someone spotting you. Tight-fitting clothes are also recommended, as it prevents the fabric from being caught on something or making too much noise against your skin. If possible, wear your pajamas so that if someone catches you, you can say that you were getting a drink.


Leave pillows underneath your blankets in the shape of a body. This gives the appearance that you are still in bed. However, there is a chance that your parents may discover your trick. All in all, the best method is to not get caught.
 When the air conditioner turns on, wait a minute or two (depending on how long the AC will be on). After a while, it will provide good but limited, ambient noise that will cover up your noise. Your half-asleep family will hear the air conditioner and dismiss its noises.
 Walk with your toes first and ease back onto your heels. Another option is to use your heel first and ease your weight onto your toes. Walking flat-footed creates loud thumps. Instead of turning on the lights, bring a small flashlight, and do your best to cover up its beam. Refrain from waking up pets; otherwise, slowly wake them and provide comfort so they don't think you're an intruder. Below is a list of events you may encounter, along with tips on how to deal with them:



Someone Wakes Up. In this situation, avoid running back to your room. Not only will you lose any progress you've made but you'll also attract attention. Instead, get a drink and pretend that you're thirsty. Another option is to find a hiding spot. You could also lay down on a chair or a couch and pretend to be asleep. If your parent(s) question you, explain that you came down for a drink but became too tired to return to your room. Once your parent(s) return to his/her room, wait until he/she is asleep before continuing your kitchen raid.

Climbing Stairs. Staircases often creak underneath people's weight. To prevent any noises, take careful steps with your toes first. Always take a double step which is where you take one step with one foot before bringing your other foot down on the same step. And, to avoid creaking, plan your route in daylight, and pinpoint non-creaky spots.

Opening The Refrigerator/Pantry. Avoid using the handle to open the refrigerator, as this often causes it to creak or crack. Instead, find the crease where the door meets the body. Wriggle your fingers in between the two until it opens. Ease the door open from there. Unfortunately, the same method cannot be applied to pantries, as they often creak when opened slowly. The best is to open it quickly without knocking it into the wall.

Opening Doors. Turn the handle slowly. Using your free hand, apply a light pressure to the gap where the door meets the frame. Once you walk through the door, slowly pull it closed while keeping the handle turned so it doesn't click into place when pulled shut.

