 Bariatric surgery is a major and life-changing surgery. It takes months to prepare. Approximately six months before the surgery, you should begin your pre-op education.This pre-op education should help you decide if bariatric surgery is right for you.
Join a bariatric information or support group to learn about the surgery and receive support through the process.Learn as much about the surgery as possible. Read books and websites to find out more information about the procedure. Read stories from people who have undergone the surgery. Research the risks and complications associated with it.Learn about the lifestyle changes you will have to undergo before and after the surgery, including the dietary restrictions, smoking cessation and an exercise regimen.;
, In addition to seeing your bariatric physician and surgeon, you will need to be evaluated by a psychologist.This is an important part of the pre- and post-op process since obesity may have had an impact on your mental health. Bariatric surgery has a large impact on your physical and emotional life, so your psychological care aims to help you make an easier transition into your new lifestyle.The evaluation before surgery helps determine if bariatric surgery is right for you.
Psychological counseling also helps you address your relationship with food. You may be asked to discover factors that led to your weight or held you back from making lifestyle changes in the past.You may be asked to think or talk about why you want this change at this moment.
If you are an emotional eater, you may be able to find help to work through the issues surrounding that.
 Your doctor will give you a pre-op plan as you prepare for your bariatric surgery. Sometimes, doctors may tailor the surgery for your specific case, so make sure you know what exactly the surgery will entail. Other doctors or hospitals may follow very specific pre-op plans. Make sure to follow all instructions given to you by your doctor.Your doctor will give you information on how to prepare for the surgery and information regarding the surgery.
Your doctor will probably also give you a nutritional and exercise plan for pre- and post-op.
Ask your doctor any questions you have about the surgery, the risks, the pre-op plan, the nutritional plan, or the exercise routine. Discuss concerns you have with your doctor so they can be addressed early or as they arise.
 Before you get the surgery, you will have to undergo an array of tests. These tests ensure you are physically prepared for the surgery so you can be successful. These tests include:Complete blood count (CBC)
Urinalysis
Glucose tolerance
Chest x-ray
EKG
Chemistry panel
Gallbladder ultrasound
Upper endoscopy
Sleep apnea test
Cardiology workup
Other tests to check the lungs, heart, or gastrointestinal tract

, Prior to having surgery, you should discuss any medications that you take. Talk to your doctor about which medications are safe to take and which shouldn’t be taken before the surgery.You will not be able to take aspirin prior to the surgery. Don't forget to include any vitamins or supplements you may be taking.
 Before the surgery, talk to your insurance company to discuss whether or not they will pay for the surgery. If they don’t pay for all of the surgery, you should determine how much they will pay for.Find out if your insurance company has any requirements for bariatric surgery, such as a BMI requirement, or diet-related conditions.
Some insurance plans require pre-op education programs. Determine if your insurance provider requires this, and if they do, find out how long you have to be in the education program before your surgery.Schedule a financial planning meeting with the hospital to discuss any payment plan options available to you if you have to pay for anything out of pocket.Be aware that even if your insurance covers the surgery, it may take a long time to be approved. Contact your insurance company months in advance so you don’t have to reschedule or postpone your surgery.