 Placing the grate 2 to 3 inches above the coals will create high direct heat for searing your steaks. Make sure one section of the grate has no coals under it; that safe zone will stay cooler for cooking the interior of your steak.
 Position the grate so that it is 2 to 3 inches above the coals. Leave a safe zone with no coals for cooking the interior of the meat.
 Aim to get the inside of the grill to 400°F if you have a grill thermometer. The thinner your steaks are, the hotter you want the grill. This is because you don't want to cook the inside of the steak before the outside is a nice, crispy brown:



1/2 inch thick: 425-450°F. You shouldn't be able to hold your hand over the grill for more than 3 seconds.

3/4-1 inch thick: 360-400°F You shouldn't be able to hold your hand over the grill for more than 4-5 seconds.

1-1 1/2 inch thick: 325-360°F You shouldn't be able to hold your hand over the grill for more than 5-6 seconds., Then, light the coals directly or light them using a charcoal starter. Allow the temperature to reach 500 degrees Fahrenheit (260 C) before placing the steaks on the grill.
 The number of steaks that you can sear at one time will depend on both the size of your grill and the size of your steaks. Make sure that you leave at least a 2” (5 centimeter) clearance around the meat for even cooking.
 Cook the second side for 1-1/2 minutes. You should have a crispy brown crust on both sides of the meat., You can use your fingers to press on the steak and check it's doneness:

, You can use the fleshy part of your hand underneath the thumb to test out your steaks. To do so, simply press one finger into the center of the steak, then compare it against the following benchmarks.



Raw: Touch the fleshy part of your palm right underneath the thumb. It should have a lot of give.

Well done: Using the same hand, touch your thumb and pinky together. For comparison, touch the fleshy part under your thumb with the opposite hand, holding your thumb and pinky together. It will be firm.

Medium: Touch your thumb and ring finger, then check underneath your thumb. It will be a little less firm than the well-done version.

Medium Rare: Touch the thumb and middle together, then check your palm.

Rare: Touch the thumb and pointer fingers, then check your palm., If you cut into a hot steak right as it comes off the grill it will lose delicious juices. Resist the urge and place a piece of aluminum foil over the meat for 5 minutes or so, then dig in and enjoy.,