 The size of the balls does not matter; you just want one to be a little bit smaller than the other to make the head and body. Press each ball against your work surface to flatten them slightly. You don't need to flatten them by a lot—just enough so that they can't roll around., Cover the end of a toothpick with glue, then push it partway into the flat side of the small ball. Cover the rest of the toothpick with more glue, and push it the rest of the way into the flat side of the bigger ball. Make sure that there are no gaps between the two balls., Position your snowman so that he is standing upright. Holding it by the body, gently press the bigger ball against your work surface until the bottom flattens slightly. Once your snowman can stand upright without falling over, you are ready for the next step., Poke your felting needle up and down against it and into the Styrofoam ball. Keep doing this in various places until the wool stick. When you get to the seam between the two balls, wrap a tuft of wool around the neck, then poke the needle into the balls themselves, and not the space between them.

Use as many tufts and layers of wool roving as you need to in order to cover up the Styrofoam.
 Get a sheet of small, black, self-adhesive gems from the scrapbooking section of your arts and crafts store. Attach two gems to the small ball using hot glue to make the eyes. Attach three gems to the bigger ball to make the buttons.If you can't find any hot glue, use fabric glue or tacky glue instead. Don't rely on the adhesive that's already on the back of the gems; it's not strong enough.
If you'd like, you can attach four to five gems to the small ball to make the mouth.
Can't find any black gems? Try black, mini, doll-sized buttons instead.
 How big or small the nose is, is up to you. It is better to make it too long than too short, because you can always cut it down. Try to keep the nose proportionate to the snowman, however., Fold the angled sides together to form a cone, and secure them with some hot glue. Glue the nose to the small ball below the eyes., Cut a rectangle out of black felt, roll it into a tube, and secure it with hot glue. Cut a small circle out of black felt, glue it to one end of the tube, and cut off any overhang. Cut a larger circle out of black felt, and glue it to the other end of the tube; do not cut off any overhang. When you are done, glue the hat to the top of the snowman's head.Consider stuffing the tube with polyester stuffing before gluing the bigger circle. This will make the hat more stable., Cut a thin strip out of red craft felt, long enough to wrap around the snowman's neck. Cut a short fringe into both of the narrow ends. Wrap the scarf around the snowman's neck, and secure it with a loose knot or a drop of glue.Make the scarf fancier by embroidering the edges with white embroidery thread and a running stitch., Cut two mitten shapes, and glue them together with a toothpick sandwiched between them. Coat the other end of the toothpick with more glue, and poke it into the side of the snowman. Repeat this step for the other arm.To make fancier mittens: embroider the edges with white embroidery thread and a running stitch.To make simpler arms: get two small twigs, coat the ends with glue, then poke them into the sides of the snowman.

