 During a vaginal delivery the head of the baby must pass through the birth canal, through the vagina, and out of the body. During this process the head of the baby will usually press against the perineum until it stretches the tissues in this area enough for the head to pass through. Your doctor may perform an episiotomy if:Your baby is large and needs more room to exit your body
Your baby’s shoulders get stuck during the delivery
Your labor is so fast that the perineum doesn’t have time to stretch before the baby is ready to come out
Your baby’s heart rate indicates that the baby is in trouble and needs to be delivered as fast as possible.
Your baby is in an abnormal position, There are two types of incisions that your doctor can make. Both types require the same care after delivery and at home. The type of incision will depend upon your anatomy, how much room is needed, and the speed of the delivery.A midline or median incision is made from the end of the vagina back toward the anus. These are the easiest for the surgeon to repair after the baby’s birth, but they also have the highest risk of extending or tearing back to the anus during the birth.
A mediolateral incision is done at an angle from the back of the vaginal opening and away from the anus. This offers the best protection against tearing to the anus but is more painful for the woman after delivery. This type of incision is also more difficult for the surgeon to repair after the birth of the child.
 Let your doctor know that you want to allow enough time for the perineum to stretch on its own during birth. Ask for your doctor’s recommendations on how to reduce the need for an episiotomy.Make sure that your wishes are noted in the birth plan that the hospital staff will follow during the delivery. You will either develop this plan in your doctor’s office or during pre-admission.
During labor use a warm compress against the perineum to help the tissue to more easily stretch during delivery.
Ask your doctor if you can stand or squat to push. This places more pressure against the perineum, helping it to stretch.
Push for five to seven seconds gently while breathing through it in the initial stages of pushing which slows the delivery of the baby and gives the head more time to place pressure on the perineum and allow it to stretch.
Have your practitioner place gentle counter-pressure on the perineum during delivery so it doesn’t tear.
 You can also reduce the risk of needing to have an episiotomy by doing Kegel exercises throughout your pregnancy. Kegel exercises strengthen your pelvic floor muscles and get your body ready to deliver your child.Set aside a 5-10 minutes every day to perform Kegel exercises.
 In the final six to eight weeks before birth, perform a perineal massage once a day. This will help reduce the potential for tearing or the need for an episiotomy during birth. You can perform a perineal massage alone or with your partner.Lie on your back with your head against some pillows and your knees bent.
Massage a small amount of oil into the skin of the perineum. You can use a vegetable based oil or coconut oil to help soften the tissue and to help make it stretch.
Place your fingers around two inches inside your vagina and press downward toward the anus. Move your finger in a u-shape, stretching the skin between the vagina and anus. You may feel a tingling or burning sensation.
Hold this stretch for 30 to 60 seconds and then release. Do this stretch two to three times every time you do a perineal massage.

