 It takes 20 minutes for the brain to register that the stomach has become full. When our stomachs fill with water, the stomach begins to send those messages to the brain. This will help you eat more slowly, because the brain will register fullness earlier. Many people mistake feelings of thirst for feelings of hunger.
Staying hydrated throughout the day can also prevent you from feeling ravenous at mealtimes. Drink at least eight 8-oz glasses (2 liters) of water daily.
 If you’re walking around or distracted while you eat, chances are that you’re eating quickly and without thinking. When you sit down, you’re carving out a time that is only for eating.Avoid distractions even when sitting down. Turn off the TV or computer.
 This is a great trick to help you eat more slowly. After taking a bite, put down your utensil while you chew. Only pick the utensil back up once you’ve swallowed.If you’re dining with a friend, you can chat between bites, too. Put your utensil down while you engage in conversation. Then, pick it up when you’re ready for another bite.
 If you let yourself get too hungry during the day, you’re likely to overeat later. You’re also more likely to eat very quickly to make the hunger go away, which may result in you "stuffing" yourself.If you’re so busy that you forget to eat or don’t have time, plan ahead. Pack a snack in your car or backpack.
If snacking between meals is not an option, you can still try to slow down at mealtime. Remind yourself that eating faster won’t actually make you feel full faster.
 Rather than putting all of your food on your plate, serve yourself a little bit at a time. This has been proven to slow down the eating process.Divide meals into different courses. For example, serve yourself salad before you have your main course, rather than putting both courses on your plate at the same time.
You can divide a meal into smaller servings and eat one serving at a time. Keep additional servings off your plate so you have to physically get up and walk over to have another serving.
 This can be difficult if you aren’t used to stopping before you’re full. Aim to stop eating when you’re 80% full. This may mean eating less than you usually do.After you’ve eaten to 80% fullness, ask yourself if you still feel like eating. You may be used to eating more. If you feel the urge to eat more, even though you’re not hungry, this could be a sign that you usually overeat.

