 An animal trap is a hands-free way to humanely catch an armadillo and get it out of your hair for good. Purchase a large one-door animal trap from a store like Home Depot or Walmart.Make sure that the trap you purchase is a live trap, also known as a catch-and-release trap. These traps are non-lethal and won’t harm the armadillo.
Try to get a trap with measurements around 12” x 10” x 30”.;
, Before setting up the trap, take note of where the armadillo likes to hang out in your yard. You may notice that it burrows in a specific hole or that it tends to hide in a certain corner. Understanding the armadillo’s patterns will help you know where to set up your trap./images/thumb/8/84/Get-Rid-of-Armadillos-Step-2-Version-4.jpg/v4-550px-Get-Rid-of-Armadillos-Step-2-Version-4.jpg
/images/thumb/8/84/Get-Rid-of-Armadillos-Step-2-Version-4.jpg/v4-300px-Get-Rid-of-Armadillos-Step-2-Version-4.jpg









Also check outdoor structures like your shed or garage.
 Since armadillos usually come out at nighttime and in the early morning, set your trap up during the afternoon when the armadillo is out of sight. Place the trap in an area you have seen the armadillo crawl through. If the armadillo has a burrow, place the trap with the mouth of the trap near the hole. If the armadillo likes a certain area of underbrush, place the trap with the mouth facing the path the armadillo usually takes./images/thumb/8/86/Get-Rid-of-Armadillos-Step-3-Version-4.jpg/v4-550px-Get-Rid-of-Armadillos-Step-3-Version-4.jpg
/images/thumb/8/86/Get-Rid-of-Armadillos-Step-3-Version-4.jpg/v4-300px-Get-Rid-of-Armadillos-Step-3-Version-4.jpg









In general, armadillos prefer to crawl along the outskirts of a space rather than through the middle. Avoid placing the trap in the middle of the room or yard unless you’ve seen the armadillo there often.
Some people decide to bait armadillo traps with earthworms. However, it’s best not to bait traps since armadillos naturally burrow and dig to get their food and rarely eat things they find on the ground. The bait also may attract raccoons or other unwanted animals.Consider setting boards in a V-shape leading into the trap to lure the armadillos inside.
 Check on the trap several times a day after setting it. You don’t want to trap the armadillo only to forget about it, causing the animal distress. If after a few days the armadillo is still loose, consider moving the trap to another location that the armadillo favors.


If you have tried repositioning the trap and the armadillo still doesn't go in, call animal control.
 After you have captured the armadillo, try to release it as soon as possible. Put on protective gloves to protect your hands from the armadillo’s claws. Place the cage on floor of your car or in the bed of your truck. Drive at least five miles away from your home to a wooded area, preferably one around water, and open the cage to release the armadillo.Stand behind or to one side of the cage as you release the armadillo. There's no reason for it to attack you, but you should still try to not stand directly in front of its path.

