 Symptoms for chronic fatigue often come and go. When you have a number of the following symptoms for extended period of time, such as greater than six months, and seems to be worsening, you need to be evaluated by a physician. Symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) include: You feel tired for more than 24 hours after exertion. Notice if you are excessively tired for long periods of time after exerting yourself through intensive physical or mental activities. This is an important symptom to notice, as most of the time, exercise should leave you feeling energized, not fatigued.
You feel unrefreshed after sleep. Sleep should make you feel better. If you don’t feel better after sleep or suffer from insomnia, you may be suffering from CFS.
You lack short-term memory. You may easily misplace things or forget what someone has just told you. You also may experience general confusion or have trouble concentrating.
You suffer from muscle pain. You may experience soreness or muscle weakness not due to exertion. You experience joint pain. Your joints may hurt even though you do not have swelling or redness.
You have mild to severe headaches. These headaches differ from those you’ve had in the past and you can find no cause for them.
You feel enlarged lymph nodes in your neck or armpits. Swollen glands mean your body is fighting illness or an infection. You have a sore throat. Your throat may be sore, but is not linked to other cold or flu-like symptoms.;
, Your chronic fatigue may be linked to changes in your lifestyle. Consider any recent changes in your life.If you’ve recently had a viral infection, this may be a sign of CFS. Viral infections can be triggers for chronic fatigue.
Problems with the immune system can also lead to chronic fatigue. Remember if you’ve had any recent issues with your immune system.
Low blood pressure is often found in CFS patients. Monitor your blood pressure to see if it falls within the normal range. , Make sure it’s not due to injury or excessive exertion, but daily pain not linked to specific causes. If you experience any of the following, they may be linked to chronic fatigue: Muscle soreness
Joint pain without redness or swelling
Headaches

, Write down how much you sleep each night and how often you wake up. If you discover that you are sleeping well but still feeling exhausted, then CFS may be behind your fatigue.


You can download apps on your smartphone that will track and analyze your sleep quality.
Some nights you will sleep better than others. Recognize when you sleep less due to outside factors like work or other obligations as opposed to problems getting a restful night of sleep.
Know that sleep totals will change. You may experience problems for weeks and then sleep well for a long period of time.
Track if you wake up excessively early. If you are waking up hours before your alarm clock on a regular basis, write down how often that happens.
Note any instances of insomnia you may have. Even if it’s just for a few hours, write down any time you have significant trouble falling asleep.
Remember if you wake up often during the night. If you have one, ask your partner to note if you are sleeping fitfully.
Make yourself as comfortable as possible. Give yourself the best chance to sleep by dressing comfortably and keeping your sleeping area dark and cool.
 You may have changed your non-essential activities to compensate for your increased fatigue. Look further into whether CFS is a factor if the following is true:


You have reduced all other outside activities besides work. You do not meet with friends or family unless absolutely necessary.
Your weekends are spent recovering or resting for the week. You cannot imagine doing anything on the weekends, since you need the time to recover and prepare for work.
You have stopped all leisure activities. You may have quit any athletics you are involved in or any groups that you have joined.

