 Figure out how much material you need to remove from the bottom of the material. With the piece inside-out, fold up the bottom to this desired length and pin the material in place.


The excess fabric should be brought to the underside of the project.
The fold of your hem should be positioned over your intended hemline.
You should also consider pressing the fold in place with a hot iron.
 You should only have about 1/4 inch (6 mm) of fabric between your fold and the raw edge. Cut off any excess using sharp scissors.


If a 1/4 inch (6 mm) thickness seems a little intimidating to work with, you can increase this amount to 1/2 inch (1.25 cm). Do not make the material any thicker than that, however, or the hem will not turn out correctly.
 You will need to attach a rolled hem presser foot to your sewing machine to create this hem. A standard presser foot will not work.


The exact steps you'll need to follow when changing out the presser foot can vary by machine, so check your model's instructions.
 Using your fingers, roll a small hem along the bottom of the raw edge, rolling the material inward toward the fold so that the raw edge is hidden.


The hem needs to be about 1/8 inch (3 mm) wide if you left 1/4 inch (6 mm) of material, or 1/4 inch (6 mm) wide if you left 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of material.
 While still pinching the rolled hem in place with your fingers, carefully transfer the material to your sewing machine. Lower the needle into the rolled portion of your hem to secure it in place.
 Run the machine, stitching five to seven stitches along your hem.


At this point, you only need to stitch enough of the hem in place to get it started.
 Use your fingers to carefully feed the raw edge of your material into the curly-cue at the front of your presser foot. Continue sewing along the hem, gently coaxing the fabric into the curlycue of the presser foot as you work.


The presser foot itself will guide the material for the most part, drawing it in and rolling it under as you work. As such, you should not need to roll the rest of the bottom edge by hand.
The raw edge of your material should run parallel with the edge of the presser foot and on the left. The fold should run parallel on to the right.
 Once finished, check your hem to make sure that the entire bottom has been rolled and stitched in place. Re-stitch any incomplete section, then turn the fabric right-side out again.


This step should complete the process.

