 If the psychotic individual is not violent, sit next to them, and talk to them in a normal voice. Try to comfort them, if they experience or hallucinate something unpleasant. The conversation should be simple; individuals going through a psychotic episode may find communication or speech difficult.Ask the individual questions, and if their mind seem to be drifting, try to grab their attention.
Make sure to reassure them and let them know that you are there for them.
 Although you want to avoid blaming or criticizing the psychotic individual, you should also avoid playing into their psychoses.This will only worsen the situation and make the individual’s break with reality more difficult to come back from. However, try not to argue with them or engage in too much discussion with them.


An individual going through a psychotic episode may not realize that what they’re experiencing is unreal or the way they’re acting is abnormal.
Avoid saying things like, “Nothing that you’re describing is real; you’re acting crazy and making this up!”
Also avoid saying something like, “I hear the same voices too, they’re saying the same things to me.”
Instead, say something like, “I don’t fully understand what you’re going through, but I understand why it might be confusing or scary.”

, Empathize as much as possible; psychosis can be a confusing and frightening thing to experience. The psychotic individual cannot “snap out of it,” nor is it a “punishment” of any sort. It is not their fault and they shouldn’t be blamed for it.Let the person know that you take them seriously and support them. Say things like:“I can’t imagine what you are going through, but I’m happy to listen.”
“Tell me what you’re experiencing, and I think you should also talk about it with your doctor.”
“This experience will pass with time, let’s talk until you feel better.”

, A psychiatrist or psychologist can help figure out what caused the episode, and help prevent future psychotic episodes. If the individual is not already undergoing therapy and medical treatment, strongly encourage them to do so after the psychotic episode has passed.Mental-health professionals will be able to help the psychotic individual take steps to decrease the frequency and severity of their episodes. Make sure that the person has somewhere to go to get help after the episode. If they do not, then help them to find help.
Things like self-care, stress management, and counseling can make a large difference to the person’s mental health., Dealing with someone else’s psychotic episode can be mentally traumatic, especially if the individual is a close friend or family member. It may help you to talk to a therapist or counselor.


If you’re close with the individual who had the psychotic episode, follow up with them as well. Make sure they’re safe and healthy. As long as you don’t downplay the importance of their own experience, you can tell them about your experience of their psychotic episode and why it was difficult for you as well.
Make sure not to criticize them or pass judgment about their experience. It is important to avoid making them feel bad about their behavior or to make them worry that they might have scared you away.

