 Do not assume you will be able to take over a hostage situation because you read an article. This is intended to educate not necessarily enable.;
, Are you a single, strong, mentally capable individual? Do you have no room mates and no children? When you consider other people it may be smarter to have a get away plan versus an engagement plan. The terminology is called "fight or flight". You will figure out exactly what you want to do in about the first three seconds of any situation, it is a basic human instinct to fight your aggressor or run from him.
 Know what floorboards squeak in your hallway and what mirror will allow you to see down the hallway from the bathroom (examples).
 Once you are familiar with your environment have an escape plan from every location within the confines of the walls. If you have a 3000 sq ft home or a 450 sq ft studio have a plan on how to get out in a moments notice.
 Keep a pair of tennis shoes at the foot of your bed. Make sure the laces are untied (not like the pic) and your feet can slip into the shoes quickly in the event of emergency. If the house catches fire in the middle of the night you will need to escape quickly and may have to walk over broken glass. Keep a loaded firearm within reasonable distance of your bed or any place you spend the greatest amount of time. If the gun is not near you 90% of the time you are home make sure it is locked up. There are a number of easily accessible lockable safes on the market.
 Keep the firearm pointed where your eyes are focused. If you are looking down the hallway point the gun down the hallway not at the floor, that’s a good way to shoot your foot.
 If an attacker fires a shot and it hits the wall the projectile has the potential to graze the wall and run about 1 - 6" from the wall until it finds a target.
 Your eyes will take about 2-5 minutes to adjust back to normal. If you can don't use a light. If it becomes impossible to defend yourself use a flashlight. Preferably a surefire.
 Don’t hold your weapon and your flashlight with the same hand. Hold the flashlight as far out as your weak hand will allow. (Example- if you are right handed hold the firearm in your right hand and flash light in your left. hold the firearm straight in front of you, do not put it off to the side. Hold the flashlight as far away from you in your left hand as is comfortable. Make sure you hold it away from you because statistically shots are fired at flashlights in low light situations.
 You don’t want to shoot an innocent person.
 If your three year old daughter’s bedroom is directly behind the bad guy you may consider not shooting due to the inherent danger of shooting your daughter.
 Consider this; its nighttime, your eyes are hazy, your adrenaline is pumping, heart racing, nerves are shot. . . do you really need the added pressure of making a 20 feet (6.1 m) shot at a melon sized target? Do everyone the favor and fire at the center of the body. No one said you could only fire one time . . . empty the whole magazine!

, You exert less pressure over a larger area and it helps with your moving stealthily.
 With your pistol aimed slowly come around a corner as to only expose your body to an area you have already identified as clear. Search in YouTube "cutting the pie," and you should find something interesting. With enough practice you can do this around every corner very easily.
 Set up motion sensor lights on your front porch, side yards, back yards etc. The bad guy doesn’t want to be seen. The light also allows you to identify where the bad is or has recently been. A dog would be another good investment.


Locks: a solid dead bolt is not a foolproof lock mechanism, but they are very worth while and helpful.
Doors: Solid core wood doors are a minimum and a very poor one at that. Metal doors with insulated inserts are best for the average home perimeter doors. If I can take a whole saw and cut out the lock on your wooden door in the time it takes Fido to bark and your wife to wake you I am coming in and having my way. Get the picture?
Windows: They break! Windows will be the weakest point on your perimeter. You can invest in better stronger windows that are a little more durable and won’t come out of the track from the outside. Find ones that you cannot manipulate from the outside.
Security Doors: Along with not being cosmetically appealing they are also not full proof. A pry bar near the locking mechanism will allow for easy access to your front door.
Alarm Systems: Again they are nice but not foolproof. A power outage will revert your alarm to battery back up. If the cable from your panel to the service center is cut and the audible function is cut and now you have an alarm that is going off an no one knows.
Private Security: Probably worth the cost when it comes to one house. Now if you and the neighborhood want to go in on this together then it might work. You have to think of the intricacies of a piece of property. Trees, shrubs, rocks, telephone poles, fences, cars etc. are all going to block the line of sight from the rent-a-cop to your bad guy. Besides the point If the bad guy is walking down the street and hasn't committed a crime yet the only thing the security guard can do is call the real police, that being said the rent-a-cop is pretty much not worth having at your home.
Ultimate Security System: Buy a dog, preferably a German Sheppard or another large breed known for being fiercely loyal. Dogs do not fail during power outages, cannot be deactivated by experienced crooks, generally provide advanced warning of thieves, and don't have a 10 minute response time. You'll never regret that particular investment.
Neighborhood Watch: this is probably the best advancement in home security in a long time. A strong bond with your neighbors will have a detrimental affect on burglaries/robberies in your area. Jim and Sandy go out and walk the dog at 830 and everything is fine and on their way home at 900 they notice a van with two adult males in your driveway is a great advantage to you.
Yard Care: Keep your home free from shrubs and trees that block the view of windows. You don’t want to have a broken window that the neighbor or passing police officer can’t see. Keep the shrubbery away from the house by about 2 feet (0.6 m). You want to be able to see the perimeter of your home very clearly. Keep shrubbery under two feet in height and tree limbs above 7 feet (2.1 m). this will allow for a "window" of your home to be seen from the street. The same for your back yard only a little different with your fence. A lot of people like shrubbery around the fence. I don’t agree with this. You need to keep shrubbery at a minimum height of 18in off of the ground to allow you to see the fence behind it clearly. Try to keep shrubbery off of the fence the same way as the house.
Housekeeping: Some people are filthy. Don’t be one of them. Keeping your home tidy and clean may prove more useful than not. If you have kid’s toys and shoes and clutter all over your floor and you are trying to move your family to safety in the dark everyone will trip and fall. Eliminate this by keeping the house tidy.
Safe Room: These aren’t just in the movies. You can make your own very easily. Pick a room than has no obstructions like alternate entry exits. Make sure you can fit your family in it. Your master bedroom walk in closet will be more practical than the coat closet in the hallway. Invest the money in a solid core door and a dead bolt. Make sure the light switch is on the inside. Make sure you have furniture such as dressers, bureaus, chests that are made of a hard wood that can shield your family from an attack. Also keep your cell phone near your bed so you can grab it and have it readily available. The safe room in my home is the master bedroom itself. I have a dresser and a chest near the bed that will provide adequate support to any engagement in the home. Your safe room doesn’t have to be like the movie Panic Room. You can have a designated room in the home that your family knows to go to.
 You did a fire drill in elementary school. Do a practice with your family. Involve them and make them aware that they will be safe if they act calmly and get straight to you.

