 Lightening, also known as the baby dropping, refers to your baby moving towards the lower pelvis. This may happen a few weeks before birth or a few days.


You will find yourself less short of breath as the baby is pushing less on your lungs; however, as the baby is moving downward, there will be increased pressure on your bladder. You may need to urinate more frequently.There might also be a sense of pressure or heaviness in your pelvis.It may be a few weeks before labor begins, but if you've experienced the lightening it is a sign that labor is coming.;
, In labor, the cervix expands to allow the baby to pass through the vagina. When this occurs, a large amount of discharge comes through the vagina. The mucus plug and bloody show are two early signs of labor.


Capillaries burst as the cervix dilates in preparation for birth. This causes pink or brown vaginal discharge, known as the "bloody show." Your bloody show can occur anywhere from a few hours before birth to a few weeks.Throughout your pregnancy, a thick plug of mucus blocks your cervix to prevent infection. For some women, the plug falls out during the early stages of cervix dilation.The plug will be pinkish in color and stringy in texture. Much like your "bloody show," this can happen a few hours to a few weeks before you give birth., One of the most well-known aspects of labor is the water breaking. This can be a slow or sudden process. You should always inform your doctor or midwife when your water breaks as labor needs to start soon after this occurs to prevent complications.


The amniotic sac is filled with a variety of fluids that help cushion the baby during pregnancy. The membranes in this sac rupture during the early stages of labor. This is what's known, conventionally, as your water breaking.Your water breaking can be a slow, trickling sensation, something like gradually leaking. It can also be a sudden release of fluids.With the amniotic sac no longer intact, labor will begin soon. The risk of infection increases if labor is delayed after your water breaks so your doctor may want to induce if you do not begin labor naturally.