 This guitar is more complex to make, but the results are well worth it. Here's a list of what you will need:


Shoe box
Box cutter and scissors
Cardboard
4 – 6 rubber bands
School glue
Cardboard tube, paper towel tube, or pvc pipe
Tape or hot glue
Paint, paper, stickers, etc (to decorate);
, Use a cup or mug to trace a circle into a shoe box lid. Then, use a box cutter to cut the circle out.This will be your sound hole.


If you are a child, ask an adult to help you with this step.
If you can't find a shoe box, you can buy one from the scrapbooking section of an arts and crafts shop. They are mainly used for storing photographs, but they are right size and come in many different colors and patterns.
 These will be your string holes. Make sure to align the top and bottom holes so that each string will run straight across the sound hole. The row of holes should not extend past the widest point of the sound hole.
 You can paint the box part using acrylic or tempera paints. You can also cover the lid and box parts (separately) with paper. Here are some more ways in which you can decorate your guitar:


Draw designs on the guitar using markers, crayons, or glitter glue.
Stick some stickers or foam shapes onto your guitar to make it look more colorful.
Decorate the rim of the sound hole.
Paint the inside of your box. This way, the color will show through the sound hole, and make your guitar look more interesting.
 Measure the distance from the far left string hole to the far right string hole, then cut the cardboard accordingly. Each strip of cardboard needs to be the same length.


If you’ve painted the body of the guitar, you may want to paint the strips of cardboard as well. For a more striking effect, paint them using a contrasting color.
 The strips should be right between the string holes and the top to bottom edge of the sound hole. The strips will help lift the strings off the body of the guitar and give you a better sound.
 The distance between the holes needs to be the same as the string holes you made on your box lid.
 You will be stringing these rubber bands through the string holes. Consider using both thick and thin rubber bands. Each will give you a different sound.
 Begin by tying a knot at the end of each rubber band. Thread the loose end through the holes in one of the cardboard strips. You will need one rubber band for each hole. The knot at the bottom of the rubber band will keep it from falling out.


Don’t make the knots too close to the ends of the bands or the ends might slip through and untie the knots.
 The cardboard strip will hold the rubber bands securely in place. If you want, you can tape the edges of the cardboard strip to the underside of the lid.
 You can use a binder clip to temporarily hold the rubber band strings in place once you have fed them through the string holes.
 Secure each rubber band by tying the end into a knot. If you want, make each string a little looser/tighter than the previous one. This will allow you to achieve different notes, sort of like in a real guitar. You can also tape the cardboard strip to the underside of the lid

, This will help cover the holes and make your guitar look neater. Each piece of cardboard needs to be long enough to cover all of the string holes on each side. Draw a line of glue across the top and bottom holes, then press the cardboard strip down onto it.


Consider painting the cardboard strip a contrasting color so that it stands out from the rest of your guitar.
 You can use a cardboard mailing tube, a paper towel tube, or even a plastic or pvc tube.
 You can paint it, cover it with paper, or even wrap tape around it to make it more colorful. You can also glue paper "keys" to the top of the tube to make the knobs. You can even draw 4 to 6 lines down the front of the tube to make the strings.


Note that if the neck is a different material than the body, the painted result might not match (even if you use the same paint).
 Use the base of your tube to trace a circle onto the top of your guitar. Then, use a box cutter to cut the circle out.


If you are a child, ask an adult to help you with this step.
 Slide the tube about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) down into the hole. If your tube is made out of a heavier material, slide it down further. Secure the seam between the tube and the box with hot glue or tape. Make sure that you are putting the tape and glue on the inside of your box, so that you don't see it once you put your guitar together.
 Draw a line of glue around the inside edges of your box lid. Place the lid down onto the box and wait for the glue to dry.
 If you want, you can cut a triangle shape out of some colored cardboard and use it as a guitar pick.

