 The number of federal agencies that exist can be mind-boggling, and the number that can possibly hold or have information regarding unclaimed property is extensive.


As mentioned, in the U.S., unclaimed property is most often held at the state level, yet unclaimed funds ranging from tax refunds to mortgage over payments or O.P. can be kept within federal agencies.
The following steps cover several key agencies to consider when searching for unclaimed cash., This one makes sense as an agency that might hold money owed to you. The Bureau of Public Debt holds unclaimed U.S. savings bonds, one of the largest sources of unclaimed money held at the federal level.


Savings bonds that have been lost, destroyed, or forgotten, including gift bonds that may have been misplaced, etc., can be identified through an online search on the bureau’s site.You will need to provide a Social Security number, however — probably your own, but possibly that of the person who gifted you a savings bond (if they did not include yours at purchase).
Follow the claim procedures on the site, and download and submit the relevant form if you think you have tracked down a bond.
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was established to build public support for banks during the Great Depression by federally guaranteeing deposits (now up to $250,000). The National Credit Union Association does the same for deposits in credit unions.


If a bank or credit union fails, the relevant one of these two agencies holds the insured, deposited funds of customers.
Each agency has its own site and own search interface, but the process of searching by name and filing a claim (downloading, printing, filling out, and mailing a form) are similar., You might assume that no one would ever forget about a federal tax refund, but the Internal Revenue Service in fact retains large numbers of unclaimed refunds each year.


The online search procedure is straightforward; however, to conduct the search, you need not only your name, but your Social Security number, filing status, and the exact refund amount due to you.Therefore, this process is more about acquiring money you know is owed to you than discovering new funds you forgot (or never knew) were owed to you.
That said, if you do realize you never got a refund several years back, and can dig up your return with your refund amount, this is the way to reclaim that money.
 If none of the most common federal repositories for unclaimed funds have anything for you, the list of other agencies you can try goes on and on. A few others deserve mention in particular.The Federal Housing Administration holds refunds for FHA-insured mortgages. If you have or had such a mortgage, you will need your case number to conduct the search. Please note that the FHA is only required to hold these funds for six years.The Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) holds funds for pension plans that have “gone under” and those provided by companies that no longer exist. If you had a pension plan with a company that ceased to be (not just changed names or ownership), or that scrapped, dissolved, or reconfigured its pension system, you may want to search here.The Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) works to reclaim misappropriated pension and retirement funds. Basically, if you think your employer absconded with or frittered away your retirement money, this is the place to look.