 Picasa web albums is a free image management software provided by Google. Picasa lets you keep your all images on your system stay centralized and organized in a central place. You have many flexibility when it comes to organizing your images like you can short all the images according to it's name, type,size, date etc and arrange all those images in different albums with different album names.;
, As you finish installing Picasa web albums on your system and when you will run it for the first time. You will get a message to collect and store all the images in Picasa default Images folder. It's a good idea to select this right away since the images we upload here will get visible online in Google Images search results.
 Remember now for us to upload images , all we have to do is choose the album we would like to be uploaded online and synchronize it with our gmail account.



To synchronize, you only have to log in with your gmail Id in Picasa and set your favorite album to 'synchronized' mode. Once you have set and synchronized your favorite album, then this would mean that all the images of this album will be visible once you log in to your Google plus profile and in future if you have more images which you want to upload to Google images then all you have to do is simply drag those images to this folder on your hard disk and all the images will get uploaded to Google automatically.
 There are three privacy mode of the images which you upload:



Private Images: This means once you upload any image and set it's privacy mode to 'private', then those images could not be found by search engines and when somebody searches the image name on Google images search, they won't find your image. Private images can only be seen by a secret link which you, being the uploader of the image, know and you can anyone watch your images by sharing them direct link.

Public Images: This means once you upload any image and set it's privacy mode to public, it's going to be available to everyone and your images could be found on search engines and if somebody makes a query on Google images search results chances are that Google Images search result will display your images.

Unlisted Images: This means once you upload any image and set it's privacy mode to 'Unlisted', it won't be seen in any way. You, being the uploader of the image, can only see and for that you have to be logged in. There is no link to share and it cannot be found on search engines.

