 It’s not just what you say that is important, it’s also how you say it. The tone and volume of your voice can have a big impact on how people respond to you, and whether or not they listen to you. Try to speak at a normal conversational volume, not too loud, and not too quiet. Use a tone that is firm but not aggressive. This will make you sound more confident and assured.Don’t mumble your words, and pay attention to the responses of your interlocutors to judge their reactions.
If they are leaning forwards, it might be because you are talking a little too quietly and they are struggling to hear you.
 Eye contact is an essential part of non-verbal communication. Just by looking at somebody you are inviting a certain level of interaction and engagement. Research shows that somebody returning eye contact is generally indicative of the acceptance of an invitation, and averting the eyes can suggest a rejection. People who seek eye contact with their interlocutors are generally perceived as more believable and earnest.Try to maintain eye contact with the person you are talking to, but be sure to do so in a non-aggressive way and don’t stare.
Try to maintain eye contact for around 50% of the time you are talking, and 70% of the time you are listening.
Once you establish eye contact, hold it for around five seconds.
When you look away, do it slowly. Don’t suddenly look in another direction.
Try to establish eye contact before you start speaking to someone to make a strong initial impression., Good body language can really help you create a strong impression when talking. It’s important to consider your body language and how well it matches up with what you are saying. For example, you will be sending mixed and confusing messages if you speaking firmly, but looking down at floor.


Try to maintain good eye contact, stand tall and straight, and relax your face while talking.Body language is thought to give an honest expression of how you are feeling.Try to look appropriately relaxed for the situation, but don’t try too hard and look overly relaxed. This might signal that you are disinterested.