 Feeling fulfilled at work or in school is a great way to promote your general well-being and to nourish your mental health.To do this, try making a list of all of the things that you enjoy doing for your job or for school.

For example, for your job you might include things like interacting with customers, working closely with my coworkers, or sorting mail. For school, you might include things like, math class, visiting with my friends at lunch time, or playing soccer in physical education class.
If you are working a job that you do not find satisfying or that makes you feel unhappy, then it might be time for a change. Start looking into other jobs that you might like to do. If you are struggling to find things that make you happy at school, then you might consider talking with a school counselor to get some help with identifying ways that you can improve your school experience.
 Mental stimulation is an important part of your overall well-being.You may feel intellectually stimulated while you are working or in certain classes, or you may need to create your own opportunities for intellectual stimulation.

For example, you could try reading a new book, doing a daily crossword puzzle, or playing intellectually stimulating games with your family, such as chess or Scrabble.
 Try to develop a strategy for processing and expressing your emotions, such as writing about them in a journal or calling a friend and telling them what is going on.

If you had a rough day, then you might take 15 minutes to notice how you are feeling, label the feeling, and then to write about the source of this feeling. For example, you might notice that you feel angry and attribute it to getting a low grade on your math test. You might write about how you feel angry at yourself because you did not study for the test.
Make sure that you identify a healthy way to deal with the emotion, such as going for a run, playing some music, or engaging in a favorite hobby, such as cooking or knitting., A powerful way to boost mental health is by engaging in meaningful work. You may have heard the phrase “do what you love, love what you do.” There’s no better prescription for a healthy, fulfilling life. However, doing what you love doesn’t necessarily have to refer to a job or career. Loving your job can be an exhilarating part of life, but there are also many other ways to contribute in a meaningful way.


The secret to doing meaningful work is using your personal strengths.First, you must identify your strengths by either reviewing the areas/skillset you’re good at, asking for feedback from others, and/or completing a strengths-based questionnaire, such as the VIA Character Strengths Questionnaire.Once you have figured out what your strengths are, you can leverage them in your everyday life. For example, if a major character strength of yours is integrity, you could use this strength to your advantage. Take on the role of treasurer in a community organization or become an ambassador for a global fundraiser since a person of integrity is a great choice for handling money.
Find as many ways as you can each day to put your personal strengths to work. As you do this, you will notice yourself becoming more empowered and satisfied with your life.
 You may want to become a doctor, travel the world, or go back to college. However small or big your dreams are, you can only reach them by completing manageable chunks at a time. Adopting the habit of setting realistic and attainable goals allows you to notice and feel accomplished about your achievements, and, therefore, increase your quality of life.


One method for setting realistic goals is to use the S.M.A.R.T. acronym. S.M.A.R.T. goals are those that are:Specific- be clear about what you want to do
Measurable- be clear about how you can keep track of progress
Attainable- be sure that the goal actually is achievable through action
Relevant- be sure that the goal is relevant to you and your dreams
Time-bound- be sure to set a firm deadline that is challenging, but reasonable



, The best way to maximize your satisfaction of life and nourish mental health is by showing steady growth. How do you do that? You grow by challenging yourself and getting out of your comfort zone.


If you always did what was safe and familiar you would be closed off from other areas of potential that you can develop. Being challenged beyond your comfort zones creates a bit of good stress so that you are pushed to learn, invent, create, and transform.
Take strides to challenge yourself daily by putting fear aside and asking yourself “what would I do today if I could not fail?” Whatever pops into your head, go for it.
Plus, you shouldn’t be afraid of making mistakes because they are simply growing and learning opportunities. Reframe how you look at failure by giving it new meaning—think of FAIL as a “first attempt in learning.”, If you are searching for a small way to boost your mental wellness each day, look no further than beyond your front door. Getting outside into the natural world delivers unbelievable advantages to physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual health. Many people feel more connected with to a higher power or the universe when they step outside. Not to mention, getting a bit of sunlight and fresh air can be incredibly refreshing.


Studies reveal that spending time outdoors can reduce depression, increase energy, and improve one’s overall well-being. People who spent just 20 minutes in nature felt revitalized and had a greater resistance to illness. Take a book outdoors and read. Put your dog on a leash and walk through the woods. Or, simply take a few minutes each day to enjoy through your garden. Any time spent outside is an investment to your mental health.

