 Grasp the straps, and lean backwards so that your body is at an angle. Allow the straps to support your weight and keep your back straight. Your arms should be straight out in front of you. Tighten your core muscles, and use your arms to pull your upper body upwards. Lower yourself back to the floor, completing one rep.You can adjust the angle of your body as needed to increase or decrease the difficulty of this exercise. The more parallel you are with the ground, the harder the exercise will be.
Your strap should be at mid-body length.
 Lay face down on the ground with your feet pointed downward in the suspension straps. Lift your upper body up with your forearms flat on the ground. Your elbows should be just under your shoulders. Keeping your body straight and your forearms in place, hinge at the hips so that your buttocks lifts up slightly. This upward thrust is very subtle; basically, you just don't want your body sagging downward. Push yourself as far forward as you can go, then as far backward, which equals a single rep.Make sure to keep your back straight and your hips bending as you move forward and back.
The straps should be at calf-length.
 Start by facing away from the straps with your arms straight out in front of you in the straps. Keeping your hands in front of you, bring your torso down until it's about even with your hands, then push out your arms straight again, which makes one rep.When moving into the pushup, put your weight on the balls of your feet.
Try starting out more upright (less than 90 degrees), and moving down to 90 degrees as you get more confident.
The strap should be at about mid-body for this exercise.
 You'll likely need to adjust the straps longer for this exercise. A clock press is similar to a pushup in suspension, but you add an extra move. Face away from the straps. The straps should be in your hands, across the palms with your arms extended. Bending your arms, lean forward until your arms and upper body reach the point of the pushup where you'd typically be near the floor. Your upper body should be in line with your hands. Push one arm straight out to the side, and then bring it back in. Do the same with the other arm. Push back up into the standing position, straightening out your arms again.Your heels should be off the ground for this exercise.
Start out with just a gradual incline and work up to a greater incline as you gain strength.
Also, keep your elbows in line with the ribs and hands in front of the elbows. This exercise can cause shoulder injuries if your arms are fully extended out to your sides.
The straps should be at calf length.

