 Like a REIT, a real estate investment group (REIG) pools the money of two or more people to purchase, develop, manage and sell properties. In many cases, the properties bought are apartments or a similar property type, and investors own one or multiple units within the building.Typically, this will involve a much larger initial investment than simply buying into a REIT, but a smaller one than buying a property yourself. It also lacks many of the inherent risks of property trading because the risk is shared among many investors.


Because these groups are generally much smaller than real estate investment trusts, members can aid in managing properties and gather tips and advice from other seasoned investors. This allows for more personal interaction with your investment.
This involvement is not consistent throughout all REIGs. In some cases, the company that manages the REIG will do all of the advertising, management, and maintenance for investors. This allows investors to make money without any additional effort., REIGs function much like mutual funds because they do not have to be self-managed, and also have the fees that go with them. Be sure to investigate any potential REIG investment before committing your money to determine that their fee structure is fair. Also, look for indications of past success (or failure) that might allow you to determine whether or not the REIG is a safe investment.Attend a model club meeting. BetterInvesting, an organization that provides investment education, holds free model REIG meetings in cities across the United States. These meetings explain what REIGs specifically do, inform you about local REIGs, and allow you to network with other like-minded locals. Go to www.betterinvesting.org and search for local chapters near you to find a model meeting.Keep in mind that the investment of a portion of rental income is required to cover mortgage in the event of vacancies.
 When you've found the right organization for you, consider how much capital you can contribute. When you have your number, you are ready to make an investment. However, investing in an REIG is not as easy as buying a share of stock or investing in a mutual fund. To invest, contact your chosen real estate investment group and express your interest in investing. Some REIGs require that you have real estate investment experience before joining.


Investments with real estate investment groups are not as liquid as in a REIT. Instead, one or more properties must sell before a member can withdraw money from the group.
 If you can't find an REIG you'd like to invest with or if there aren't any active REIGs in your area, you can start your own. While this isn't easy and can be time-consuming, this is a good way to ensure that your money is being investment exactly where you want it to be. To start, you'll have to find some co-investors and draw up a business plan, complete with by-laws and strategies. To operate, you'll need a method for accounting for your investments and profits and a legally-formed LLC or partnership., A real estate limited partnership (RELP) is yet another way you can throw in with other investors. In this organization, you will invest in a particular real estate project along with a property manager or a real estate development firm.In exchange for financing the property, you will be given a share of ownership, however your investment will largely be passive and you will have little say in the management.An advantage of an RELP is that you also have limited liability.If the project fails, you are only liable for the amount of your contributions to the partnership.The RELP is not taxed and all losses and profits are passed on to the owners.An RELP is different in that it exists for a predetermined amount of time. Once the project is complete and/or the business goal is satisfied, then RELP will dissolve.