 If you prefer to keep things simple, just drain and heat a can of black beans, sprinkle with salt and dig in. You can also serve them alongside seasoned Mexican rice for more of a traditional approach. Black beans are both flavorful and nutritious, meaning you can never eat too many of them.For additional flavor, enhance basic black beans with diced cilantro, cayenne pepper, a spritz of lime juice or even a few sections of avocado.Black beans and rice makes a quick and easy go-to side dish for nearly any Tex-Mex recipe.
 Black beans make a wonderful addition to nearly any salad, as they highlight but don’t interfere with the delicate notes of other ingredients. As an added bonus, they tend to absorb vinaigrettes and seasonings once they've been dressed, becoming bite-sized bursts of flavor. Try them in a Southwest-style chopped or Cobb salad, or in more contemporary concoctions such as chilled cucumber and feta or arugula salad with pickled radish.Black beans can readily serve as the protein source that’s missing from most salads.When tossed and portioned in advance, salads make a complete and convenient meal that you can take with you to the office, gym or lunchroom at school.
 Those who like to have something to munch on can cut back on fat, calories and sodium by using crunchy black beans as an alternative to popcorn or chips. Season drained, pre-cooked black beans with olive oil, sea salt, cracked black pepper and other spices and stick them in the oven for half an hour at 400 degrees, then nibble on them throughout the day to keep your energy up.When properly cooked, roasted black beans should have a tender, slightly crispy bite.
Garlic salt, red pepper flakes, cayenne or chili powder can lend roasted black beans a more intense finish.
 Considered a popular aromatic in South and Central American cuisine, the pungent, savory notes of dried black beans will carry over nicely into meats and other ingredients when tossed with garlic, shallots or onion. Add them straight to a hot pan coated with oil or butter. Sautéed herbs and spices can set the stage for complex flavors like lamb and fish, or put the finishing touches on them when layered over top.Try sun-drying or pickling an unused can of black beans for an at-home culinary project that you can then apply to all sorts of unique sauté dishes.