 Wear old clothing and long gloves that extend to the middle of your forearms. Put on an N-95 respirator, and follow the instructions that came with it to ensure a proper fit. Wear goggles without ventilation holes.You can purchase an N-95 respirator mask online or from a hardware store for about $12 to $25.
Inspecting for mold can stir up airborne spores, so it’s important to wear protective gear.;
, Look for mold near the intake of your heating/ventilation/air conditioning system. Inspect inside the air ducts for a musty smell or noticeable mold growth. If all you find is dust in the return registers, that’s normal and you can vacuum or remove the registers to clean them.If you don’t find any signs of mold, and no one in your household has unexplained illness, symptoms or allergies, your air ducts are most likely not contaminated.
If you suspect contamination in your HVAC system, turn it off and don’t run it until you have the air ducts cleaned., Contact a professional mold removal service if you find a strong odor, damage from contaminated water, and/or areas of mold larger than ten square feet (three meters), approximately three feet by three feet (91 cm by 91 cm). Read online reviews or obtain a referral for a qualified mold remediation contractor. Check their references and ask what EPA recommendations or other professional guidelines they’ll follow.For large areas of mold, the basement and HVAC may need to be sealed off with plastic sheeting.Contaminated water can occur from flooding or sewage backup.
A strong, moldy odor may indicate unseen mold growth behind walls, under flooring or beneath baseboards.
You may be able to obtain a free estimate detailing what services are needed. The average cost for mold remediation is about $7,500., Ventilate your working area as much as possible. Open windows and doors, and use fans. Wear the same protective gear you did when you were inspecting: old clothing, long gloves, an N-95 respirator, and goggles without ventilation holes., Take any moveable items from the area outside to inspect them. Throw away disposable items like cardboard boxes. Wash and dry any contaminated clothing. Clean contaminated items before returning them to the basement, once you’ve finished cleaning the basement mold.You can deep clean leather, wood or inorganic furniture.
Upholstered furniture with visible mold will need to be disposed of or reupholstered by a professional.
Don’t store cellulose-based items, such as cardboard, paper, or firewood in your basement., If you see visible mold on the surface of carpeting, sweep it with a broom to loosen the mold. Use a vacuum with a HEPA filter to vacuum the carpeting. Apply a cleaning solution and scrub the area. Allow the carpet to dry completely.If the carpet is removable, let it dry outside in the sunshine. If not, turn fans on to help the carpet dry.
Dispose of any carpeting that’s been soaked through., Perform a small test area first on each item you’re cleaning to make sure the cleaning agent doesn’t damage it. You can clean mold with diluted bleach, diluted Borax, undiluted vinegar, a baking soda solution, or 3% hydrogen peroxide. Depending on which method you choose, you can use a bucket or spray bottle to hold the solution.For hard surfaces, combine a gallon of water with a cup of bleach, or one part bleach to sixteen parts water. For porous surfaces, try one part non-ammonia, liquid dish detergent, ten parts bleach and twenty parts water.
To use baking soda, combine 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon (1 to 2 mL) baking soda with a full spray bottle of water. Alternately, combine 1/2 cup (118 mL) baking soda with one cup (250 mL) of water and one tablespoon (15 mL) of mild liquid detergent.
Borax is safe for porous and nonporous materials. Combine a cup (225 mL) of Borax with a gallon (4 L) of water.
 Use a spray bottle, a sponge or a rag dipped in your cleaning agent to apply it to the moldy area. Allow the cleaning agent to sit for five to fifteen minutes., Use a scrub brush or cloth to scrub the area with your chosen cleaning agent. Make sure to get into hard-to-see areas like cracks and crevices as well as the visible surfaces. Rinse the brush or cloth often to avoid spreading mold residue., Use a clean sponge or rag to wipe down the area with water. Change the rinse water regularly to keep it clean. Once the area dries, check for any mold you may have missed. If you still see signs of mold, repeat the scrubbing and rinsing process., Increase the ventilation in your basement. Run air conditioners and dehumidifiers as needed. If you have a humidifier, clean and treat it with an antimicrobial solution.You can increase ventilation by using oscillating fans, opening windows and doors, and using a dehumidifier.
You can purchase antimicrobial solutions online or at a hardware store.
 Make sure your large appliances, such as your washer and dryer, are vented. Your washing machine needs a floor drain and secure hose connections. Install a pan for overflow right under the machine, if needed., Ensure that your gutters discharge water at least six feet away from exterior walls. If your gutters are sending water too close to the home, install gutter extenders. Look for leaky pipes, and repair your piping, if needed.Sump pumps should discharge water at least twenty feet from your home.
 Ensure that the ground slopes away from the house so that water won’t pool up against the foundation. Clear away any wet leaves against the exterior walls and don’t allow debris to accumulate there., Clean the condensation pan under the coil of your central AC with a 1/2 percent bleach solution. Check that the continuous drain is functioning. If you find any leaky duct joints, seal them with flexible mastic, which you can purchase at a heating and cooling supply store.Clean the AC condensation pan before each cooling season.
 Make sure your roof is insulated, and there are no leaks in your roof or ceiling. Insulate your windows with proper flash and caulking to minimize condensation. Waterproof and insulate exterior walls.You can have your basement waterproofed professionally, or apply sealant to your walls and floors. Fill in any cracks with a waterproof filler.
 Remove any vinyl wallcoverings, which trap humid air between drywall and the wallpaper. After fully cleaning the area, use paint or wall coverings with permeable paper backings instead., Unfinished basements or crawlspaces with bare earth flooring transmit a lot of moisture. Have flooring put in, or do it yourself by covering the area with 6-mill poly sheeting. Make sure the basement is heated, cooled and humidified equally with the rest of the house.