 This should be your go-to when you have time to kill. Being well-read is a quality that will pay off multiple times daily. If you have an oncoming wait during your day, bring a magazine or paperback book along with you and catch up on this often ignored hobby.


Yeah, yeah, your Kindle counts, too, but you stare at a screen so much already -- why not rep it old school and bring something that smells like the libraries of yore?

, Okay, some people just don't have the book-reading mentality. Others didn't know they'd be stuck in this time-limbo and didn't think to bring a book with them. If either is your case, hop online (like you just did! Yay!) and read someone else's blog. Odds are you'll either laugh, cry, or get to mock them in your head extensively. Win, win, win.


If you're unsure of where to find a good blog, you have no excuse. Huge publications like Time Magazine release a list of the year's best blogs annually.There are even blog awards (they're called the Bloggies)!There's a whole world out there you're probably missing!

, Huh, talk about a crazy idea, right? So archaic and mundane. Remember the last time you went to a Starbucks and actually talked to someone, apart from muttering "I need coffee and stat" to the hipster-looking barista? After wondering how she justified that employment choice to her hipster friends, you sat down and spent three hours sifting through your gmail. So don't do that. The people around you are much more interesting than those angry birds of yours.


This might get awkward, especially if you don't do it right. And unless you're British, a quick, "Wow, sure is hot out," might just result in a few askance looks. However, awkward never killed anyone. If you're lucky enough to find someone not staring at their phone, give 'er a try. Especially if they're cute!

, Imagine that. You didn't come to this webpage for so-obvious-they're-not-obvious ideas, did you? But this doesn't mean studying as whipping out that textbook from 2005 you never actually opened in class but the bookstore wouldn't take back anyway, this means something much more interesting -- the Internet.


Sites like Memrise, Academic Earth, Coursera and Khan Academy make studying and learning awesome. Pick a topic, there's something there to learn. With videos and graphics, even the most ADD minds will be contented.
 You're on wikiHow already, aren't you? Might as well find out how to fake having a boyfriend or how to combine fruit and mayonnaise in a good way. Think of all the things you don't know how to do! And then do them.


YouTube is good too, but you might get sidetracked with Miley Cyrus videos and that's just risky. Stick to VideoJug or HowCast to avoid the temptation.

