 Begin the hydro dip process by deciding what you want to paint, then pick paint colors and find a water-tight container large enough to accommodate the object. You can use one color of spray paint, or several colors to swirl into cool designs with a disposable wooden stick. Purchase spray sealant (available at art stores or hardware stores) to seal your colorful design onto the object after hydro dipping, as well as protective gloves.The plastic container should be large enough that it won’t overflow if the object being painted is submerged in it. Buckets, large plastic storage containers, and feed tubs are all good options.
If you do not wish to get paint on the container you are using, line it with plastic sheeting before pouring in the water.
 If you can, set up outdoors (e.g. in your driveway or on the lawn) to avoid having your home smell like spray paint fumes. Make sure all of the items you will need are within arm’s reach, as the process of hydro dipping can go very quickly. Fill your container about ¾ full with lukewarm or warm water, as the ideal temperature for spray paint is between 50 and 90 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately 10 to 32 degrees celsius).If you have to set up indoors, open as many windows and doors as possible and nearby furniture with plastic sheeting.
Make sure to keep children and pets away from the area while you paint.
 In the event that certain spots on the object do not get covered in paint when you dip it, apply a base coat color that will show through. Use spray paint to coat the entire surface of the object. Let it dry for 2-3 hours before you start the hydro dip process., Make sure to shake the spray paint cans thoroughly to mix the paint before applying it. Hold the can 10 to 12 inches (approximately 25-30 cm) from the surface of the water and spray it to your heart’s content until the surface is coated. Switch between colors as desired to make your own unique creation.Colors will swirl together naturally on the water’s surface. To make smaller swirls, use a clean wooden stick to stir the colors until you’re left with a design you like.
 Put on gloves and make sure that the object you are painting is free of dust or debris. Slowly dip it into the container until it is fully submerged. Slowly pull the object back out of the water.If you do not wish for the object you dipped to receive a second coat of paint on its way out of the water (which might alter the original swirl pattern of the paint), part the paint on the water’s surface before pulling the object out of the container. Having a second person to help you would be a big help for this step!

, Place the painted object on a plastic sheet or piece of cardboard to air dry. To make sure it is completely dry, let it sit for several hours before touching it. If you leave the object indoors to dry, make sure it is left somewhere safe where children or pets will not have access to it., To keep your hydro dip paint looking fresh and clean, spray it with a clear spray sealant (available in hardware stores in matte, semi-gloss, or gloss finish). Spray an even coat over the object and let it dry for several hours. Apply the sealant only after the object is completely dry.