;
, First, you must come up with an idea for the movie. Then, you must figure out a way to interpret that idea into a plot that doesn't require any jumping to certain periods in time. Make sure there are absolutely no plot holes.
 It's like dancing, but with lines.
 They must be very good actors, too. It's very hard to pretend to be scared for almost and hour and a half. It can be very taxing on their emotions and psyche. Give them the script you've written, and then comes the rehearsal.
 Rehearsing is definitely something you're going to need to do. Make sure you've rehearsed until everyone knows what to do, what to say, and when to do or say anything. But don't burn these people out! Maybe rehearse about 4 times a day if you have absolutely nothing else to do. Then they can go home. But don't rehearse all day! People will get very frustrated and tired, and that's when their acting becomes very dull and boring.
 If not, use a Steadicam, or some other camera stabilizing system. Using a Steadicam takes a lot of practice, so make sure you spend a lot of time prior to making the movie. But not just any camera will do! Make sure it's a very fluid camera, so audiences won't suspect any hidden cuts, even if there are. At least 50 fps (frames per second) is good. HD will be a good thing to use. But, you don't have to make the movie traditional. You can go with found footage, or maybe even strap some cameras to each actor's heads so you can see from each and every point of view in a split screen, like the movie Timecode. Or like Vantage Point.
 If you shoot the lights off and use nothing but head-mounted cameras and flashlights, the movie will be scary! Or, you could open a few unseen windows (like skylights, for example) for a cool-colored theme. Or let in as much sun as possible to get a warm feeling.
 For instance, replace your windows with sugar glass, breakaway glass, or tempered stunt glass so if anyone goes though a window, the glass will (easily) break into very small pebbles, instead of shards that could cut someone like a normal window! Make sure the window is very close to the ground, and that the actor is on a harness pulled by people off screen. You can get stunt glass pretty much anywhere on the Internet or in special stores. If you're going to be doing any other stunts, like smashing someone into a wall, or a bunch of cabinets, make sure the material breaks easily and doesn't hurt in any way! And make the actor give subtle signs that s/he's okay. Always replace items in your house with breakable look-alikes. Put your own possessions in storage somewhere safe.
 Drink lots of tea, or warm beverages. No milk/dairy. Dairy coats your vocal cords and makes it hard to scream/sing/yell. Always push from your stomach, not your throat.
 Not too cliché, but not too confusing. If there was no twist, there would be no climax, and ultimately no plot. Any climax without a twist becomes very, very boring.
 It's a lot of fun to see the end result!

, If you're looking to make money off of it, sell the movie to studio like MGM, Paramount, etc. If the whole movie was just for fun, YouTube is just fine for something like that.
 But, if you're lazy and want the film to only look like one take, while still being divided into scenes, you might have to do some very clever editing. Most professional video editors cost from $100-$300.
