 This phrase is pronounced "tayzay-voo, seel voo play." Use a long a sound (as in "ray") for "taise" and "plaît," a long u sound (as in "stool") for "vous," and a long e sound (as in "bee") for "s'il." The approximate meaning is "be quiet, please."


Here, notice that we're using the semi-formal "vous" pronoun again. This word is used when you're addressing someone formally (speaking to someone important or older than you). It's also used for speaking to groups of people.If you wanted to say this to someone you're close to, like a friend or family member, you might say "tais-toi, s'il te plaît," ("tay-twah, seel-tuh-play") which is derived from the informal tu pronoun.
 "Silence" is spelled the same way as the English word and means the same thing, but its pronunciation is different. This phrase is pronounced "Seelahnce, seel voo play." Use a long e sound (as in "bee") and a short o sound (as in "rock") for "silence." The n in "silence" should be very delicate — just barely articulate it. "S'il vous plaît" is pronounced the same way as above.


This phrase is useful for the sorts of situations that you'd use "silence" for in English. For instance, if you're a teacher trying to get the attention of a group of students so that you can begin a demonstration, you might try using this phrase.
 Another way to ask someone to be quiet semi-politely is to use this phrase. This is pronounced "see voo play, swa-yah trhahnkeeluh." "S'il vous plaît" is pronounced the same way as above. Use short e sounds (as in "bed") for both syllables of être. Use a short o sound (as in "rock") and a long e sound (as in "bee") for "tranquille." The approximate meaning is "please make yourself quiet."


The French r sound you'll use in this phrase is a little tricky for English-speakers to master. You want to make a very light, "airy" r sound by raising the back of your tongue to the top of your mouth without stopping the flow of air completely. This can take a little practice. See this guide for more information., This phrase is pronounced "calmay-voo, seel voo play." Use a short a sound (as in "apple") for the first syllable of "calmez," then a long a sound (as in "ray") for the second. "Vous" and "s'il vous plaît" are pronounced the same way as above. The approximate meaning is "calm down, please."


This phrase is useful when you're trying to get someone to be less loud but you want to avoid directly asking them to be quiet. For instance, if you're at a restaurant and you're worried that you're about to get kicked out because your friend is causing a scene, you might try this.

