 Once you notice a lipstick stain, remove the garment as early as possible. To begin treating it, lay it stained-side down on top of a paper towel or rag — something disposable or that you don't mind staining.


Make sure the material you lay it on is fairly absorbent and that the floor, table, or counter top underneath isn't vulnerable to stains — if you use a towel that's too thin or work on top of a white surface, you'll risk spreading the stain.;
, Next, grab liquid cleaning solution and apply it to the back of the fabric where the stain is. As it works its way into the fabric, it should displace the lipstick in to the towel underneath. On the other hand, scrubbing the stain from the front can actually be counter-productive and spread the lipstick across the fabric.


You have many possibilities in terms of cleaning solutions — depending on the precise nature of the stain and the fabric of your clothes, different cleaners may be appropriate at different occasions. The following cleaners are discussed in the subsection below — scroll down for more information:Dish soap and water
Acetone and other mineral solvents
Denatured (rubbing) alcohol
Ammonia
Certain commercial stain removal products
Home-made solutions like lemon juice, vinegar, etc.
 Next, grab a second towel (this one doesn't have to be quite so absorbent) and press down gently on the reverse side of the stain. This should force your cleaning solution (which has now picked up some of the lipstick) into the lower towel, where it will be soaked up.


As you do this, take care not let your garment or the towel on the bottom move around, as this can spread the stain.
 Continue soaking the stain with cleaning solution and applying pressure from the reverse side of the fabric until you notice the lipstick stain begin to noticeably lighten. As you go, replace the bottom towel with a fresh towel as soon as it starts to become saturated with liquid — if you don't, the cleaning liquid can soak through to the surface underneath or discolor other parts of your garment.
 After several cycles of the cleaning method above, you should notice visible improvement in the lipstick stain. At this point, it's a good idea to run the garment through the wash to remove excess cleaner and "finish off" any stain remnants.


For maximum cleaning power, consider using our instructions below for pre-treating a stained garment prior to doing a load of laundry.
 Compared to other cleaning solutions, a gentle solution of dish soap and water offers a safe "middle ground." It's useful for moving a variety of stains and it's not likely to damage many fabrics, making it a versatile tool. Best of all, it's cheap and readily-available at any local grocery store.
 Organic solvents (like acetone) can be a big asset when it comes to removing stains from waxier lipsticks, as they are able to break down many of the plastic compounds that can give certain lipsticks this quality (for a demonstration of this, put a chunk of styrofoam in acetone — it should dissolve immediately.) Acetone is safe for all natural fibers and most synthetics, though it can cause colors to bleed.


Note that acetone is most widely available as nail polish remover. If you want to use commercial nail polish remover as a stain remover, be sure to use the closest variety to pure acetone available that doesn't include added dyes.
 Denatured ("rubbing") alcohol is another great cleaning solution that's cheap and safe for most fabrics. Alcohol is especially useful for microfiber fabrics because, unlike other liquids, it won't penetrate the fibers and cause a permanent stain.Note, however, that like acetone, alcohol can cause colors to bleed.


Though it's cheap, rubbing alcohol isn't always available in the "cleaning" aisle of grocery stores. You may need to visit a hardware store or pharmacy to find it.
 Ammonia is as famous for its cleaning power as it is for its pungent, somewhat unpleasant smell, so it can be a great choice if you're prepared to work in a well-ventilated area. However, ammonia can harm some fabrics, especially those used in carpeting and upholstery — though these are unlikely to be the same sorts of fabrics used in your clothing, it's a smart idea to "spot test" your garment before using ammonia. In other words, apply ammonia to a small part of the garment that can't usually be seen and let it sit for about 20 minutes, then check to see if the fabric is damaged or discolored.


In addition, it's worth noting that ammonia can damage no-wax tiles and floors, so avoid working on these surfaces.When you use ammonia, it's very important to remember that it reacts with bleach to form toxic gas.Never use ammonia to clean a garment when you intend to launder it with bleach after.
 Head to the cleaning aisle of any major grocery store and you should see a wide range of cleaning products for sale. These may contain any of the ingredients above (or completely different ingredients), so the usefulness and safety of each will vary from product to product. Be sure to check the product's label or packaging for safety warnings before using it on your garment.
 It's also possible to use natural ingredients that you may already have in your kitchen or pantry to remove a wide variety of stains, including those from lipstick. As a general rule, these natural solutions are mild and safe on nearly all fabrics. Below are just a few common suggestions:White vinegar (not balsamic or apple cider)
Lemon juice
Baking soda and water
Eucalyptus oil
Citrus peels

