 Confidence is key in netball; every ounce of you has to have the will to succeed. Build up your confidence by improving catching and throwing skills with a partner. Practise the different passes such as Shoulder, Chest, Underarm, Overarm etc. Once you are confident in these two skills, you will be a much more hopeful netball player.;
, They may seem unhelpful but it can also improve your netball skills. Watch others and try to pick out things they are doing wrong, need to improve on and what they are doing right. Then compare their skills to yours- what can you learn from them? Write it down in a notebook and go over the notes regularly, checking off anything you have learnt.
 Exercise daily and eat healthy on a regular basis. This will not only improve mood and confidence, it will improve how you play the game. A more lean body can run faster than a more plump body, for example.
 Instead of being rude, be kind. After all, it is just a game and you will need to keep a calm head to play it. Unkindness can result in arguments and insults, leaving you feeling frustrated and hurt, which can affect your overall performance by miles.
 Know what position you are playing in. Is it WA, GK, C etc? If you know your position, you can focus on what the requirements are and how to play better in it. Say you are GK, you will need to be able to jump up and catch high, move swiftly and fast and you have to stay in the half court. Taller players are usually defence, GK, WA & Wing Defence and shorter players center etc, but this is not always the case.
 Pass powerfully, catch correctly, run rapidly and be happy and hopeful. Shout to your team members when you are about to pass to them, mark your opponents and muster all your strength. Don't be downhearted if you lose, there is always another time!

, Usually taller people are picked for netball because they can block and catch easier and throw higher distances, but if you are short do not get disheartened. Make sure you are part of the team and no one is leaving you out and play well, you will be rewarded for it.
 Ask your fellow team members and netball umpires for tips on netball so you can improve. Know your weaknesses and strength and try to elaborate on them. This will kit only make you a better netball player but a better person.
 Whenever the ball is passed to the player you're marking immediately intercept it and pass it onto one of the players from your team who is most suitable.
 Make sure you never miss a chance where you could've got the ball. Always mark you're player.

