 Amplifiers are designed to provide more power to your headphones. Different situations may require different amplifier setups.Earbuds and small headphones likely will not benefit from an amplifier. Noise-canceling headphones also do not benefit from an amp, as they have built-in to handle the noise-canceling feature.
Professional and studio headphones may require an amp in order to hear at acceptable levels if they are "high-impedance" headphones. These headphones require more power in order to output at suitable volumes. Portable users with over-the-ear headphones will benefit from a pocket amp, while desktop users will benefit from an amp with a built-in digital-to-analog converter (DAC).
 If you have a set of good, over-the-ear headphones, you'll get better sound out of your MP3 player if you use a portable headphone amplifier. These are small devices that you charge at home. DACs do not benefit portable players, so don't use an amplifier/DAC combo.


Plug the amplifier into the headphone jack of your portable MP3 player, and then plug the headphones into the amplifier.
Adjust the volume through the amplifier. Raise the volume on your MP3 to a few notches below maximum, and then use the amplifier to adjust the volume to a comfortable level. This will provide the best quality sound.
 An amplifier will provide more power to your headphones, allowing for a better range of volumes. The DAC (digital-to-analog converter) is what translates the digital audio into an analog signal that the headphones can play. All computers have a DAC built-in to the motherboard, and a sound card acts as a DAC as well. These built-in DACs are usually sufficient for most basic uses, but you'll want an external one if you listen to loss-less music or do audio editing on the computer.


If you are using an external DAC, you'll get the best quality by connecting it to your motherboard using an S/PDIF (TOSLINK) cable. If your motherboard doesn't support this, you can connect most DACs using USB.
If you need surround sound processing for video games, you'll be better off with an internal sound card instead of a DAC.
If your amplifier and DAC are separate, connect the DAC to your computer, the amplifier to the DAC, and then your headphones to the amplifier.

