 If you decide to sit your teen down and discuss their fashion choices head on, you should do so in a place that will be quiet and comfortable for them. You may choose a neutral spot in your home, such as the kitchen table, the living room, or the porch. Out of respect for your teen, you may ask to speak to them in your room so they are in a comfortable space. Opt for a time when your teen will be home and the house will be quiet, such as after school or after dinner.You may start the conversation with your teen by saying, “Can we chat for a second?” or “Can I talk to you about something?”
You may also opt for bringing up the issue when your teen is getting dressed for school or another event. This may make the conversation feel more natural and casual.;
, Go into the conversation with a casual tone that is not accusatory or defensive. You want your teen to feel like you are having an open discussion, not a lead up to a fight or a conversation where you are telling them what to do. Open the talk with a casual comment so your teen does not get defensive or upset right away.


For example, you may say to your teen, “I just wanted to chat with you about your latest fashion choices. Can we talk about them?” Or you may say, “Tell me about why you’re dressing this way these days. Are you getting into a new style?”

, Frame the conversation so you are giving them advice and not simply telling them what they can and cannot do. Avoid stating, “You are forbidden to wear this outfit” or “You are not allowed to wear that clothing.” Instead, go for phrases that sound suggestive and persuasive.For example, you may say, “I like that shirt but your jeans seems a little low, no? Maybe put on a belt to keep your pants up?” or “That’s a great dress, I just worry it may not be long enough for school. Maybe wear some tights with it?”

, Your teen may not be very open to your suggestions on their wardrobe and that is their right. Trying to control what they wear will only lead to more arguments and anger from both you and your teen. Instead, you may try compromising with your teen so you both get what you want in some way. This can also show your teen that you respect them and want to treat them like an adult.For example, if your teen does not want to change a low cut top, you may compromise and ask them to wear a sweater with the top so they are not showing as much skin. You may say, “How about you wear a sweater with that top and we’ll call it even?” or “Can you wear a sweater that that top? I’d feel much better about your outfit if you did that.”

