 One of the most important aspects of your teen's recovery is open and effective communication. However you find out about your teen's steroid abuse, be it through spotting symptoms or hearing about it from someone else, you need to confront them. Although your child may not want to speak about your concerns, you must be persistent regarding their health., Open up a discussion but do not get angry with them. Be there for them, allowing them to feel that they are safe and can express themselves fully. Ask your child about why they are abusing steroids and where they have been gaining access to them. You should try to obtain this information to help your child, not to punish them. Some things you may want to discuss include:


Your teen’s stress level. Talk to your child about their stress levels and even their self-esteem. Are they feeling pressured by others? Get to the root of the problem. Once you find out the reasoning, you have already achieved the first vital step.
 It is common for teens to deny their steroid abuse. If this is the case and your teen absolutely refuses to talk to you, you can purchase a home drug testing kit. Once the results are positive, there is no more room for discussion on the matter. At this point you will know for a fact, and will need to take the necessary steps to help them succeed in their recovery.
 You need to make a plan based on your child’s specific case. What does your teen need? How will you provide it? You need to make a plan of action. This will not only address what will be done but how you'll pay for it.


The cost may be covered through public or private insurance plans. If you do not know where to turn, consider contacting a program like the Anabolic Steroid Prevention for Teen Athletes, which is better known as ATLAS. This program, and others like it, provides high school athletes with information, counseling, and healthy alternatives.
 Once you have this discussion with your child, you need to seek some medical attention. It's important to see if your teen has experienced any damage to their health. Some side-effects are reversible, so it's important to see what damage has been caused. Set up an appointment for a physical with your family doctor.Medications that target symptoms of withdrawal and antidepressants are commonly prescribed to kids who have been abusing steroids. Talk to your doctor about medications and whether or not they are a good choice for your child.
 There are many different types of therapy available to help kids with abuse problems. These can be individual meetings with a therapist, or you can schedule family therapy sessions. There are also in-home counselors available through substance abuse programs. Some of the issues that may be discussed in the therapy sessions include:


Your child’s feelings regarding their athletic performance.
Feeling of perfectionism and your child’s self-esteem.
Major life transitions and their ability to cope.
Anxiety related to personal relationships and situations.
 Group therapy is also an option as it allows others to share their experiences. When your child discusses the situation they are experiencing with others, they may gain valuable insights.


Talk to your doctor about group therapy sessions in your area. You can also run an online search.

