 That's a pound sign or a hashtag, depending on your generation. It should take up most of your paper -- you'll be writing in it for the game. It's really just like a giant tic-tac-toe board.
 You'll be using each area of the hashtag except for the middle. That means you'll need 8 categories. They can go in any order, but the standard ideas are (starting with the necessary ones):









M.A.S.H. (mansion, apartment, shack, house)
Who they'll marry
What their job is
Their means of transportation
Number of kids they'll have
Where they'll live
What their income is
The pet(s) they'll have

, This can depend on how many friends you're with or how you decide to play the game. There should be 4 options per category. To make it more fun, let the person whose fortune you're telling only pick one for each category.









Get creative. If you're choosing three means of transportation for your friend, think of things like "goat," "three-wheeled skateboard," or "sneakers." But know that they'll probably get you back when it's their turn!
Don't upset your friend. If they really don't want you to write Billy Bob on the to-be-married list, choose someone else.
 Start writing dots, tallies, or a spiral in the center of your tic-tac-toe/hashtag/pound sign. When your friend says, "Stop!" count how many marks you've made or times you've gone around. This is your number. Remember it.









If your friend is being cheeky and doesn't say "stop" for a long time and you end up with 52 dots, cut the number in half. You'll lose track if the number is too high!

, Start at the top left, with the first category being 1, 2, 3, and 4. If your number is 7, you'd stop on the 3rd option of the 2nd category.
 Resume again from where you left off, skipping over each already crossed-off option. As you go around and around, your options will start dwindling. When you cross off three in a category, circle the fourth -- you've determined the future!









Be sure to keep count accurately! Otherwise you'll end up with 101 kids instead of 3. That's a lot of mouths to feed.
 Then announce to the world, "Hannah is going to marry George, live in China, be a diaper model, make $1 per day, have 17.2 kids, own a pet giraffe, fly an airplane, and live in a mansion!" Just wait for the laughs/glares from your friends!









Then pass on the paper. Who's the next victim?!

