 Usually, this style of pudding must be served as soon as it has been baked, unless the recipe states otherwise. Many of the self-saucing puddings fall into the baked pudding category; these are puddings that form a sweet sauce over the "top" when turned out of the pudding basin.


The lemon delicious pudding is the self-saucing citrus pudding par excellence.

Chocolate bread pudding and other bread puddings are easy to make, and can be served hot or cold.
American variations include New England's Indian pudding, and the Thanksgiving baked pumpkin pudding dish.
There are many variations on fruit puddings. These apple recipes can be adapted to use pears or other fruits instead: apple pudding, apple raisin bread pudding, apple crunch pudding and apple and almond pudding.
 Steamed puddings require a bit more effort than most puddings but this also ensures that they are durable (long-lasting) puddings, making them suitable for Christmas pudding styles. Dried-fruit based puddings are most often steamed but fruit or vegetable based puddings can be steamed too. Other famous steamed puddings include ginger pudding, chocolate puddings, date pudding and college pudding.


If you're not familiar with Christmas pudding, have a go at this sweet dried fruit creation. Douse the result in brandy butter before eating.
Sticky fig pudding, sticky date pudding and sticky date pudding are delicious and well-loved fruit puddings

, Such puddings can be served for afternoon tea or as a dessert following main course. Many milk- and cream-based pudding recipes are cold. In general, cold puddings tend to benefit from being a mold and need to be made well ahead of serving time.


Besides the summer pudding recipe included on this page, cold puddings include mousse, custard, rice pudding, or the old-fashioned syllabub.
Custard and other cold puddings can be used to make a trifle, or British layered dessert.
 In the United states, the word "pudding" is usually reserved for cold, custard-like dishes. A full recipe is included on this page, but there are a couple variations to try as well:


Try this easier recipe that holds together with cream cheese instead of whisking.

Vegan chocolate pudding can be made without recourse to dairy or egg products.
 Introduce pudding as an entrée as well as dessert. Savory puddings range from variations on steamed desserts, such as the Savory vegetable pudding, to unique creations like the Yorkshire pudding, made from batter and meat drippings.

