 Use a soft rag dampened with a small amount of hardwood floor cleaner to clean the scratched area of the wood., Dampen a new rag with water, and wipe down the scratched area of the floor.With will ensure that your workspace is completely clean and free of excess dirt, dust, and debris.


Allow the scratched area to completely dry before proceeding.
 If your hardwood floors are coated with a layer of polyurethane, the layer must be removed before you can fix the scratch. If your floors don't have that coating, you don’t need to worry about removing the top finish of the floor. Dampen a scouring pad with mineral spirits, and gently rub the scratched area of the floor.Wipe over the area with a clean cloth, and let the area dry completely.


If you are inexperienced with woodworking and sealing, it’s advisable to hire a professional to repair the flooring.
 Apply a small amount of wood filler that is similar to the color of your hardwood floor, to your pointer finger. Use your finger to work the wood filler into the scratch or gouge, spreading the filler in all directions to remove air bubbles.You can be generous with the wood filler, because excess filler will be removed later.


Be sure to apply wood filler rather than wood putty. The two substances are different, and using wood putty to fill the scratch can alter the effectiveness of matching the filling to the color of the floor, and affect the filling from properly taking the color of staining, if applied., Drag a putty knife over the wood filler to smooth out the surface, and help push the wood filler into the scratch. Drag the putty knife over the scratch, moving in many directions, to ensure the edges of the scratch and filler are flat and even.Allow the wood filler to completely dry. This may take anywhere from a few hours to an entire day, so consult the information on the package of filler for drying time.
 Use a small pad of fine girt sandpaper, perhaps 180-grit, and gently sand the area surround the scratch where excess wood filler has been spread.You can sand following the direction of the grain of the wood, or sand in small little circles. Whichever way you sand, be sure to sand very lightly.
 Dampen a cloth with water and wring it out. The cloth should be moisten but relatively dry to the touch.Use you finger to precisely wipe away the excess filler surrounding the scratch.


Be sure to wipe the areas where filler has been spread, and avoid wiping over the actual filled scratch.
 Apply a thin layer of the same sealer used on the rest of the hardwood floor to the patched area. Use either a small, natural bristle brush or a lambswool roller to apply the layer of polyurethane, varnish, or sealer. Allow the sealer a complete 24 hours to dry before any traffic is allowed on the surface.


If you use a foam roller, you run the risk of leaving air bubbles in the sealer.

