 Choose the best location for your swing set and temporarily position the set in place. Use a small spike or similar object to mark the placement of each leg.


When anchoring a swing set to hard ground, like tough soils filled with clay or covered with dense grass, you may not need to use cement. A one-piece or two-piece twist-in anchor will usually suffice.
 Carefully shift the legs of the set to the sides of each marked hole. Twist one ground anchor directly into the soil at each marked position.


Ideally, you should use ground anchors at all four legs to maximize the security of the set. If you only have two anchors, however, you can still secure the set by positioning them at diagonal corners.
Remove the spike and twist each anchor into the same spot. Rotate the anchor into the ground, keeping it as vertical as possible throughout the entire process.
If you are unable to twist the anchor with your hands, slide a metal bar through the eye of the anchor and use it as a lever to help rotate the anchor down.
 Slide a screw or bolt into the eye of each anchor. Drill the screw directly into the side of the swing set leg.


The screws or bolts you'll need should come with the anchoring kit.
Position the swing set back in place so that the legs sit directly next to each anchor. Use a drill to carefully insert each screw through the eye of the anchor and into the bottom side of each leg.
If you have a metal swing set, you may need to drill the holes with a 3/8-inch (9.5-mm) bit before drilling the screws in place.
 Fit the head of each screw with an appropriately sized bolt cap.


In most instances, the anchoring kit will come with matching bolt caps.
 Cover the base of each leg with soil or mulch. Spread additional mulch over the rest of the area beneath the swing set.


Use 9 inches (22.9 cm) of wood mulch or shredded bark. Alternatively, use 12 inches (30.5 cm) of uniform wood chips, fine sand, or fine gravel.
Check the swing set by pushing on each leg. If the set does not budge when you apply pressure, you've anchored it successfully.

