 Balsamic vinegar and brown sugar is a classic flavor profile that creates a mixed sweet and savory flavor. For two pounds (900 grams) of brussels sprouts, mix half a cup (4 fluid ounces) of balsamic vinegar with two tablespoons of brown sugar.Increase or decrease the amounts depending on the amount of brussels sprouts you're cooking. For example, if you're only cooking a pound of brussels sprouts, use a quarter cup of balsamic vinegar and one tablespoon of brown sugar.;
, A maple syrup and mustard mix can also create a sweet/savory profile for your brussels sprouts. As these flavors are quite strong, you only need small amounts. For a pound of brussels sprouts, for example, mix in about a tablespoon of dijon mustard and a tablespoon of maple syrup.A little butter, salt, and pepper also works great with this recipe.
 If you want a heartier, more savory side dish, cook some bacon and chop it into small slices to mix into your brussels sprouts. For a pound and a half (675 grams) of brussels sprouts, use a about six slices of bacon. You should also save some drippings from the bacon to drizzle over the brussels sprouts. Top it off with a little garlic for a great savory flavor., To start the process of slow cooking brussels sprouts, add your brussels sprouts to the slow cooker. Always cook brussels sprouts with a little cooking oil, like olive oil. Drizzle this over the brussels sprouts while adding them.Use a tablespoon of olive oil per pound of brussels sprouts.
 After adding your brussels sprouts, drizzle them with the flavors you're using. If you're using anything like butter, bacon, or bacon grease, add these ingredients after drizzling your spice mix over the brussels sprouts ., Always add a little salt and pepper after mixing in your ingredients. Sprinkle salt and pepper over your brussels sprouts a little bit at a time, taking small tastes of the toppings as you go. Keep adding salt and pepper until you reach your desired flavor., A little water helps the brussels sprouts cook in the slow cooker. If you don't have any liquid-based flavorings, like vinegar or bacon grease, add in some tap water. Use a quarter cup of water per pound of brussels sprouts., If you want your brussels sprouts to cook faster, cook them on high heat for two to three hours. If you don't need your brussels sprouts to cook as fast, cook them on low heat for four to six hours.Brussels sprouts will be tender when done. You should be able to pierce them with a fork without much effort.
 Brussels sprouts taste best when served immediately after cooking. Remove your brussels sprouts from the slow cooker and set them on a serving dish. Those eating can spoon brussels sprouts onto their plates., A light sprinkling of a cheese such as Parmesan can add extra flavor to your brussels sprouts, as can other flavorful cheeses like asiago and mozzarella. This works particularly well if you used a balsamic/brown sugar flavor profile., If you have leftover brussels sprouts, store them in an airtight container in the fridge within two hours of cooking. Brussels sprouts will keep for three to five days in the refrigerator.