 One simple solution for a zipper that's hard to close is a bar of soap. It doesn't really matter what kind you use. Anything you have on hand is fine. Rub the soap on the teeth of the zipper with the zipper open. Once you've rubbed some in, zip it up and down to get it lubricated well.The soap will help the slider move up and down more easily on the zipper.
Another easy option is petroleum jelly.
You can also use a bit olive oil, but be careful, as it could stain your clothes., Graphite works as a lubricant, making it easier to zip up stubborn zippers. Rub a graphite pencil along the inside of the zipper and the teeth. Make sure to hit all of the zipper, trying to get into the teeth as much as possible, as well as the back of the zipper. Move the zipper up and down a few times to help get the graphite in place., Powders can also act as lubricants for zippers. You can use most common household powders, such as talcum powder or baby powder. You can even use cornstarch. Just sprinkle a little on the zipper, and move it up and down to lubricate it.You may need to wash your clothes after using this method, if you're not careful where you sprinkle the powder.
 You can use wax paper, paraffin wax, or even candle or crayon wax. Basically, the wax will lubricate the zipper, making it easier to pull up and down. You'll need to lubricate both sides for this step to work.For the wax paper, tear off a small sheet of wax paper. Make sure it's wax paper, not parchment paper. With the zipper open, rub it on both sides of the zipper. Test to the zipper to see if it helped. If it didn't try it again.
For other types of wax, rub the wax onto the zipper with the zipper open. Wipe off any excess wax from the fabric. Blow over it with a really hot hair dryer, making the wax melt and allowing it to penetrate the teeth better. Once it cools, run the zipper back and forth to test it.
 One of the most basic and common lubricants is window cleaner. It's also not oil based, meaning it won't harm your clothes. Simply spray a bit on your zipper, then move the slider up and down to lubricate it.