 While your oven is heating, prepare the ingredients.
 Of course, using pre-made dough from a supermarket is about as easy as it gets, although you can make your own in a matter of minutes.
 You can use cooking spray, olive oil, or butter. Transfer the dough onto the baking sheet. You can also use a pizza stone or pizza sheet if you have one.









Some cooks like using cornmeal on the bottom of a baking sheet or pizza stone. Cornmeal helps the cooked pizza slide off the baking sheet or pizza stone easier. Plus, the cooked cornmeal adds a nice crunch to the dough.
 From here on out, the sky's the limit. You can spread a traditional pizza sauce, spread your pizza with pesto, or even try an Alfredo sauce on your pizza. You can choose any of these sauces from your local grocery store to speed up the pizza-making process. Spread as much sauce as you want, using a knife, spatula, or the back of a spoon.








If you are in a rush and don't have time to go out and buy a pre-made sauce or make your own, you can always use ingredients lying around the house. For instance, spread your pizza with simple tomato sauce. If you are in a real rush, you could even use ketchup.
 Again, anything is possible when it comes to the toppings. Stick to veggies if you’re a vegetarian, try every kind of meat if you’re not. Get wild and try some exotic items like artichoke hearts, pineapples, BBQ chicken, potatoes — try everything and anything. Make sure to cook any meat that needs to be cooked beforehand and wash any vegetables. Some traditional topics include:









Pepperoni
Olives
Sausage
Mushrooms
Bell peppers

, The traditional cheese topping is mozzarella, but you can try any cheese you like. Ricotta cheese works well on pizza, as does feta. If you want to get a little fancy, you can purchase fresh mozzarella, cut into large discs, and spread them evenly over the pizza to make a traditional Margarita pizza.









To speed up the process, buy pre-shredded cheese to help speed up the process. Shredded cheese, rather than thick slices of cheese, will melt more quickly, ensuring that you are eating your delicious pizza as soon as possible.
 Once you have loaded your pizza with all of the toppings you want, slide it into the oven. Let your pizza bake for 15 to 20 minutes or until the crust is a golden brown and all the cheese has melted.








Keep an eye on your pizza so that it doesn’t burn. In particular, burnt cheese can ruin a pizza. A slightly burnt crust, however, can be a tasty mistake.
 Once your pizza is golden brown, remove it from the heat. It's going to be very hot, so use caution. Place the pan on the stove top. As torturous as this will be, you have to let the pizza sit for at least a few minutes to let the doughy crust settle. Enjoy!








