 Camp is a place where you can make friends and make memories while having a great time in the outdoors.;
, Use and improve your skills while you have time. It may become a hobby to enjoy once you're good at it. Let's say you are enthused about classic cars. You can help your dad restore a classic car and show it.
 Summer doesn't have to be fun and games. It can also be a time for resting your brain after all that hard work at school. Go ahead; sleep in if you want. Watch some television, walk around in your bare feet, just whatever puts you in a calm mood.
 You will learn to work in a group, which will be both beneficial in life and fun. Choose one that you truly enjoy or that requires the skills that you have (such as hand/eye coordination). There are always summer sports, camps, and some schools may have sports in the summer, such as track or lacrosse.
 Now you can actually work towards them without the worries of what others at school will think of you. Go ahead and lose weight, clear up your skin, pursue a hobby, feed your knowledge, just whatever floats your boat.
 Go to the mall, the beach, the library, ride a bike, or hang out with a group of friends. You can also have a party or sleepover if you're allowed. Now you don't have to worry about your parents saying, "No, because it's a school night."

, if you already skate, go to Camp Woodward, even if you don't have the money you can wash dishes and do chores for an hour a day and skate the rest to pay for it.Try not to be a skater punk though. Be aware, you might get the look.
 Many people find it more enjoyable as it is to many easier to get into.
 During the summer there can be a lot opportunities. Start a fundraiser to help support a good cause! Have a garage sale, a yard sale, a bake sale, a car wash, anything!

, You could take time to write a novel, find out who you truly are, discover the meaning of life, look for true beauty, or have some "family time." Now that you don't have the stress of peer pressure and studying, you have the time.
 Not only will you get a chance to work on your tan in the hot sun and spray your friends with hoses, but you'll be making money too. You can use that money to do something later.
 This is still fun during the day as well as night. Just make sure you can convince some friends to come with you. It's somewhat embarrassing to be caught alone in a movie theater.
 Exercise is healthy and is a good way to meet members of the opposite (or same) sex, or to entertain any younger siblings that you may caring for. What's not to like?

, It sounds childish, but it actually can be fun if you have enough people and enough space. Try it in a public area like a mall or a crowded shopping type area., You are your own master and if you want to stay home one day to relax, do it!

,, If you live in a warm area, grab some blankets and a pillow and sleep out on the lawn furniture, under the stars. It's very relaxing, and might be the best night of sleep you'll get all summer.
 Crack a window open if you can, and wake up to the sounds of the morning; people mowing the lawn, your mom making breakfast downstairs, etc. If you're not tired, go on a late night walk or jog. Usually the sprinklers are on at this time and its just a lot of fun to see your neighborhood in the middle of the night.
 This will help you keep up on your writing skills for school, too. Write down words that you like, poems, song lyrics, what happened during basketball practice, anything you want! Keep it under your mattress if you want to keep it private; this only works if you step up and change your own sheets. And most importantly, write in it everyday; maybe wait to look at the previous pages until the very end of summer, when it should be all full.
 It will help you get in shape and you will enjoy being in nature.
 It's something to do, you meet new people, and you will have a great body when school starts again!

, This is entertaining and will help you do better in school come fall with the new vocabulary you have learned. Focus on your brain; something useful to make you smarter and more interesting to others.
 It's a great way to get rid of junk or things that you don't use anymore! Plus you can make a good amount of money through this. You can also ask your parents to create an eBay account so you can buy and sell items on eBay.
 That is a way to catch up with your schoolwork, learn a new hobby, or prepare for future education. In this generation, you don't have to be "college age" to go to college; you can get college degrees online at the age of 14. If you can't find any online classes, try taking community ed classes at your local library.
 Enjoy it; the rest of the year you are involved in school.

