 Set your oven to 375 F (191 C). For this recipe, you will also need your ingredients, one large and one small bowl, a whisk, a greased baking sheet, a sharp knife, and a spoon or fork.


Instead of greasing the baking sheet, you can line it with parchment paper or a silicone baking sheet.
 Sift or whisk together the flour, salt, and baking powder in a large bowl. Then, use your fingers to work the butter into the flour. You want the dry ingredients and butter to come together into pea-sized crumbs.You can use a pastry cutter or two table knives instead of your hands to work the butter into the dry ingredients.
 Trim the tips and ends off the scallions and rinse them under cold water. With the knife, mince them into small pieces.For an extra savory dish, you can also cut up some cooked ham into small bites as well to make ham and cheese scones. Add them to the mixture when you add the scallions., Add the cheese and scallions to the flour and butter mixture. In a separate bowl, whisk together the eggs and milk, then add them to the large bowl. Add the mustard and hot sauce as well.


Instead of milk, you can also substitute in cream, ricotta cheese, or sour cream for a richer and slightly heavier scone.Good mustard choices for these scones include spicy, horseradish, and Dijon.
Both the mustard and hot sauce are optional ingredients in this recipe. Leaving them out will result in a tasty scone that isn't spicy.
 Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface. With lightly floured hands, roll the dough out into a circle with a diameter of eight or nine inches (20 or 23 cm), and a thickness of about one inch (2.5 cm).


Cut the dough in half horizontally, then again vertically. For smaller scones, cut each of those quarters into thirds, for a total of 12 scones. For larger scones, cut each quarter in half, for a total of eight scones.
 Arrange the scones on the baking sheet, leaving at least one inch (2.5 cm) of space between them. Bake them for 20 to 23 minutes.They are ready when they turn golden brown and are firm to the touch.


Remove the scones from the oven when they're cooked and serve immediately, as soon as they're cool enough to be touched without burning the hands. They can also be served warm or at room temperature.
Place leftovers in an air-tight container and store at room temperature for up to a few days.

