 Many people equate "natural" with "safe," but this is not always the case. It is important to check with your doctor or pharmacist before trying supplements, as they can interact with other medications you may be taking or can aggravate existing medical conditions. Your pharmacist can also recommend reputable brands for supplements — they are not regulated by the FDA, so the supplements may not actually contain what is advertised. Your pharmacist should know which brands are the best.
 Valerian root is a mild sedative that may help you to fall asleep faster and stay asleep longer. You can find valerian root supplements in drug stores and health food stores, but make sure that you check with your doctor before using valerian root.


Valerian root can interact with some medications, such as fexofenadine, alprazolam, and lorazepam.
A common dosage is 400 to 900 mg taken about two hours before bedtime for up to 28 days.
 Passionflower may help to reduce anxiety and improve sleep quality. You can find passionflower in drug stores and health food stores, but check with your doctor before using.


Passionflower can lower blood pressure, so if you take blood pressure medications, talk to your physician first.
Do not use passionflower if you are pregnant because it may induce uterine contractions.
Try taking one 90 mg passionflower tablet per day.
 Chamomile reduces anxiety and it may even improve the quality and quantity of your sleep. Try drinking a cup or two of chamomile tea before you go to sleep each night. To brew a cup of chamomile tea, just pour about 8 ounces of boiling water over a chamomile teabag in a mug. Let the tea brew for about five minutes and then remove the teabag. Allow the tea to cool a bit before drinking.


Chamomile can interact with a number of prescription medications, so check with your doctor first if you are taking any medications. For example, chamomile may interact with sedatives, blood thinners, diabetes medications, and blood pressure medications., Lemon balm can also reduce anxiety and improve sleep quality. Lemon balm is even more effective is taken with chamomile or valerian root, so you may consider combining these herbs.


Check with your doctor before using. Do not use lemon balm if you have an overactive thyroid or if you are pregnant.
You can take lemon balm as a 300 to 500 mg capsule up to three times per day., Even taking a few moments to massage some soothing lavender oil into your hands and wrists may calm you down and help you get a better night sleep.


Try combining a few drops of lavender essential oil with a tablespoon of carrier oil such as almond or coconut oil. Then, massage the mixture into your hands and wrists and inhale deeply as you do so.

