 You can be as fanciful as you like but remember that you need to feel competent about matching the wire to the design and bending it to fit.


The main frame of the design should be U shaped, from which you work the design.
The wing veins will flow out from this central frame.



Cut a long piece of wire for the central frame. Bend it into a U shape.
Cut small strips of wire and attach to the central frame. Wind onto the central frame, then cover with florist's tape to secure.
Bend the wire like wing veins, in the shape of your pattern.
When both wings are completed, wrap entirely in florist's tape. This prevents catching on sharp parts and gives the whole frame a smoother look.
 Following the design you've mapped out for the wing shape, cut this shape in the sheets of cellophane. Cut 2 sheets of cellophane for each wing.


Depending on your design, the cellophane wings may extend over the wire veins.
 This step requires patience and a willingness to try again if you don't like the result. For each wing, do as follows:


Lay down the first sheet of cellophane. Spray with the sprayable glue.
Lay down the wire frame.
Quickly and carefully lay down the second sheet of cellophane. Try to avoid making bubbles and wrinkles. If this does happen, lift it up and try it again.
Press down on the cellophane sandwich with your fingertips. Be especially careful where the cellophane comes into contact with the frame wires, to prevent tearing and to ensure adequate adhesion. Smooth as you go.
 Leave an edge about 1/4 to 1/2 inch (1-1.5cm). Carefully glue down this edge to join together neatly.


It is easy to burn yourself doing this, so take care and proceed slowly.
 This step is optional, as it's fairly tricky to do and to get it to work without damaging the cellophane. You might like to practice on separate cellophane pieces first. This step applies only to the central frame edge of the cellophane.


On each side of the wings, hold either a heat gun a little over the cellophane to force heat onto it. This will cause it to shrink onto the frame. If you hold the heat source too closely though, the cellophane will warp, bubble and tear, so be careful!
Another alternative is to place something like a face washer over the cellophane, then apply the heat of an iron (set to low). Again, this can be tricky and if you notice damage to the cellophane, stop.
 Again, this step is optional as it involves flames and careful judgment. But for a fancy edge, you might like to try this on the outer, cellophane-only edges of the wings:


Burn small holes or jagged edges using a long match or wood burning tool. Don't keep the flame or heat source in place too long, just long enough to create an interesting feature or shape.
If you'd rather not do this but still want a jagged edge, use fine scissors to make small fringe cuts or use scissors with decorative edges to make interesting edgings.
 Loop ribbon or cord around the wings in a comfortable spot and tie in place. Check that they slip over your arms comfortably.


At the design stage, you could also choose to make the wings in such a way as to fit/slip into your costume top or corset, rather than having to use loops.
 The wire cellophane wings are now ready to wear.

