 In one-on-one coaching, the person being coached sets the goal, but in a larger meeting, it’s probably best for the leader to set the goal, getting agreement from the team before proceeding. Try to make the goal clear and not too ambitious for the amount of time scheduled to work on the issue. What is the problem you want to solve? Are you going to try to solve the whole problem, or just decide on some steps to take in working on it?
, The realities are what you know about the situation, what you have already tried, what obstacles there are to a solution, what resources are available, any relevant facts.

To get all the realities on the table, create a Google Doc with multiple blank bullet points. Each person logs into this document from where ever they are so all can see and edit it. Google Docs allows multiple people to edit at once. Each person in the meeting picks a blank line and starts typing in a reality that he/she thinks the group should be aware of. After filling in a line, they hit enter to get a new blank bullet point line to add their next point. The group can talk while this is going on and can be reading what the others are typing. When nobody is adding any more points, move on to the next step. This process helps ensure that everyone can get in their say. The participants don't have to compete for talk time.
 For brainstorming options, use another section of the same Google Doc with multiple blank bullet points. Again, everyone types at once, entering possible things the group could do to achieve the goal or solve the problem being worked on or to gather the additional information needed. It’s OK to enter ideas that seem bad. These might suggest other good ideas that are similar or contrasting. When everyone is done entering ideas, move on to the next step., Evaluate the ideas that were entered in the brainstorming. If the group mostly agrees that they don’t like an option, highlight it with a red background. If most of the group likes an idea, highlight it with a green background. Use yellow for ideas that might have promise, but that not everyone is positive about. As consensus takes shape about some ideas the group likes, decide who will carry out each idea and when it should be done by. That’s the way forward.