 Becoming employed can show your parents that you want to be more independent. Most parents think working instills a variety of positive traits like developing work ethic and strengthening your independence.Working will also give you time away from your parents. Getting a job shows your parents that you care about your future and might alleviate some of their concerns with your well-being.


There are various ways you can prepare yourself for getting the job that is right for you.
 Parents, in general, are usually concerned with your school work and your educational future. Finishing your assignments on time and staying up-to-date with your studies will prove that you are responsible and need less direction from your parents.


If you are struggling in school then arrange for a tutoring service provided by your teacher or school. This will both lessen your time with your parents and show them that you don't need them to bother you about school work.
If you are making good grades be sure to tell your parents.
 Staying after-school can only occupy so much time. Inquire with your school about the various extracurricular programs you can become involved with. Occupying your time away from your home life could create the necessary space you need from your parents.


If you're unsure about what programs your school has to offer, then ask your favorite teacher or councilor.
 Friends' homes can be your safe-haven while your parents are bothering you. Plan activities with your friends that will get you out of the house like:


Going to the arcade
Going bowling
Going to see a movie
Playing laser tag
A group of your friends are having a sleepover.
Their parents invited you on a weekend camping or beach trip.
Their parents invited you over for dinner.
 Dating can teach you about establishing a healthy and stable relationship that can extend into strengthening your relationship with your parents.Entering into a relationship occupies your time and lots of parents will understand that this space is necessary. It might not be easy for you to rush into a relationship. If there is somebody in mind then try asking them out for coffee or to go see a movie.


Rushing into a relationship for the wrong reasons could cause serious problems between the other person and yourself. Only follow this step if it feels natural for you to spend time with this person.
Take the time and make a plan. This will improve your chances of the other person agreeing to see you.
 Getting in trouble at school or with the law will only raise your parents' attention towards you. If you do something that could get you into trouble and caught by the authorities, then don't do it. Separate yourself from certain friends that are prone to getting into trouble. If your parents begin to notice that you've weaved trouble making friends out of your life, then they'll appreciate it.


Set high standards with your friendships and your life goals. If you dream big, then you'll feel more pressure to stay out trouble.