 If you have health conditions that affect your ability to exert yourself physically for a prolonged period of time, talk to your doctor before attending a cycling class. Further, if you have any injuries that have not fully healed, ask your doctor when you can return to non-contact fitness activities.If you’re hoping to transition out of a mostly sedentary lifestyle, another type of exercise, such as walking, may be a healthier way to start exercising. Talk to your doctor about where to begin, and you will likely be cleared to hop on a bike sooner than later.
 Intense cardio workouts are hard work, and you’ll experience some physical discomfort during a challenging cycling session. However, there are certain signs you should watch out for, as they may indicate an oncoming heart attack or exhaustion. If any of these symptoms develop, stop cycling immediately to rest and drink water.Watch out for sudden, intense pain in your chest, or the feeling of rising pressure or squeezing within your chest. Similarly, don’t ignore irregular heartbeats. If these symptoms persist for more than a few minutes, seek medical assistance.
Extreme shortness breath is also a concern. While you will certainly have labored breathing while cycling, if you’re struggling to breathe or can’t slow down your breathing when you slow your bike down, take a break. If your breath returns to normal, you can always return to cycling.
Stop exercising immediately if you become dizzy or light-headed, or experience nausea and cold sweats. If these sensations do not go away after a few minutes, seek medical attention.
 Cycle three times a week to quickly and steadily improve your fitness level. Of course, the important thing is consistency. If you can only make one class per week, that’s fine – just make sure to go every week! Once you attend a few classes, you can likely simply guide yourself through solo sessions. If you do wish to go off on your own, plan to have one relatively easy weekly workout, one challenging one, and one that really pushes you., For an “easy” ride, simply keep a steady pace and focus on endurance. Ride for an hour to an hour and a half, keeping your RPM between 85 and 100. Add resistance as needed to keep your breath deep and steady throughout the ride. Since this is a more time consuming ride, plan this one for the weekend., For a harder ride, incorporate intervals that bring you right up to the point of discomfort. In other words, work a few long “climbs” into your ride. With heavy resistance to simulate a climb, maintain 70 to 85 RPM for as long as you can. At lower resistances, maintain 90 to 100 RPM. Both of these will likely challenge you. Your breathing will be quicker during these rides, but should remain steady. Cool down as needed, allowing yourself to reduce your RPM for as many minutes as you were able to maintain a higher RPM., Stated simply, intervals of intense cycling will help you burn calories, increase your aerobic capacity and overall fitness, and keep your heart in good shape. These types of workouts are best if you can only fit in one session per week. After working up the bike’s resistance, go as fast as you can for two to four minutes. Allow yourself to slow down as needed, but try to keep your RPM as high as you can while keeping your breath steady and rhythmic.