 In order to understand how your medical conditions may be related to lung inflammation, it is important to educate yourself. There are many helpful resources available on the internet, including Mayo Clinic, The American Lung Association, The American Heart Association, Cancer.gov, and Cancer.org. These resources have information written specifically for the layperson.


Write down your diagnoses or have your healthcare provider write down your diagnoses.
Ask your healthcare provider about resources to better understand your medical conditions.
 Chemotherapy, radiation, and some medications can contribute to lung inflammation. There are other medications available that can help reduce lung inflammation, if you have been diagnosed with this condition. It is important to know what the risks from any medications or treatments are.


Write down, or have your healthcare provider write down, the names of all of your medications and treatments.
Ask for resources to read about the specific drugs and treatments you may be receiving.
 There are a number of medications available that can be used to treat lung inflammation and associated conditions. The type of medication used for treatment depends on your particular diagnosis. For example, if you have pneumonia, you’ll likely be prescribed antibiotics that will help destroy pathogens causing the infection. If you have lung fibrosis, there are fewer drug options to slow the disease, but new therapies are entering the drug market. A list of drugs that can reduce lung inflammation or are used to treat related diseases are shown below.


Beclamethasone dipropionate (inhaled corticosteroid used to treat COPD) Fluticasione propionate (inhaled corticosteroid used to treat COPD) Flunisolide (inhaled corticosteroid used to treat COPD) Budesonide (inhaled corticosteroid used to treat COPD) Mometasone (inhaled corticosteroid used to treat COPD) Ciclesonide (inhaled corticosteroid used to treat COPD) Methylprednisone (oral steroid used to treat COPD) Prednisolone (oral steroid used to treat COPD) Prednisone (oral steroid used to treat COPD) Hydrocortisone (oral steroid used to treat COPD) Dexamethasone (oral steroid used to treat COPD) Cromolyn sodium (inhaled nonsteroid used to treat COPD) Nedocromil sodium (inhaled nonsteroid used to treat COPD) Amoxicillin (antibiotic used to treat bacterial pneumonia) Benzylpenicillin (antibiotic used to treat bacterial pneumonia) Azithromycin (antibiotic used to treat bacterial pneumonia) Pirfenidone (drug used to slow lung scarring caused by pulmonary fibrosis) Nintedanib (drug used to slow lung scarring caused by pulmonary fibrosis) Ceftriaxone (antibiotic used to treat pneumonia and respiratory infections)Supplemental oxygen (used to ease symptoms in a wide range of lung disorders)

