 Add enough olive oil to a deep skillet to reach a depth of 2-inches (5-cm), and place a deep fry thermometer on the side of the pan. Place the skillet on the stove, and heat it over medium heat until the temperature reaches 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius).If you don’t have a deep fry thermometer, you can use a candy thermometer.
You can substitute peanut oil for the olive oil if you prefer.;
, Add 1 ½ cups (150 g) of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 ½ cups (75 g) of panko breadcrumbs, and ¾ teaspoon (4 g) of salt to a medium bowl. Mix the ingredients together well with a fork to ensure that they’re well blended.You can add other seasonings to the breadcrumb mixture if you like. Garlic powder, onion powder, dried oregano, crushed red pepper flakes, and/or black pepper are tasty options.
 Place another medium bowl beside the breadcrumb mixture. Crack two large eggs into it, and whisk them until they’re well beaten.You can use egg substitute in place of the eggs if you prefer.
 For the fries, you’ll need 3 medium zucchini that have been cut into 3-inch (8-cm) long by ½-inch (13-mm) wide strips. Dip the strips into the eggs first and then roll them in the breadcrumb mixture until they are completely coated in batches just before you’re ready to fry them.Coat the fries with the egg and breadcrumb mixture right before you plan to add them to the hot oil. Don’t do it ahead of time and leave them sitting around until you’re ready to fry the zucchini.
When you dip the zucchini fries into the eggs, allow the excess to drip back into the bowl to avoid clumps.
To ensure that the fries are well coated, pat the breadcrumb mixture onto the zucchini so it adheres well.
 Once the fries are coated with the breadcrumb mixture, add them to the hot oil in batches. Allow the fries to fry until they are golden brown, which should take approximately 3 minutes.Use a wooden spoon to stir the fries slightly while they’re frying so they cook evenly.
 When the zucchini is finished frying, use a slotted wooden spoon to remove them from the oil. Set them down on a plate lined with paper towel to absorb some of the excess oil., Once the fries are drained, transfer them to a platter for serving. Sprinkle the remaining ½ cup (25 g) of Parmesan cheese over the fries and enjoy.The zucchini fries pair well with tomato-based dipping sauces, such as ketchup or marinara.
A garlic aioli also makes a tasty dipping sauce for the fries.

