 Before asking the court to terminate a spousal support order, you and your attorney need to look over the existing spousal support order. This is the case because, in some circumstances, spousal support orders are non-modifiable.


For example, some spousal support orders expressly state that it cannot be modified. Spousal support orders cannot be changed if both parties have agreed that it cannot be terminated. This agreement should be in writing but it could also be an oral agreement.
In another example, some spousal support orders are of a fixed duration (i.e., they only last for a certain period of time). If your spousal support order has a fixed duration, it usually cannot be terminated before that date. When the end date arrives, the alimony will automatically terminate., A court can only modify a spousal support order if there has been a material change in circumstances since the last order was entered into. The court will look at all of the facts and circumstances when making this decision. However, even if there has been a material change in circumstances, the court may still deny any motion to terminate.The most common circumstances that lead to the termination of spousal support include:


The remarriage of your ex-spouse
The death of your ex-spouse
The cohabitation of your ex-spouse with another person
The changed financial circumstances of you or your ex-spouse, In some circumstances your wages may be garnished in order to pay for your spouse's alimony. If your spousal support order terminates and your wages were being garnished, you will need to take additional steps to stop the garnishment. The new order will not automatically stop this.


To stop garnishment, you will need to fill out an earnings assignment order that reflects a $0 amount for the spousal support. Once this earnings assignment order has been signed off by the judge, you will need to give this order to your employer., Spousal support cannot be ended retroactively and will only become effective as of the date the order was signed by the judge. Therefore, if you owe any spousal support before the date the termination order is signed, you will have to pay that.