 Whether you are using peritoneal dialysis or hemodialysis, all people with end stage kidney failure should be up to date with their vaccinations to help reduce the potential for infection and illness.


End stage renal disease affects your immune system. The mortality rate is as high as 20% per year for people undergoing dialysis and the major causes are cardiovascular disease and infection.The dysfunction of the immune system is induced by uremia, or higher levels of urea in the blood system.Talk with your doctor about vaccinations for the flu, hepatitis A and B and the pneumococcal vaccination for pneumonia to help prevent these illnesses.;
, Dialysis works best when you are well rested because sleep assists your body in removing waste products. Make sure that you sleep for eight hours each night to support the removal of waste products from your body and brain.If you have any trouble sleeping after starting dialysis, let your doctor know as soon as possible.
 Tobacco increases your white blood cell count, keeping the body under stress fighting the inflammation and damage caused by the chemicals. Nicotine also causes a constriction of the blood vessels, decreasing the level of nutrients and oxygen available to the cells. Tar and other chemicals will also make the immune system less effective in fighting off infections. That means that you will be more likely to get sick and more vulnerable to autoimmune disorders.If you are a smoker, talk to your doctor about getting help to quit. There are many free smoking cessation programs and other treatments that your doctor can tell you about.
 It is important to wash your hands well before and after cooking, after using the bathroom, after being in public or after touching your nose or blowing your nose. Wash your hands after being with other people or with anyone who is sick or appears to be ill. Doing so will help to protect you from getting sick or developing an infection.,


High blood pressure will reduce the amount of oxygen which is delivered to the kidneys and other organs. Although your kidneys have failed, high blood pressure may impact your sight and trigger heart disease.
 You may need to make some changes to your diet depending on your condition. Reduce your carbohydrate and salt intake to reduce the waste products necessary to be removed by dialysis.Speak with your physician about the specific diet he wants you to follow, based on your individual medical requirements.


The National Kidney Foundation recommends eating a high protein diet that is low in salt, potassium and phosphorus. Foods naturally high in protein includes beans and meat.
Avoid processed foods as these are often high in sodium.
Limit your salt intake. Try using herbs and spices to enhance the flavor of your food.
Avoid foods that are high in potassium and phosphorus, such as dark leafy greens, bananas, avocados, squash, potatoes, yogurt, and fish.
 Your doctor may decide to put you on a fluid restricting diet and may even ask you to keep track of the amount of fluids that you consume. Make sure that you discuss your individual needs with your physician., The catheter site will take about two weeks to heal before it may be used for dialysis.After the site has healed, you will receive training on how to prepare your peritoneal dialysis bags and machinery, how to connect and disconnect, how to dispose of the fluid, and when to seek medical attention., Beginning dialysis requires major life adjustments that may be difficult to cope with on your own. Consider joining a support group to help you cope with the changes in your life from kidney failure. You may also benefit from seeking counseling with a therapist, psychologist or pastor.

