 The amount of food that equals one serving will be listed right under the “Nutrition Facts.” It will be given in measurements like cups, pieces, or grams, depending on the food. The information on the nutrition label is based on one serving of the food. Many packaged foods contain more than one serving so you need to keep that in mind when you are eating the packaged food.For example, if you eat two servings of chicken nuggets, you are then eating double of everything listed on the nutrition label. This includes the fat, sodium, and calorie content of the food.
If you do eat more than one serving at a time, you should be aware of how many calories total you are consuming so your meal is still healthy.
 You should also note the calories listed for one serving of the packaged food. The label may say “Calories”, and then next to it, “Calories from fat.” This number is how many fat calories are in one serving of the food. Remember that if you eat more than one serving of the food, you are doubling the calorie content.

Checking the calorie content will help you get a better sense of how much fat is in the food. A product that is advertised as fat-free may not be calorie free. Reading the label will help you determine the exact calorie content in the food.
 You’ll find the sodium, fat, and cholesterol content listed next on the nutrition label. There will be a “Percent (%) Daily Value” or a daily value in grams column for these sections, which tells you how one serving of food contributes to your total daily diet based on a 2,000 calories per day diet. Have packaged foods that are low in sodium, fat, and cholesterol as you do not want them to make up a large percentage of your daily calorie intake.Go for packaged foods that have 20 grams of fat per 100 grams, or no more than 20% fat content. Foods that have no more than 600 milligrams of sodium per 100 grams, or 6% sodium content are ideal.Having too much fat, cholesterol, and sodium in your food can increase your risk of heart disease, high blood pressure, and some cancers.
 You should check if the nutrition label lists any vitamins or minerals like vitamin A, vitamin C, calcium, potassium, and fiber. These nutrients are essential for a healthy diet and will ensure you get enough energy from your packaged food. Look at the percentage or amount per grams listed on the nutrition label of the packaged food. If they are not listed at all, the food may not be of quality or very healthy for you.

Foods that contain at least 3 grams of dietary fiber per 100 grams are ideal, or at least 3% of the total Percent Daily Value.

