 E.g: Do they have any allergies or sensitivities to any certain ingredients, which are often used in cosmetics or applied directly to the skin during aesthetic treatments. This is very important to know, as if these are applied, they will definitely produce the opposite results in which you are trying to achieve with your facial application.;
, Wrap a clean towel around your client's head.
 If she happens to be wearing eye makeup, apply eye makeup remover to a cotton pad, to gently cleanse the eye area. Always cleanse the eye area in counter clock wise to avoid wrinkling the eye area.
 Have a lamp right over your client's face, hence the need for the cotton pads on the eyes, and take notice of any flaws or blemishes, for example: comedones, pimples, etc size of pores, fine lines, dehydration, etc. These will determine the type of skin your client has. There are four main skin types:


Normal: This is considered the best skin type. It is has a good oil/water balance, with no impurities, or fine lines.
Dry: This skin type has very tight pores, due to lack of oil. While it will not have any impurities, it tends to mature faster, and develop fine lines faster.
Combination: Parts of the face are oily, while other parts are dry(usually the T Zone((the forehead, nose, and chin area))is the oily part, while the cheeks are the dry part).
Oily: this skin type, has an overabundance of oil. Although this skin type matures the slowest, it usually has a shiny surface and multiple impurities.
, Exfoliating is good for the skin as it sloughs away dead cells from the skin which accumulate, and prevents newer cells from growing. Once this is done, you may pat the skin dry.
 Once this is done, you may start doing upward strokes on the skin. Don't use downward strokes on the skin, as gravity will pull the skin down, apparently. Do a little "tap dance" with your finger tips on your client's skin; use your index finger and your middle finger in a "scissors" like motion along the jaw line. Massaging the skin will increase the blood flow in your client's face.
 This will open the pores on the face. It is best to have open pores when applying a beauty mask.
 Mud masks clean out the pores and strengthen them. Leave only the eye area, you may want to put some more cotton pads onto the eyes to avoid getting the mud into eye area.
 Then gently wash off.
 This will close pores, as well as remove excess oil and impurities, which were not washed away with cleanser.
,, Give your client a mirror to view his/herself, and humbly accept their happy cries as they see how beautiful they are.

