 This minion uses a toilet paper roll as a base. It is simple and easy to make, and perfect for anyone who loves to work with glue and paint. Here's what you will need:


Toilet paper roll
Blue and yellow paint
Black and yellow paper
Black marker
1 – 2 large googly eyes
Glue
Paintbrushes
Newspaper
Masking tape or paper tape
Black yarn or pipe cleaners;
, This will make your minion nice and solid. If you cannot find a toilet paper roll, try cutting a paper towel roll in half, or into thirds.
 This will make the domed shape of the minion's head., This will cover the top of the head and make it smooth. Keep covering it with tape from different angles until you can't see the newspaper anymore.Make sure that you are using masking tape or paper tape, or the paint won't stick to it. Regular scotch tape is too smooth.
 The yellow part will be the body of the minion and the blue part will be the overalls.
 Use a thin brush to paint two "n" shapes across from each other, right above the blue part of the tube. This will make the straps.
 Start by placing the minion down on a sheet of black paper. Trace around the minion using a pencil. Take the minion off the paper and draw an "m" right above the circle. Make sure that the bottom of the "m" is touching the top of the circle. Also, make sure that the "m" is the same width as the circle. The arches from the "m" will make the shoes. Cut the circle out; be sure to include the "m" shape.


Glue the minion down onto the feet. Use school glue or tacky glue to line the bottom rim of the toilet paper roll. Place a few drops of glue onto the newspaper inside the minion as well. Press the minion down onto the feet. The arches from the "m" should be sticking out from under the minion, like shoes.
 If you want, you can paint or color the hands black to look like gloves. Minion arms are shaped like long, skinny rectangles; they have three loops at one end, sort of like a three-leaf clover.
 Fold the bottom of each arm by 1 centimeter. Put a drop of glue onto the folded part, and press it against the minion, just below the shoulder strap.
 Glue one or two large googly eyes down for the eyes. Use a marker to draw around each eye. This will make the frame of the goggles. Next, use a marker to draw a line going around the entire head, from one side of the goggles to the other. This will be the strap.


If your minion has two eyes, make sure that the googly eyes are touching each other.Minion eyes are very close together.
 Cut some yarn, and glue it onto the top of the head. If you want your minion to have spiked hair, cut a pipe cleaner into 1 inch (2.54 centimeter) pieces, and poke them onto the top of the minion's head. If they don't go in too easily, make the hole first using a toothpick.
 Use a black marker to draw the mouth. You can also use it to draw the buttons and pocket on the overalls. In the movie, the minions had a letter "G" on the front pocket of the overalls. You can use that, or use the first letter of your name to make the minion your personal minion.