 In order to effectively advocate during childbirth, you must be aware of what the mother expects you to do and what her wishes are for her delivery.


Some mothers may not have thought through in advance all of the decisions they will have to consider during delivery, so it is your job to make sure she knows what may come up. Once she knows the possible decision points for her delivery, the two of you should take time to talk through each possibility and discuss her decisions.
Ask whether you will be the only guest during delivery and what she would like you to do. Some women might like you to provide comfort services, such as calming massages, a few magazines, and her favorite snack once labor begins. Others may want your role to involve only communication with medical staff and some encouragement during delivery.
 One of your primary responsibilities as a birth advocate is to help the mother defend her decisions regarding pain medication.


If she has firmly decided in advance that she does not want to use medication, inform the medical staff of her decision in advance and again once she is admitted for delivery. If she is in considerable pain and seems to want to change her decision about medication, ask whether she would like to consider it or if she would like to continue with her goal of a medication-free birth.
Support her decision either way. Medical staff often asks repeatedly about pain management and are willing to accommodate requests at many points during delivery. There is often a point during delivery after which staff cannot perform an epidural, however. This may be the appropriate time to convey a single offer of pain medication during delivery if the mother previously decided against it; otherwise do not bother her with repeated offers.
 Even during deliveries that a mother intended to be entirely natural, certain circumstances may require medical intervention or surgery.


If the mother has expressed in advance a decision to avoid intervention if possible, inform medical staff of this choice upon admission to the birth unit and ask that they discuss potential interventions with you prior to mentioning it to her, particularly if the intervention is purely optional.
If an intervention becomes necessary for the health or life of the mother or her baby, it is your responsibility to convey the severity of the situation to the mother and allow her to make a decision in line with her values. Once she has decided, defend her choice to the medical staff and offer continual support and encouragement to the mother, especially if she had to accept intervention when she had not desired or anticipated it.
 Childbirth is a highly personal experience and every woman may have unique expectations, desires, and opinions surrounding her upcoming labor.


Do your best to understand and support her decisions, and make a note of her choices so that you remember what she wants when it comes time to advocate during delivery.
 If the mother will be delivering in an institutional setting but would like to breastfeed her baby, part of your role as a birth advocate is to inform nursing staff of the mother’s decision and request that the baby be allowed to stay with the mother as much as possible to facilitate breastfeeding.

