 In order to access your PC from another network you will have to forward a port on your router.To do this you must access your router’s network page.
 This will show a bunch of information for all your network devices.
Look for the device you connect to the internet with in this case Wireless LAN adapter Wi-Fi.
Under this heading find the Default Gateway address which will look something like: 192.168.2.1. This is the address of your router page.



Open your Internet browser. Type your routers IP address (your Default Gateway) into the address bar. You will then be prompted for a username and password.
If you had set up a username and password and you've lost them you will have to reset your router to factory default. To do this press and hold the reset button.
Every router will come with a default username and password. If you do not know them or have the box or manual try: http://www.routerpasswords.com/ For a large list of Router brands and listings of default usernames and passwords.
Or go to http://portforward.com/ and look under the routers section for Router passwords.
 (All router pages will be different depending on the make and model.)


1. Find the WAN (Wide Area Network) section.
2. In the WAN section find Port forwarding.
3. Select the option to enable port forwarding if there is one.
4. There will be a list where you can forward certain ports for certain devices on your network.
5. In the local IP drop down list find the IP address or name of the PC your will be connecting to.
6. Set the local port to 3389
7. For protocol select Both
8. Add the new port and click Apply. It should take about a minute to apply these changes.
9. If necessary you may also need to Reboot the router.
10. Now your router is set up to allow remote connections.



Go to Control Panel.
Go to System and Security.
Under System or System Properties go to the Remote section.
Enable: Allow remote connections to this computer.
Apply changes and exit.

Go to Windows Firewall > click on Advance Settings > on the left click Inbound rules. In this window select New Rule on the right.
In the Inbound Rule wizard:

On the Rule Type page select Port
On the Program page select UDP
For the Specific local ports use 3389
Go through the rest of the pages and select all options you want to include.


Port 3389 will now be in your list of programs allowed through your firewall.

In the options for put the computer to sleep select Never

,
Warning: it is recommended you have a secure password to access your pc.


For info on what a secure password should contain visit: http://windows.microsoft.com/en-ca/windows-vista/tips-for-creating-a-strong-password

To have one generated for you try using: ,
For these instructions we will use the Remote Desktop App available in the Windows Store.
Install the Remote Desktop App on the PC you are connecting from.
Make sure to Allow Remote Desktop to communicate through your firewall

,


In your internet browser in the search bar or on a search engine type:

"What’s my IP?"
The results will show you several sites that will give you your public IP.



In the Remote Desktop App enter the IP address for the PC you are connecting to then click Connect.
Next you will be prompted for your user name and password.
Enter your login information.
Now you will be connected and in full control of the other PC!

,
You can find the name of your computer in Control Panel > System and Security > System.

Go into the Windows Store and download the same app Remote Desktop.
Open the app
On the welcome screen click the Plus sign and add a new desktop.
In the PC name text box Enter:

The local IP address or Computer Name. If you are connecting on on the same network.
OR the public IP address if you are connecting over the Internet.


You will then be required to enter your credentials.

