 Every songwriter thinks differently, so don't get frozen up believing one or the other must come first. Sometimes you'll be playing along on the guitar and a song will just hit you. Other times a snippet of lyrics will hit your head and force its way out. Punk is about you being yourself, not checking off boxes or following a formula. Whatever you want to put in a song, however you want to put it there, is probably going to work in a punk rock song.


Most songwriters keep a dedicated notebook or phone note on them at all times -- you never know when an idea will hit you.
If you're stuck and unsure just want to write, simply start freewriting. It doesn't even have to rhyme. You'll be surprised how, eventually, a song idea crops up.;
, Yell about the government, yell about your ex-girlfriend, yell about the jerk in 2B who tells you to shut up at 3:30 in the afternoon. Punk is a raw, angry, and assertive art form, meaning you don't have to worry about hiding your intent or coming up with perfect expressions. What want is to be honest and straightforward -- wear your beliefs proudly on your sleeves and you're already halfway there. Try out:



Political Songs: Punk sprang up as a way for anyone to criticize the people "protecting and serving" us, calling them out on hypocrisy, lies, and selfishness.

Social Messages: Think Americans are too lazy and need to wake up? Worried that the news is lying to us about war? What about disappearing jobs for working class people? The world around you is filled with injustices someone needs to shine a light on.

Songs Fighting Authority: This authority might be your parents, a teacher, the PTA, or your boring suburban neighborhood. Punk songs assert your voice where no one else will listen to it.

Character Songs: Punk has a long history of taking the perspective of those who can't be heard on their own, where the singer's "I" is someone very different from the actual singer. Who's story do you believe needs to be told?

Life Stories: Not all songs need huge, deep meanings. Just as many recount incredible concert experiences, a strange day in Olympia, WA, or the fact that "Jeff Don't Wear Regular Shoes."

, Punk is youthful and angry, and thus it's no surprise that it can often be very funny as well. Don't be afraid to throw a little sarcasm into the songs, particularly those about social and political issues. From "Franco Un-American" to "Kill the Poor," punk often uses abrasive, difficult language and humor to point out the underlying tragedies or issues that everyone else is ignoring.


"Kill the Poor" is an incredible example of "agreeing" with a horrible idea to show just how horrible it really is -- Jello Biafra (singer/songwriter) is one of the punk's master of satirical lyrics.
 Joe Strummer, guitarist and lead singer of The Clash ("The Only Band that Mattered"), infamously had little more than a 3-note vocal range. Yet he realized the lyrics themselves, and the energy needed to sing them, were more important than traditionally great vocal skills. Once you've locked down some of the instrumentals, start experimenting with ways to push the lyrics alongside them. Some good ideas include:



Using volume effectively: Every singer, no matter their talent, can use this trick. Much like a roller coaster, use your singing volume to create tension and excitement, slowing/quieting down to build suspense and then rising to a yell to drive home intense moments.

Getting a little weird: From Jello Biafra through underground rapper Danny Brown, counter-culture singers aren't afraid to try a strange or off-kilter voice to make a point.

Learning to scream-sing: All of the intense, almost inhuman singing in punk and hardcore may seem like it will shred your vocal chords, but there are actually safe ways to practice this distinctive tone.
 This circles back to the communal nature of punk, and it's not uncommon to see every member of the band contributing some vocals at some point in the songs. These can be anything from simply repeating the words the lead singer uses to adding "woooaahhsss," "ahhhhsss," or "oi oi ois!" throughout the chorus.


Check The Clash, specifically London Calling, for masterclasses in punk backing vocals. Even the Sex Pistols, with their famously bad singing, can be seen showing off solid background vocals in "Holidays in the Sun."

, Punk is a communal art form, best experienced live and with an excitable audience. A catchy chorus line, especially one people can get involved in, will up the energy exponentially and turn live shows into the raucous, high-energy events they are meant to be.


Consider small sing-along or call and response sections to get people singing.
Not every song needs to involve the audience -- if you want a hard, fast, and barely intelligible chorus, go for it.
 Punk is about individuality, not about sticking to any scripture. If you want to write a 10-minute punk epic about environmental pollution, all without a recognizable chorus, then go for it. If you want to write 20-second songs about Martians invading earth, there is nothing stopping you (and you wouldn't actually be the first punks to do so). Punk is about doing it all yourself -- so go do it yourself.