 This is the first and most important step in your long journey to inspire creativity in your team. Why is it important? Simply because the vision is the desired outcome, and your vision will guide all your creative efforts now and in the future. How do you define it? Start by asking some questions: Why am I involved in this project? What do I want to achieve in the long run? What will be the ideal result of this project? Answering these simple questions will lead you to a definition of your vision. Don't forget to engage your team members in the process, too!;
, Now that you've defined your vision, share it with your teammates. Meet with them to explain your team objectives. Take questions and give clear answers. Seek to avoid ambiguities and misunderstandings.
 You're on a mission to eliminate/redefine the myths surrounding creativity, which is often a misunderstood commodity. Creative people exist in every field but need to be encouraged to disregard standard thinking. Creativity is a mindset, a philosophy, a way of thinking. It seeks for and applies new and useful ideas in all walks of life. Tell your people to seek the new and apply the useful.
 Why reinvent the wheel if we can build something new with it? The act of creativity isn't about starting from scratch. It's about considering existing methods and creating new and improved ones. Read books, attend workshops, watch an inspiring video, or talk with leaders in your field. (If you are the leader in your field, talk to yourself. That may sound funny, but it actually could prove useful.)

, Rather like a DJ mixing songs and beats, you can mix together ideas and concepts to see if something appealing might emerge. An example is the birth of the iPhone. A mobile phone, an internet device, an iPod: a mix of three components that revolutionized the high tech industry. You can watch Steve Jobs introducing his product by clicking on the link at the end of this article.
 Mixing up ideas and concepts is a good move. But not all mixes are great. You must select the best ones. To do this you'll need to evaluate the feasibility of your ideas through multiple qualitative and quantitative analyses: surveys, focus groups, experimentation. The evaluation must be brutally honest.
 Your teammates have come up with a lot of good ideas, and you're very proud of them. But don't keep it to yourself! Give them a cookie, a verbal reward like "You did great today", "You have great insight" or a simple "Thank you" can increase the motivation of your people. Material rewards make nice incentives, too.

