 They take a percentage of the money, but they ( at least most of them ) do provide value to models such as promoting the model within the site, technical support, training and issue copyright complaint notice if any material is leaked onto the web.


Some studio will even sponsor equipment for models who work from home. Models who work at the studio itself will benefit from high-end equipment such as HD remote cam (the best ones cost over $1,000 if the model has to buy it herself), studio lighting, etc.;
, You will find a number of studios that will pay you just 20% of your earnings. This may seem small but 20-25% is an industry standard. The greater majority of the earnings stay with the studios to help pay for marketing and credit card fees.
 Nine out of ten studios will send you a check every two weeks. Others pay weekly, and some pay daily to an online account. Do not work with a company paying through PayPal as it is against their policies to work with this kind of industry. (Your account could be frozen and you might be working with an illegitimate company.) Some agencies (but not many) will pay you daily.
 This information is very important when working as a webcam model. These documents are usually needed in the form of a .jpeg image file. Examples of these are a photo ID, signed model contract, and a 2257 model release form. These forms are almost always provided for you by the studios.
 A good studio will give you everything you need to succeed and will offer a personal representative that will help you be successful.



Pick a username that is easy to remember. A name like SugarXXXKisses69 will be harder for someone to remember than SweetMary. By selecting an easy to remember name, you will increase the chances of having repeat visitors who could become regular clients. One key to becoming a top paid model is regular clients.
While deciding upon a username, make sure the one you choose is also free on Twitter and any other social networking site you might want to promote yourself on. Having the same username will make it easier for you to promote yourself and bring new members to the webcam site you are on.



Upload high quality pictures of yourself. They should be colorful, taken from different locations, and able to grab a member’s attention. A picture says a thousand words, make sure yours are saying things to attract members.

Have a MINIMUM of 7 pictures spread over 3 albums. We see time and time again that you will get more visitor and make more money the more high quality photos you have.


Pick your best attention grabbing picture as your main profile picture. This is the picture that will be listed when you are online. When members are looking through the gallery of online models, you want that picture to entice them to enter your room.
Fully fill out your description. Explain in detail about yourself (not personal information!) and what you are willing to do on cam in private chats. Make sure to mention your kinks or fetishes, so members who search for those specific kinks and fetishes will find you.
Some sites give you the opportunity to place text at the top of the chat box. It’s a good idea to use this as a sales opportunity – saying what you are willing to do and for how many tokens. When you get signed up you can look at some of the other models to get ideas about what to say here.



Use a high quality webcam. A 1 megapixel webcam could work, but the better your video quality, the more money you will make. Most sites list which models have high quality cams, so they have more traffic in their rooms. A standard high quality webcam accepted on all cam sites and used by many models is Logitech 720p Webcam Pro 900. Another one is the Logitech HD Pro Webcam C910 which is very high quality and HD. The demand for models with HD video streams is growing and this cam delivers.
Lighting, lighting, lighting! Make sure you have enough lighting so you show up on webcam. Have at least two light sources, but three or four can help prevent your face from having shadows on it. Just make sure you aren’t lit up like a Christmas tree. Too much lighting isn’t good either.
Clean your work area. Make sure the area around you and behind you are clean and clutter free. You can do a little decorating to make your surroundings attractive and to set the mood, but you want the focus to be on you, not on the items and objects in your surroundings.
Make sure any toys or props you may use on cam are nearby. You don’t want to leave people waiting by going off cam to find something, and if a toy or prop is within reach, you can show it to those viewing to entice them to take you to private chat since they know you have it.
Be dressed in something alluring and that highlights your assets. Also make sure to have any extra outfits nearby. Some people like to role play, so if you have other outfits handy, they will take you to private chat if the outfit fits the role they want.
Plan ahead! When it comes to props, toys, and clothing, think about what you will want to use, what might be requested, and have them all ready. You can also plan any games or contests you may want to play with the members in your room (If you are on a site that allows tipping).
Groom yourself! Before you go on cam, shower and get yourself clean. Shave. Do up your hair and put on any makeup you wish to. Remember, you are the product, so the better you look, the more money you can make.
Take a deep breath and relax. It will be okay. Being nervous can show up on cam.



Take a deep breaths and relax. Then go live. First and foremost, while appearance was stressed in the Pre-Show, you don’t need to have super model looks. The most important part of webcam modeling is your personality. People want to get to know who you are. Don’t be afraid to be yourself.
Have fun! Don’t start a show thinking you will make money. You will, but models who are just on cam to make money, aren’t nearly as fun as those who are trying to enjoy the job. People will pay for time with you if they find you fun and entertaining. So let out your wild and fun side. If you’re not having a good time, chances are your viewers aren’t either.
Know your limits. Viewers will often times want to get to know you on a personal level. Make up a fake name, location, ect. Pick a location that is in a similar place – if you live in Oregon, say you’re from Nevada. The viewer really doesn’t know. If you don’t want to show your face, then wear a mask or carefully adjust the camera. “Know thyself.”
Browse through a few cams and get an idea of what they’re offering. Think about your “room” as a business but remember customer service, great products, and don’t let it get too boring. No one wants a waitress or waiter who is grumpy only looking for tips – they want an experience. Give it to them!
Camming can be fun! Make it fun.
Thank people for their tips and nice comments. Make conversation. People want more than masturbator, they want a connection. Virtually.
Know the rules and regulations of the site. Some cam sites don’t let you smoke on screen. Some (most) often ban you from giving out your Skype or PayPal. Abide by the rules or be always worried about having your account and funds frozen
Make use of your audio. People prefer to hear you speaking than typing. You can also say a lot more with your voice, since you can use different tones and inflections that aren’t available by type. People will get to hear you giggle, you whisper, and your moans. That’s part of the package they will want to pay for.
Always be friendly and polite! If someone decides to act disruptive in your room, politely ask him or her to stop. If he or she doesn’t, don’t get into a fight, just kick or ban the person. Getting into it with the person will only take your attention away from those who want to pay you for that attention.
Acknowledge and chat with everyone. Those who are paying members of the site should hold more of your attention, but free guests can sometimes be turned into paying members. So don’t ignore anyone.
Learn nicknames or real names of the people who regularly visit your chatroom. The more they feel like you know each other, the more likely they will return and continue to take you to private chat. Make sure to always be welcoming to new people though, they could take you private, and become new regulars. The more regulars you have, the more time you will spend in private chat making money.
If someone asks if you are single, tell him or her you are, even if you aren’t. This gives the fantasy in his or her mind that someday you two could become involved in a relationship. Of course it never will happen, but the fantasy could keep the person around as a paying regular.
Beware of Beggars! You will encounter people who will beg you to do something in free chat. Usually it involves showing a part of your body or you doing something. Sometimes they will even promise to take you to private chat, but usually won’t. It's nice to be responsive to members, and as you gain more experience, you will realise which requests are good to follow through on and which other ones are best left till someone pays.
Don’t be afraid to make use of the toys and props you have at the ready! And do let those in your room know, what you have at the ready. That will lead to more private chats.
Take the time to get up every so often. Dance around a little, keep your blood flowing and your enthusiasm up. If you are just sitting there looking bored, you will find it much harder to get paid for private chats.



Most websites show to their members which models are new, so you will be getting people coming into your room to check out the new model. During this period, do your best to turn those curious people into regular members. Following the tips listed above will help.
Set a Schedule! Before you even begin your first show, decide upon the schedule you want to have for your times on cam. This will make it much easier for those who want to find you later, since they will know when you are on next. This is one of the most important keys to being a top paid model. When your paying regulars know when you’ll be online, they will more likely be online, so you’ll spend more of your online cam time in paid private chats instead of in free chat.
Use Twitter. When first starting out, search for the Twitter accounts of popular models. Then begin to follow their male followers. No more than 40 per 8 hours. Although Twitter supposedly lets you do 1,000 follows a day, take it slow and steady. Some of them will follow you back, so within a few days, you should have a large amount of potential clients to advertise to. For example, when you are online, send out a tweet! Send status updates, pictures, promotions, and/or discounts. Just don’t over tweet.
On your Twitter account make sure you have a picture of yourself that will encourage people to visit you on cam. Also tweet regularly. You don’t need to be on Twitter all day but 3 – 4 tweets a day will make sure you show up in feeds.

Show your personality in your tweets, you should be tweeting when you are going online but if this is all you do people will feel they are getting hard sold to. Tweet pictures of yourself, what you are doing with your day, stuff you like etc etc


Promote in your profile. You can do this on Twitter or other social network sites. Add a link to your website in your profile. This way, when you add people and they come to see who you are, they may click. Use bitly to make your links small and customize their looks.
Create your own website about yourself and your webcam activities. Although make sure you don’t include personal information that will allow people to find you. Also make sure to get privacy for the domain, so people can’t look up your information. A well-made website could provide you with more traffic from Google and other search engines. It also allows you to have another place to interact with potential clients and regulars.
Make a Facebook fan page. Just avoid linking it with your real Facebook account. On the Facebook page, you can interact with people as well, turning some into regulars. You can also promote your online times or when you come on cam unscheduled.
Make use of all of the webcam site’s features! Some have fan clubs, which gives you more ways to make money. Others let you sell pictures and videos. Take advantage of those things and promote them on your social networks.
 There are a number of ways to get paid. But these are the main three


The customers tips because they like you
The customer tips for you to do something specific in the public room
A Customer asks to talk in a private room - this is at a set rate per minute the room is open. You can change this rate later but it’s recommended you do not until you get some experience.

