 If you have an employee that always has an excuse, or aren’t able to continually monitor all of your employees, it’s worth keeping a record of their performance. Most importantly, this will enable to you to clearly and definitively show an employee any recurring issues with their performance.Things like tardiness should always be recorded. Additionally, take note when you or someone else has to re-do work that an employee didn’t complete sufficiently, or any incidents in which you have to speak with an employee about behavior or performance.
 Schedules are the type of accountability measuring stick that are the easiest (and arguably the most important) to enforce. While you may want to be relaxed about certain things, maintain a strict position regarding deadlines.Standardized time frames - such as a week to complete a certain task - work especially well. By assigning the same sorts of things to multiple employees with the same time frames, you can identify issues with productivity fairly and concretely.
When deadlines aren’t met, and there isn’t a good reason (sometimes there is - but deadlines shouldn’t be missed consistently), there need to be repercussions. State them beforehand, in the interest of clarity and fairness.
 This one is pretty straightforward. One employee’s productivity is not your other co-workers’ business. If an employee’s laziness is affecting others’ working environment, they already know about it. It’s in everyone’s best interest to address the employee directly.Further, gossip and complaints are unprofessional, and can lead to misunderstandings, and even conflict.
If you need to talk to another employee about a certain employee’s productivity, preface the conversation by saying something like, “I was hoping I could ask you some questions as your manager, and that you might be able to give me some neutral, objective insights and keep this conversation between us.”

, Firing people can be one of the worst parts about managing other people. That said, if an employee is intentionally and consciously avoiding things they are responsible for, it may be time to let them go. Even if you have developed a personal relationship with them, remind yourself that your own and others’ livelihoods - and workplace comfort - are undermined by an employee that is not willing to pull their weight.