 You don't want to wait for a frustrating long line. Purchase and print out the park tickets online before you get to the park or try to get there early before it opens, and get the tickets and enter the park.


To get there, if you live near or by the San Diego end of Interstate 8, all you have to do is to bear left towards Mission Bay, not bear right to enter Interstate 8. SeaWorld San Diego is located in Mission Bay. So, all you have to do is to find the exit of Interstate 8 to enter the park's parking lot. If you live in Downtown San Diego, go on Interstate 5 north, and take Exit 21: SeaWorld Drive.;
, The Skytower ride will cost $3.00 but the price is well worth it in the end for the spectacular views you'll get. The SkyTower is also a slow scenic ride revolving around a very tall pedestal, where you will slowly soar up into the air to see the whole aerial view of SeaWorld San Diego and the city of San Diego, Airport and San Diego's Coronado Bay Bridge.
 If you don't mind roller coasters, this is one of the ultimate roller coasters within the SeaWorld system.
 Try to get there before 12:00 PM as this is a very popular ride. It is going to be scary as this log flume ride has some dark spots as well as the super-long drop at the end and some thrill tracks. No advanced thrill tracks like loops, but the tracks that make you turn sideways. And there is also an ride-elevator that will take your flume from one drop to the next.
 While some are harder to play than others, there are some that are fun.Try to play all or most of them.
 Make sure you ride it before you go to Journey to Atlantis ride, to ensure you aren't completely soaked by the time you walk onto Journey to Atlantis later(which will drench you even more). The Shipwreck Rapids is a ride that you can get very wet and soaked, so make sure you bring ponchos (the only way to keep you less wet). You will ride in a raft, and go on to a rapid ride and see waterfalls, sunken or ships, and go through a waterfall, which makes your hair all soaked and wet. And this is a starter's ride before you even go the scary Journey to Atlantis ride.



Do not ride Shipwreck Rapids if you do not want to get very wet and soaked. Ride it with this reminder, if you'd like to try it out.
 Although Journey to Atlantis is bigger and wetter, most people flock here when wanting a watery thrill. However, Do not ride Journey to Atlantis is you are scared of drops, and falling, as it is a extreme log flume ride.
 The main thing at SeaWorld is shows. Shamu's shows feature SeaWorld's icon: a killer whale. Be sure to watch a showing of One Ocean over at the Shamu tank, as well as a showing of Dolphin Days at the dolphin tank(Dolphin Stadium), the Sea Lion's Live featurette at the Sea Lion and Otter Stadium or the Pets Rule show at Pet's Stadium. But be careful at Shamu Stadium as sitting in the Soak Zone will get you not humorously soaked - but soppily drenched (as if you had come out of the shower, but they do give you some warning with their "Soak Zone" signs). If you don't want to get soaked, then don't go near or sit any of the bleachers that have the words "Soak Zone" near them, or you can risk getting yourself soaking wet.


There is also an underground "Soak Zone"-free area that you can get an up-close look at Shamu(and a small portion of the rest of the Shamu Show), if you are near Shamu Stadium, but this area is rather quaint and can't house very many people at once without a loss of quality of seeing these creatures
Pick which shows you are interested in, and make reservations to go to there. And also, before any show that you are interested in, make sure you see dolphins, and bat rays. You can touch the bat rays but make sure to wash your hands after interacting with or touching them.
The wet twist at One Ocean (Shamu show) will not happen in cold weather because it would be not very fun for those visitors who have flocked there.
 Besides a penguin habitat and a shark habitat you can see through glass, there are plenty of experiences you can take to see some of SeaWorld's animals.
 You can see polar bears, and some other exotic creatures on this ride.
,, There are some areas with flamingoes, bat rays and a wealth of other creatures.
 It is the home of 3 rides: Oscar's Rocking Eel, Elmo's Flying Fish, and Abby's Sea Star Spin, along with several other climbing areas, twisting slides, tunnel crawls and play spaces for even smaller children.
 These are both buffet styled events, and therefore will tend to be busy, so be sure to get there rather early or when these animals are not planning to be participating in their shows. The shows are training sessions for these animals, so don't expect large waves while you eat.
 There are many other restaurants that you shouldn't need table reservations for, but for an example, if you want to eat close to the Shipwreck Rapids ride, eat at Shipwreck Reef Cafe.

