 This is a customized launcher that contains other modpacks as well, including the RPG-like Hack/Mine, or the singleplayer version of Tekkit, Technic. (It can be found at http://technicpack.net);
, Tekkit is, after all, still Minecraft.
 One of the biggest mods in Tekkit, IndustrialCraft 2, requires this device to craft nearly all of the machines. While searching for wood, you may have noticed darker trees with strange orange spots on them. Right-clicking on these spots with a treetap will yield sticky resin, which can be smelted in a furnace to obtain rubber at a ratio of 1:1.


An IC2 machine obtainable later on, the extractor, will produce rubber at a ratio of about 1:3.
 Copper wire, redstone, and refined iron (made by smelting iron ingots) are needed for (arguably) the most important IC2 produced material, the electronic circuit.
 These important and helpful blocks double your ingot output and provide energy for the former, respectfully. Their recipes can be found to the right, or in the in-game Not Enough Items recipe book.
 The alloy furnace, much like the vanilla furnace, can be powered off of any fuel (like coal or wooden planks).
 By using some very simple Lua code, you can automate in-game robots named turtles. They can be equipped with diamond tools and crafting tables to further their abilities. Lua code is common in video games (such as in World of Warcraft and Garry's Mod, among many others), and examples of code for mining turtles can be found on the ComputerCraft forums.
 BuildCraft pipes are used to move items, blocks, and liquid from machine to machine without player intervention. To get started, surround one piece of glass with wooden planks, cobblestone, regular stone, gold, redstone, or diamond to get pipes with different abilities. Their abilities differ depending on what material you use for them (diamond pipes sort, wooden pipes can pipe out of machinery with the help of engines, and so on). If you craft cactus green dye into pipe waterproofing and craft it onto a normal BC pipe, it can also be used to hold liquids.
 One big thing to craft early on is the BatBox, which can hold generator power for later use. Commonly, you would have your generator wired up to a BatBox, or its big brother, the MFE, which you would then wire up to the rest of your machines. Also, crafting solar panels and water mills provides an alternative energy source that's not reliant on your coal supply.
 Depending on the defined worth of an item, you can turn one item into another. After crafting one of these two items and dropping it into a crafting table you can do things such as turning one dye into another, turning four cobblestone into flint, turning four gold into diamond, and so on. Both stones also have a portable 3x3 crafting grid, accessible by pressing C with it equipped.
 Do you want armour that lasts quite long and takes all damage? Do you want a machine that produces items that can be used to craft anything? Do you want to defeat the ender dragon with a few nukes? As Tekkit is extremely open-ended, set some goals for what you want to achieve here.

