 Performing acts of service is a clear way to demonstrate love for someone. If you find yourself wanting to do things for your partner just for the purpose of making them happy, that’s a good indicator that you’re in love with them.For example, if you know that your crush hates to do the dishes, so you opt to do the dishes simply so they won’t have to do a chore that they hate, you probably love the person.
 True love isn’t selfish. If you find yourself in a relationship where you ask yourself what you’ll get out of it, then you’re probably not in love with the person. However, if you find yourself thinking of the other person’s wants and needs before your own, that’s a sign that you’re in love.


Going shopping or attending sporting events with your crush, even when they're not your favorite things to do, are signs that you love them. Going the extra mile for our partner is something we do when we're truly in love.
 When you have a passing attraction to someone, it’s really hard to picture your future with that person. When you love someone, though, it’s easy to imagine them as a part of your future plans. In fact, it’s often hard to picture your future without them in it!Consider whether you have similar life goals. For example, do you want children with this person? Can you envision taking care of this person in old age? If you think of long term questions like these and find that you want your partner to be a permanent part of your life, then that means you're likely in love with them., Of course, physical attraction can’t be the only factor to decide whether you love someone, but overall attraction is an important consideration. If you find yourself attracted to someone physically, mentally, and emotionally, that’s a good sign that you’re in love with them.
 All couples have disputes, but if you love your partner, then you will fight fair and avoid purposely hurting them. You might be more careless with friends, family, or even a temporary fling, but if you’re in love with someone, you’ll take their feelings into account, even during fights.