 An accounting audit trail consists of the paper and electronic sources that document the history of a business's transactions. Audit trails are used to trace a business's financial data from the general ledger to the source of the transaction/funds. A strong audit trail provides a comprehensive chronological list documenting the steps taken to commence and complete transactions.Determine if your existing accounting practices enable you to track the complete process of a financial transaction with documentation. If not, your accounting processes must be strengthened in order to create a sufficient accounting audit trail. For example, if you are purchasing goods from a supplier, locate the documentation associated with the transaction (like an invoice), locate the transaction in the appropriate account (like the expense or accounts payable account), and identify what kind of transaction it was (buying goods from a supplier).
Employ accounting software to create an electronic accounting audit trail for your business. Using accounting software to log your business’s financial activities will allow you to easily store and analyze accounting data with ease.
 All financial information should be stored reliably, securely, and in an organized manner. All relevant information, such as bank statements, cancelled checks, and cash register tapes should be stored at least through the end of each reporting period. Having this information stored and readily accessible will help you resolve any issues or discrepancies that arise.


There should be associated documentation for every transaction, with relevant explanations for transactions that will be used for deductions. For example, if you spent $100 on gas to travel to meet a potential client, there should not only be receipts (or bank records) for the transaction, but it should also be recorded that the $100 expense was to recruit a new client, and is therefore a deductible business expense., The first step in your small business's accounting audit consists of gathering financial documents, such as invoices, receipts, and bank statements, and handing them off to the accountant or accounting department for processing. If this process is slow or unreliable, the accounting records will suffer and become unreliable.


If you are self-employed, this step is simplified, and your task is instead to make sure that you take your own financial transaction records and process them quickly and regularly to ensure your records are up to date.
 Internal controls are those provisions that help to protect against fraud, theft, and other internal accounting issues. They are the procedures your business uses to ensure your assets are protected and your information is accurate.Separate accounting duties as much as is reasonable. For example, it is best not to allow the same person to both handle cash and do the bookkeeping, as this makes it easier to explain away missing cash.Safes should be locked when not in use, and company software and computers should be password protected.
Camera systems are beneficial for monitoring the execution of internal controls at retail businesses.
Reconciliation of accounts, such as the reconciliation of bank statements with the checkbook, should regularly occur as a way to validate financial information.
Techniques like numbering documents such as checks to prevent duplication are also a useful internal control.
 For tax purposes, you are typically required by law to keep comprehensive accounting records for your business. Preparing your accounting records to be in compliance with the law will make a potential federal revenue audit easier to comply with.Make IRS procedures such as keeping accounting records for at least six years a part of your internal audit trail process. This way you already have the processes in place that are required to respond external audits from the IRS and other external parties.
To find out what laws are relevant to you, the Small Business Administration website is a very helpful resource. In addition, you can also consult with your accountant or bookkeeper if you have one.

