 Training yourself to breathe deeply will engage your diaphragm and allow you to breathe better and more easily. Deep breathing exercises also are relaxing and can decrease stress and tension.To start, find a comfortable place to sit. Take a minute to relax and connect to your breath, paying attention to your inhales and exhales.
Inhale through your nose, imagining that you are filling your lungs from the bottom to the top. Expand your belly and open your chest as you breathe in.
Instead of rushing to exhale, find a pause at the completion of your inhale. Take in the feeling of your lungs being completely full of air.
Exhale slowly out of your mouth, imagining that you're emptying your lungs of air just as you would pour water out of a glass. Press your navel towards your spine. Find a pause before inhaling again.;
, A deep relaxation exercise can put you in the right mindset for a sustaining and healing yoga practice. With your mind and body relaxed, you may find it easier to breathe.Start by lying down on the floor with a pillow or folded blanket to support your head. Bend your knees so that your feet are flat on the floor. You also can put a pillow or rolled blanket under your knees so that you are fully supported. You may also want to play some calming music to help you relax.
Bend your arms at the elbows to place your hands on your belly. You can interlock your fingers if it feels comfortable and helps you relax your arms. Bring your mental attention to your breath.
With each inhale, expand your belly up towards your hands so that your hands rise away from the floor. On each exhale, allow your belly to slowly sink away from your hands. Find a pause after each inhale and each exhale so that you are not rushing to breathe.
Continue this exercise for 5 to 10 minutes or longer if you want, maintaining focus on your breath.
 You can follow the deep relaxation exercise with the wave exercise, which will help you develop a stronger habit of breathing deeply from your diaphragm rather than taking rushed, shallow breaths.Lie down on the floor with a pillow or folded blanket under your head and your feet flat on the floor, if you are not already in this position. Your arms should be flat on the floor alongside your torso, palms on the floor.
As you exhale, press your lower back in the floor. On each inhale, lift your lower back away from the floor to create a slight arch in your back. Make sure your hips stay planted to the floor.
Keep your breathing slow and gentle as you repeat the exercise 10 to 15 times. Notice how your breathing amplifies the rhythmic wave in your spine.
 If you're feeling short of breath, you may be unable to exhale fully. This exercise will help you strengthen your exhalations so that you are able to enjoy a better breathing cycle.For this exercise, you want to lie on your back and close your eyes. You can stretch your arms out or allow them to lay flat at your sides.
As you exhale, purse your lips and blow, as though you are blowing out the candles on a birthday cake. Focus on pushing the air out of your lungs using your abdominal muscles. Go slowly, controlling the exhalation rather than trying to force all the air out at once.
When your exhale is complete, relax and pause for a few seconds. Keep your throat open and allow the air to flow into your lungs through your nose. Count the number of seconds that you inhale, and try to make your exhale last the same number of seconds as your inhale.
Repeat this exercise for 5 to 10 breath cycles, trying to make each breath cycle last a little longer than the previous.
 The alternate nostril breathing technique is a good way to calm your mind as well as relieve stress. The technique's stress-relieving properties may promote healing for you and enable you to breathe better if you have asthma.Find a comfortable seat and turn your mind to your breath. Place your first two fingers against your left nostril to close it and inhale through your right nostril. Use the same deep yogic breathing, expanding your belly to slowly take in as much air as possible.
Pause at the top of your inhale and move your fingers to your right nostril to press it closed. Then exhale slowly through your left nostril.
When you've completed your exhale, pause and switch to repeat the cycle. Continue this practice for 5 to 10 minutes.

