 These two types of speech impediments affect the s and z sounds in different ways, but they can be improved by similar exercises. Read this section if you have either of these symptoms:Lateral lisp: s comes out as a "slushy" or "wet" sound. You hold your tongue in a position similar to an L sound, and this lower position allows air to escape out the sides of your mouth.
Palatal lisp: s comes out as a hy sound, created by the mid-section of your tongue contacting the soft palate way back on the roof of your mouth.
 The exercises below will only work if you can say the sounds t and d.If you have trouble with these as well, your speech impediment may involve difficulty raising your tongue tip, or difficult raising the sides of your tongue. Practice the t and d sounds until you can enunciate them clearly, with no air rushing out the sides of your mouth.Visit a speech language pathologist if you have difficulty with this step.


Any speech exercise may be easier with a partner who can identify when you are making a mistake. If you have trouble noticing the difference between the correct and incorrect forms, self-training may not work well.
 Say a prolonged "ee" as in "steep" and pay attention to the position of your tongue. The sides of your tongue should press against the upper side teeth. The center of your tongue should be held lower in your mouth, forming a groove above it where air can pass through. If you're having trouble understanding this description, imagine your tongue in the shape of a butterfly: the central strip of your tongue forms the butterfly's narrow body, and the sides of your tongue form its upraised wings.


Have someone else read this description and check whether you have achieved it. Don't try to move on to the next step until you can form this tongue position.Visit a speech language pathologist if you cannot do it.
If you can roll your tongue, you may instead stick your tongue tip forward, then rolling the edges of your tongue up to your upper teeth., Blow air through the groove formed by the butterfly position to attempt an s sound. If you don't get a clear s sound, make a minor adjustment and try again. At this stage the goal is to try out different tongue positions so you can get a physical sense for what works best. Don't expect a perfect s sound on your first session.


If it sounds slushy, press the sides of your tongue harder against your upper teeth. You should feel the air shooting straight forward, not out the sides.
If it sounds like a y or hy, lower the center of your tongue.
If you're not producing much sound at all, raise the front of your tongue close to the roof your mouth, behind the front teeth but not touching them.
 Here are two more exercises which may help your tongue position:Prolong the t sound, then "blow through" it, producing a hiss of air: t-t-t-t-t-(blow).
Say the th sound (as in "thing") but blow air through it, out the front of your mouth. Move the tip of your tongue backward along the roof of your mouth as you continue to blow.
 Some people with lateral lisps may find it easier to produce a clear s sound with their tongue tip behind the lower front teeth.This may help the mid section of the tongue stay close to the roof of the mouth without touching it, allowing air to pass above it.
 Try the exercises that work best for several sessions a day, each one a few minutes long. Once you get close to a clear s sound, start using these practice sessions for more difficult uses of s. Slowly progress through these stages, moving on only once you can consistently produce s in each context:


Single syllables that contain s, with both long and short vowels.
Single words that contain s, at the front, middle, and end of the word.
Words that contain a single s next to another consonant (snake, eats), and then two consonants (street, pants).
Full sentences, either prepared or read aloud from a book.
Conversation, starting with people you feel comfortable around.
Note — when you feel ready, drop the butterfly approach and other conscious exercises to adjust your tongue shape. Repeat your practice words until you can say them naturally, without thinking about your mouth shape.
 Speech impediments are complicated phenomena. This self-correcting approach has not been well studied, and it's difficult to produce one set of exercises that works for everyone. If feasible, consider an appointment with a professional who can give you advice specific to your situation

