 Sometimes anger comes out in funny ways: you may be peeved about traffic on the way to work, then snap at your co-worker when he does something a little irritating. Ask yourself if there is a bigger issue that may be fueling your anger.Look for different ways to approach the situation. How would an outsider respond? How important will this issue be in 6 months?Journal about your anger, and what led up to the feeling and behavior. What did the day look like beforehand? What was the ultimate trigger? What thoughts did you have right before the reaction?
Sometimes you may dislike a person, and find many, many things that irritate you about that person that, had someone else done the same thing, wouldn’t irritate you. Recognize that you may have a deep seeded issue with that person that may need to be resolved.
 For some people, getting angry means pulling inward. This is not a healthy way to deal with or express anger, and can be just as destructive as outwardly exploding. When you bottle in your emotions, you let them sit within you, until the opportunity comes to unleash them, either on yourself or onto someone else. You may think you are ‘resolving’ a situation by bottling your emotions, but this can actually lead to more aggressive behavior.If you aren’t in a position to discuss your anger, journal about it. Release the anger! You may want to go on a walk (or a run) to help calm the tension. Whatever it is, make sure you let the anger out productively.
 While some people bottle their emotions, others express anger by emotionally losing control or sometimes physically lashing out. Even if it might feel good at the time to get that anger out, this is not a positive and constructive way to deal with anger. While it may feel good in the moment to “let it rip”, don’t fall into the trap. The urge to yell, hit or throw things will pass.


Focus on experiencing how anger feels in your body. You may feel a burning sensation in your chest or a tightness in your throat. Allow yourself to experience where anger shows up in your body and stay with that feeling. Focusing in the physical sensation can help alleviate the emotional intensity., Sometimes anger is the most socially acceptable emotion, so you may choose to express multiple emotions as anger. You may feel sad, disconnected, or ignored, then express these as anger through lashing out or blaming others. Recognize that you, like everyone, experience a multitude of emotions each day that deserve to be expressed. Positive and negative emotions are okay to feel. Get back in touch with your feelings, and allow yourself to express each emotion.Recognize each time you have an emotion and try to label it. “I am feeling happy I am drinking this milkshake”, “This movie makes me sad”, “I’m excited to see my brother”, or “I dread going to work today.” Just notice each emotion and do not judge it.

