 A patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is a hereditary problem where a blood vessel that joins the aorta and the pulmonary artery in the fetus fails to close when the puppy is born. This is diagnosed when the vet hears a typical waxing-and-waning murmur.This defect is present at birth and usually picked up when the puppy is presented for vaccination.
 The treatment for PDA in German shepherd puppies is surgical occlusion of the abnormal blood vessels so blood can no longer avoid the heart by passing through the duct. This is done by either ligating the duct or by passing a special coil inside the blood vessel in order to block it.Putting a coil into the blood vessel is specialist surgery, but experts are able to feed the coil into the correct position by inserting it into the femoral artery, back up to the aorta, and then into the duct.
Puppies that have a corrective procedure do very well. Left untreated, the German shepherd puppies usually progress into heart failure and may only survive a few months to a year before going into heart failure.
 Sudden cardiac death is another inherited condition which can lead to German shepherd dying suddenly at the young age of four to eight months. Death usually occurs during sleep or when the dog is resting after exercise.The reason for death is an irregular heartbeat, which causes the heart to go into spasm where it is unable to pump blood.In the congenital form which German shepherds suffer from, there is nothing wrong with the physical structure of the heart. The problem lies in the electrical current that causes the heart to beat. Thus it can be difficult to detect the dog has a problem until it is too late.Potentially fatal irregular heart beats may only occur in episodes which happen sporadically. The rest of the time the dog appears normal and there is no detectable heart murmur.
Diagnosis is usually made by the dog wearing a Halter harness for a 24-hour ECG trace.
 There are limited options for treating sudden cardiac death. Half of the affected dogs die suddenly before 12 months of age. In dogs where the problem is identified, the use of intravenous doses of antiarrhythmic drugs, such as lidocaine or procainamide, can help get the heart back into a regular rhythm.However, giving the dog drugs is not practical in the majority of situations given the erratic and unpredictable timing of the episodes and there being a need to get medication into the dog immediately.
The responsible breeder would not breed from German shepherds that are known to have produced sudden death puppies.

