 While in high school, you still might not know what you want to do as a career. However, if you think you may want to become an educational diagnostician, there are things you can do to gain experience and see if this might be a good fit for you.


Volunteer at an organization for people with special needs.
Teach or tutor younger kids to see if you enjoy working one on one with young people.
Educational diagnosticians work individually with students to diagnose learning differences and disabilities. It's their job to help figure out what a student needs to be able to learn and thrive in a school setting.;
, You can get your bachelor’s degree in education or in a variety of other subjects before deciding to become an educational diagnostician. Bachelor’s degrees generally take about four years to complete when done through a full-time program.Having a specialization in special education is considered highly advantageous when applying for jobs or graduate school. To do this, you'll need to take specific classes within your major and talk to your advisor about what's required to fulfill the specialization.If you work full-time or don’t have time for a full-time course load, you can take as much time as you need to complete your bachelor’s degree.
 The National Clearinghouse for Professionals in Special Education highly recommends that students looking to become educational diagnosticians boost their credentials by doing volunteer work with people with disabilities. Some of the groups they recommend working with are:The Association of Retarded Citizens
The National Easter Seal Society
The Special Olympics.
 In order to even begin training to be an educational diagnostician, you need to have at least two years of teaching experience. This is important, as it gives you the experience you’ll need to be a competent diagnostician, and it will show you if this career path is right for you.In order to become a teacher, you need to pass a certification test and pass national background checks.
Certification requirements for teachers vary by state. Check your state’s certification requirements on the school board’s official website.
 This is the master’s degree that you’ll need in order to pursue a certificate and career as a diagnostician. Some universities will let you complete your master’s degree and your bachelor’s degree in a combined program, which can make the entire course of study shorter and more direct.If you have already begun teaching through a certificate program, you may be too busy for a traditional master’s program. Many online programs will be able to accommodate your busy schedule.
If you have a master’s degree in another field, you may be able to get a certificate rather than having to get an entirely different master’s degree.
 Within the master’s program that you enroll in, you can pursue an Educational Diagnostician certification track. This will require you to take courses such as Educating Students with Emotional/Behavioral Disorders, Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports in Schools, Assessment and Evaluation of Students with Disabilities, Psychoeducational Assessment, Assessment and Evaluation of Students with Disabilities.If you have a master’s of education in another track, or a master’s degree in another discipline, you can potentially apply for certification through a graduate program. This generally means meeting with your advisor to come up with a list of courses you’ll take in order to make up for any deficiencies in your education up to this point.
 There is considerable job growth in this field, which means that prospects for finding a job are good. You need to know what to look for in job postings and apply to any jobs that look like they might be right for you.Boost your chances of finding a job by emphasizing your relevant experience on your resume.
The more experience you’ve had teaching and working in the field, the better your resume looks.
If you don’t see job openings where you live, you may need to consider looking for work elsewhere to stay working in the field.

