 It makes an especially good choice for those who are being introduced into organic lifestyles, since a basket full of chocolate can demonstrate just how flavorful organic foods can be. Shop in organic stores and online for various organic chocolates, which are made from cocoa beans that were grown and manufactured without toxic chemicals. Aside from boxes of chocolate, you can also introduce chocolate baked goods, like brownies, to the mix as well.;
, If the intended recipient is not a chocolate lover, you can still appeal to his or her sweet tooth buy filling the basket with other organic candies or organic cookies, cupcakes, and other baked goods. Organic cookies can last for a while, but you should be careful about buying other baked goods since they may go stale relatively quickly. This is especially true of organic goodies, which are made without potentially harmful preservatives.
 Sweets are great, but practicality can be good, too. A basket full of organic whole grain goods will remain usable for a fairly long amount of time and will provide the recipient with dinner food. You can choose a specific grain, like a pasta, or you can mix and match grains.

For an organic pasta basket, include several brands or various types of pasta noodles, as well as several BPA-free jars of organic sauces. If you plan on giving the basket away quickly, you can also throw in some organic French bread or garlic bread.






For an organic rice basket, you can include various types of organic rice, ranging from Basmati rice to whole-grain rice, as well as organic rice blends that mix rice together with dehydrated organic herbs or vegetables.






Avoid giving gift baskets full of bread. Bread expires too quickly, and unless you are giving the basket to an abnormally large family, the odds of your recipient being able to use it all while it remains fresh are relatively low.
 You can buy raw nuts, roasted nuts, or a combination of both, as long as they are certified organic. Roasted nuts are more common for gift baskets since they offer a relatively healthy snack for those who lack a sweet tooth, but raw nuts are more beneficial nutritionally and can also be used for cooking and baking.
 The fruit basket is a quintessential gift basket icon, and organic produce happens to be one of the most common organic products on the market. This works especially well if you have your own organic garden, but you can also assemble this sort of basket by picking up fresh produce at a farmers’ market or grocery store. Pick whatever produce is in season to reduce costs and improve freshness. While fruit baskets tend to be the most common, you can also mix in a few vegetables, like squashes or corn, depending on the season, if you believe your recipient will enjoy them.
 The wine and cheese basket is another classic option, and it has a more high class, elegant appeal than many other types of gift baskets can claim. Organic cheese is made from milk produced at organic dairy farms. Organic wine is made from organically grown grapes. Most wines contain sulfites, which preserve the wine, but an organic wine will also have a label stating that the wine is "sulfite free" or has "no added sulfites." Alternatively, you can also find wine labeled "contains sulfites" that was at least made with organic grapes., Like organic chocolate, organic coffee is made with coffee beans that were grown and processed without the use of hazardous chemicals, including pesticides and chemical additives. Organic tea, similarly, is made by grinding organically grown tea plants or herbs into a luxurious, aromatic blend.
 While not a food basket, strictly speaking, you can think of a gardening basket as a soon-to-be-food basket. Organic seeds are produced by produce that were originally grown under organic conditions. You can also include organic alternatives to inorganic pesticides and fertilizers.

