 Sometimes you may feel uneasy about speaking up for yourself or others. But it can be important to address what's bothering you rather than bottling it up or repressing it. You don't want to let negative feelings fester and then turn into arguments and fights.


Learning to be open with what you're feeling can help others to understand the situation better. Sometimes they may understand, and other times they might not. While you may not change them, they may be able to see things a little different if you are open with them., Avoid making a scene in a large group about what's bothering you. Private conversations are best if there is a difficult or uncomfortable situation in order reduce possible embarrassment on either side.


For example, let's say you're at a family picnic and your cousin is playing mean tricks on some of the younger kids. First ask to talk with your cousin for a minute alone and ask them to stop. If they don't stop, find a supportive adult like a parent or grandparent that can help to discipline your cousin. Avoid having this occur in front of the family group.
 Avoid blaming or focusing on the negative traits of the family member. By using "I" statements, you deflect the focus to how certain actions lead to certain reactions.


Consider saying, "I was feeling hurt when you said that I'm terrible at making breakfast." Then set the boundary by requesting what future behavior should look like: "In the future, please keep hurtful comments to yourself."
Or say something like, "I felt upset when you yelled at me about tying the trash bags without using the twist ties. If you want me to do it differently that's fine, but next time just ask me instead of yelling." Avoid saying things are generic in their negativity such as "you're OCD" or "you're crazy."

, While you may feel stressed, anxious, or upset by the behaviors of unbearable family members, avoid dwelling on their negative behavior. Focus on what you can control — your own actions. Take your mind off of unbearable relatives by reminding yourself of those who support you.


Reach out to other family that you see less but have enjoyed being with. Make plans with them or talk with them over the phone.
Do you have a kind grandparent? Talk with them or visit. They may have wisdom about how to deal with difficult people.
Lean on family that you trust about the difficulties you're facing with a challenging family member.
 If a family member is continuing to be obnoxious to you and others, find an authority figure in the family. You don't have to feel alone in dealing with an unbearable family member.


For example, your brother may not listen to what's bothering you, but he may listen to your mom, dad, or grandfather.
Even if they don't live in the same city or state as you, comforting relatives may be able to assist if there's a crisis or an ongoing challenge with your unbearable relative.
 Find ways to limit your interactions with family members who make you feel upset or anxious. This may be especially important if you see them daily or weekly. Learn to be polite when you want to distance yourself. Stirring drama may make other family members uneasy.If the relative you want to avoid is a parent or sibling, it may be more difficult to have distance if you're living with them. Find ways to create private space at home so that you don't feel bothered by them. For example, if it's your sister who's bothering you, find a different room to be in when you're relaxing or doing work.
If the relative doesn't live with you but visits frequently, find ways to be occupied with other things when they visit. Do something outside or with other people if they are at your home. Find spaces that make you feel more comfortable so the interactions are limited.
If the relative is someone you see only during the holidays, this may be an uncomfortable time when you see them, but remind yourself that you don't see them regularly. You may be able to sit with other relatives more, or excuse yourself when your relative is particularly unbearable.
If you're visiting at your relative's home, find ways to excuse yourself from the room, or interact with others at the house more. If you're an adult, it's your choice whether you want to stay and visit with someone who is rude and mean. If you're told to visit as a child or teen, talk with your parents or relatives about what makes you uncomfortable. Be open rather than keeping quiet and upset.
 While each family may have different parenting styles, it is important to protect your own children and those of others who may feel unsafe. Safety does not just mean physical safety but also emotional safety. Some unbearable family members lack insight about boundaries when around children. They may use vulgar language or act inappropriate. They may lash out at children because they have difficulties in their own lives. Here are some things to consider:


Approach the person who is acting inappropriate and ask for them to stop. For example, let's say there is an aunt who uses vulgar language to talk about people she dislikes and her sex life. She may not realize it's inappropriate to talk about that with six year olds in the room. Request to speak with your aunt in a different area of the room about her language. If she continues to ignore your requests, and she is in your home, then consider asking her to leave unless she is able to act appropriately.
Provide a safe environment if things are getting out of hand. Let's say you and your two children live with an unbearable relative who spends all his time drinking and acting obnoxious to others. Maybe he yells at you or the kids for seemingly the slightest things. If you can't talk with this relative about his behavior, you may need to find a way to have the relative live elsewhere, or find another place for the children to stay safe. Don't let bullies and manipulators take over your life. Focus on staying safe.