 Think of yourself as a master criminal, like an art thief. Do the best art thieves just decide on the spot to grab a painting off the wall and run for it? No! They plan every detail well in advance. So do the same and know exactly what you are going to do before you do it.Acting rashly leaves you wide open and exposed. You don’t know who is watching or who will be coming around the next corner.
Every now and then you might get away with something that you did purely on impulse. Consider yourself lucky.
Don’t assume that everything will work out exactly the same way twice just because you got away with it once.;
, Don’t limit yourself to just the basics, like where the cafeteria or library is. Note every nook and cranny, too, like that spot under the stairs in A-wing’s stairwell, which hardly anyone passes because the fire exit there faces the woods instead of the parking lot. Have a perfect working knowledge of where to find the best place to get away with stuff unobserved.


Find out where each exit is. Also note whether the doors have alarms that will ring when opened.
Check for blind spots. Scan the ceilings and upper walls for cameras and mirrors. Make a mental note of any spots hidden from view.
Note which halls are patrolled by hall monitors and how frequently.
Make a mental map of the outside grounds as well. Note which areas are wide open to view from the school's windows, and which are covered by trees, bushes, and other structures.
 Learn their habits and schedules. Get a sense of how strict and observant they are in general. Note if they tend to get more upset over very specific infractions (like cheating) while letting other bad behavior slide (like being five minutes late). These are the people you need to sneak around, so plan your actions around them.


Pay attention to how your teachers act in class. Do they walk up and down the aisles a lot? Do they stick to the blackboard in front? Do they mostly sit at the desk or do they remain standing with a better view of the class before them?
Use bathroom breaks to note which teachers monitor which halls. Do they spend that time grading papers with their noses glued to the page? Or do they actively walk the halls, on the lookout?
If you have to sign in for the bathroom, note which teachers are assigned to which bathrooms. Learn which bathrooms are assigned to teachers of the opposite gender, so they are less likely to enter while you’re in there.
Don’t forget the other adults who work there! Pay attention to the maintenance people, cafeteria staff, grounds crew, and office workers, too.
Pay attention to schoolmates who might rat on you, too. For example, if your arch-nemesis is seated right beside you in class, asking for your classmates for help during tests may be much more risky.
 Remember: you want to get away with stuff, not be known as the “bad kid.” Earn the trust of your teachers and the other staff. Convince them that your consistent good behavior is never going to change. This way they are less likely to notice when it does!


Having straight A’s can help you look like a good student, but grades aren’t everything. Whether you ace tests without even trying or struggle to earn okay grades, remember that your behavior is most important.
Impress your teachers as someone who is really invested in their schoolwork and takes it seriously, even if school isn’t your strong point.
Turn assignments in on time. Take notes in class. Participate in discussions. Get to class before the bell. Ask for help from your teachers if you’re having trouble.
Treat your schoolmates with respect to avoid being known as a "bad kid," even if you're a straight-A student.
 Before you do anything, ask yourself if it is really worth it. Be aware that punishment will vary according to your offense, your school's policies, your parents' attitudes, and even the law. Find out exactly what you might be in for if you get caught, and then reconsider moving forward. For instance:


Being late to class might only get your written up.
Cutting class may land you in detention right away.
Skipping school will give you one less day that you can be considered absent without repercussions (even if no one catches you).
Smoking cigarettes on campus might get you suspended.
Offenses that are considered actual crimes (like smoking marijuana) might get you expelled or even in trouble with the police.

