 Before starting remedies for hyperacidity, be sure that that’s what you’re really experiencing. Symptoms of hyperacidity include:Heartburn
A sour taste in the mouth
Bloating
Dark or black stools (from internal bleeding)
Burping or hiccups that won’t stop
Nausea
Dry cough
Dysphagia (a narrowed esophagus that feels as if there is food stuck in your throat)

, If you experience chronic hyperacidity, are pregnant or nursing, or otherwise, have any concerns, see your doctor. If you've tried treating your hyperacidity naturally, but aren't feeling relief, you may want to try medication. Medication can decrease the amount of acid in your stomach. Untreated or long-term hyperacidity can cause esophagitis, esophageal bleeding, ulcers, and a condition called Barrett’s esophagus, which can increase your risk for esophageal cancer.


If you are taking medications that may be causing your hyperacidity, call your physician to discuss dosage or medication adjustment.
 These are available over-the-counter (OTC) and neutralize the acid. Antacids usually give short-term relief. If you still need antacids after two weeks, you should call your physician. Long-term use of antacids can affect mineral balance, affect the kidneys and cause diarrhea.


Follow the manufacturer’s instructions and don’t overdo it. Even antacids, if overdone, can cause some problems.
 These reduce the stomach’s secretion of acid. H2 blockers include cimetidine (Tagamet), famotidine (Pepcid) and ranitidine (Zantac). They're available in lower doses OTC, or your physician can prescribe higher doses. If you are using OTC H2 blockers, follow manufacturer’s instructions. Side effects of H2 blockers include:Constipation.
Diarrhea.
Dizziness.
Headache.
Hives.
Nausea or vomiting.
Problems with urination.
 They also block acid production by the stomach. Examples of PPIs include esomeprazole (Nexium), lansoprazole (Prevacid), omeprazole (Prilosec), pantoprazole (Protonix), rabeprazole (Aciphex), dexlansoprazole (Dexilant) and omeprazole/ sodium bicarbonate (Zegerid).If you are using OTC PPIs, follow manufacturer’s instructions. Side effects of PPIs include:


Headache
Constipation
Diarrhea
Abdominal pain
Rashes
Nausea

