 If you’re wondering how to make studying whatever it is you’re trying to learn a bit more fun, flashcards are a great place to start. While there’s a good chance you may be able to find a deck of flashcards for what you’re studying online, there are also many programs that will help you create your own custom cards to help memorize information of any type.The phone and computer-based app Tinycards, for example, offers both options. The app is entirely free, and offers pre-built decks to help you learn languages, geography, history, medical terminology, and more. You can also use Tinycards to build your own deck of flashcards.
Cram, Anki, and Mem-note are great programs as well. All are free, but require registration to use, save, and track your decks and learning progress.
 There are plenty of websites that will teach you how to build a basic game to help learn basic concepts. Of course, many of these types of games are already freely available online! MIT, on the other hand, hosts a free, nine-week online course on building educational games.Enroll in the course and spend 6-10 hours a week completing coursework and projects that will teach you to create in-depth, effective learning games.
Visit the edX website to register and begin the course, called Design and Development of Games for Learning, for free.
As with many edX courses, you have the option to pay for a Verified Certificate upon completion. While taking the class is free, the cost for this certification is $99.
 If you’ve set out to build an online game of your own, know what you can include to make your game both fun and effective. Foremost, get the action going as soon as possible. For example, don’t make players read through a how-to section, let the initial action show them how to play.Further, up the stakes with a bit of risk. If they have something to lose (such as a “life”) players will pay better attention and stay more engaged with a game.
Include some sort of progress indicator, such as traveling across a map or collecting “coins.”

, Even a predictable narrative will tug at many players’ heartstrings. For instance, have the player "help" a princess rescuing a prince from a pack of rabid llamas by progressing through increasingly challenging educational tasks.In turn, a subconscious emotional attachment to the narrative increases the likelihood of remembering the associated educational content that players are working through.
 One of the best ways to do this is by talking to them about what they're interested in. More specifically, ask questions to increase their curiosity about the things you experience and discover together.


For instance, if you are outside together and you see a bug, ask them something like, "How do you think this bug was born?" Similarly, if a child conveys an interest in trains, ask, "Do you know how trains are powered?" You'll probably wind up learning a bit yourself.
Further, make a point of reading to young children. Not only will this expand their imaginations, it will also improve vocabulary and language comprehension, and will increase their interest in reading.

