 Making a choice to go out and change yourself is not only a time consuming process, but one that requires a strong want to truly change.;
, Are you a person who keeps a tight leash on themselves, or do you give your impulses and emotions free reign? This is going to be important through this change, so keep it in mind as you go onto the next steps.
 How do you present yourself? Do you slouch or do you hold your back too straight? Do you cross your arms often? How do you dress? Are your clothes revealing? Take note of this - because this is part of what you are wanting to change.
 The first thing that you want to change is your outside look (not suddenly, but bit by bit at a time), as it may make you feel better about yourself.
 First thing's first, get a haircut. There are magazines that showcase hairstyles - which you can find at your local grocery store.
 If you really want to go for the elegant (or introvert) look, choose a hairstyle that frames your face, such as an inverted bob for example. If you want it past shoulder length, you can try something like the video-game character Rinoa Heartily.
 If you have dry skin or chapped lips, use some moisturizer or lip balm. Make sure that your face is good looking (and most of all, your own). If you have acne, purchase an acne cream, or go see your dermatologist. Your doctor can prescribe antibiotics, or an acne medication. If you want, you can use make up to cover the acne, but you want to be you - this whole ordeal is about improving what you already have.
 When you exercise you will get in better shape, and feel more confident and better about yourself. You will be more comfortable with yourself, without the need to hide or flaunt anything.
 Don't go out and buy a whole new wardrobe. That's just not reasonable. Start out with one outfit, then two, then three. Soon enough, your entire wardrobe has changed.
 The whole thing about wanting to be an introvert is that you are not seeking to stand out. Don't buy trashy clothes, or threads that show too much skin. Go simple, but pretty. Buy some jeans that fit nicely (and don't show your butt crack), and then pair some nice tank-tops to go with it. Make sure that you throw a few dresses (or skirts) in there too. Keep in mind that you don't want to be wearing obnoxiously bright colors - pastels are good, or deep, rich colors like navy blue or sage. Remember, you don't have to wear a corset to be elegant.
 This part of the guide is where you start to make changes in your lifestyle and personality. THIS IS GOING TO BE HARD, and you will want to give up. But don't! You'll be happier in the end! You want to change yourself for the better, but still be you.
 Can you feel yourself slouching? If so, sit up straighter. Are you nervous and chewing your nails? Stop. The more you correct yourself the more it becomes second nature - you'll start correcting yourself without even thinking about it!

, This is the first step to supporting the effort you've put into this so far. For the first thing - in order to get yourself going - try taking a walk early in the morning every day for a week. Go for a drive. Wander through the streets of your town. It doesn't matter if you're alone, or you don't know where you're going, just do it! There's so much to see out there!

, If you sleep in late and don't get to go for your walk, that's okay. Get out of bed anyway, and take your walk, no matter if it's noon or four in the evening. As long as you do it and don't pass it by, you're not doing anything wrong. "It doesn't matter how slow you go, as long as you do not stop". Those words are very wise, indeed.
 Feeling giddy? Control it. Emotions are human nature, they give us empathy and make us who we are. Sometimes they can get out of control, and we do things that we shouldn't. There's nothing wrong with this! Use your emotions as a motive to change - if you're sad, distract yourself with a nice stroll in the park. If you're angry, take a few deep breaths.
 What do you not like about yourself? What did you want to change? Take baby steps towards not doing what you didn't like. For example, if you talk too much, try listening to the conversation instead of talking - it's harder than it looks, but truthfully, when there's more than one person in a group, your input isn't needed (that sounds mean but it's the truth).
 If you stumble, you don't have to fall. Everyone fails if they just stop everything and go back to the way things were. Continue on, don't let anything stop you. It's like coming home from the hospital; you don't just come home and stop taking care of yourself. By continuing on, that's what you're doing - make sure that you get the care that you need (from yourself).

