 In order to be first on the scene, however, you will almost have to be on Ground Zero just as it is being formed; in most instances you will have heard about it second or third-hand or from local media who will most likely not give an honest or accurate account. Any event, upon learning of the formation, try to waste zero time in personally getting out there as the more people that go parading through the formation---everything from religious whack jobs to curious oglers and lookie-lou types who don't have a clue, the less chance that you will have to explore and examine the evidence in its most pristine form----such as soil samples, wheat stalks (very important), residual microwave energy. anomalous magnetic fields, etc. In so many words: get out there...now;
, If you are truly sincere about and dedicated to investigating crop formations, there are a number of books out there that you can study and you should definitely engage in an extensive review not only of plane and analytic geometry but acquaint yourself as much as humanly possible with the subject of fractals---for those not familiar, a fractal is a most times complex or complex appearing geometric construct composed of relatively simple geometric figures such as a square, circle, triangle, etc. reiterated over and over (ad infinitum) on an exponentially decreasing physical scale....a prime example is here set forth: imagine an equilateral triangle---now imagine another such inscribed in the first with its vertices located precisely at the mid points of the sides of the original triangle...now imagine a third equilateral triangle likewise inscribed in the second one you just created...then a fourth...a fifth...you have just created a fractal. A variation upon this is the famous "Sierpinski triangle". Fractals...some of which are stunningly beautiful - are becoming very routine in these formations.



Melik Circles are perfectly formed circles in the field that bear very definite and precise but not necessarily immediately identifiable geometric relationships to each other...there are many ways that this can be done but by way of illustration, imagine two concentric circles such that a hexagon that is perfectly tangent (circumscribes) the smaller of the two circles is itself perfectly circumscribed by the larger circle but the hexagon itself is left out of the pattern...or you might see three circles all lying outside each other that are perfectly tangent to a line which itself is not visible.
Pictograms are perhaps akin to hieroglyphics in that they could depict a constellation or could be a symbol for the moon or a fish or whatever....usually very simple and possess none of the sheer artistry and stunning majesty that the far more intricate designs that came later and persist to this day now exhibit.
Fractals and other extremely intricate and spell-binding beautiful and symmetric geometric constructs. These are highly mathematical and to fully appreciate them takes very careful and time consuming measurements of their dimensions.
 If you live in predominantly flat area such as back in the Midwest, then rent a plane or chopper and fly directly over it taking as many quality stills or video strips as possible.
 Absolute minimum equipment to take into a formation should you venture into one, is a camera or camcorder...and a compass. The camera will record the site for all posterity before the public gets out there and makes it look like a herd of elephants came foraging through the field looking for food. The compass is valuable in orienting the layout of the pattern with respect to true or magnetic North and, perhaps more importantly, gives an instant indication of any local magnetic anomalies such as vertices or whorls in which case the rosette wheel of the compass may just begin spinning like a top. Don't forget that compass

, Now to the best of my knowledge and belief, I do not recall either reading nor hearing of any cases of higher than normal radioactivity being sensed in a crop formation----but it is better safe than sorry...and those versed in saucer lore know of numerous cases of UFO sightings that resulted in the observer suffering or sometimes dying of symptoms precisely like those of radiation overexposure. This is mentioned because the correlation factor between the sudden appearance of a crop formation and the sightings of UFOs in the immediate area (generally in the form of shiny and metallic appearing spheres sometimes just a few inches in diameter, is an issue.
 If your Geiger or rad intensity level meter shows higher than normal emission in the crop formation area...get out of there and warn others. Microwaves, on the other hand, are radio frequency waves generally from UHF on up to SHF, in the range of a few gigahertz up to the tens of GHz and are generally associated with radar and extremely high frequency satellite communications---not to be confused with radioactivity. Intense microwave radiation is not to be taken lightly, however. It can, at the right frequencies, and even at low field intensities, prove harmful or even fatal. Again, however, I have heard of no documented cases of any crop formation casualties from microwave absorption although I have heard that some people who ventured into a crop formation have been rendered physically ill for whatever reason. Just a word to the wise.
 Why is this important? It is because it has been well documented that wheat stalks in particular, taken from samples, have shown evidence of microwave absorption and at intensities that were carefully plotted showing, in at least one case, that the source of microwave radiation was fifteen feet above the exact center of the crop circle.

