 If you have a tab from a soda can, you can easily double up on all your hangers. Make sure you find hangers with skinnier hooks to try this method.Take the soda tab and loop it around the neck of your first hanger. Then, take your second hanger. Place the hook into the soda tab.
You now have a double hanger, which you can use in your closet. Doubling up all the clothing will allow you to double the space on the rod of your closet.
You can also purchase multi-tier hangers at a local department store.;
, If you stop by a local hardware store, pick up shelf brackets. If you have bare walls in your closet, nail shelf brackets into the wall upside down. You can then use the brackets to hang extra items. You can place hangers on the bracket, or use them to hang items like scarves.If you're storing lighter items, you can also use command hooks. You can easily adhere these to the wall to create extra storage space.
 An over-the-door is a simply, handy item you can buy at any department or hardware store. It will allow you to have a few extra knobs to hang things from on the inside door of your closet. If you have things like scarves, belts, and bags cluttering the floor, hang them up on the over-the-door rack.If space is an issue, you can purchase very small clothing racks at a department store. These can be great to store items like hats, scarves, and purses.
 If you have cleared up extra space on the floor, invest in a small plastic or wooden set of drawers. While this may seem like it's taking up space, if you use it to organize better, you can actually free up space with a few extra drawers.For example, instead of hanging all your clothing on the rods, you can store items that don't necessarily need to be hung in the drawer. Things like t-shirts and jeans can probably be stored in a drawer.
You can also store items cluttering the floor in the drawer. Bags you don't use regularly, belts, socks, and other small items can all go in the drawer.
 If there are any existing rails in your closet, make use of them. You can simply buy another rod at a department store and position it over the rails, keeping in it in place. A rod hanging close to the floor can be used to hang shorter items, like skirts, shorts, and some shirts.