 If the kitten has been socialized properly and placed in the new house between the ages of 12 and 13 weeks, she should settle into the new home easily. However, if there is another cat already living in the house, you should introduce the two felines slowly.
 This gives the older cat a chance to realize there is another feline in his territory in a non-challenging way, as she’s not competing for his food or prime sleeping spots (a.k.a. his resources)., Your cats will sniff at each other under the door to the new kitten’s room. You can also swap bedding between the two animals so they can get used to one another’s smell. It also helps to stroke one cat, and then the other to mingle their scents.Be sure to give extra attention to your resident cat to ease his anxiety. If you ignore him and focus all your attention on the kitten, this will create problems., This will lead each cats to associate the other cat’s scent with something good: food., While the new kitten is being introduced to other part of the house, put your old cat in the kitten’s room. This will let the cats explore one another’s scents in new spaces., Place a barrier between the cats or keep the kitten in a carrier so that she can’t pounce or jump on the older cat, who will regard this as an affront. Let them get used to each other by sniffing and touching noses through the grill of the carrier. Hopefully the older cat will reach a stage of indifference and merely wander off—this is a sign that he has accepted the kitten.


If either cat shows signs of serious hostility - prolonged hissing, trying to scratch or bite the other cat - give them a few more days to get used to one another’s presence before putting them in the same room again.
 At first, put their bowls on opposite sides of the room. Gradually move them closer together. The idea here is to have your cats associate one another’s presence with the positive experience of eating., Once the older cat has accepted the kitten, you can let the kitten wander around the house. However, it is important to keep an eye on the kitten, especially when the older cat is around.If the kitten starts to play and becomes overly boisterous with the adult cat, pop her into a different room so the original cat is given precedence in his territory.

