 Toddlers can get wrapped up in their play and having to stop in order to change their clothes can lead to a tantrum. In order to avoid suddenly making your child stop her play, warn your child about the impending change. Giving your child a warning can help to make her feel like she is in control.


However, avoid giving your child a time constraint that actually involves minutes. Instead, choose a song or something else that is short, familiar and has a definite end. In the case of a song, you can put the song on and tell your child that when the song is over, she will have to get changed.;
, Make sure that your child understands that getting dressed is an important part of the day. Explain that the way a person dresses can show how they feel about themselves, and can determine how others see them. Compliment your child and her clothing to make her understand that changing into new clothes for the day is a good thing.


Of course, these concepts may be a little challenging for your child to grasp, so you should also explain that you are not trying to be mean when you make your child change her clothes. Instead, making her change is actually an act of love that can help her to put her best foot forward.
 Most tasks in life go more smoothly if a little advanced planning is done. In this case, having your child’s outfit picked out before you begin the changing process can help the process run much more smoothly.


Having the clothes all laid out is particularly helpful if you dress your child on a dressing table. Knowing where everything is ahead of time can minimize the amount of time you spend looking away from your child.
 While this will not always be possible, try to pick out clothes for your child that are easy to put on and take off. Characteristics of these kinds of clothes include:


Clothes that do not have a lot of ties, buckles, or buttons. Instead, use pullover shirts and slide-on pants.
Elastic is also great for kids because it allows them maximum movement.
 Instead of insisting that a toddler wear a certain outfit, you can try giving in a little to your child’s new-found independence. Create two appropriate outfits for that day’s activities and then allow your toddler to choose between the two.By doing this, your child will feel like she has some independence, while still being dressed appropriately.
 If your child is capable of dressing herself and you don’t particularly care what she wears that day, consider allowing your child to pick out her own outfit and get dressed herself.


Keep in mind that you should still help your child distinguish from clothes that are inside out or backwards.
 Once your child has dressed herself, make sure to praise her for her abilities (even if her outfit looks a little wacky). Giving her praise will help her to feel like getting dressed is a positive thing.
 If you are going to use lotion, baby wipes, or diapers when dressing your child, open these containers up before beginning to dress your child. Preparing these items beforehand can help to streamline the dressing process so that you decrease the chances of your child throwing a tantrum.
 Toddlers are easily distracted and often take much longer than adults think they should to accomplish things. It is important that you leave plenty of time for changing your toddler’s clothes, instead of waiting until right before you have to leave the house. Leaving plenty of time can be difficult in a busy household, but it is important.


Parents that hurry while dressing their toddler or rush a self-dressing toddler are more likely to be met with a tantrum.

