 Keeping your skin clean will help it stay clear from blemishes and look its best.


If you have oily skin, you might need to wash your face in the morning and at night.
If you have normal, dry, or sensitive skin, you might only need to wash your face at night before bed.
Choose a cleanser specifically created for your skin type, such as oily, dry, or normal.
To wash your face, using clean hands or a wash cloth, gently massage the cleanser onto your facial skin using circular motions.
Continue massaging the cleanser on your skin for 5-10 minutes.
Rinse with warm water and pat your face dry with a towel.;
, Toner helps keep your skin looking fresh longer.


To use, soak a cotton ball or pad with toner and gently apply all over your face, avoiding the eye area.
If you have dry skin or sensitive skin, you might choose to skip using toner. Some astringents contain alcohol, which can further dry out skin or irritate sensitive skin.
 Exfoliation helps remove dead skin cells, revealing fresh healthy skin underneath. Since exfoliation involves scrubbing, it can be harsh on skin. That is why you should not do it daily.Exfoliate your skin after cleansing by gently massaging the facial scrub on your cheeks, chin, and forehead. Rinse and pat your skin dry with a towel when done.
For normal to oily skin, exfoliate twice a week.
For dry or sensitive skin, exfoliate once a week.
 Applying a moisturizing lotion or cream to your skin can help it look soft and smooth. All skin types can benefit from moisturizing. Just choose a moisturizer that’s right for your skin type.It’s also important to moisturize your entire body. Body lotion should be applied after bathing or showering.
 Sleep is important for a healthy body and mind, but it also helps you look your best. When you don’t get enough sleep you might have dark circles under your eyes. Without sufficient sleep, you’ll also look tired, which is not as attractive as a well rested face.


Get in the habit of going to bed and waking up around the same time every day. Doing so will help you feel more rested.
Create a good sleep environment by resting in a dark room at a comfortable temperature with televisions, phones, and other devices turned off., Protecting your skin from sun damage will help it look healthier and more youthful longer.To save a step in your skincare routine, you can use a moisturizer with SPF in it. There are lotions and creams for both the face and body that contain SPF.

