 Sparkler bombs can be extremely dangerous if taken to extreme lengths. Binding enough sparklers together can result in a blast as strong as dynamite. Sparkler bombs can hurt or severely harm individuals who do not take the proper precautions set by their local authorities., If you are planning to make a Sparkler Bomb in the U.S. and use more than 50 milligrams of flash powder, you are breaking the law under the ATF regulations for consumer fireworks., Many areas prohibit the use of pyrotechnics of any kind. Do not set off your sparkler bomb indoors or any location without proper exits, ventilation, and fire safety equipment., Depending on the time of year, sparklers can be bought in many locations. Sparklers can be found in various sizes with the larger sizes lasting longer and giving off more effect. Sparkler bombs are usually made from the 10 inch sparklers.

Sparklers are wires that are coated in pyrotechnic material and iron fillings. Once lit, they emit a tiny amount of sparks that move down the wire for about 20 seconds., As you increase the number of sparklers you tape together, you will create a greater effect; however, each sparkler you add increases your risk for harm and danger. Do not exceed an amount that you have already seen tested by a professional or tested yourself.

Supervise your children so that they do not exceed a safe limit. 72 sparklers are enough to make a dangerous bomb blast. Read the labels and keep well below 50 milligrams of flash powder, the explosive content in firecrackers that is illegal under the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and explosives.Arrange them so that they are all facing the same way and tape them at the bottom where the is no longer any pyrotechnic material.
Wrap the bundle in tape 2-3 times, leaving an inch or so of the coated end exposed. It should now look like a cone.
 Do not hold the sparklers in your hand while lit. Many people have suffered severe burns and injuries for being too close to the flame. Plant the sparklers in the ground so that you can easily observe from a safe distance.

Make sure there is nothing flammable around the detonation area.
Make sure all pets and toddlers are secure and accounted for because you do not want them suddenly darting onto the scene.
 Using a single sparkler, light the rest of the sparkler bomb. Light the single sparkler, with matches or a lighter, away from the sparkler bomb. You want to be able to move to a safe distance as quickly as possible.