;
, You can get books that are 50 pages and those that are 500 pages. A small piece of table or tabletop would need 50 pages, while a large dresser would need a larger book.
 It costs less and has approximately the same effect of a silvery, mirrored surface.
 If there are areas that are hidden, or legs that are difficult to refinish, you can save money by using a silver spray paint, like Rustoleum., This is your adhesive for the silver leaf. You will need regular natural bristle paint brushes to apply it.
 If the silver leaf is disturbed, the paint color can show through the surface. If you are going for an antique look, try a brown paint color or a grey primer, so the cracks are subtler.
, It must be transparent and can be lacquer or polyacrylic based.
 Apply a chemical stripper in a well-ventilated area. Spread the stripper onto the surface with a brush, and then scrape it off with a putty knife.


Always wear protective clothing, such as rubber gloves, a ventilation mask and long-sleeved clothing when you are working with chemical stripper.
 Start with a medium-grit paper to get rid of dings and scratches. Then, finish with a fine-grit paper to smooth the surface.
 Then, wipe the surface with a tack cloth. Clean up excess dust from your area with a shop vacuum before you start painting or leafing.
 If you are painting the surface with brown paint, you may want to start with a layer of primer before you paint the surface with interior paint., Read the paint or primer instructions indicating how long it takes to cure.
 Read the package directions to learn how long you will need to wait until it is the right consistency to lay the silver leaf. It must dry slightly to a tacky texture.


You should start with the large, flat surface since it will be easier to gild. Once you have the process down, you can move on to the sides and more complicated areas.
Only paint on gilding size to areas that you can leaf within one to one and one half hours. The adhesive won’t work for leafing after it has cured.
Set a timer to ensure you return to your project just as the surface becomes tacky.
 Move slowly when working with silver leaf, since it tears easily and can’t be touched with your bare hands.
 Peel back the tissue paper from the top and turn it under the book, so that you can see the first sheet of leaf underneath.
 Rock your hand back press the leaf onto the dresser very lightly. The leaf will immediately stick to the size, which is why you don’t need to press hard.
 Position your hand to the area next to the leaf you just laid down. Plan to overlap it by at least one-half inch (0.6cm) in the beginning.You will remove the overlapping leaf later.
, Be extra gentle at the areas where the leaf overlaps. Burnishing will remove the excess leaf, but using too much pressure can break the corners.
 Continue burnishing until the excess leaf is removed. However, you will still be able to see the seams until you seal it.


You can also apply Rub N Buff silver color to these areas before you seal it to get rid of bare spots.
 Take extra care with legs and drawers. It will be harder to apply the leaf to the size around these areas. Burnish the entire piece of furniture before you seal it.


If you have areas that you want to spray paint silver, do this before you silver leaf the areas that are adjacent, so that the spray paint has time to cure.
 You can also paint on a clear coat sealer with a soft-bristled brush.
 Allow it to dry. Then, apply a second coat.
 Then, reinsert knobs or other hardware into the furniture.

