 It is that the practitioner should not attack, unless first confronted by an attack. If possible talk your way out of a confrontation.


Tae Kwon Do is designed to make the student non-violent, to develop a positive outlook and a feeling of confidence. Through the study of this art, students will overcome fear that naturally develops in a confrontation. Confident and free of fear, a Tae Kwon Do student is better able to control the attacker, using only the amount of force necessary.;
, The first thing taught in the dojang is the bow to show respect for the teacher and fellow students. While preserving their unique individuality, the student will become a more well-rounded person. Tae Kwon Do teaches its practitioners to contribute to society, respect the seniors, have compassion for their juniors and treat the environment with respect. They strive to become a more disciplined, focused, and peaceful individual.
 In today's society, the ability of a young woman and a man to defend her/himself is very important. But while learning self defence, the young person will also learn respect, courtesy, and self-control while participating in a good exercise programme. As students of Taekwondo, you build self-confidence and self esteem while you progress in the art. Each of these characteristics improves attitudes.


It has been shown time and again that children who train in Taekwondo tend to improve in their studies due to the concentration and self discipline that is developed.
 Many adults wrongly believe that martial arts are only for the young. Apart from the self-defence aspect, Tae Kwon Do also promotes general health and well being. The training helps to strengthen and tone the muscles of the body without producing large bulky muscles. The high-repetition, low-resistance movements develop a longer, leaner, and more flexible musculature. As well as increasing cardiovascular fitness, the training serves as an invaluable tool for improving flexibility, co-ordination, sharpening reflexes and controlling weight.


Since the body sets its own limits, injuries and strains are rare and the student's physical condition paces himself/herself automatically. The entire muscle system of the body from the fingers to the toes is brought into play.
 Tae Kwon Do also relieves the stresses of modern life. Many psychologists are now recommending martial arts as an antidote for stress-related problems. The total concentration employed while in a Taekwondo class effectively 'blows away the cobwebs' giving the student a complete break from the worries and tensions which gradually sap people's energy and drive. Students commonly arrive for class feeling drained after a tough day and leave feeling refreshed and revitalized.
 It promotes peace, harmony, and ultimately a better society. Unfortunately, many people believe that the martial arts spawn violence. When properly and responsibly taught, this is not true. The Tae Kwon Do student is trained to avoid conflict at all costs and only to use their skills when all other measures have been exhausted.
 It can be summed up by the 5 tenets of Tae Kwon Do:


Courtesy
Integrity
Perseverance
Self Control
Indomitable Spirit

