 Puppies are naturally curious animals, who like to chew up everything and always want to have a full stomach. Make sure to meet the requirements for a puppy-proof home.

Clean up any chemicals, and then put them in a cupboard. To puppies, chemicals like antifreeze can smell like candy, and they will lap it up eagerly, so make sure everything is put away properly.
Pick up any objects littering the floor. This includes kids' toys, tissues, slippers, clothing, pencils, etc. Until your puppy learns not to pick stuff up off of the floor, you don't want to risk having to take your puppy in for surgery to remove the object.
Close the doors to other rooms. Having to clean and puppy-proof the entire house can be a daunting task, so limit the dog to only a few rooms at first (it's easier on the dog, too - an entire house can be intimidating). For example, the kitchen and the living room for the puppy, and then let the puppy go into other times throughout the time that passes.;
, Be sure to pick the one that fits your puppy's needs. Consider getting dry kibble. Make sure it isn't tested on animals except for taste testing, and make sure it doesn't have any ingredients such as poultry or meat by-product, which contain things that are unhealthy for your dog. Also, make sure that you get dog food intended for your dog's age - puppy, adult, or senior.

Be sure to have good water as well. Either from the sink, tap, or bottled water, it will be okay for your puppy. However, rainwater isn't recommended even if it's filtered.
 Stainless steel bowls are preferable; don't get a ceramic or plastic one. If you are bringing home a breed with a voracious appetite (like a Lab), consider a raised feeder., Having somewhere for your dog to sleep can be a real time saver. You don't have to worry about your dog developing bad habits while you are away/asleep, such as peeing on the floor or eating the couch. A comfortable dog bed would also be useful for the puppy., These are important since your dog will chew on these instead of furniture, and playing with your puppy helps you bond. Be sure they are dog friendly and have no loose or sharp parts, or parts that a puppy could accidentally swallow and choke on., This is essential for training your puppy, and helps in creating that bond between you and your puppy. Both average treats and special tiny treats are preferred - they should both be used for training as well as spending time with and rewarding your puppy., Be sure that it is safe for your puppy and the proper size as well. Choose one that isn't too tight, but not too loose either., Choke chains can hurt your dog, and retractable leashes make it easier for your dog to run away. Be sure it can easily latch onto the puppy's collar as well., If your puppy ever somehow gets lost, it will be much more easier to track it down. Consider getting a microchip tag as well. You will have a better chance of finding them if they run away., This will help clean your puppy's fur if ticks or fleas ever get into it. Be sure to have a bathtub so that you can bathe your puppy as well. Purchase some dog-friendly shampoo as well for a better chance of easily cleaning your puppy. Get a suitable dog brush as well - it will be much easier to clean off their fur and straighten it out. If your dog is long haired, use a brush made for longhairs; if your dog is shorthaired, use a brush made for shorthairs., Your puppy will grow quickly, and proper training will ensure no bad puppy behaviours grow with it.