 This drug is an antifungal medication that can be used to fight yeast infections by killing the yeast cells in the urethra. The starting dose for this drug is one tablet (200 mg) daily.


If this doesn't clear the infection, the dose can be increased to two tablets (400 mg) daily. This medication should not be used alongside drugs like dofetilide, eplerenone, midazol (midazolam), and triazolam.
Side effects may include back, stomach, and leg pains, blurred vision, chest pains, chills, joint pains, fever, faster heart beat, dizziness, among others.;
, This is a topical antifungal cream used in treating fungal infections. It is used to treat skin infections such as yeast infections, jock itch, ringworm, and athlete's foot.


A man with penile yeast infection whose skin has hardened can apply one applicator-full of 1% clotrimazole cream on the affected skin of the penis, preferably at bedtime. This should be done once daily for seven consecutive days.
Side effects may include itching, general skin irritation, peeling, blistering, edema, and erythema.
 This is a medically proven antifungal that works on hardened skin by destroying both the nucleus and the plasma of the yeast cell, thereby killing it. You can apply the oil directly onto the affected area.


It is also a great personal lubricant for sex, while helping to prevent yeast infections from being transferred from partner to partner.
Additionally, the man with the penile yeast infection can consume a teaspoonful of the oil before every meal until the infection subsides.
 This is an effective antifungal for penile yeast infection, especially when the skin has hardened. The oil is applied directly to the infected penile skin to penetrate the hardened skin and kill the yeast cells.


Be aware that organic Mediterranean oregano oil should be diluted with either coconut or olive oil in a ratio of 2:1 to prevent it from burning the skin.
 This is a substance used to stop yeast growth when making beer and can be applied when the skin has hardened due to yeast infection.


In treating penile yeast infection, potassium sorbate is very helpful in stopping and preventing yeast from growing on the penis.
Just use a little water to make a paste, then apply the paste directly onto the infected skin of the penis.
 Lemon juice is packed with vitamin C which helps to restore the skin's pH. This is key in the treatment of penile yeast infections because it creates an unfriendly environment for yeast cells to thrive.


A man with penile yeast infection can make a treatment solution by mixing 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice with 1 quart of warm water. The affected area of the penis is then soaked in the solution.
This should be done three times daily until the penis is healed.
 Cranberry juice is a great penile yeast infection remedy when the skin has hardened because of the infection. It works by preventing the yeast infection from turning into a bladder infection. Additionally, it boosts the body's levels of good acidophilus bacteria.


A man with a penile yeast infection should consume cranberry juice twice daily until the symptoms fade away.
 A moist environment encourages the growth of yeast, therefore, men should ensure that their genital area is kept as dry and cool as possible by wiping with clean, dry towel after taking a bath.


It is also recommended that you remove excess hair because this dampens the genital area, creating a sweaty and humid condition perfect for a thriving yeast colony.
 The major symptoms of a penile yeast infection are as follows:



Soreness and irritation: A man with a penile yeast infection will experience a reddish-colored rash on the head of the penis. There may be an itching and burning sensation on the tip of the penis, which can be very irritating. When passing urine, the burning sensation may be more intense.

Discharge: A man with a penile yeast infection may notice a white substance coming from the penis, similar to the discharge from a vaginal infection. The discharge may have an unpleasant odor.

Discomfort during intercourse: A man with a penile yeast infection may experience discomfort during sexual intercourse, due to the soreness, irritation, and inflammation of the penis.
 The most common causes and risk factors for penile yeast infection include:



Sexual transmission: Just like sexually transmitted infections, a yeast infection can be transmitted through sexual contact. A man can contract penile yeast infection by having unprotected intercourse with a yeast-infected woman.

Antibiotics: Although it is less common than sexual transmission, a man can get penile yeast infection through prolonged use of antibiotics.

Diabetes: Yeast thrives well in glucose, therefore men with diabetes are more susceptible to yeast infections, due to their elevated blood sugars.

Foods: A typical American diet increases the chances of a man developing penile yeast infection. Wheat, barley, oats, peanuts, red apples, and corn encourage yeast growth in the body because of their high glucose content, which is food for yeast.

Nonoxynol-9: This is a sperm-killing drug contained in condom lubricants. This substance has been linked to causing yeast infections in men.

