 Some hairstyles are much harder on the hair and scalp than others, because they pull and can cause breakage. Cornrows, braids, ponytails, top-knots, or buns can all do this, especially if they are worn continuously or too tightly.Choose a style that doesn’t pull or put tension on the shafts of your hair. Too tight ponytails and others can cause traction alopecia on the sides of your head; braids around the hairline can easily cause damage the hair there.
If you really like your hair up, at least give it frequent rests. Pick a style that you can let down at the end of the day.;
, Hair “enhancements” like weaves and extensions can make your hair fuller and longer in the short term. However, they can also pull at the hair fibers and roots and, over time, contribute to hair loss. Sometimes, this damage is permanent.Prolonged pulling of the roots can cause inflammation and lead to scarring, which may permanently destroy them.
Only get weaves and extensions at salons that specialize in such products, and make sure that they are light-weight.
Don’t wear weaves or extensions for more than 2 or 3 months at most. Keep up your normal scalp hygiene and switch hair styles periodically.
Rest your hair for a few weeks in between hair extension applications., The thing about these products is that they coat the hair and add friction when you comb or brush, all of which increases the risk of breakage.Styling your hair after using a hold product can lead to hair loss over time. Choose an everyday style that doesn’t need styling product, instead, if possible.
 Do you color, perm, straighten, or bleach your hair? All of these procedures involve chemicals that erode the integrity of hair fibers and can eventually make your hair dull looking or frizzy or even break off, thinning your hair.Most people should wait 6 to 7 weeks between hair coloring or, in the winter, 8 to 10 weeks. Those with naturally strong hair may be able to go every five weeks. For a perm, wait at least 1 to 2 weeks before repeating.Only have one treatment at a time. If you have a perm, for example, wait at least 2 weeks before coloring your hair.
Make sure to do deep conditioning on your hair every few days to help it recover from these chemical processes.
 Traction alopecia can be prevented, especially if you recognize it early on. If you think that your hairstyles might be damaging your hair, look out for the following signs:A sense of relief when you untie your hair
Tenderness of your scalp
An itchy scalp
The need to take painkillers because of a headache caused by your hairstyle

, Overheating hair can cause it to become brittle or to crack, split, and break off. It can also strip the hair of moisture, making it dull. You’ll want to avoid over-using heating tools to prevent hair loss, but especially blow dryers and irons.Don’t apply the blow dryer directly to your hair. Direct heat can burn or weaken hair. Limit your use of blow dryers each week, as well.
Flat irons and curlers can also damage your hair with heat. Limit your use of them to no more than every other day. Leave irons in place only for a second or two.Never use a tool like this on wet hair, because it can easily burn it. Use irons on dry hair at a low or medium setting.
 To avoid the harsh effect of a blow dryer, consider wrapping your head in a towel “turban” to dry. While toweling your hair might seem like a good idea, the friction can actually damage your hair, too. Create a turban with a regular or microfiber head towel, instead – you’ll feel like you’ve just been to the spa.First, pat (don’t rub) your hair dry with the towel. Bend over so that your hair hangs down over your head.
Place the towel over the center of the back of your neck and drape it over your hair.
Fold the towel around your head and hair and twist the ends of the towel, making sure that the hair is inside.
Stand up and bring the twisted end of the towel back over your head. Slip the end under the nape of your neck to secure the turban.
 Partially air-dry your hair before you style or comb it. This will help you on two fronts: you’ll end up blow-drying it less, for one. But you’ll also protect your hair from wet styling, when the hair is weaker and more prone to damage.Most people should avoid styling wet hair, as it breaks more easily when brushed or combed.
An exception to the rule is people who have kinky or tightly curled hair. For them, brushing the hair when wet will decrease chance of breaks. Just be gentle!

, Over-treatment is the number one cause of hair damage. Pulling too hard at your hair while washing or brushing can put a lot of stress on the hair fibers and strip off the “cuticle,” which is the tough protective outer layer of the hair. Hair with a weakened cuticle will split or break off more often.Don’t brush your hair aggressively.
Shampoo and rinse your hair gently, too. You don’t need to worry about washing frequency if you use care, however. Washing your hair more often shouldn’t cause you to lose hair., People used to advise giving your hair 100 strokes a day to make it shine or to boost blood flow to the scalp. Both of these ideas are wrong. In fact, brushing this much will cause split ends, break hair shafts, or even pull it out. You’ll end up with more hair if you’re not so zealous.Brushing causes friction on the hair. Too much of it will make your hair lusterless or frizzy.
Brush minimally, maybe once per day, in order to detangle or style.
 Something else that can cause friction on your hair and lead to damage is the wrong tool. Using a wide-tooth comb or brush will let you detangle and style your hair gently, without putting too much stress on it.Buy a wide-tooth comb/brush at your local pharmacy or salon. Some are designed specifically for detangling and they usually cost less than $20. You can also try a paddle brush with plastic-tipped bristles.
Avoid brushes made from boar’s hair. Natural bristles tend not to be uniform and can be hard on your hair and scalp.
 Vitamin E is an antioxidant and potent moisturizer, so it can help reduce inflammation from hair follicles and promote circulation that will improve the growth of your hair.
 Hair loss can be a result of weak hair, which itself may result from a poor diet or lack of certain vitamins. To strengthen your hair, make sure that you are getting all the necessary nutrients and eat well.Include fatty fish like salmon in your diet, for example. Salmon contains omega 3 fatty acids, which your body needs to grow hair and keep it full and shiny. Make sure to eat protein, too, the basic building block of hair. Try yoghurt, nuts, and lean meats like chicken.
Leafy greens can also help your hair, as they contain needed nutrients like vitamin A and C, plus beta carotene and folate.
Get enough iron, as well, from things like grains, lentils, beef, and organ meats. Iron deficiency can lead to hair loss.
Finally, condition, condition, condition. Use conditioner after every shampoo to keep your hair strong.

