 This is a relatively painless procedure that injects a liquid chemical or saline solution into your veins to close them off, causing them to disappear. These are good for smaller varicose or spider veins. It may take several treatments, done every four to six weeks. After treatment, your legs will probably be wrapped with elastic bandaging to decrease swelling.There is also a form of the treatment called microsclerotherapy, which targets spider veins. It uses a very fine needle to inject the liquid chemical into the veins.
 This procedure is generally only used for small varicose veins. A laser will be applied to your skin near the swollen vein. It generates energy to heat the venous tissue, destroying all blood elements nearby. After that, the swollen vein will be obstructed, closed, and, after some time, reabsorbed by your body., Venous ablation uses intense heat to treat your veins, and can be performed either using radio-frequency or laser technology energy. Your doctor will puncture the vein, thread a catheter into the vein up to your groin, then send heat through it. This heat will close off and destroy the vein, and it will disappear over time., This is a surgical procedure in which the doctor will make small cuts in your skin to remove small veins. He will then use small hooks to pull the vein out of your leg. This procedure is good for spider veins and other small veins.In normal cases, this is a same-day surgery. The doctor will only numb the area around the vein, so you will remain awake during the procedure. You may experience some slight bruising.
Phlebectomy procedures may be done along with other procedures, including ablation. Your doctor will know if it is useful to do the treatments together., This is an invasive procedure for dealing with problem veins, and is usually done only for severe cases of varicose veins. The doctor will make small cuts in your skin, and tie off and remove the veins from your leg. You will be put under anesthesia during the procedure, and should recover fully in one to four weeks.Even though you are removing veins, this surgery won’t affect your blood circulation. Additional veins deeper in your leg will deal with the blood, and the circulation in your leg should be fine.

