 Visit the homepage of Facebook. After being directed to it, enter your registered email address and password into the login fields at the top right, and click “Log in” to continue.;
, CloudApp provides you with a quick way to share screen recordings, mp3 files, images, and all type of media content, making sharing mp3 files on Facebook easy.


Open a new browser tab, type “CloudApp” in the address bar, and press Enter to search for it. CloudApp should appear as the first in the list. Click it, and you will be redirected to the home page of CloudApp.
Click “Sign up” at the top right of the page, and a prompt will pop up asking you for details required to log in. You will be given two options; you can either log in directly using any email ID other than a Google account (like Yahoo, Hotmail, etc.) or log in with Google+. Choose the option you prefer, and click the blue “Sign Up” button.
 After signing up, you should be redirected to your own account page with “Library” on the right side. The heading “Recent Drops” should be in the top middle of the screen. If you’re not immediately redirected, just click the “Login” link at the top right to go to this Library page.
 At the top of the page is a green bordered box that says, “Choose or drop a file from your computer.” Click on it to open a file navigator. Use it to browse your computer for the mp3 file you want to share to Facebook. Click the file, and it will be dropped in the Recent Drops list. Doing so will upload the desired file into your account.
 Locate the uploaded file in the Recent Drops list, click the pen icon beside the title of the file, and rename it.


This is optional.
 After you’ve renamed the mp3 file, click on it in the Recent Drops list. A new tab will open with the audio playing in it. Copy the URL of the page by right-clicking on the URL and selecting “Copy” from the context menu that appears.
 Go back to your Facebook tab, and right-click the “What’s on your mind” text box at the top of your News Feed or Timeline and select “Paste” to paste the URL in it. Facebook will create a clickable link at the bottom of the Status Update box.


You can enter a message about the song if you want, and when you’re ready to share the mp3 file, just click the blue “Post” button at the bottom right of the Status Update box.

