 When you are feeling extreme anxiety, you can learn how to calm yourself to reduce your anxiety. One way to do this is to focus on the five senses. Physical senses can help you refocus your mental energy and find something soothing to think about.For example, you can look at pictures or objects that make you happy.
Listen to calming music, or put on your favorite song to sing along to. You may also go outside and listen to the birds or the ocean.
Use aromatherapy. Lavender is extremely calming, or you can use a peaceful or calm oil blend. You can also bake to fill your home with a comforting scent or smell flowers.
Eat a treat or drink a cup of tea. Do this slowly, focusing on the taste instead of quickly emotionally eating.
 Anxiety causes negative side-effects, such as rapid heart rates, shortness of breath, and tense muscles. Breathing exercises can help with the shortness of breath, which can cause dizziness and lightheadedness. Deep breathing can calm you and help relieve stress.Sit in a chair. Inhale through your nose for a count of five to six. Hold the breath for four counts, then exhale slowly through your mouth for six to seven counts. Repeat 10 times.This may not be easy at first. It will take practice, but is very effective.
 progressive muscle relaxation is a helpful technique for anxiety. This technique helps relieve tension when your muscles become too tense due to increased stress and anxiety. Progressive muscle relaxation is where you go through your body tensing and releasing specific muscles.To perform this, lie in a comfortable position. Start at your feet and tense all the muscles in your feet. Then relax. Make sure to pay attention to the way your body and muscles feel during this. Slowly move up your body, tensing and releasing targeted muscle groups until you get to your head.
 Meditation is a great way to manage your generalized anxiety disorder. Meditation can help you calm your mind and body. It also helps you find a sense of inner peace, which can be difficult with anxiety. You can do meditation anywhere at anytime.You can meditate on your own anywhere. Just close your eyes and let your mind relax as you let go of all your thoughts.
Guided meditation is a great way to manage anxiety. There are many sound files and videos available online that walk you through the steps of guided meditation. You can find guided meditation to help you combat anxiety, panic, and even to get to sleep.
 Yoga combines a lot of stress-relieving techniques, such as breathing exercises and meditation. Studies have shown that yoga is effective in reducing and managing anxiety symptoms. You can do yoga at home or go to a gym or yoga studio.You can find many helpful yoga videos to buy or free online. There are yoga programs geared specifically for reducing anxiety.
You don’t have to be flexible or extremely fit to do yoga.You can tailor the poses to your level, despite fitness ability or age.

