 Obviously, if you're under the age of fourteen, you're too young to get a job and prove to your parents you are responsible that way. Fortunately for you, this way works just as well. If you have chores, do them twice as well as you did before and even try to do extra. If you do not have chores, try things like vacuuming, dusting and so on. This will get your parents' trust, and it will burn way more calories than watching TV.;
, It may sound impossible, but try to keep your room (and playroom, if you still have one) as neat as your parents' room. Obviously, if their room is, and stays very neat, then those are their expectations. Imagine if your friends walk in your room and find out you're a total slob! And if you keep your room clean, cockroaches will not come live in it.


Shoving things under your bed or to the back of your closet does not count as cleaning your room.
 There's a reason they're asking you to do it, and it will pay off later. Your parents will give you their trust, and respect you because you listen to everything that they say. When you really want them to buy you something, they will most likely buy it for you, but don't take advantage of them.
 Participate in class and volunteer to stay after school to help sharpen pencils or wipe down tables (assuming it's okay with your parents). Little things like that will earn you huge brownie points with teachers. Put your best effort into your schoolwork and ask for help if you're unsure about concepts. This shows your parents that you are trying to be responsible in all areas of your life.
 Try having a variety of interests. However; do not let these new activities interfere with doing your best work at school. The trick is to find a balance between in-school and out-of-school activities. If possible try to join two artsy activities (band, library assistant, debate club) and two sporty activities (soccer, volleyball, basketball) for girls and vice versa for boys.
 You need your beauty sleep, and then you don't have to be in a dump in the morning when you're trying to find where your left sock is.
 Nobody likes a pig. Brush your hair every day, shower at least every other day, brush your teeth two times a day, gently clean your nose every morning (you don't want your best friend finding out what's in your nose do you?), etc. You want to look as neat as possible.


Take care of your skin. Drink 6 to 8 glasses of water and wash your face at least once every day. If you need it, get some acne cream.
Wash your hair every two days unless it gets greasy or oily before then. You can also go for a longer amount of time without washing your hair if it is still relatively clean, but don't go for too long without washing it!

, Believe in yourself and accept who you are. Sure, you may not have the greatest nose ever, but people don't judge by appearance.
 Socialize a bit more. Hang out with your friends, and make some new friends too! Be nice to everyone, even if you don't like them and share with people! Be very polite and not haughty or rude.
 In your pre-teen and tween years, you may gain more weight than usual. It is important to work out every day for at least 30 minutes. So you can jump on your trampoline 10 minutes, stretch for 5, maybe go jogging for 15 and you have your 30 minutes.
 This is a significant part of being a preteen. Your period is most likely coming in soon, and you need to prepare. Buy some pads and tampons just in case. If you started having discharge, wear pantiliners every day.
 If you know it, they should know it. Tell them that you just got off the phone with Kayla or that Jen spilled her milk today, or tell them how Taryn got an A on her Science paper. Even how cute Justin looked in his shorts in gym class. They like to know these things. After all, they are your parents, and they like to know what's going on with your life.


Be informative. Remember the four W's. Who, what, when and where. Your parents should always know these things no matter what the occasion. For example tell them your going to the movies (what), with Christine, Jesse, and Emma (who), that the movie runs from 7-9 (when), and that it's at the Galaxy Theatre by Walmart (where).
 Make new friends and discover who you really are. You may have been hanging out with the "kids that can't grow up the crowd" and think you're ready for something new. You can also try new activities.
 For group projects at school, try to get into a group with people who you know keep up their grades and don't fall behind in school. When working on the project with them, you will be less likely to spend your time goofing off and more time putting your best efforts into the project.

