 Remove the eggs from the refrigerator about 30 minutes before the process begins. Allow them to sit out on your kitchen counter or table until they drop to room temperature.


Cold eggs will take longer to cook and may not coddle evenly. As a general rule, though, you should coddle cold eggs for 30 to 60 seconds longer than room temperature eggs.
 Fill a small tea kettle with water and set it on the stove over high heat. Continue heating the water until the kettle whistles and the water is boiling.


You could also prepare the water in a small saucepan if you do not have a kettle.
 As the water in your kettle reaches a boil, prepare an ice bath by filling a medium bowl halfway with cold water and a handful or two of ice.
 Place each egg in a separate heat-resistant container, and place each container on a heat-resistant surface, like a kitchen towel.


You can place multiple eggs in the same bowl, but you do not want the eggs to touch each other at all. If the eggs are packed together inside a dish, the coddling process may not be able to cook the entire egg evenly.
 Once the water has reached a boil, pour it directly over the eggs. Allow the eggs to sit in the hot water for a full 1 minute.This amount of time will produce a coddled egg that is still quite runny. If you want the egg white to firm up a bit, you should leave the eggs in the hot water for about 5 minutes each.
Alternatively, if you prepared the hot water in a saucepan, you could remove the saucepan from the heat and dip the egg directly inside the simmering water. Keep it there for 1 minute.Coddling the egg this way may make the eggshell more likely to break, however.
 Carefully remove the eggs from the hot water with a slotted spoon or tongs, then gently dunk them into the ice bath. Let them stay in the ice bath for 2 minutes to stop the cooking process.


Work carefully to prevent the eggshell from cracking. The eggs are still very runny at this point, so cracking the shell will cause the egg to spill out in a watery mess.
 To get to the eggs, simply crack the shells and dump the contents into a small dish.


Coddled eggs prepared in this manner are most often used in recipes that call for coddled eggs as an ingredient, like Caesar salad dressing and mayonnaise. They are rarely consumed as they are, but you could technically do so. Either way, you should use the coddled egg immediately.

