 Checking the zoo's homepage before you pick a day for your trip will keep you updated on the daily schedules and any special events you could see if you visit on specific days. Make sure these are included in the price of admission or be prepared to pay extra.;
, Many animals will be most active in the morning right when the zoo opens and after feeding. Zoos will also receive new animals from time to time, so keep an eye out for new arrivals.


Take into account the weather. Some animals, such as elephants, might be more active after the rain.
Take into account the time of year. Animals from warmer climates may not be able to tolerate the cold weather, and are placed inside for the winter. If you want to avoid large crowds don’t plan your trip on a major holiday. Instead plan to go on a weekday if you can. Try to see popular animals or exhibits early in the day, such as pandas, which almost always draw a line. , Plan your trip around the animals that your kids want to see. Do some research on their favorite animals. It will make the experience more memorable and also educational.


Checking out a book about your child’s favorite animal can excite them about the zoo trip while also reinforcing the experience afterwards. Respect your child’s sensitivities and avoid animals that they might be afraid of. For example, if your child doesn’t like snakes, be sure to stay away from the reptile house.
 Based on your research and talking with your kids, list all the animals, exhibits, or events that you want to see, keeping in mind the timing of special events such as demonstrations, shows, or feedings.
 Find a map of the zoo, either online, in a free zoo app, or from a kiosk once you get there. To avoid backtracking, plan the best route to take so you don’t miss any of the sites.
 Most zoos have play zones for kids. Mark these on your map to let the kids blow off some steam.
 Don’t forget to allot time for lunch. If you’re planning on buying lunch, find cafes or restaurants that your kids would enjoy. If you’re looking to save money, find a picnic area or even a bench to stop, rest, and eat a sack lunch.
 If your children are hands-on, be sure to include a stop to the petting zoo on your route. Most zoos have a small area dedicated for this. Looking at animals all day that they can’t touch can be unbearable for some kids, so this can provide much needed some relief.
 If it is a long trip, plan accordingly by giving the kids something to keep them occupied.


If you have a smartphone, you could download some mobile apps games or fun math games for kids to keep them from getting bored. Play some music they enjoy or a few interesting books or keep them engaged with fun road trip games like “How Many Trucks Do You See?” You definitely don't want a bunch of grumpy kids on your hands before the outing has even begun.
 If you plan to bring a baby, don't forget to bring plenty of diapers, baby food, pacifiers, and extra clothing.
 If possible, bring a wagon or stroller if your kids are too young to walk long distances or if they tire easily. Otherwise, you might find yourself having to carry them!

, It’s important to carry plenty of water, especially in warmer months. Bring a water bottle you can refill once you're there. The zoo will probably sell bottled water, but this can quickly get expensive.
 Most of the zoo will be outside, so be sure to wear sunscreen and bring extra to use once you’re there.
 Check the weather before you go, and bring an umbrella if it looks like rain. If you’re not wanting to carry around an umbrella all day, you can also pack plastic ponchos.
 To make the most of your ticket price, get to the zoo when it opens and plan to be there all day. Getting there early will also help you see the animals when they’re most active and beat the lines for the popular exhibits.
 The zoo might have a cafe but it's probably too expensive and the queues too long so it's a good idea to pack a lunch from home and get the kids to help out.


Don’t bring messy food. Chocolate is a definite no-no; fresh fruit, pretzels and sandwiches are your best bet since they are non-messy and will keep in a small cooler. Try to pack some snacks for mid-morning and early evening hunger pangs.
 Many cities have a reciprocal agreement with the aquarium, other attractions, or even nearby hotels. If you are visiting a city and plan to see other major attractions check if there is a “city pass” or something similar. Some zoos will even have particular days or months when kids get in free with a paying adult. , If you plan to go to the zoo often, it might be worth buying a membership. These typically come out cheaper than buying individual tickets every time you go to the zoo. Zoo memberships also often have reciprocal deals with a city’s aquarium, so you could get access to both venues.

