 Pugs are more prone to breathing difficulties because they have a narrower windpipe than most dogs. They also have narrow nostrils and a long soft palate, which takes up lots of room at the back of their throats. In fact, pugs snore and are noisy breathers because of the amount of soft tissue at the back of the throat. This tissue vibrates whenever a pug takes a breath.If your pug’s snoring bothers you, consider wearing earplugs at night to block out the sound or train your pug to sleep in his crate.
 With mild exertion many pugs pant heavily in order to satisfy their body's need for oxygen. Be aware that if you persist in exercising your pug once it shows signs of shortness of breath it could collapse. Most of the time, you do not need to worry about your pug’s noisy breathing. However, you should learn to recognize the signs of respiratory distress in case your pug has a problem. These signs include:Noisy breathing with a panicky facial expression
Blue gums or tongue
Thick sticky saliva
Reluctance to move
Exaggerated movements of the chest and abdomen
Restlessness as if unable to get comfortable
Collapse

, Make sure the pug is cool and stop all activity. If the pug doesn't improve in a few minutes, contact a vet as an emergency.


Keep calm as the dog will pick up on your panic and this will panic it.
If your pug regularly struggles with its breathing consider consulting with your veterinarian about corrective surgery. There are operations that trim back the excessive amount of tissue at the back of the throat, and also an operation to widen the nostrils so it easier for a pug to breath in.
 Dogs can't sweat and so to loose heat they pant. In hot weather, pugs are doubly compromised because they can have difficulty breathing at the best of times and then add in the extra need to cool down, which they are unable to do, and they are liable to get heatstroke.To avoid this, never exercise your pug on a hot day. Make sure it stays in the shade or in a cool room.
If your pug starts to pant excessively, dampen its coat with water to cool it, and dampen its tongue to keep it comfortable as it quickly dries out.
Sit the pug in front of a fan on a low blow setting. Also make sure the pug has water available at all times.
 It is important to keep your pug at a lean weight because of the breathing problems associated with the breed. Carrying extra weight puts extra demands on your pug’s body for oxygen, and extra body fat compresses the lungs, airway, and throat, which adds to his problems pulling in air.Talk to your veterinarian if think your pug is overweight to get recommendations for a healthy weight reduction feeding plan for your pug.

