 Keep a journal for a week or two where you keep track of what causes you stress and how you handle it. When a co-worker asks for something more do you go to the vending machine? When meetings run late do you get cranky or raise your voice? Tracking the things that cause you stress throughout your day can help you curb bad habits and get into better ones. It can also help you get through after hours stress more effectively.Write down what causes you stress as well as when you feel stressed. There may be certain times of the day you are more stressed than others.;
, Bringing work home or being constantly on-call can increase your stress. While everyone has different work-home boundaries, do your best to keep work at work. Consider not checking emails or taking phone calls once you leave the office.If working at home is unavoidable, set boundaries by scheduling a specific time for it (perhaps after the kids go to bed), and by confining it to a dedicated workspace. Keep your work and relaxation space firmly separated: no working in the bedroom, and no goofing off in your home office.


If bringing work home is common practice at your workplace yet you decide to stop, let people know. Say, “It’s important for me to keep work at work so I can focus on myself and my family when I’m off. I’m only checking emails and taking phone calls while I’m working and not on my time off.”

, Being at work can be a much more positive experience if you like and appreciate your colleagues. Develop your friendships at work and use your co-workers as support. It’s likely they’re experiencing some of the same stress that you are.Initiate friendships with your co-workers by inviting them to lunch or talking with them after meetings.
Seek out people whom you enjoy and are positive. While someone who complains a lot can commiserate with you, you may not want to be around their negativity all the time.
 If the stress of work is getting to you and your co-workers, break through the tension with some humor. If meetings are increasingly intense or deadlines are too close, find a moment to share some laughter. Make a joke or share a meme.Start an office joke to get you through the difficult times.
For example, end tense meetings with a funny video or a joke.
 If you notice that you are stressed in the moment, take some deep breaths. Stop what you are doing and take some deep inhales and exhales until you feel more relaxed.Squeeze a stress ball or do some progressive muscle relaxation for a few minutes. If you’re working, put on some calm and relaxing music to work to. Take some time each day away from your people by closing your door or not accepting phone calls during a certain period of time.


If you tend to work through breaks or keep thinking about work during lunch, use the time to go for a walk outside your workplace. Regular breaks can improve your mood, as well as the quality of your work.
 Having something to look forward to can be the light at the end of the tunnel that helps you get through the difficult moments. If you know you’re coming up on overtime or after hours work, plan to take a vacation shortly after you complete that work. Have a photo of the place you will go on your desk to remind you that you have something wonderful to look forward to. Taking a vacation can be a much needed break from work and can help you feel more rejuvenated and motivated once back to work.Planning your vacation can be a fun way to get through the stressful times at work.

