 Fill a bucket with water. Add the amount of car soap indicated on the label to the water. Agitate the water until the soap is distributed and bubbles form. Wet a clean microfiber cloth in the solution. Wipe the headlight clean with the cloth.You should work on headlights one at a time. Doing so will prevent cleaner from drying on the light, which can have a negative effect on it.
Alternatively, you can use a household glass cleaner or dish soap to wash your headlights. Spray it on the light and wipe free dirtiness with a clean, dry microfiber cloth.;
, Take a clean, dry microfiber cloth and wipe the light dry. Pay attention to the cracks around the outside of the light, as water collects easily there. Once dry, tape around the light with masking tape or painters tape.


Many cleaners and the sanding that’ll be done later can damage your paint job. A thick border of tape around the light will protect against this., Many kits come with some kind of lubricating liquid for the sanding process. Apply this to the light as directed in the kit instructions. If your kit does not have lubricant, wet the headlight with water. Keep the headlight wet while working on it.


Always follow the usage directions that came with your cleaning kit for best results. Using your kit improperly could diminish its effectiveness., Your kit will likely come with several kinds of sandpaper. The lowest number will be the coarsest. Wet the paper with lubricant or water. Rub the paper with moderate pressure against the light in a circular motion.


Take care not to rub any part of your vehicle’s paint job with the sandpaper. Doing so will likely damage its finish.
Your sandpaper, much like the surface of the headlight, should remain wet at all times. Re-wet your paper as necessary., Use water from a hose to flush away lubricant and loosened particles created by the sandpaper. When the light is completely rinsed, use your microfiber drying cloth to wipe remaining moisture away., Most kits have at least two sandpapers with different grit ratings, though some may have more. Lubricate, buff, rinse, and dry your light as previously described with a finer grit (higher number) sandpaper with each application. Depending on how badly your light has been oxidized, the buffing portion of this project may take you between 10 and 30 minutes.


After drying the light each time, your next buffing sequence should use a finer grit rating sandpaper until all grit ratings have been used.
The highest grit rating sandpaper is often smaller in size. This paper is ideal for the curved parts of the light and corners., Apply a small amount of the polishing agent that came with your kit to a polishing pad. Rub the pad against the light in a circular motion. Keep the pad in motion constantly. Spread the polishing agent over the entire light. When the polish begins to dry or dissipate, it’s ready to be wiped away with a clean part of your microfiber drying cloth.Some kits may be intended for use with an electric polisher. In this situation, attach the polisher pad to the electric polisher and buff the light as you would normally., Some kits may come with sealer to help prevent your lights from oxidizing. A little bit goes a long way. Apply a small amount to a fresh microfiber cloth and rub it over the entire surface of the light. Remove the tape and the light is done., In this fashion, remove oxidation from your other headlight. While you’re at it, check out your taillights and any other plastic exterior lights. These, too, can be cleaned with your kit.


Although kits are suitable for cleaning exterior hard plastic light covers, you should never use this kit on glass. Doing so will likely permanently cloud or damage the glass.