 Find out what skin type you have, and look up reviews on different products for your type of skin. If you have dry skin, invest in a good moisturizer. If you have oily skin, get yourself some blotting sheets you can keep in your purse or school bag. Make sure to moisturize your entire body with a nice lotion after you take a shower, as well.;
, One rule to keep you from wearing too much makeup is this: limit yourself to 3 products. If you're going to wear some eyeshadow, maybe skip out on the blush and the lipgloss. If you're wearing blush, just wear some light mascara. If you're going to wear foundation, make sure it matches PERFECTLY. If you're wearing daytime eyeshadow, keep it as natural as possible. Warm shades of browns, tans, peaches and shimmery whites are very pretty on most skin tones. If you have light skin and hair, try a brown mascara instead of black. If you lead a very active (a.k.a. sweaty) lifestyle, try a tinted moisturizer instead of foundation.
 Resist the urge to straighten it or curl it everyday! Use a shampoo and conditioner you like, and wash it every other day. If you must straighten it, only do so once a week at most and use a heat protection spray. Shake it up with your hairstyles, try to have your hair up at least 3 times a week.
 Always use a good chapstick. If you have braces, it is especially important that you brush your teeth often. Keep breath mints or breath strips on hand at all times, and try not to chew gum. Chewing gum actually causes your mouth to produce more saliva, enhancing bad breath. And chewing gum isn't really attractive, either!

, You don't have to wear overpowering perfume to smell good. Always wash yourself with a natural smelling body wash and always wear deodorant. If you're going to wear perfume, spray it once in front of you and walk into it. A smell that is barely there is the sexiest kind.
 Instead of trying to fit into a specific size, buy what makes YOU look best. Try not to wear all dark colors, and mix up the type of clothes you wear. If you wear skinny jeans all the time, try a pair of flare jeans or a skirt. If you wear hoodies or zip up sweatshirts all the time, try a cardigan or scarf to keep you warm. Remember this important tip: brands aren't everything. Who cares if it cost you $4 or $140 if it makes you look like a million bucks?

, Now, you may be thinking, "Hey! This is about looking natural, not eating!". But reader, eating well can make you look better! Try to eat fruits and vegetables as often as possible, and stay away from the junk food. Keep an apple in your bag in case you crave something sweet or some pretzels for when you want salty. Never ever ever starve yourself or go on extreme diets. This is not healthy. Eat small meals throughout the day to keep you energized and to keep you from over eating later.
 Try taking your dog for a walk instead of watching tv. Do fun things like yoga or pilates. Try to keep yourself toned. Do some sit ups at night, and maybe go running every now and then. Try fun cardio, like swimming or Zumba. If you want to, try out for a school sport that you like. It's a lot of work, but it's totally worth it.
 One of the most beautiful things about a girl is her smile. Be pleasant to everyone, and never judge or hate someone. Try to see things from all angle. Keep yourself out of drama and fights whenever possible. Laugh at your mistakes, and try not to be a perfectionist. And smile some more!

