 Currently, drug treatment directed specifically at raising HDL is not recommended because there is no convincing evidence that the medications improve cardiovascular outcome. However, there are two types of medications that are used to raise HDL, which are fibrates and Nicotinic acid, also known as niacin or vitamin B3.


These are mostly prescribed with other medications. This is because a few studies have suggested potential cardiovascular benefits when using these medications in conjunction with medical therapies to lower LDL, but the data is not convincing enough to definitively recommend their use in all cases.Cholesterol ester transfer protein (CETP) is a protein in your body that facilitates the transfer of lipids from HDL to other components in your blood. It has also been found to be associated with lower levels of HDL in some studies. As a result, there are several trials looking into medication that inhibit CETP, such as the medications torcetrapib, anacetrapib, dalcetrapib, and evacetrapib. Some of these show promise in the treatment of high cholesterol, but there is no generally consensus just yet., Fibrates are one type of medication that helps raise your good cholesterol levels. They are prescribed in pill form and should be taken one to three times daily. There are some forms of this medication that must be taken with meals, so check the label on your prescription to make sure you follow directions.


These medications have been associated with muscle toxicity, especially when taken with statins, which is another type of cholesterol medication. They can also interfere with the metabolism of other drugs, such as warfarin. Ask your doctor about any drug interactions. , Nicotinic acid, typically called niacin, is a vitamin (vitamin B3) that is available over-the-counter that is used to boost good cholesterol levels. You can also get a prescription-strength dosage of niacin, which has been shown to increase HDL levels by up to 35%.Take it as a pill with a dose of 1g to 3g per day. The most common side effect is flushing of the skin. While undesirable, there is generally no harm experienced from this side effect. You can also consume niacin through foods as well.


To prevent flushing, aspirin can be taken 30 minutes prior or ibuprofen can be take 60 minutes prior to taking niacin. Certain slow release formulas of the vitamin can also be used to decrease incidence of flushing.
Toxicity to the liver is reported in higher doses of niacin, with doses ranging from 2g to 6g daily, especially when it is taken in conjunction with other medications. Check with your doctor about appropriate dosing to avoid this.