 If you drive on the right you will likely involved in a serious collision, or killed, and will be arrested for dangerous driving which is a criminal offense and may end up with a custodial sentence.;
, Bonnet, boot, windscreen, tyre, bumper, gearstick, mobile, car hire, roundabout, motorway, A-road, B-road, RTA, slip road, dual carriageway ...make sure you know what these mean before driving on UK roads.
 If you cannot drive a manual car, you will have to hire an automatic car because you will not be qualified to drive or insured to drive a manual car. If you have an accident whilst driving a manual that you cannot operate, you may be arrested for dangerous driving which can result in a heavy fine and maybe a custodial sentence.
, Often, there are adhesive or static shields that can be applied to the headlamps. Some cars even have a simple mechanism under the bonnet for adjusting the beam pattern.
 The UK has very strict drink and drugs regulations and many police officers pull over cars to carry out drink and drug tests on random drivers. The view of the police and the courts is that alcohol immediately makes you guilty in an accident, even if it was not your fault. Refusing to provide a breath or urine sample when asked to do so is an offence itself, and will result in your arrest.
 Always do as you're told without a bad attitude and never assume that if you are polite you will get off any offense you have committed. Always provide ID when asked. You should always carry a valid drivers licence and proof of vehicle insurance when you drive. It is a criminal offense to refuse or give false details which will result in arrest. Unlike in the USA and maybe other countries, the UK police do not need permission or a reason to stop and search you, your belongings (handbag, rucksack or pockets) or your vehicle if stopped while driving. Do not attempt to stop them as you will be detained or arrested.
 In the UK, the left hand lane is considered the "slow lane" and some drivers may pull over without checking properly which can cause an accident. Be aware that using the hard shoulder of a motorway to undertake vehicles will also result in a possible arrest.
 These are fixed cameras, mobile speed traps and are also fixed to most police vehicles. These automatic systems in police cars can also confirm whether or not the vehicle is insured or not.
 Always make sure you have the correct motor insurance policy, failure to do so will result in your vehicle being seized and you being arrested. Make sure the vehicle is road legal to UK standards, failure to do so will void any insurance policy and result in the vehicle being seized. If driving a friend's vehicle always get their permission and check your own insurance policy to make sure you are permitted to drive other vehicles.
 The speed limits on the motorways are 60mph (96km/h) for goods vehicles over 3.5 tonnes, 60mph (96km/h) for buses and coaches and 70mph (112km/h) for cars. , Image

, Only public buses, taxis, motorcycles, bicycles and emergency service vehicles are permitted to use this lane. Anyone else will be photographed (automatic cameras) and fined £60 for using this lane. (Approximately $100 USD).

