 This process itself can be unpredictable, emotional and volatile. Its best to proceed with a clear mind and an awareness of the implications of the process.


If the child is not yet born, your situation may be the simplest. Most states require couples to complete an Acknowledgement of Paternity form in the hospital, which is later filed with the Bureau of Vital Statistics along with the birth certificate. Before signing the form, if you doubt that you are the father of the child, you can request a test be performed in the hospital after the baby is born, though either a cheek swab or a sample of cord blood.Postnatal testing can be done if you were listed on the birth certificate but doubt you are the father OR if you believe you are the father but were not listed on the certificate.
If the baby is already born and the certificate already filed, circumstances might arise that cause you to doubt that a child you are supporting is your biological child. In this case, do you have reasons to doubt that the child is biologically yours?
In other situations, you might believe a child is biologically yours but are not acknowledged as the father by the child's mother. In this case, do you have reasons to believe that the child is biologically yours?

, Although it can vary, most women have a 28 day cycle (with Day 1 being the first day of her period). This means they are only fertile from about Days 10-17.Its important to keep in mind that hard-and-fast rules about fertility always have exceptions, and babies have been unexpectedly conceived at all times of the month, even during a woman's period itself.Its also important to remember that birth control pills, condoms, or other preventative measures are not always successful. Using them does not guarantee that a pregnancy won't occur, just as not using them does not guarantee that it will.
 These reasons can be based on her own self-interests, the interests she perceives for her child, or protecting someone else's feelings. Understanding her reasons might go a long way in convincing her to allow a paternity test.


She may not know who the father is, and may be embarrassed, afraid, or reluctant to make that information known. This can be for a number of reasons, including fear of public scrutiny, privacy concerns, or even concerns for her own safety. Especially in cases of sexual assault, a woman might not know or want to know who the father of her child is.
She might worry that disclosing paternity might damage a current relationship. For instance, this might be the case if you are her partner but not the father of her child; or alternately, if you are not her partner but you are the father, she may worry that her current partner will be upset by the news that he is not the father.
 Regardless of whether or not your concerns about paternity seem well founded, if you are having doubts, it is often best to know definitively either way. Determining paternity is beneficial for the father, mother, and child.


Paternity testing can secure your parental rights. If a child is yours, under most circumstances you can secure your right to participate in that child's life (through visitation, financial support, or even custody in some cases).
Paternity testing can also help you avoid taking responsibility for a child if it is not yours. If a woman claims you are the father but does not want to provide proof, a paternity test is the only definitive way to prove if you are *not* that child's father, and thus not obligated to provide for it or fulfill your parental obligations.
Confirmation of paternity is also in the best interest of the child. It can reinforce the relationship between a father and child, provide a social and financial safety net, provide legal benefits for the child such as inheritance rights, and ensure that the child's medical history is accurate.
 Even though determining paternity is most often the best choice, it can still have very real and lasting psychological and emotional effects. Knowing what these might be can help you deal with them as they arise.


Whether the child is or is not yours, the results of the test will alter the rest of your life. Be sure that you have a support system (friends, family, trusted mentors, or counselors) in place to help you deal with the results of the test, whether those results are what you hoped for or not.

