 There are many reasons for fear before surgery. However, before you can really conquer your fear, you’ll need to identify its specific cause. For instance, you might be afraid of losing control, being away from your friends and family, or experiencing pain from shots or intravenous needles. Other causes of fear include:Death.
What others will think when they learn you’re in the hospital.
Being disfigured or scarred by the operation.
 A pre-surgery plan is a step-by-step guide prepared by you and your surgeon to help you ensure a successful surgery. Your plan might include several consultations and exams. It might also include certain restrictions on your eating and drinking habits in the period right before you get the surgery. If you need transportation to the hospital, your surgeon will let you know and include it in the pre-surgery plan. Having the steps of the surgery plan in front of you can help alleviate fear that the surgical procedure will be disorganized or poorly planned.Always follow the pre-surgery plan carefully.
For children, it is important that they see pictures of the hospital and medical staff, and take a tour of the hospital so they can better reduce their fear levels., A recovery plan is similar to a pre-surgery plan, but covers the period following the surgery, rather than the period prior to it. Your recovery plan will provide a timeline for your return to normal, starting right from the moment you wake from surgery.For example, your recovery plan might include whether or not you’ll need to be picked up from the hospital and who will provide transportation.
Other potential aspects of your recovery plan include when you can return to work, what you can eat, and what sorts of follow-up appointments you’ll need to schedule to ensure your recovery is going smoothly.
 If you’re scared but pretend to others (or even to yourself) that you aren’t, your fears will only continue to fester and grow worse. Acknowledging your fears about surgery is the first step toward managing them in a healthy way. Communicate your fears with your surgeon and asking them for more resources that can help you cope with your fear.Another way to cope is to really face your fears by writing them down. Use a diary or journal to confess exactly what you’re afraid of and how it makes you feel.If you write your feelings down, revisit them a few days later and write a rebuttal to your fears. For instance, if you wrote, “I doubt I will recover completely from the surgery,” you might later write a rebuttal along the lines of, “I believe I will recover completely and return to my normal life.”

, Relaxation techniques like massage, acupressure, or acupuncture can keep you relaxed and free from fear during your surgery, and help you ease your mind during your recovery period, too. Some medical facilities even offer these relaxation services as part of their surgical package. Other people find that aromatherapy is also useful for relaxing. Ask your surgeon if they offer these or other relaxation techniques.