 Stay clear of free web hosting - it doesn't instill buyer confidence in purchasing your own products.;
, Digital products like e-books and software are the most common resale rights products. The best thing is you don't need to constantly carry stock or worry about ever running out of stock because they are digital products that your customers can download again and again without ever diminishing. Another benefit is that you don't ever need to worry about delivery of goods because once your customer has ordered, they can download the product to their desktop, and you don't need to worry about postage or packaging to get the product to your customer. Immediate access and immediate download is what makes digital products attractive.
, Most products that come with resale rights, come with a pre-designed sales page and accompanying graphics for that product which means you don't have to worry about creating a sales page of your own for the product. Once you have uploaded the pages complete with your payment link at the bottom of the page and the product to the website, you are pretty much ready to start taking orders online.
 If your resale rights product is about "How To Train A Dog" you need dog owners visiting your website, so not just any traffic, but carefully targeted traffic. You can use pay per click search engine advertising such as Google's Adwords or you can find e-zine's within your niche to advertise in. Many e-zines allow you to send solo-ads to their mailing list. What this means is that you pay for an email advertisement to go out exclusively with your offer to all of the subscribers to that ezine. This can be expensive, but often produces the best targeted traffic for your offering, and more often than not, is profitable in returns. You can even post in forums, or write articles with a link to your website in the resource box. These are all great ways to get targeted traffic to your website and resale rights product sales page.
 You need a mechanism to collect the email addresses, namely a form that people can "opt-in" to your mailing list. Growing your own mailing list is by far the most important activity to concentrate your efforts on. If you are getting traffic from paid advertisements, unless you collect their details, once they are gone from your website they are gone forever. Unless you have some way of getting them back. This is where getting them to subscribe to your mailing list is vital. Most of the time, resale rights sellers direct their customers to a "Squeeze Page" which is a page that offers the visitor only two options. Option one is to subscribe to move to the next page and find out more information - Option two is to leave the page. Often, a free gift, or free mini e-course is offered as a reward for the person to subscribe to your mailing list, making it an attractive proposition. Using a service like Aweber or GetResponse makes the whole process of creating forms, follow up messages and building your mailing list very easy and manageable and is recommended.
 Some people will have subscribed to your mailing list AND purchased your resale rights product, but many more will have subscribed and NOT purchased. That's okay, because now you can send out a series of emails to them, that you have already created in your autoresponder service (like Aweber). This will automatically email them at intervals set by you to offer them good reasons to revisit your website. It might be the answer to the top 3 questions people have asked about your product, or maybe an email of testimonials or even an email just offering further tips with the link back to your website at the bottom of the email. The important thing is to get them visiting your website again.
