 Make a closed "5" hand shape (open palm, fingers together). Put your thumb on the side of your forehead and slightly pull away, in a small "salute."


Alternatively, just wave in a small motion near your head.;
, place your hand on your chest, near the center. Do not pat your chest.


Some people prefer to point instead, touching the index finger to the breastbone. Both signs are used, although this signs tend to mean "me." , Extend your index and middle fingers with the rest of your fingers folded down, as though you were fingerspelling U. Turn them on their side, so the index finger is on top. Place the fingers of your dominant hand on top of the fingers of your other hand, tapping lightly twice. This should form a sort of X shape, flat in front of you., Now fingerspell your name. Keep your hand in a steady position in front of you. Fingerspell at a steady rate; it's more important to move smoothly than quickly.


Pause briefly between words if you are signing your full name.
If your name contains two identical letters in a row (such as the O's in spoon), "open" and "close" your hand to repeat the letter. For letters that cannot be easily repeated (such as the m's in Emma), instead move your hand a short distance to the side for the second letter, without changing the hand shape. Or, bounce it "on top" of the preceding letter.
 Practice this again in a smooth motion: "Hi, my name _____." Keep the words in exactly this order.


There is no verb "to be" in ASL. (was, is, were, being, been...) Don't try to fingerspell "is" into the sentence.
 Body and facial expressions are extremely important to ASL. Signing without adjusting your face and posture is like speaking in a monotone, and makes it much harder to hold a conversation with you.


When you're signing your name, try to look welcoming. Put on a small smile and open your eyes a tad wider. By the time you sign "MY", your head should be slightly cocked with understanding. Make eye contact with the person you're signing with.
 Name signs, discussed below, are not necessary for introductions. If you are being formally introduced, you'll typically stick with the fingerspelling. A name sign may come later, in a more casual setting. However, if you are being introduced casually, for instance by a close mutual friend, you might change the introduction to "Hi, my name (finger spelled name), (name sign)."

