


You must choose between “Grant Mom's wish and let her take Father away” or “Use ogre's magic water to save Father.” Choose the former to have Father be taken away.;
, The bad ending scene will commence revealing Aya all alone in the room. Head north until you find Maria, still in shock. Aya will then tell her that Father is gone, leaving them behind.


In the next frame, Aya and Maria are in the chapel, giving prayers to her parents, but when Aya is about to tell Maria that she can stay with her, the assistant suddenly stands up and run toward the young girl. A scream will be heard in the darkness.
In this ending, it's clear that Maria has lost her sanity after the father disappears. A frame in the game will show Aya lying on an operating table, blood pooled underneath her while Maria stands over her, retorting that she will take on the duty and continue the doctor's work.
 During the game, keep in mind that you don't have to help Maria. The game will continue even after you leave the Hidden Hall. Also, if you get a room key from Maria, don't use it. Carry on with your game until you reach near the end.
 Play the game like normal and solve the puzzle needed. After you have gone through the whole adventure and story, you will have choices to decide near end of the game.


There's no need to worry about incomplete gem collecting for this won't affect the ending of the game.
Choose to save Father to get the second bad ending, which will commence shortly after.
Spoilers: Aya's mother steps away from her daughter, surprised by her decision. A bright light will appear, and Aya's mother fades away.
In a frame after that, they're back in the room with Aya's father close by. In this part, the truth will be revealed, showing that the doctor, Aya's father, actually cheated on her mother.
Aya's mother possesses the young girl to show her the whole story, the truth about her father's experiments and how Aya's mother died.
It is shown that Aya's father is conducting research about turning the human body into dolls, planning to do the research on his precious daughter to preserve her beauty.
The doctor kills Aya's mother when she tries to stop him, stabbing her in the chest until she dies.
After seeing what happened, Maria is in complete shock. She didn't want this to happen to her mistress but fearing being killed, she does what her father tells her. Together, they dispose of the mistress’s body, and he tells Aya that her mother passed due to an illness.
 After the scene, make sure to save your game. This will be the part where the doctor will chase after Aya with a chainsaw, determined to kill her and turn her into a doll, just like her mother.


Aya’s father will slowly come for you. Smash Z as fast as you can to break through the door and run!
Don't stop. Run through the corridor. Run down to the last part of the corridor and wait for Aya’s father to come closer.
As soon as he stays still, pull the lever and run past him to the north.
As soon as you burst into a room, you will find Maria, and a scene will commence.
The doctor will finally reveal his true color. He even uses his chainsaw to attack Maria. Aya will check Maria and find that she's still alive.
The game will then make you choose; the ending changes depending on the decision you make.
It's expected that you die a couple of times because of the difficulty of the game.
 If you decided that Maria deserves to die, Aya will leave the room and go back to the corridor with sandbags.


In this part of the story, you will receive the third bad ending. Father will find Aya and kill her with the help of his dolls.
A black screen will appear with a blood-curdling scream. In the next frame, you will see Aya sitting on the chair, wearing a beautiful dress, unmoving and lifeless. Aya’s father has successfully turned Aya into a doll, a perfect princess with beauty that will last forever.
 This is the best and good ending in the game. Choose “Help Maria” then look for some bandage to take care of her injuries. Together, you and Maria will search for an escape, but the loud wail of a chainsaw will be heard from the distance.


Maria will ask you to leave her, but despite Aya's efforts in convincing Maria, the young girl leaves.
In the chapel, the same thing will happen in the “Don't help Maria” decision. A doll will appear holding Aya to prevent her from running while the doctor holds the chainsaw over his head, ready to cut down his daughter.
Before the chainsaw lands on Aya, however, knives pierce through the doctor's body. The man falls on his knees, and blood pools on the floor underneath him. Maria had made it and helps Aya. She even takes care of the doll with one swing of her knife.
More scenes happen after this, including the appearance of Dio and how Maria and Aya escapes the mansion.
In a later part of the game, it's shown that Aya had become a doctor and Maria remains by her side. There's a catch though; instead of becoming a better doctor than her father, Aya does the very same mistake—turning people into dolls.
Maria quotes before the game ends. “Indeed, the mistress is much like you.”

