 Girly girls should be ladylike and graceful at all times, so try to avoid being clumsy and awkward.


True girly girls should appear like they're floating on clouds, with graceful and fluid actions. Work on your posture; put your shoulders back, keep your back straight, and put your chin up. Think of yourself as a ballerina, graceful and light on her feet.
Don't act like you have too much swagger or swing your hips too much. This can look as if you're trying too hard. Don't swing your arms either, try to keep them by your side (but don't be stiff).
Don't slouch when you're sitting in a chair—press up against the back of the chair and plant your feet firmly on the floor. Avoid folding your arms. It gives off a "get lost" vibe, which is the last thing you want!
Being graceful doesn't mean you have to hate sports and walk on tiptoe. It's about being aware of your body, being in control, and expressing confidence through your actions.
 Girly girls are usually bright and bubbly. They have plenty of friends, hobbies and interests, and always have a laugh or a smile or something interesting to say. Don't take yourself too seriously; you should be able to laugh at yourself and have fun. Don't be shy to have friends, always remember to be nice and friendly.
 Being selfish and having a nasty attitude toward others is not very ladylike behavior.


Girly girls should be pleasant, sweet, modest, and constantly in a good mood. Just like a Disney princess!
Always try to have a smile on your face, and be helpful and willing to do someone else a favor. You want to set a good example for your peers and be a leader, someone other girls look up to.
Remember to be nice to everyone, not just your friends or the people that are in your group. Everyone deserves a chance. Don't exclude people from games, gifts, etc. Keep your promises and don't gossip.
 Being a girly girl is also associated with romance. Be sure to read romance novels and develop a keen interest in poetry.


Fill your smartphone with romantic music and love songs. Get your friends together for the ultimate girly sleepover and watch some of the most romantic films ever made, like Titanic or The Notebook.
Send anonymous valentines on Valentine's Day and hopefully receive one or two in return!

, Be totally aware of what's hot, what's new etc. Being a girly girl doesn't mean you only listen to bubblegum pop! A girly girl can love indie, musical, and R&B as well, although pop can be something that you hate. If you hate pop though try to stay in the loop of what the new songs are, you don't have to love them just know what they are.
 Girly girls love the mall, shopping, and almost anything associated with beauty, but these activities are so much more fun when you do them with other people.


Get a group of friends and have a shopping spree, do makeovers, host a sleepover, hold a bake sale, or any girly activity.
Your friends are the most important people in your life (a good friend will stand by you no matter what) so make sure that you put effort into your relationships and appreciate them everyday.
 Swearing or talking crassly is often considered unattractive in a girl, and is definitely not ladylike.


It may be hard to stop, but swearing is one of the worst things you could do if you're trying to be girly. Start by replacing your usual curse words with something cuter, like "sugar!" or "shoot!" and you'll soon train yourself out of swearing.
Try to convince your friends to stop swearing too. Prove to each other that you can control the things that come out of your mouth. Make it more interesting by introducing a penalty—first one to swear buys everyone a Starbucks!

, Speaking well is something of an art and can make you sound much more intelligent and refined.


Try to enunciate and pronounce your words properly, speaking in a clear voice so that people can easily understand. Try to avoid sprinkling your sentences with too many "ums" and "likes" and "buts" and "and", as this can be distracting.
Try to speak at a medium level. Don't talk too loudly or too quietly. You want your voice to be heard but you don't want to force your opinion on everyone within a five mile radius either; also you don't want people to stand very close to you so they know what you are saying.
You can improve your vocabulary by reading a lot. Newspapers and textbooks are fine, but you will get much more enjoyment out of reading some classic romance novels written by female authors like Jane Austen and Charlotte Bronte.
 Shoving food into your mouth is definitely not ladylike or even good manners; learn good manners.


Instead, chew your food thoroughly and try not to make any noises as you swallow. Don't take huge bites either—just small to normal-sized ones.
To look as normal as possible when eating, take a bite of your food and count to 20 in your head as you chew. Only swallow once you get to 20, then take the next bite.
Also try to avoid eating anything that could get messy and sticky, especially on a date (it's disgusting).
 Keeping a secret diary is the ultimate girly girl activity. In it you can keep track of everyday things like what happened in school and your plans for the weekend, along with more intimate details like your secret crush and your hopes and dreams for the future.


Writing about things that are getting you down will also help to relieve any stress and anger and allow you to face the next day with a wide smile.
Just make sure your secret diary is kept somewhere safe and hidden. The last thing you want is your annoying sibling or nosy friend to take a peek when you're not looking.
If possible, find a diary with a lock to which only you will have the key.
 If you are organized, you'll always be able to find the things you're looking for, remember important dates (like friend's birthdays), and be on time.


Make sure you always have everything you need for school (notebooks, pens, pencils, binders, etc.) and keep track of your weekly schedule in a daily planner.
Always have plenty of cute pens and pencils readily at hand. That way you can easily lend them to others when they need them.
Make sure your belongings are neat. You should label and cover all of your binders, folders, and textbooks. Try covering them with clear contact paper; it looks a lot neater. If you like patterned contact paper, try the metallic looking varieties that come in red, silver, blue, and gold.
When buying a school bag, go for light and neutral colors and good quality brands. Don't buy anything in dark colors like navy blue or black—these colors are not suitable for girly girls!

, It's important to be diligent and hard-working at school. Try hard in every subject and class you take, and always hand in homework on time.


Don't talk during class, you have lots of time for that later. Don't pass notes either; it’s embarrassing if you're caught and distracting to others. Ask questions and participate in class discussions.
Try to get involved with the school and its activities too. Join the cheerleading squad (a great girly girl activity!) or find something else you're passionate about, like debating or student council. Sports are also a great way to stay fit and healthy, while also having fun.
Remember that although working hard at school will keep parents and teachers happy, it's you who'll benefit most in the long run. Getting good grades and having lots of extracurricular activities will help you to get into a good college, which is important for your future career.
Study and do all your homework. Girly girls are really sweet and bubbly. They also don't avoid the things they need to do, like homework. If you get good grades, people will start to realize that you're not a bubble gum airhead, you are smart and sweet! Get into study and homework as soon as you get home to avoid procrastinating.
 If someone is bullying you in any way, physically or verbally, understand that you don't have to put up with it.


You may be a girl—but that doesn't mean you're not strong! No one has the right to walk all over you. If you can, try to handle the situation yourself, calmly telling the person to back off and leave you alone.
If you really feel like you need to stand up for yourself, try to have a few comebacks prepared for when the bully says something rude. Don't make it personal though; you shouldn't need to stoop to their level.
If things get very serious and you feel like you need some back up, don't be afraid to tell a parent or trusted teacher. No one needs to face bullying alone.
 Magazines are a great way to help you get caught up on everything going on in Hollywood and in the fashion world.


The most popular magazines are gossip and fashion, but you can read anything you like.
Lots of fashion magazines give you lifestyle tips that come in handy all the time.
The gossip magazines keep you updated on what's going on with any celebrities you like.

