

Survey data can generally help give an estimate of the number of users, and the average frequency of visits. They are too crude a tool to estimate the number of pageviews.
Surveys have both upsides and downsides. They rely on memory, and therefore tend to give more weight to visits to websites that the user remembers. This can be a positive, if we are trying to measure the extent of genuine, intentional and/or impactful visits, but it can also lead to underestimation of sites that have a less distinctive brand (for instance, websites that people visit from search results to quickly answer a question, but do not register mentally as a source).
You can get surveys related to Internet use at the Pew Internet website of the Pew Research Center.Another potential source is Public Knowledge (at publicknowledge.org).Another information source is the Wikimedia Foundation's Global Reach survey,with results so far for India,Nigeria,and Brazil., This is helpful if there are no existing surveys asking for information on usage of the site.

You can design an online survey using tools such as SurveyMonkey, Google Forms, or Qualtrics.
You can use tools like SurveyMonkey Audience, Google Surveys, or Survata to distribute your survey to a general Internet audience in the United States and a few other countries (Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom). This approach works best for sites that cater to a general audience and have huge enough overall traffic. As a heuristic, for a website that gets over 10 million visits a month from the United States, you should be able to get a positive number of responses to the question "Have you visited this website?" if distributing to 100 people.
Alternatively, you can distribute the survey to a more targeted audience by sharing it in a Facebook group or a subreddit that reaches that audience. This is most useful for websites that cater to that audience, so that you can extrapolate from the surveyed sample to the total population to get a decent estimate of website traffic.

