 Dips, sauces, and gravies compose an important aspect of a holiday meal. You should choose a bargain wine that complements these flavors. Heavy gravies that incorporate cream or roux should have a wine with an equal viscosity and weight to them. Rich Chardonnays – for instance, Mount Eden’s 2012 Estate Chardonnay – makes an affordable yet full flavor choice., Dark, leafy vegetables like collard greens are a major part of many holiday meals. But these veggies can be alkaline, and so require a wine that balances their flavor profile with a higher acidity content. For example, you might opt for:Oregon Pinot Gris
Riesling
New Zealand Sauvignon Blanc
Vouvray
Willamette Valley Vineyards’ ‘Whole Cluster’ 2013 Pinot Noir

, For a budget pairing, you can mix Chambord and a sparkling wine of your choice – Asti Spumante or Prosecco, for example – in a champagne flute. This mixture yields a sweet flavor that goes perfectly with a slice of apple pie or a spiced cookie. This bargain holiday wine combo yields a sweet ending to any holiday get-together.Try a $13 2005 Foxglove Cabernet Sauvignon, or a $10 2006 Smoking Loon Cabernet Sauvignon. Both have fruity, full-bodied flavors with a bit of spice.
 Most holiday fetes will probably have a huge variety of side dishes. You won’t be able to get a holiday wine that pairs well with every single side, but you should try to find a wine that goes well with a variety of flavors. An off-white dry white wine like Vouvray is a good option.A good holiday wine will have an acidity level to counteract salty sides.
Holiday wines should also have a low-to-mild sweetness level that complements sweeter holiday flavors like pies and other desserts.
 There are as many wines as there are personalities. Who are you buying the wine for? Different people will have different flavor preferences. For instance, people who are quite picky might prefer a J.P. Chenet or a Merlot-Cabernet red wine. A family or group of friends with a more sophisticated palate might prefer an Clairette de Die or a Crémant du Jura. For a smaller holiday get-together, think about who you’re buying for and look for a wine with a flavor profile that will please them., Assuming you’re buying a holiday wine for a larger holiday get-together, you should choose a wine that is accessible and enjoyable for the greatest number of people. White wines or red wines are most likely to get a positive response.Gewürztraminer, Oregon Pinot Gris, Champagne, and Prosecco are some of the best white wines.
Zinfandel and Gamay-based wines are the best choice for red wines.

