 To keep the ingrown hair clean and lower the risk of infection, you can soak a clean, cotton washcloth in warm water and rest it over the ingrown hair. Keep the washcloth on for three to five minutes and repeat this three to four times a day. Be sure to use a clean, fresh washcloth each time you do this.You can also do this as a way to exfoliate the area, making it easier for the hair to eventually fall out on its own.;
, Exfoliating the area with the ingrown hair can help to loosen and remove the hair. You can use natural ingredients like baking soda and olive oil to make a paste that will help to prevent infection and soften the area. However, be very gentle when applying the paste to the ingrown hair.


Combine ½ teaspoon baking soda, sea salt or sugar, and 1-2 tablespoons of olive oil. The olive oil has antibacterial properties and will keep the ingrown hair from getting infected.
Apply the mixture with a Q-tip or a cotton ball to the ingrown hair.
Use the tip of your finger to softly rub in the mixture in circular motions. Do three to five clockwise motions and then three to five counterclockwise motions. Rinse the area off with warm water and pat it dry. You should also wash your hands and put the towel you used to dry the area in the laundry to reduce the risk of infection.
Repeat the exfoliation with baking soda and olive oil at least two times a day.
 Aspirin can help to dissolve the skin around the ingrown hair and soften the hair, making it more likely to loosen during exfoliation.


Take a 325 mg tablet of aspirin and soak it in 1 tablespoon warm water. Make sure you are using an “old-fashioned” tablet that can dissolve in water, not enteric coated aspirin. Check that the tablet does not have a hard outer shell.
Put a few drops, three to five, of honey into the dissolved aspirin. The honey will work with the acidic aspirin to help “draw out” the ingrown hair.
Apply the mixture with a Q-tip to the ingrown hair and let it dry. You can leave the mixture on overnight so the honey can dry.
Rinse the dry mixture off with warm water and pat it dry. Repeat the application of the mixture to the ingrown hair every night.
 Black tea may help to soften and draw out the ingrown hair. Take a tea bag of black tea and soak it in warm water. Then, place the wet tea bag over the ingrown hair, leaving it on for five to ten minutes.


Apply the wet tea bag every two hours on the first day the ingrown hair appears. Repeat the application twice a day after the first day.
 Once the hair starts to soften up and become loose, you can use an exfoliating pad or brush to gently rub the area until the ingrown hair becomes dislodged from your skin. Use gentle, circular motions on the ingrown hair with the exfoliating pad, doing three to five clockwise motions and then three to five counterclockwise motions.


Check to see if the ingrown hair has been removed. If it has not been removed, repeat the motions again until the hair falls out. Be very gentle as you exfoliate the area to reduce the risk of infection or scarring.

