 Gratitude helps you feel better about yourself both physically and emotionally. You can practice gratitude on a daily basis in easy ways. Try to:Say “Thank you” to someone or show your appreciation.
Write down a few good things that happened to you that day in a journal.
Take a few minutes to write down or remember people for whom you are grateful.
 Try to be optimistic throughout the day and focus on the positive side of things. Accept that bad things do happen, but realize that they don’t have to affect your entire day or outlook on life. If you start to have negative thoughts, try to ask yourself these questions:Will this matter in a year or five years?
What other ways can I look at this?
Is there something I’m forgetting or missing?
What can I learn from this?

, Avoid holding grudges, anger, and resentment toward others. Forgiveness will allow you to feel better about yourself and bring you closer to others, both of which will boost short-term and long-term happiness.Learn to let go of the little things that bother you and express your emotions in positive ways instead by:Writing in a journal.
Writing (but not sending) a letter to the person who upset you.
Talking your emotions through with a trusted friend.
Avoiding arguing.
 Be happy with what you already have. Forcing yourself to think of others who are worse off than you will not make you feel better about your own situation.Similarly, trying to compare yourself to others who have more than you will make you consistently unhappy in your own situation., Stop prioritizing material things and trying to accumulate wealth. Once basic needs are met (food, shelter, etc.), money does not increase happiness.In fact, those who prioritize wealth are less happy than those who prioritize other goals.Try to focus on family, social connections, caring for other people or animals, the planet, and other things that line up with your values.
 Having expectations and a plan can lift your mood for the day, but make sure your expectations are realistic. You don’t want to set yourself up for disappointment or failure. Having realistic expectations will actually make it more likely that you’ll experience a favorable outcome and be happier.