 According to the IRS, a hardship withdrawal is one taken “on account of an immediate and heavy financial need” in the amount “necessary to satisfy the financial need.”You will need to contact your plan administrator to ask what qualifies as a hardship. Also ask if you can take the distribution “penalty-free.”


Each retirement plan will have different rules for proving that you really are suffering from a hardship. Some plans might require that you submit proof of the hardship. Others will only ask that you self-certify that you are suffering from the hardship.If you use self-certification, you must wait six months after the withdrawal before you can contribute to your 401(k) again. But if you prove need, you can restart contributions with your next paycheck.You should also realize that any disbursement is not a loan. You don’t get to return the money later once you are on firmer financial footing. For this reason, you should think carefully before making the withdrawal.
 If you pay for medical expenses that are not reimbursed by your health insurance, then you can get penalty-free withdrawals from either your IRA or 401(k) if medical bills exceed 10 percent of your adjusted gross income.You must take the withdrawal in the same year that you incurred the medical expenses.The expenses must be “unreimbursed.” This means that your health insurer will not cover them. If your insurer covers 90% of a $10,000 bill, then you cannot take an early withdrawal to cover the remaining $1,000 unless your income is less than $10,000.
You can use retirement funds to pay for your own medical bills or those of your spouse or dependents.If your plan administrator wants proof of the need, then supply medical bills and insurance statements showing which medical procedures are not being reimbursed., You can use penalty-free distributions from your IRA to cover health insurance premiums if you are unemployed and have been receiving unemployment insurance benefits for 12 consecutive weeks.You cannot avoid the 10% penalty if you get a withdrawal from your 401(k).If you need to show hardship, then gather proof that you have been receiving unemployment, such as a letter from the unemployment office or receipts of unemployment payments.
For further information, see Prove Unemployment.
 You can get penalty-free disbursements from an IRA or a 401(k) if you are totally and permanently disabled.The IRS defines “disabled” as being unable to perform substantial gainful activity because of an identifiable physical or mental impairment, which must be of indefinite or long-continued duration.You will need to show proof to the IRS that you are permanently disabled. Accordingly, you should get a doctor’s medical opinion, in writing, to the effect that you meet the IRS definition of disabled. You must get this opinion before you ever claim a distribution on account of the disability.
You will need the opinion when you claim the exception on your tax return. Consult with a CPA for how to properly claim the exception on your tax form.