 Tell them that you have something really important to tell them. It's okay if it's hard. You can tell them that it's hard. If they can't talk to you right now because they're busy, ask them when they would be able to talk to you. Here are some examples:

"I have something really important to tell you. Do you have time to talk?"
"I need to tell you about something that is happening to me. It's hard for me to talk about it, but it's important, so I want to tell you. Is now a good time?"
"I know you're busy right now preparing for Grandma visiting. I need to tell you about something important this weekend. When is a good time?"

, Give them the facts. Don't call the bully names, or they might think you are a bully too. Instead, tell them the truth. Here are some examples:

"I was painting quietly by myself, and April was painting next to me. She called me 'stupid-eye' and told me that my painting was dumb. I said I was concentrating, and asked her to please leave me alone. Then she reached over with her paintbrush and painted a big black stripe on my painting!"
"Zak likes to pinch my waist because it scares me and makes me scream. Then he laughs."
"Corrie knows that I love dogs. So she shows me pictures of dogs that are hurt, and tells jokes about dogs being hurt. I ask her to stop and she doesn't."

, You might be feeling sad, angry, scared, embarrassed, or lots of other different feelings. You might have many emotions at the same time. You can tell the adult how you feel about the bullying. This helps them understand you, and understand that it's important.

"I was angry and upset when April ruined my painting. I don't know what to do anymore!"
"I feel embarrassed and sad when Zak pinches me. I don't think it's funny at all."
"I feel sad and upset when Corrie keeps telling me about dogs getting hurt. It bothers me a lot. I get really upset and I don't know how to make her stop!"

, You might feel like crying because bullying is upsetting. This is okay, and you're allowed to cry in front of an adult. They will understand, and they might help you feel better. You can cry as much as you need to., You can tell them that you don't know what to do, and ask them if they know how to make it better. Sometimes the adult will handle the bully, and sometimes they will tell a different adult who can do a better job helping. (For example, if the bully is at your job and you tell your mom, your mom might help you tell your boss.)

"I don't know what to do about this, and I'm so upset. Can you help me?"

, Some adults don't know what to do about bullying, because they get confused. A few adults don't believe people who say they are being bullied, even when the bullying is real, so you need to find a different adult who is good at listening.

Some adults think that bullying isn't real, even if it is. They might tell you that it's not a big deal, or that they can't help you. But if you're really upset, then it is a big deal. This just means that the other adult isn't very good at listening. So you need to find an adult who is a good listener.

