 Insert it into any available USB port on your Xbox 360, and head to System Settings > Storage.
 Select the option USB Storage Drive and then select Customize., You'll want to select most of the storage capacity available if you're downloading multiple maps at once., This may take a few moments, depending on the amount of space you have allocated. You will then receive a message showing if the process was successful or not. If it was, proceed to the next step; if not, go back to the beginning and make sure the drive has enough capacity and is compatible., Select your active profile and click Copy. This will now show the different drives available. Select your USB pen drive, and wait until the transfer is complete. Don't worry, you're not modifying profile content, but you will need some information from it later., Download the program Horizon by following the appropriate links: https://www.horizonmb.com/.  Be aware that your anti-virus software may display a warning saying the new software downloaded may be dangerous. Due to the nature of the program, Horizon will often do this, especially for AVG and McAfee. Click to ignore this, and follow the installation instructions by double-clicking on the downloaded .exe file., Open Horizon, if it isn't already open., For example: Planet Minecraft, MCDN360, XPGamesaves and Minecraft Forum., Download it, and locate it on your desktop. It will likely be zipped up in a ZIP folder, so extract it using a tool such as WinRAR or WinZip. The extracted file should be a .bin file, and be called whatever the name of the map is. Click and drag this into the large, gray pane of the Horizon program, and a window will appear showing information such as 'Profile ID', 'Display Name', and other pieces of information.

To the right of the gray pane there should be a pane that says "Device Explorer": click on the two little arrows at the top, and it should show the USB pen drive. Double-click the USB pen drive option, and then double-click your profile that should appear.
 In the large, gray pane a new window should appear with familiar information relating to your profile. You only need to concentrate on 'Profile ID', 'Device ID', and 'Console ID'. On your profile window, highlight the text in the box next to 'Profile ID' and copy it. Then paste this into the Profile ID text box of the Minecraft map window., Then click Save, Rehash, and Resign at the top of the window (orange button)., Click on this and a dropdown menu will appear; click on the USB pen drive that you have configured, and you will transfer the map to the drive. You may be asked to save it again, so click "Okay"., Head back to System Settings > Storage > USB Storage Device., Select this, and then select Move. Once again you will be shown a list of available devices; select Hard Drive and the map will be transferred., It is likely to be near the bottom of the map list. You will continue from where the original owner left off as if it was your own world.