 With an audience that is always on the go, the chances of a website being viewed on a conventional desktop are very less. A website that is solely designed for desktops becomes a pain to access on the mobile devices. A responsive design ensures that when your website is accessed on a mobile device, it delivers the same functionalities in as efficient a manner as it does while being viewed on the desktop.


With over 20% of web browsing done on mobile devices, you don’t want to be missing out on your audience and potential customers just because your business website didn’t offer the right call to action functionalities to its viewers.
Another factor that you need to be taking care of while choosing a theme or a template for your website is its ‘retina readiness’. It should be able to support high resolution images that are suited for these.;
, If you haven’t been keeping a tab on what’s trending in the digital market, here’s what you’ve missed: Content is the new black; it really is the KING. Your website’s performance not just depends on the web design but also on the content in it. A good website keeps the viewer hooked on til all the tabs are explored, but great content makes sure that the viewer keeps coming back for more.


A constant flow of content is vital to establish a prominent online presence. It ensures constant user engagement thereby guaranteeing more social sharing and higher rankings on the various search engines.
 The growing popularity of social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter etc is stranger to none. The amount of audience that can be driven to your website through these platforms is surprisingly high.


So while creating your website, take social sharing features into consideration. Most CMSs offer plugins to enable social sharing; all you need to do is activate them and place them at a visible location on your website.
To make sure your audience stays hooked onto your website, update your social profiles regularly; this ensures a prominent online presence as well.
 Incorporate a lot of images relevant to your business (and trending in your circles) - they are the most shared post type these days. That’s great, but the one thing that most business websites ignore is optimizing these images.


Make sure all your web content - text, images, audio, video etc - are optimized at all times to ensure a decent load time on all the devices it is viewed on. A load time that exceeds three seconds usually results in greater number of bounce offs.
 The best way to engage audience on a business website, is to offer them read-worthy content. Adding a blog is a great way to ensure content flow and every article that you add to it gives Google another reason to crawl and index your website better

, Once you have all your web content in place, you want it to be easily accessible to all your users at all times. To ensure that, get your website hosted. A webhosting service provider offers web space on its server for you to store all your web content and logs. The server basically serves up your website to the World Wide Web via the Internet in the most efficient manner possible. Depending upon the resources your website needs to run efficiently, you can basically choose from the following hosting plans:


Shared Hosting
Dedicated Hosting
VPS Hosting
Reseller Hosting
Cloud Hosting

