 Studies show that lying is a regular part of daily life even for people we’d otherwise consider moral, upstanding individuals.When people lie to ease social tensions, rather than to serve their own purposes, a white lie might be a better option than the truth.
 An elaborate story about why you can’t attend a party will seem suspicious, and will also be more difficult to keep track of if someone asks you about it later.
 Everyone understands that familial obligations always trump parties. Tell your friends that you have to babysit a sibling, or that your parents are forcing you to have dinner at your uncle's house that night. An iron-clad excuse is that you're grounded; everyone will understand that there's no way you can come to a party.
 Only the most overbearing friend would try to guilt you into canceling plans you've already made with someone else to come to their party. But make sure that you don’t use a friend who’s attending the part as your alibi. Say you have plans with a friend from a different school, or even with an imaginary friend.
 On the day of the party, text your friend saying that you think you ate something bad, and that you have food poisoning. Nobody wants someone throwing up at their party. Plus, food poisoning passes very quickly, so nobody can be suspicious when you feel fine again the next day.
 Whether you're a student or an adult with a job, everyone knows and understands that sometimes we fall behind and have to catch up on our work.


If the host still tries to pressure you into coming, say that your parents or your boss are upset with you, and you have to make it up to them.
 Set up your lie ahead of time to deflect suspicion. Some things you might consider are:


Telling the host at the time of invitation that you have a previous engagement on that day.
Telling the host a day or two before the party that you think you’re coming down with an illness.
 This is the most thing about lying. Even if the lie is just a little white lie, you don’t want to hurt anyone’s feeling by getting caught. Keep track of exactly what you tell people, and of who you tell it to.


If you post the lie on social media to make it more believable, make sure nobody else catches you doing anything else on that night!
If you tell the host you’re feeling sick, don’t let anyone tag you in pictures from a different part that night.

