 The average adult needs about 2,000 calories per day. Less than 30% of that should come from fat. Of that 30%, less than 7% should come from saturated fats (200 calories, or 14 grams), which increases “bad” LDL cholesterol.Trans fats should account for as little fat as possible of that 30% — definitely fewer than 2 grams per day, or less than 1% of total fat intake. Fat types are listed in the nutrition facts on food labels, so pay careful attention to what you buy and eat.


Foods with high saturated fat content are dark meats (beef, pork, lamb, veal), chicken and turkey skin, processed meats like hot dogs and bologna, whole milk and dairy, butter, palm and coconut oil, and — due to the butter and oil content — pastries like cookies and pies.Choose low-fat dairy products, such as fat-free or low-fat yogurt and milk, which contain potassium (which can lower your blood pressure) and very little saturated fat.
Trans fats show up in margarine, shortening, powdered and liquid flavored coffee cream, and most processed or pre-packaged snacks and “junk food.”, Unsaturated fats are better for your health than saturated and trans fats, and in appropriate amounts are even good for your heart. These occur naturally in nuts like almonds, walnuts, pistachios and cashews, olives, olive and canola oil, avocado, and some seeds (sunflower, soy, safflower). Fatty fish like salmon, mackerel, and herring give you good omega-3 fatty acids, which are important for health in many ways.Use cholesterol-lowering margarine like Benecol, Smart Balance, or Promise Activ instead of butter., People of the Mediterranean have long life-expectancy and one of the lowest rates of heart disease in the world, and much of this is contributed to what they eat. The Mediterranean diet includes lots of vegetables, fruits, nuts, beans, seeds, and whole grains. Other elements of the diet are:Avoid fast food and processed food by skipping frozen or pre-packed meals and not eating as take-out restaurants.
Cook and dress foods with olive oil instead of butter or margarine.
Eat moderate amounts of dairy, and choose low- or non-fat options.
Eat fresh fruit for dessert, like strawberries or melon.
Have low to moderate amounts of fish and poultry. Aim for about 6 ounces of fish each week. Salmon and mackerel are great fish choices because they contain lots of omega 3 fatty acids, which are good for your heart.
Rarely eat red meat, and choose lean cuts when you do like top sirloin, top or round roast, or sirloin tip. Traditional Mediterranean diets involve eating red meat only a few times a month.
Limit whole eggs to four per week; try to just use egg whites.
Enjoy a glass of red wine with dinner, if you’d like.
 Fresh fruit and veggies are full of nutrients and fiber, and can improve the health of your cardiovascular system. Start your day with a fruit salad, snack on fresh veggies instead of cookies or potato chips, and include larger portions of vegetables and fruits in your meals than meat.Berries in particular are great for your heart health, as they contain antioxidants that remove free radicals from your body.Red grapes are another great fruit option, as they can help reduce blood clotting.
Fresh fruits and vegetables are better than canned or frozen, which can contain preservatives and added salt or sugar.
Aim to eat five servings of fruits and vegetables every day., Compared to refined grain like white bread, whole grains are a lot more nutritious and contain more fiber, which is good for your heart. Eat whole-wheat and whole-grain breads and pastas, brown rice, barley, buckwheat, steel cut oatmeal, quinoa, and farro.Create healthy meals by using these grains with vegetables as the main portion, with only small amounts of meat and starches.


Oatmeal and barley contain beta-glucan, a fiber that can lower your LDL cholesterol., You need protein in your diet to stay strong and healthy. Get protein from meat by choosing lean meat, skinless poultry, and fish like salmon, mackerel and herring. Walnuts, flaxseed, soybeans, canola oil, beans, peas, and lentils are also good protein sources.Try a black bean or soy burger instead of your usual hamburger to get protein without the high fat content of ground beef.
 Having a high-salt diet can increase your blood pressure, which is bad news for cardiovascular health. Limit the salt in your diet by avoiding canned and processed foods like soup, canned vegetables, and frozen meals. Season your food with herbs and spices instead of table salt.


If you like pre-prepared or frozen meals, choose “low-sodium” options.
The Department of Health and Human Services suggests a limit of 2,300 mg (about a teaspoon) of salt daily for adults. If you’re older than 51 or have high blood pressure, diabetes, or kidney problems, you shouldn’t have more than 1,500 mg of salt a day., Studies have shown that the right chocolate, in moderation, can be good for your heart. Chocolate contains flavonoids, antioxidants, and flavanols that are good for your cardiovascular system.Dark chocolate is the best, and should be enjoyed in its unadulterated form — avoid candy bar aisle confections that are filled with extra ingredients and sugars. Look for raw, pure, or unprocessed chocolate.


An ounce of dark chocolate a few times weekly is a good amount to be heart-healthy., Eating health foods is important, but so is eating the appropriate amount of food. Avoid stuffing yourself by intentionally limiting the size of your portions. Use smaller bowls and plates so you can’t fit as much food on them. Create a ratio of lots of nutritious, low-fat fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, and only very small amounts of fatty or salty food like red meat, or processed foods.Food is prepared in “serving size” amounts — whether it’s a piece, a cup, or an ounce. Nutrition facts on food labels are listed by serving size. Keep track of your servings so you know how much fat you’re really eating, and so you can limit your portions appropriately. A serving of meat is about the size of a deck of cards, less than you’d probably think.
Most restaurants give you a larger portion than you need. Try to eat half and take the rest home for a later meal.

