 To change your name in North Dakota, you must have been a resident of the county in which you will file your Petition for Name Change for at least 6 months., Legally changing your name is a serious decision, so you should make sure that you choose a name that you like enough to keep. Before beginning the process of changing your name, practice signing it and have a few people close to you call you by that name, to make sure you like it.
 You will not be able to change your name if your new name would defraud or mislead others, cause injury to someone, compromise public safety, or the change is otherwise requested in bad faith.There are several other reasons why you might be denied a name change, including any of the following:You are avoiding bankruptcy by pretending to be someone else.
Your new name violates a trademark (e.g. changing your name to "Chuck E. Cheese" or "Adidas Batman").
The name uses numbers or symbols (except Roman numerals).
The name includes obscene words.
If you are having trouble determining if your name change is legal, or need legal assistance with this process, hire an attorney. Legal self-help centers may also available to help with name changes, and legal fees may be waived if you demonstrate sufficient financial need. Search online to see what legal aid resources are available in your community.
 North Dakota courts generally require those petitioning for name changes to publish a notice of the Petition in their county's official newspaper.This ensures that potential creditors and other interested parties have a chance to object to the Petition. To do this, fill out a Notice of Petition for Name Change, then contact your county newspaper and ask how to get your Notice published.


Leave the case number section blank. You will not be issued a case number until you file your documents with the court.
To complete the court and county information, enter the name of the court and the county where you will file the Petition. You can find court locations and contact information here.

Your Notice must appear in the newspaper at least 30 days prior to your court date.
Keep a copy of the newspaper in case the judge asks for proof that you published your Notice.
You can ask the judge to waive the publication requirement if you are only requesting a change of your first or middle name, or if you are a victim of domestic violence. The judge may deny your request., To get a court order officially changing your name, you must fill out a "Petition for Name Change." You can download the form here. The form is also available at the district court clerk's office.


Leave the case number blank. You will not be issued a case number until you file your forms with the court clerk.
You must wait until your Notice of Petition for Name Change has been published in a newspaper before you can complete section 5, unless you indicate that you are requesting that the judge waive the publication requirement.
 This is a "proposed order," which you must fill out and submit with your paperwork. If the judge grants your Petition, he or she will sign and date the Order. You can download the form here. Do not sign and date the form yourself. That space is for the judge to fill.
 This form is used by the court to verify your identity before granting your Petition. You can download the form here. Fill out the form and sign it in the presence of a notary public. The notary will also sign and stamp the form. Bring a valid form of identification, such as a driver's license or passport, to verify your identity.


To find a notary online, visit the Notary Public Directory.

You can also find a notary public by visiting your local bank. Most banks do not charge a fee for notary services if you are a bank customer. If you are not a bank customer, you can use the bank's notary service for a small fee.
 Bring your documents to the court clerk's office at the courthouse. Use this directory to locate your local courthouse. The clerk will stamp your documents and issue a case number.


The clerk will ask you to pay a filing fee. The fee in North Dakota is $80 as of 2007.Present a valid photographic identification.
 The judge has discretion to grant a name change petition without a hearing. If the clerk notifies you that you need to attend a hearing before a judge, you will need to appear in court at a later date. The judge will ask you about your reasons for changing your name to make sure that your new name is not fraudulent or misleading.Answer the judge's questions clearly and honestly.


If your petition is denied, get a copy of the denial order and try again.
If the judge approves your request, you will be granted a name change court order.
 Change your name on your Social Security card, driver's license, bank accounts, medical records, passport, leases, car title, and others, as applicable.


To get a new Social Security card, locate your local office here. Mail this application or deliver it in person, along with the court order, birth certificate, and photo ID.
To change the name on your driver's license, visit your local DMV with your court order. You will be required to pay at $3 fee for a new driver's license.

