 Those who practice superbrain yoga believe the direction you face can influence your energy and concentration. Most people who engage in superbrain yoga should face the east. However, if you are elderly, face the north.If you're unsure of direction, invest in a compass to engage in superbrain yoga. Some smartphones come with a compass application. You can also download a compass application.;
, Superbrain yoga requires a high level of mental concentration. Before engaging in superbrain yoga, remove any jewelry you are wearing.Some people may be hesitant to remove wedding or engagement rings. Although superbrain yoga is most effective with no jewelry, rings are usually not as distracting as other types of jewelry. If you prefer, you can keep rings on.
 Superbrain yoga is most effective if you practice good posture. To begin the routine, stand in a quiet room as straight as possible.To stand up straight, lift your head and back upward slightly. Allow your torso, front, back, and spine to lengthen. Widen your shoulders and keep your feet flat on the ground., To start your routine, position your tongue correctly. During superbrain yoga, your tongue should be just behind your teeth on the roof of your mouth. It's the same place your tongue would be if you were about to say "La." Keep your tongue there for the whole exercise., Cross your left hand over your upper body. Use your thumb and forefinger to hold onto your right earlobe. Keep your thumb in the front., Now, cross your right hand over your upper body. Use your thumb and forefinger to hold your left earlobe. Just like with your left hand, your thumb should be in front., Bend your knees to lower your body towards the ground. As you do so, inhale through your nose. Then, lift your body as you exhale., After doing one squat, repeat the exercise 15 to 21 more times. Find a number of repetitions within that frame that is comfortable to you. Remember to keep your back straight and your tongue on the roof of your mouth., The more regularly you do superbrain yoga, the better. The first few times you try the routine, you may not notice a marked difference in your thinking and concentration. However, if you strive to practice every day, you may eventually notice improved concentration and overall cognitive functioning.Keep in mind, the benefits of superbrain yoga are not proven. Not everyone will notice an improvement in mental functioning by using superbrain yoga.
 If you want to engage in any kind of yoga routine regularly, it's important to have the space to practice. Find a quiet place in your home free from distractions, such as your bedroom or a living room without a television. As many people enjoy practicing yoga in the morning, it can be helpful to choose an area that gets a lot of sunlight., Yoga should ideally be relaxing. If you find yourself stressing out about your superbrain yoga routine, take a day off. Superbrain yoga should make you feel better mentally. If it's causing stress, a break can help you recharge.