 Maybe you’re still a virgin because you are making the conscious choice to stay one. Maybe you are waiting for the right time, and the right person. Or, maybe you follow a religion that requires you to abstain until marriage. All of these are valid reasons to stay a virgin, despite what your friends are doing.There really is no “wrong” reason to stay a virgin. Keeping your virginity is totally normal, and nothing to be ashamed of. If your friends not being virgins makes you feel ashamed or inexperienced, remind yourself that it is totally okay that you are still a virgin.;
, Even if you aren’t still a virgin by choice, and just haven’t found the right person, it’s normal and nothing to be ashamed of. Everyone will have their time, and there is much more to life than just your sexual experiences.


Keep in mind that you are much better off waiting for the right time or person than you are losing your virginity just to “get it over with” or to feel like you’ve hit some kind of milestone. Be patient and give yourself time.
 Sexual activity comes with various risks and possible consequences that you may or may not be prepared to deal with. Abstinence, for example, is the only 100% effective method of preventing pregnancy. Avoiding sexual activity can also protect you from sexually transmitted diseases.

For women, becoming sexually active also means seeing a gynecologist on an annual basis to screen for cervical cancer and STDs. These visits involve pelvic exams that can sometimes be uncomfortable. If you don’t become sexually active, you don’t need to start these annual visits until around age 21., Remember that despite what your friends are doing, you are worth more than your level of sexual activity. You have more to offer your friends than stories about sexual experiences. Your friendships should be based on mutual respect and kindness, rather than judgement.


If your friends are judging you negatively for being a virgin, consider the fact that they might not be the best friends to have in your life. You want friends that will be supportive and helpful rather than judgmental.

