 Most dorms have the laundry away from main living quarters, so you need to have everything together. Be sure to check that you've taken all your soiled clothes from your workout or sports bag as well as towels, sheets, pillowcases and duvet covers if necessary. This includes:


Dirty laundry bag or basket
Laundry detergent--do not use other soaps, such as dish soap, hand soap or body wash. These can cause severe over-sudsing, do not work well, and can cause severe skin irritation).
Stain remover (optional) Softener or softening dryer sheets (store-bought or homemade) ).
Cash or swipe card, as appropriate.
Security card or key - even if your roommate says he or she will be around.;
, Have quarters or small bills (if there is a change machine) or a pre-paid student card if needed. It usually costs about $2-$2.50 to wash and dry each load. It will typically take one load per week of dirty clothes but this will vary widely depending on your own needs., If you haven't done so already, do it now. If you don't have a stain remover, use a few drops of laundry soap on the stain and rub it in using the fabric around the stain.Only use a bleach pen on white clothing!

, A pen or lipstick tube can easily ruin all of your clothes. You also don't want your cell phone to go through the wash.

Before leaving for the laundry room do NOT forget your room key.
 These can usually be identified by having the top or lid being raised, showing an empty washer. You can check machines that are not running. Do not remove another person's clothes unless there is really no other machines available. Remember to leave the lid raised for others after you are done.
 If someone else put bleach in the machine and didn't wash anything, your clothes could be ruined. If someone left soap in the dispenser--bonus!--unless you are sensitive to certain detergents. If there is bleach or soap remaining relocate to another washer.
 Sort your laundry into piles:"Lights" usually refers to white cottons or cotton blends, light colors like yellows and bright greens or anything that can be washed without damage in hot water. This will also include your towels and sheets (unless sheets are dark colored).
"Darks" usually include dark colors that will fade after repeated washings or fabrics that should not (or do not have to) be washed in hot water. If in doubt, (like a red and white striped shirt) always choose a colder temperature. Blue jeans should be washed with the darks.
Red and purple fabrics in particular have a nasty habit of releasing dye into the wash and turning white items pink. Put the reds, pinks, oranges, etc. in a separate load, or, if you only have reds, wash them in with the dark clothing. Some people report the same issues with lime or yellow-green clothing.
"Delicates" include things that need special, delicate washing. This includes wool sweaters, bras, tights or nylons, silk shirts, swimsuits, and knits. The care label will usually indicate these items if you are unsure. Sometimes these can be combined with darks in a cool wash if the washer is not too loaded.
 The agitation in the washer will cause them to fade and/or become damaged over time. Also secure the drawstrings on items like hoodies, track pants and gym shorts so that they do not get pulled out during washing and drying.
 It is a warm soak and gentle agitation followed by a cold water rinse.
 Put a capful of detergent in the machine for a large load, or as directed by the detergent instructions and then close the lid to begin washing.


Try to fill the machine about 3/4 of the way to the top. Allow room for clothes to agitate during the wash cycle.
Distribute laundry weight evenly (if a top loading washer). A heavy blanket or coat may unbalance the washing drum. You may have to balance the load by with other items on the other side. Be careful of small, heavy items that may cause this problem.
 You will have between 35-45 minutes to just hang out and make sure no one takes your laundry out of the machine. Don't leave your laundry defenseless--thieves steal from laundry rooms routinely. Do your homework.
 Two laundry loads will usually equal one dryer load. Do not overfill as this will cause the drying to take much longer. It is better to use two dryers for 30-40 minutes than one for 90 minutes.


Whites such as cotton T-shirts, sheets and towels will usually take a normal/high setting,
Darks will usually be on a medium setting. You can use a higher setting if you're washing lots of dark cottons.
Fine washables should be either air-dried, line-dried, or dried on the lowest setting available. If in doubt, dry at a lower setting or air-dry if possible as shrinking of clothes usually happens in the dryer.
 Wipe off any lint present (it should come off easily) and throw it into the recycling bin. Return the lint trap back to its place.
 These give a fresher smell to your clothes and prevent static electricity between garments.
 Choose your settings for the dryer (heavy, normal, light)

, Get comfortable as you may have between 30-60 minutes to chill and wait for your clothes. Do more homework.
 This may mean either putting them on hangers or folding appropriately. Folding pants and shorts right away will reduce the bulk you will have to carry back up. If you fold jeans and slacks the way you would want them pressed (flat front or with a crease down the middle of the front) directly out of the dryer then they will likely not need to be ironed later (depending on the fabric composition).
 Make sure you didn't forget any socks, loose change, or other small items in the machine.
 Put them away and then bask in the glory of fresh clean laundry.

