 An employee separation agreement may be drafted in the form of a letter to the employee, or it may be drafted as a formal contract. Either format is acceptable and enforceable.You can search online for some examples of employee separation agreements and choose a format and organizational style that best suits you and the needs of your company.
Regardless of which format you choose, make sure each section is clearly labeled and easy to find in the document. If you're using a business-letter format, consider using a word or phrase in bold at the start of each paragraph to denote what information will be covered in the text of that paragraph.
Double space between paragraphs or sections of your agreement to make it easier to read. Use a legible font in a 10- or 12-point size. Your word processor's default font typically is a good choice.;
, An employee separation agreement using a standard contract format will have a title that describes the type of agreement it is. If you're writing the agreement as a letter, you can use a subject line for this title or description.Simply titling your document "Employee Separation Agreement" usually will suffice.
You may want to indicate the separation was voluntary by appending that word to the title. This would be appropriate in situations where the separation was initiated by the employee, or the employee was asked and agreed to resign.
 Begin your employee separation agreement by naming the company and the employee, and stating the roles of the two parties and their relationship to each other.Include your company or organization's registered legal name and contact information. You also want to include contact information for the employee.
You may adopt a title for each party to use throughout the rest of the document rather than specific names. For example, you might write "This Agreement between Sunny Day Solar Panels, Inc. (hereinafter "Company") and Carl Cloud (hereinafter "Employee)."
If the employee held a specific job title, include that with your identification of the employee.
 Typically an employee separation agreement opens with a paragraph or two that describes the employment relationship between the parties and why it is ending.If you're using a formal contract format, these clauses often begin with the word "whereas." That word indicates that the information that follows is just background and not part of the contract itself in terms of being legally enforceable.
In your background information, you can state when the employee came to work for you, and any other information regarding the employee's job performance that you deem necessary.
 While not strictly necessary, you may want to include the reasons you are terminating the employee or, if they are leaving voluntarily, the reasons they have decided to move on.Be careful with your language here, since a big portion of the purpose of an employee separation agreement is to disclaim any fault on the part of either party.
If the employee is not leaving on good terms, you may simply want to state that the employee is leaving the company, without giving any reason why.
 The heart of the agreement for the employee is the compensation you will pay them at the time of their separation from the company, and how and when this money will be paid.You may be paying the employee a lump-sum upon separation, or a series of payments spread out over several months.
Some companies opt to simply continue paying the employee their salary for a brief period after the date of separation. If you go this route, make sure you include a statement that even though the employee will continue to receive the same salary, they are not considered an employee and no longer work for you.
If appropriate, you may want to itemize the amounts being paid in compensation for or in consideration of various promises made by the employee in the separation agreement.
Given the release, you also may want to include a disclaimer that the employee does not deserve and is not entitled to any of the severance payments made.
Speak with an employment attorney if you have any questions about the language you've used to describe the money paid to the employee upon leaving the company.
 If the employee has any accrued paid vacation time or sick leave, the employee separation agreement should state what will happen to those hours and whether they will receive pay for any or all of those hours.You may compensate the employee for all of those hours at a specific rate, or you may only provide compensation up to a certain maximum number of hours. This should be clearly stated in the agreement.
Check the employee's personnel records to determine how many hours the employee has accrued if you intend to list a specific amount the employee will be paid.
You also can simply pay the employee a lump-sum amount for all hours accrued without reference to an hourly rate, but as a form of settlement of those accrued benefits the employee hasn't used as of the date of separation.
 If you provided the employee with health insurance, what will happen to that coverage should be included in the separation agreement, including the ability of the employee to continue the same coverage under COBRA.Some companies opt to continue paying the employee's insurance premiums for a set period of time after the date of separation.
If you do this, include a disclaimer that this benefit is being offered voluntarily in settlement and does not indicate a continuing obligation or signify that the employee still works for you.
If you intend to stop paying insurance premiums and terminate the coverage, include the date at which coverage will end, as well as dates when the employee must contact the insurance company if they wish to continue the same coverage by paying their own premiums directly.
 From your perspective, the heart of the agreement is a promise by the employee to release any and all claims they might have against you as a result of the separation or any other incidents or disputes arising out of the employment relationship.This release of claims typically includes all claims the employee might have against you that are related to their employment with you, even if they have not yet discovered them.
In other words, if the employee is unaware at the time of separation that they could sue you for an FMLA violation, this language in the employee separation agreement prohibits them from asserting that right.
You must provide the employee with money in consideration of this release.
 Depending on the circumstances of the separation, your company may want to offer other non-monetary assistance, such as job search services, to the employee.Typically these services are offered at the option of the employee, who can decline the additional assistance if they choose.
You also can use this section to address the end of any benefits offered to the employee while they were working for you.
For example, if the employee received housing as a result of their employment with you, this section would describe when they were expected to vacate that housing.
 An employee separation agreement typically includes a clause requiring the employee to return any documents or equipment in their position belonging to the company immediately upon separation with the company.You may want to include information relating to the condition in which company property – especially equipment you intend to use again – should be returned.
Any equipment such as a computer or a cell phone that the employee is allowed to keep after separation still should be turned into you so that you can confirm that it no longer contains any sensitive company information.
Since this is a standard provision and it is understood that the employee has no claim to the company's property anyway, you generally don't have to provide any additional consideration for this clause.
 Depending on the employee's role in the company, you may want to include a provision prohibiting them from working for a nearby company in direct competition with yours for a brief period of time after the separation.If you decide to include a noncompete clause, make sure it is for a short period of time and only covers a reasonable geographic area.
Keep in mind that courts typically disfavor noncompete clauses, and including an unenforceable noncompete clause in the agreement could void the whole agreement.
Talk to an attorney if you are concerned about the possibility that the employee will go to work for a direct competitor and want to include a noncompete clause in your agreement.
The noncompete clause must be supported by additional monetary consideration. Depending on the employee's role in the company and their position in your industry, this amount could be substantial.
When considering the reasonableness of the consideration you've offered, think in terms of how much money the employee could make working for one of your direct competitors.
 If the employee had access to trade secrets or client lists, you may want to include a clause that reminds the employee of their continuing obligation to keep that information confidential.You can incorporate any nondisclosure agreement previously signed by the employee by reference. However, make sure the term of that agreement extends beyond the employee's separation with the company.
If the employee has not signed a nondisclosure agreement that continues after the termination of the employment relationship, and you want to include a confidentiality clause in your employee separation agreement, you typically must provide additional monetary consideration for this promise.
The reasonableness of the consideration offered in exchange for the employee's agreement not to disclose confidential information generally depends on the relative value of the information they are being asked to keep secret, and can vary widely depending on the situation and your company's position in the industry.
 A non-solicitation clause can protect your business by prohibiting the employee from soliciting your clients on behalf of a competing company, or encouraging your employees to leave and work for someone else.If your employee separation agreement includes a nondisclosure clause, you can lump the non-solicitation clause together with it, since they cover similar things.
However, make sure you're specific about the uses of the information. A nondisclosure clause prohibits the employee from sharing information, while a non-solicitation clause prohibits the employee from using that information for their own benefit or the benefit of a competing company.
 If the separation occurred under tense or complicated circumstances, you may want to include a clause stating that you will provide the employee with a positive reference.This clause also can identify specific people who are authorized to provide a reference for the employee. Designating references allows you to control the information provided to another company.
A clause discussing references also can be useful if your company is dissolving or coming under new management, because it specifies how the employee can account for their time working for your company even if it no longer exists.

