 Hopefully you have a basic story idea but if not you know you'll need a lead. What else? A villain? A love interest? A friend? A teacher? The possibilities are endless. As you write you will notice more and more characters that are needed but try to start with at least five.;
, Which ones did you really love? What villains did you despise? Write down (or don't) the good ones. Now write down the lame ones. Look at your lists. Do you see any patterns? What made them all so good or bad? Here are some things to look for:


Are most of them male or female?
Do they share any personality traits?
Do they have similar roles in the book?
Do they remind you of yourself or are they entirely different?
Do you see yourself being drawn to a specific type of character? (e.g. the badass, or maybe the caring friend) OR is it just well portrayed characters you are drawn to?
In order to do what you like you first have to know what you like, so maybe read over old books and make notes of your favorite characters. Pay close attention to their actions, flaws and strengths, how they talk, and how they react when some one cuts them off in traffic. It's all important.
 Now make the characters. Who are they? The lead has to be complex and interesting, likable but flawed, someone you can sympathize with. Sound like a tall order? Don't worry.


Start with the physical looks. It's hard to make a good character if you can't visualize them. Are they tall or short? What does their hair look like? Do they have freckles? Got the picture? If you are a good artist, or even a bad one try to draw them. Look at pictures in old yearbooks. Get a good solid image.
Now work on the personality. Pick three main traits. They can be anything. Keep them in mind as you continue to work with your character.
Think about how they interact with others. Imagine them in an everyday situation, or a chapter of your favorite book. What do they do?

, Think about them all the time. They won't just create themselves.


Give them flaws.
Give them strengths.
Give them annoying little habits. Are they always mussing their hair? Humming? Cracking their knuckles? What usually triggers this, fear or agitation or maybe boredom?
Give them a pet peeve.
Give them a soft spot.
Give them a history. Where did they come from?
Give them a style. What kind of clothes do they wear?
Describe how they smile to yourself. That can tell a lot about a character.
Think about the way they talk.
Give them an opinion about at least five things. Write them down. Maybe they love Honey Nut Cheerios.
Give them hobbies.
Make a list of other characters like them and read up on those characters. What do they like? Does your character share those opinions?

, See how your characters will react to what's going on. Based on the details you've picked out, decide what your character will most likely do.

