 If your loved one has a panic attack when you are around, you need to make sure you can help. The first thing you need to remember is that you need to stay calm yourself. It is natural to feel concerned, but if you start panicking, then it will be harder for you to help your loved one cope.Instead, try to be a gentle, encouraging, comforting presence for your loved one.Take a deep breath and focus on helping your loved one get through the panic attack. Don't focus on how scary the situation is for your loved one. It will be difficult for you to help your loved one if you are upset also.
 When your loved one is going through a panic attack, they will not be very focused on you. In order to get through to your loved one, speak in short, simple sentences so they can understand you. This will make it easier on your loved one because they will have less to focus on.Say reassuring things to your loved one. For example, say things like, "You will get through this," or "Breathe with me."

, In order to help your loved one reorient themselves during their panic attack, move him or her to a less crowded place. This will eliminate the distractions around your loved one and help them focus on calming down.


If you are in a public place, just try to find the closest place you can that is less noisy, crowded, or busy.
 Your loved one may have special medication they can take to help them calm down during a panic attack.If you are out with your loved one, see if they can pay attention long enough to answer if they have their medication on them. If you are at your loved one's home, you can see if they can tell you where it is.


You might want to coordinate this with your loved one beforehand. This will help you help them faster and more efficiently.
 One of the best ways to help your loved one calm down is to get their breathing regulated.Panic attacks cause elevated breathing rates, so you need to help your loved one slow theirs down.


To do this, get your loved one to match your breathing patterns. Tell your loved one, "Breathe when I breathe." Then take deep, slow breaths in and keep doing so until your loved one's match yours.

