 Depending on your version, a blank presentation may open automatically, or you may need to select the option for a custom presentation.
 If you want a title page for your presentation, you can use the default title page template provided by PowerPoint. If you want to change the format of the slide, you can pick from among the options in the "Slide Layout" toolbar. These options have different layouts of titles, text, pictures, charts, etc.
 You can do this either by clicking the "New Slide" button in the top toolbar, or by selecting "Insert > New Slide".


Every time you create a new slide, you can manage its format using the "Slide Layout" toolbar.
 There are different ways to do this within each version of PowerPoint, and they may differ from version to version. The 2 main ways to add content (text boxes, pictures, charts, other multimedia files) to your slides are described here:


You can add content using the "Insert" menu. To do this, click "Insert" and then choose the type of content that you want to add to that slide. You will be prompted to choose a file to insert. As you can see in the image below, there are a number of different options that you can choose, from Word Art to movies.
You can add content directly from a slide. To do this, select a format from the "Slide Layout" toolbar that has content options built in. Then, click on the icon of the type of content that you wish to add, and navigate to find the appropriate file.
 In PowerPoint, you can choose pre-made themes or create your own custom slide backgrounds. You can also combine themes with custom background colors.


To choose a theme, you can either click on "Slide Theme" on the top toolbar, or select "Format > Slide Theme" from the main menu.
To change background color, you can click "Format Background" in the Formatting Palette or select "Format > Slide Background..." from the main menu. There are tons of different colors and designs to choose from, so you will have to play around to find one that you like. When you are done, click "Apply" or "Apply To All" depending on whether you want that background on just the current slide or all slides.
 To view your final product, you can either click "Slide Show" in the top toolbar or select "Slide Show > View Slide Show" in the main menu.

