 If you are writing a report for school, you may want to ask your teacher for some particular guidelines that she would like you to follow while writing your report. If you are writing a report for work, talk to your boss about his or her expectations for your report. Clarifying what you need to include in your report before you start is an important first step in writing a great report. Ensure you adhere to any and all requirements when writing your report.You will likely want to ask your teacher or boss what the word (or page) requirement of your report is, if you should include tables, figures, or illustrations, and even discuss small specifics, such as what kind of font and size of type your report should be in.
Most reports will include a title page, summary (or abstract), introduction section, methods section (if applicable), results section (if applicable), discussion section, and conclusion.;
, Sometimes you'll be required to write a report on a specific topic, while other times you will be able to choose your own. If it's possible, choose a topic that you have an interest in, particularly if you are working on a long-term project. Or, choose a topic that is relatively unfamiliar to you. This will give you the opportunity to learn about something new.


Before you begin writing a report, you will want to understand the topic and ensure that you know what the purpose of the report is.Many science and engineering courses require reports. Sometimes, you may need to write a book report or other type of report for a humanities class.If you are having trouble choosing a topic, try reading the newspaper, a favorite magazine, or an online news source for some inspiration. You may want to write on a current event (such as a political event, a sporting event, or an economic situation), as there will be a lot of information available for “pop culture” topics.
 Start reading up on your topic. You may want to use books from a university or public library, or do a Google search for online information. To write a great report, you will want to become an expert on the topic on which you will be writing. It is important that you include the most up-to-date information about your topic, so a good amount of research is necessary before writing your report.


At first, conduct a “broad” review of your topic (as opposed to a “deep” review). This means that you will want to briefly read many different sources about your topic instead of spending a lot of time focusing on a small number of articles.
If you are writing on a topic that has more than one side (for example, something that you can argue, such as whether the U.S. should allow the death penalty), you will want to familiarize yourself with both sides of the issue and be able to discuss the pros and cons of both.
You can meet with a reference librarian to assist you with finding the literature that will help you write your report. A reference librarian will help you locate credible sources that you can use for gathering information about your topic. In addition, many reference librarians will also guide you through the process of conducting research and can also help you learn to use online databases.
 While there will probably be many sources that provide information about your topic, you will want to make sure that you find the most credible and reliable sources. A reliable source will list an author, and will often be associated with a reputable institution (such as a university, a credible media outlet, or a government program or department).If you have doubts about a source, discuss it with your teacher, boss, or librarian. Sometimes poorly sourced or badly written articles are published to appear like peer-reviewed scholarly work, and you don’t want to be fooled by one of these articles., Will you be writing this report for a group of experts on the specific topic, or for someone that does not have any prior knowledge about the topic of your report? You should aim to write as much as possible for the audience of your report.If you are writing your report for someone who is unfamiliar with the topic of the report, make sure you introduce the basics (this can include background information, related information, and necessary terminology). Don’t jump into a complex description of your topic without providing context first.

In order to set the context, make sure what you write answers to questions such as “why is this topic important?”, “who is doing work on this topic, what kind of work are they doing, and why are they doing it?”, and “what kind of broader impacts and effects can this topic have?”


If you are writing for experts, feel free to use more complex language and jargon that is specific to the topic at hand. However, if you are writing for novices or people unfamiliar with your topic, you will not want to use confusing language, and if you do include jargon, make sure that you also include a definition.
 This briefly describes the content of your report and answers the question "What did you do, why did you do it, and what did you learn?" It should not be longer than a half page.You may find it easier to write the abstract after you've finished the body of the paper. However, the abstract will come before the body in the final report., This section will provide some background information about the topic of your report. If you need to include a literature review, it will go here as well.In the introduction, describe the problem or topic your report investigated. This could be a scientific issue, such as the rate of growth of mealworms, or a current affairs topic, such as increased security in airports.Summarize relevant research, but don't let it take over the introduction. The bulk of your report should be your work, not discussion of others'.
If you performed an experiment and are writing the report about it, describe your experiment in the introduction.
 In scientific writing, this is often presented in a section called "Methods."In this section, explain what procedures, materials, etc. you used.


You can order your methods chronologically, starting with what you did first. Alternately, you can group them by type, which may work better for humanities research.Use past tense to describe the actions you took.
 In this section, you present your observations, or the results of your methods.You'll need to describe the experiment or procedure briefly (use less detail than you did in the Methods section) and report the main results.


You can present the results in several different ways. You can organize them from most to least important, from simplest to more complex, or by type.
Don't interpret your results here. You will do that in the next section.
 This is the meat of your report. It's where you analyze your results and tell the reader what they mean.Summarize the most important findings at the beginning of the discussion. You can go into further detail in subsequent paragraphs.Explain the relationship between your results and the previous scholarly literature.
Note what additional research would help fill in gaps in your research or resolve any problems.
Explain the broader relevance of your results. This is called answering the "So what?" question. What do your discoveries mean? Why are they useful and important?
In some reports, you may be asked to wrap up with a separate conclusion that reminds the reader of the most important points. For many reports, however, you can conclude your report at the end of the Discussion section., A good way to think about writing a report is to consider it as telling your reader "this is what I did, and this is what I found" or “this is what I know about this particular topic.”Don’t write to impress; instead, write to communicate. In doing so, you will impress without even trying.
 Avoid using “slang” terms. For example, instead of saying “the results were great,” say “the results were important and significant.” Avoid overly colloquial (casual and conversational) language.This means that your text should not necessarily read as if you were speaking to a friend, but should instead have a professional feel to it.


Clarify with your teacher (or whoever will read your report) whether it is appropriate to use first person (meaning sentences in which you use the word “I” as a subject). Many times, first person is not appropriate for use in academic or report writing. However, there are times when the use of first person is effective and persuasive.Instead of guessing whether it is appropriate to use first person, you should confer with your teacher.
 Sentences should not be overly complex or run-on. Try to use fairly short sentences with a clear sentence structure. If possible, avoid excessive use of commas, semi-colons, and colons. Use of short, explicit sentences is an important feature of a great report.Make direct and active statements. Your sentence structure should look something like this: “I investigated this topic, found these data, and determined this result.” Try to avoid using passive voice, if possible, because it makes your report more confusing to the reader.



You may want to make your heading distinct to separate it from the rest of your text by putting it in bold font, italic font, or a larger font size. If you are following a specific style guide, such as APA, make sure to follow their guidelines for headings.
 Using a wide range of sources will broaden your knowledge of your particular topic, provide you with more information to include in your report, and reduce the chance that you accidentally plagiarize.


Use books and textbooks, newspapers, academic and trade journals, and government report and legal documents for reputable sources.Many of these can be available both in print and online.
If you are having trouble finding information about the topic of your report, ask your librarian! He or she is trained to help with these sorts of assignments.
You will likely want to avoid source material that is based on opinion.In other words, look for source material that is derived from facts, and, if applicable, includes the data to back up any assertions.
 Writing a report takes time. Writing a great report takes even more time. Give yourself adequate time to prepare, compose, and revise your report. This means you will likely want to start several weeks before the report is due, depending on the speed at which you work and the length and other requirements of the report.


Set aside a period of time to simply research your topic without writing. Give yourself time to become an expert on your topic by familiarizing yourself with as much material written about it as possible. When you are ready to proceed to the writing stage, you will have a solid foundation of knowledge that you can then convey in your report.
 Your first draft of your report should be just that: a first draft. You should expect to revise and rewrite your report several times before submitting it to your teacher for a grade or to your boss for evaluation. Leaving enough time to make the appropriate and necessary edits and changes is important if you want to write a particularly great report.
 You should do a thorough review of your report for both spelling and grammar. Remember that your computer’s spell check will not catch every error. For example, you may mix up the use of the word “there” with “their.” This will not be caught by a spell-checker, so do not depend on this function alone. Paying attention to the small details of your report (such as spelling and grammar) will improve the overall quality of your report.
 Make sure that you have complied with any specific requirements in your assignment or project description. You may need a title page, a certain type or size of font, or margins of a particular size., Revision should be more than just proofreading; instead, revision should be a critical examination of your work. Ultimately, you will want to look for errors that detract from the overall quality of your report, and this may mean deleting or rewriting large portions of your report.


Ask yourself: Does my report fulfill its goal? If not, you may need to consider significant revisions.
 If possible, have a trusted friend, peer, or colleague read your report. In addition to proofreading for spelling and/or grammar errors, he or she may be able to provide critical and productive feedback. This can help your report go from good to great.

