 Commonly available in outdoors, craft, and home repair stores, grommet kits are available to reinforce holes in fabric, usually in the neighborhood of 5 dollars. The kit will include:

Grommets
Washers
A base to stabilize the grommets as you install
A grommet hole punch
Some larger kits will include grommet pliers, which are used to pinch the grommets into placeAdditionally, you'll need a hammer and scissors for the job;
, The hole punch included is usually just a small metal cylinder with the correct diameter for the grommet. To punch a hole, you'll hammer the punch into the fabric to start a hole that you can finish with scissors.

Flatten your fabric over a stable surface (a spare piece of scrap wood or a workbench is appropriate) and hold the punch in place as you would a nail, where you'd like the grommet and hole to go. Give a few sharp taps with the hammer.
If you can't punch straight through with the punch included, make a small X in the hole outline you've created with an X-acto or fabric knife, and cut the inside of the circle out.If you're installing lots of grommets (like in a home made shower curtain or tarp) make sure you go around the edge and measure the distance between the grommets before you go punching holes.
 A grommet kit should consist of two varieties of pieces that will snap together to create each grommet. Get one of each and compare them. One will have a raised inner edge and will look taller than the other half, and you should insert this end into the bottom of the fabric, facing up.

Place the other half of the grommet on top of the raised edge on the other side of the fabric.
 If you've got grommet pliers, all you need to do is ensure that both sides are aligned properly and use the pliers to snap both sides of the grommet together.If your kit came with a base (a small, nipple-shaped metal platform) then you should use the base to stabilize the grommet as you hammer it together. It shouldn't take much more than a single good whack with the hammer.

