 While you can try to boost the person’s self-esteem with compliments and by being a supportive friend, the person will also need to do some work to develop their own self-esteem. Try to encourage your friend to work on their self-esteem by providing examples of what has worked for you.

For example, you might encourage your friend to try daily self-affirmations and say something like, "When I'm having a crummy day or feeling low, I like to boost myself up with mirror compliments. I start by looking at myself in a mirror and then I find one nice thing to say to myself, like ‘My hair looks so full and shiny today! I love it!’"

, Insecurities can come out in a variety of unhealthy ways. Sometimes people will act rude, jealous, or controlling. Some insecure people may lack insight into how their behaviors are damaging to themselves or others. Try to understand how insecure people impact you and others in these ways:Relationships. Do you feel your partner is needy, dependent, controlling, or untrustworthy? Help them to be less dependent and more trusting.
Work. Do you feel your co-workers are manipulative, rude, or jealous of you? Help them to find positive things in the workplace, and be friendly.
Family and Home. Do you feel like your family or relatives are judgmental, paranoid, rude to others, or constantly depressed? Help to reduce anxiety and stress in the home by being a role model.
 Insecure people often focus a lot more on the negative aspects of their lives such as a lack of love, support, money, or appreciation. They feel like they've been victimized (and maybe they have in the past). Give them positive things to focus on.Keep conversations positive and light. Avoid topics that could lead to a venting session or more negative talk.
Remind them of things that are positive or encouraging. It could be a positive quote, a cat video, pictures of family or friends, or other things that boost their spirits.
Sometimes, it can just be telling them that you like their shirt, shoes, a decoration on their bag, or a new gadget they're using. Tell them something to feel good about themselves.
 Help to boost their self-esteem by focusing on the things that they're doing well, rather than reminding them of the bad things. It's important for insecure people to feel like they have worth and value.


For example, say things like, "That meal you made was fantastic" or "You seem to really know a lot about baseball" or "You are such a great artist."
Let them know that you notice the little things that they do well. Often the ordinary and daily tasks can be overlooked, but a reminder that they do things well can be reassuring. For example, "Thanks for helping me understand that math problem" or "Thanks for giving me a ride" or "You are so organized with your calendar."

, Insecure people may feel like everyone's against them or that they have little to offer. Help them to find activities that they enjoy. Encourage them to find things that are uniquely interesting to them, rather than just going along with others. Consider activities such as:Intramural sports, fitness classes, or outdoor clubs
Art or music classes
Volunteering with different non-profits or other organizations
Enrichment classes at a local community college or university
Clubs or online social groups such as those through Meetup.com

