 Try to think what you will be using your play money for. Most money has details that symbolize the country it represents. If you're making play money for a game, maybe you should put symbols on it that represent the game. If you're making play money to look realistic then you should try as best you can to copy the bill you want it to look like.


For example, US bills are easily recognizable by the different presidents on them in the middle.
 Assuming you're trying to replicate a US bill, having a face on the bill is absolutely necessary. This will immediately identify the piece of paper as currency. Center the face in the middle of the rectangle and draw a circle around it. Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson, and George Washington are all presidents featured on US currency.If you're creating your own game you can draw any face.


Draw your own face, the mascot of your school, or anything else.
 On the very top of a US one dollar bill it says Federal Reserve Note and then The United States of America. Is this how you would like your play money to look? For example, if you're making play money to use at your school consider writing the name of your school above the face.


Write the denomination out in letters below the face. On a US dollar this would be "One Dollar"

, Start by writing out the denomination in big letters in the middle of the back of your note. For a US dollar you would write 'ONE' in large letters. On either side of this writing you can add designs that suit the purpose of your money.


If you're making the money for your school you could add the school crest to the right of the 'ONE' and then you could draw the state that you go to school in on the left side. Try to be creative with the symbols.
A US dollar features a pyramid with a gleaming eyeball at the top and the US crest with an eagle. , If you want to get really serious, you can add serial codes to each of your notes of play money. In the US the currency has a 10 digit serial code. It starts and ends with a letter with 8 numbers in between. Put this serial code on the center right and center left of the bill. One example of a serial code would be L72543781G.

