 Aside from the appropriate clothing, there are only a few other materials that you need.


The shirt you want to bleach
Two buckets
Bleach
Hydrogen peroxide or bleach-neutralizing solution
A long wooden spoon
Rubber gloves

, As you are working with bleach, it will ruin the clothing you are wearing if an accident happens. Rubber gloves are also necessary to protect the bleach from directly touching your skin.


Wear a long-sleeved shirt and long pants, if possible, to take extra steps to prevent the bleach from touching your skin.
 Set them to the side when you are done, and be sure to leave your sink clear for rinsing the shirt later. Make enough of each solution so that the shirt can be submerged in them.One bucket needs to be filled with one part bleach to five parts cold water.
The other bucket needs to be filled with one part hydrogen peroxide to one part water. You can also mix a bleach-neutralizing solution according to the manufacturer's instructions.
 Fully submerge the shirt in the solution, and stir it around using a long wooden spoon that is no longer used for cooking.Gently swirl the shirt around in the solution to assist it in becoming fully saturated.






Take care not to splash the bleach solution while you do this.
 The soak time will vary depending on how much color you want to bleach out of the shirt and how strong the solution is.Bleaching the shirt all the way to white will take close to an hour or longer, especially if the shirt is originally a dark color.
You can pull the shirt from the bleach solution before it reaches white if you find that you like a lighter shade that it has become in the bleaching process.
 If it is not yet completely white or not to a color that you like, then keep it in the bleach solution until it is satisfactory.
, Ensure that the entire shirt has been submerged into the solution so that it is saturated., This is an important step because this neutralizes the bleach, meaning that it makes it so that the bleach can no longer damage the fibers of the fabric.,, It should be ready to wear after this last step.

