 If you place shelves at a low elevation for your child, you will ensure they can easily access their stored belongings. If the shelves are spaced perfectly adjacent to one another, you could lay a long, flat pillow over them and make a seat or sofa above the shelves. The best place to put shelving like this is in front of a window., A shoe organizer is a product of cloth or plastic with several pockets in neat rows that is designed to hold shoes. Over-the-door shoe organizers are a great place to store extra shoes, but you could also use them to store school supplies, artistic materials, or stuffed animals., Clear storage bins allow you to see what’s inside. If your child has toys or clothes that they use only very rarely, they’ll be able to more easily locate and identify them if they’re stored in clear bins.Instead of (or in addition to) clear bins, you could think about getting clear storage bags. These are less sturdy than storage bins, but can be easily squeezed into spaces (like beneath beds or in a narrow gap between two shelves) where storage bins might not work.
Mark your storage bins. If you don’t have clear storage bins, you should indicate what’s in each storage bag or bin on the exterior. You can write directly on them, or stick a piece of masking tape on the bin and write on the masking tape.
 Partitioning a kid’s room means dividing it into one space for living and playing, and one space for storage. You can effectively partition a kid’s room by using room dividers. These thin, freestanding screens originated in East Asia and usually fold out to reveal three or five vertically-oriented strips. Each strip is composed of a thin sheet of paper pressed between two symmetrical pieces of wood. The wood itself is carved into decorative shapes and designs.Ensure your kid understands not to poke the paper on the screen, or to knock them over.
There’s no right way to partition a room. You could divide the room in half, or separate one third from the rest of it. Experiment with different arrangements to find one that pleases your child.
Another way you could partition the room is by using curtains. This is best achieved by hanging curtains right behind your kid’s bed, at a height just below the ceiling. Store your child’s belongings on shelves or in a dresser behind the bed, and pull the curtain closed in front of them.

