 To really understand all of the factors that contribute to your medical billing costs, you must examine all of the components and steps involved in billing. Using a spreadsheet, database, or some other method, make a list of these components and costs.;
, If you are trying to quickly calculate your medical billing costs, or don’t have staff support to help, you can use one or more online billing calculators.These allow you to enter values for preset categories of billing costs (such as monthly revenue, software costs, etc.), and then total the sum.


The advantage of the billing calculators is that they can give you a quick estimate of your medical billing costs. However, they may not have entries for all cost categories pertinent to your medical billing. For the most accurate cost estimate, you will want to double check the calculations yourself.
 Having this information might help you create more efficient billing practices after you review your costs.


Determine your yearly or monthly practice receivables.This is the amount which your practice bills every year or month—what it ideally would collect for services. Choosing to look at this amount on a monthly or yearly basis depends upon your preferences and accounting practices.
, Express the revenue received as a percentage of practice receivables.This will give you a useful number to consider in calculating your billing costs. For instance, if your practice has a receivables amount of $1,000,000 in a month, but the revenue received in the same time is $800,000, then the revenue received is 80% of the receivables ($800,000 is 80% of $1,000,000).



Multiply the hourly rate paid to billing employees by their annual (or monthly) hours worked.This number is essentially your billing employees' salaries, which is likely a major portion of your medical billing costs.If your billing employees are salaried rather than hourly, find the total paid in salaries.
Determine the costs of benefits.Many employers contribute to the costs of employee benefits (medical, dental, life insurance, etc.). While these contributions are not strictly part of salaries, you will still want to consider them in the overall costs for compensating employees.
Don’t forget to factor in the cost of any taxes paid for employees., For this reason, you could factor training into your overall costs for medical billing.


Consider time spent on mentoring, coaching, training, supervision, etc. as well.Since this is a use of paid employee time, it should be considered a medical billing cost.
 for medical billing. The amount spent on initial purchases, maintenance, and support for these resources should be factored in when calculating your medical billing costs.
 These may include costs for postage, stationary, telephone, etc.
 If you use a billing service or some other contractor for assistance in some or all of your billing, be sure to account for this when calculating your billing costs.If you already use a service to take care of your medical billing for you, this will likely be your primary cost.
 If you were listing the monthly costs of these factors, then the sum will be your monthly medical billing cost; if you were listing the yearly costs of the factors, simply divide by 12 to find the monthly cost. For example:


Your monthly billing receivables total $1,000,000.
Your practice has revenue of $800,000 per month (80% of the receivables).
Your billing employees are paid a total of $160,000 per month, including benefits.
You estimate spending $10,000 a month on training and supervision.
When factoring in initial costs and service/maintenance, you estimate spending $5,000 a month on computers, software, and other equipment.
Your miscellaneous costs average $1000 per month.
The total monthly cost of your medical billing is $176,000 ($160,000 + $10,000 + $5,000 + $1000 = $176,000).
The remainder from your monthly revenue is $624,000 ($800,000 - $176,000 = $624,000).
 This can make the process more streamlined, and in many cases less expensive. To determine if using a billing service would be cost-effective, contact one for a quote. Compare this quote to the estimate of your medical billing costs that you calculated, to determine if it is more or less expensive to use a billing service instead of administering your own billing. For example:


If your medical billing costs total $176,000 per month, and a service quotes you a charge of $120,000 per month to take care of billing for you, then it is financially more advantageous to use the service.
If you are able to reduce your costs (for instance, by finding a less expensive employee benefit plan), and your total medical billing expenses fall below $120,000, then it is more advantageous, financially speaking, to take care of billing in-house.
If your medical billing costs total $176,000 per month, and a service quotes you a charge of $180,000 per month to take care of billing for you, then you are better off financially if your practice does it own billing.
 Consider:


Is your billing process efficient? Billing services can sometimes collect revenue faster than in-house billing, but not always. You may also be able to determine ways of improving the efficiency of your in-house billing.
Do you have a high staff turnover? The time spent training staff can be substantial, and if you frequently have to train new employees, a billing service may save you some headache.
Are you technologically proficient? Modern billing practices rely on complex technology. If using billing software and other necessities is not your forte, then it may be advantageous to use a billing service. Alternatively, you could hire someone trained in technical support, information technology, or medical informatics as an in-house specialist.
Are you a new provider? If you are busy just trying to get your practice off the ground, it may help to have a service take care of billing for you. This can give you more time and energy to devote to growing your practice, and you could switch to in-house billing later if it becomes more cost efficient.
What are your priorities? Some medical practitioners would rather concentrate on working with patients than worrying about billing, and so using a service can be a good idea. On the other hand, some want to have a good knowledge of how their practice operates, and thus may prefer to do billing in-house.
 Billing services charge fees in various ways; some contractors offer more than one plan. You may also be able to negotiate fees with the billing service contractor. Common fee systems include:


A percentage fee system. Billing services are paid a percentage of what is collected, once it is collected.
A flat fee system. There is a standard charge for each claim, regardless of its size.
Combination pricing. Certain claims are charged a flat fee, while others are charged a percentage. The type of charge for each claim will depend on factors such as the respective insurer or patient.
A sliding scale. Claims are charged varying fees based on the amount collected. For example, smaller claims may be charged a flat or low fee, while larger claims may be charged a higher fee.

