 The nutritional needs of your cat will change as they grow and age, so you should change their food when they are making a life transition. If your kitten is becoming a cat or your adult cat is becoming a senior, you should choose a food that is appropriate for their new stage of life.Depending on their health and preferences, you may also want to switch between brands of cat food or between dry and wet varieties of food.;
, Instead of suddenly changing your cat’s food, you should mix their old with their new food. Continue to serve the same size portions but include some new food alongside the old recipe, so that your cat gradually gets used to the new taste. Gradually increase the amount of new food you give your cat., The first rule of transitioning to a new food is to do it slowly. Gradually mix more new food into your cat’s regular, old diet. You could try the following seven-day transition schedule:


From day one to two, give your cat one quarter new food and three quarters old food.
During days three and four, give your cat half new food and half old food.
From day five to six, give your cat three quarters new food and one quarter old food.
On day seven, give your cat a portion of entirely new food.
 Cats older than nine years of age are considered senior.If your cat is senior, you may want to try a longer, ten-day transition schedule:From day one to three, feed your cat a portion consisting of three quarters old food and one quarter new food.
From day four to five, give your cat a portion with fifty percent old food and fifty percent new food. Watch for signs of difficulty such as an upset stomach. If your cat is having trouble, go back to the formula for days one to three for a few days and then continue with the schedule.
From day six to nine, feed your cat a portion containing three quarters old food and one quarter new food.
On day ten, give your cat only the new food.
 During the transition process, look for signs that your cat is having trouble with the new food. If they are experiencing any minor symptoms, you should give them a longer period to adjust to the new food. However, if the symptoms look serious, you should take them to the veterinarian. Look for the following symptoms:Soft stool
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Loss of appetite

