 The most common cause of infant suffocation is choking. You need to assess the situation to determine if the airway is completely blocked or only partially blocked.If the baby is coughing or gagging, the airway is partially blocked. Let the baby continue to cough, as this is the best way to dislodge the blockage.
If the baby is not able to cough and begins to turn bright red or blue, the airway is completely blocked. You will need to perform back blows and chest compressions to dislodge the blockage.
If your baby is ill, having an allergic reaction, or is suffocating because the airway is swollen, you can perform chest compressions and rescue breaths, but you will need to call local emergency services immediately.
 Position the baby so that she is face-up on one forearm. Cradle the back of her head with the hand of the same forearm. Place your other forearm over the baby's front and gently turn her over so that she is face-down, remaining sandwiched in between your arms the entire time.Use your thumb and fingers to hold the jaw as you turn the baby.
Lower your bottom arm onto your thigh. The baby's head should be lower than her chest.
Note that back blows should only be delivered if the baby is still conscious. If the baby falls unconscious, skip the back blows and proceed straight to the chest compressions and rescue breaths.
 Use the heel of your dominant hand to deliver five gentle yet distinct back blows in between the baby's shoulder blades.Continue to support the baby's neck and head by holding his jaw between your thumb and forefingers.
Giving CPR to a baby is often walking a fine line between being effective and causing injury. However, a minor musculoskeletal injury is a small price to pay for saving a life.
 After delivering the gentle back blows, place your free hand on the back of the baby's head, resting your arm firmly along the baby's spine. Carefully turn the baby back over so she is face-up again.Don't lift the baby's head as you turn her, as this can force the clog back into her throat. Keep the head down.
The baby should remain sandwiched in between your arms as you turn her.
Remember to remain calm and talk soothingly to the baby. She can't comprehend your words, but she can pick up on your calming/loving tone.
 Position the tips of two or three fingers in the center of the baby's chest while supporting the baby's neck and head with your other hand. Use the thumb and fingers to hold the jaw as you sandwich the baby in between your forearms. The lower arm should support the baby's back on your opposite thigh, and the baby's head should be lower than the rest of his body.You could also place the baby on their back on a firm, flat surface, like a table or the floor.
The fingers should be placed in between the baby's nipples at the center of his chest.
 Push straight down on the chest, depressing it by about 1.5 inches (4 cm). If the baby is conscious, only perform five compressions. If the baby is unconscious, perform 30 compressions.Pump rapidly at a rate of 100 compressions per minute.
Each compression should be smooth, not abrupt or shaky.
Be careful not to injure the baby's ribs during the compressions.
 You do not need to pinch the nose plugged as you would do with an adult. Instead, seal off the baby's breathing passages by placing your entire mouth over his nose and mouth.Make sure to wipe away any vomit, blood, mucus or saliva first.


Give two gentle rescue breaths. Deliver one puff of air into the baby's mouth. If the chest moves, deliver the second puff of air.
If the chest does not move, attempt to clear the airway again before administering the second breath.
Do not deliver deep breaths of air from your lungs. Instead, use the muscles in your cheeks to deliver gentle puffs of air.
 Repeat chest compressions and rescue breaths as needed until the baby begins to breath again or until emergency medical professionals arrive.


If you suspect that the baby is choking on a foreign object, you should look into her mouth after every round of chest compressions.
Each cycle should consist of 30 chest compressions followed by two emergency breaths.

