 For most financial institutions, you’ll need to visit a branch location to open a new account. Online-only banking, of course, can be done entirely online. Either way, read through the fine print before signing anything, and pay particular attention to any fees associated with your account.There will often be a minimum initial deposit to open an account with a new institution. There’s no rush to deposit any more than that, as long as the account you're opening doesn’t have fees for accounts below a certain balance.
 Include the following: any direct deposits from your employer or another source of income, as well as any regular payments you make from the account. Further, include any checks you’ve written that have not been cashed yet.Check your account history online, as well as you checkbook, to make sure you’re not forgetting anything. For instance, you may never think about the monthly gym membership that’s automatically withdrawn from your account.
Use this list as a checklist to help you transfer each type of transaction to a new account.
 Once your new account is open, contact your employer or other income providers with the updated information about your new account. If you receive other regular payments - from rental properties, for instance - ensure that your new account information has been made available.More specifically, provide the routing number for your new bank, as well as your own account number to your manager or human resources department.
 Whether to open your account, or a short time after, you may wish to transfer funds from your old institution to your new one. There are many ways to do this, including a direct transfer.In order to do a transfer, you’ll need both institutions’ routing numbers, as well as both of your personal account numbers. The bank you’re leaving may charge a transfer fee. Luckily, electronic transfer is not your only option.
You may also write a check to yourself from your old account, and deposit it into your new one. Set up mobile banking for your new account to make this especially easy, as many banking apps include the option to photograph a check and deposit it electronically.
 Stop paying bills from an account you intend to close as soon as possible. If you have scheduled payments that are made on a certain day each month, they can easily be canceled through your financial institution in person or online.If you have authorized any business to make automatic "pull" payments from your account each month, you may have to contact those businesses directly. In the future, it is better not to provide authorization for third parties to make withdrawals from your account.
Wait to start paying bills out of your new account until your direct deposit payments start to come through.

