 Before you put your cat on a diet, it’s important to determine whether or not your cat really needs to lose weight. A body condition score consists of a scale from one to five—with five being obese and one being emaciated. An ideal score is three. Rate your cat on the scale according to the following standards:Score 1: Ribs, spine, and pelvis stick out and can be seen even at a distance. The cat has no body fat and looks starved and bony.
Score 2: Ribs, spine, and pelvis can be easily felt. Viewed from above, the cat has a distinct waist. Viewed from the side, the belly is tucked up. The cat looks thin.
Score 3: Ribs and spine can be felt but not seen. The cat has a slight waist when viewed from above, and a level (but not saggy) tummy from the side. Ideal.
Score 4: Ribs and spine difficult to locate. Pear-shaped tummy from above and sagging down from the side. Can be described as chunky or stout.
Score 5: Bony landmarks obscured by fat. Thick cover of fat over chest and tummy. Oval silhouette. Obese.;
, If your cat’s body condition rates as a four or five, then see your veterinarian for more guidance. Your veterinarian will have tools to determine the target weight for your cat based on your cat’s exact size, using a series of measurements such as the length of your cat’s head, width of head, backbone length, radius of the wrist, and girth measurement.The visit to the vet is equally important because your vet will perform a physical exam of your cat to ensure that simple overeating is the cause of your cat’s weight problem and not a more serious medical condition.
 Several methods are available to help your cat lose weight. When your veterinarian sets a target weight for your cat, discuss the various options available. Your vet will likely recommend a combination of options that may include restricting your cat’s caloric intake, putting your cat on a metabolic diet, and/or making changes to the cat’s lifestyle.


Regardless of the strategy you and your vet determine is best for your cat, prepare for a long-term commitment because gradual weight loss is healthier for your cat than a sudden change. In fact, starving your cat puts her at risk for developing hepatic lipidosis (or fatty liver disease), which is where an abundance of fat stores overwhelm and affect the functioning of your cat’s liver.