 Go for a walk, a jog, or a bike ride. Play a team sport. Do anything that gets you up and moving. Exercising will make your body release endorphins, those "feel-good" chemicals that enhance your mood and inhibit the body's stress response.Any type of exercise or physical activity which requires you to expend energy and contract your muscles will trigger your body to release these helpful endorphins. So even if you don't feel up to a spin class or 5k run, just cleaning the house or going for a 15-20 minute walk can help your body start releasing the endorphins you need to feel happier., Scientists have confirmed that what and when you eat can affect how you feel and your moods. If you're feeling sad, try eating a low-fat, low-protein, but high-carbohydrate snack, such as a toasted English muffin with jam. When high-carbohydrate foods aren't overtaken by the presence of protein or fat, they allow for a release of the amino acid tryptophan into your brain. Tryptophan then turns into serotonin, a neurotransmitter than improves your mood, and all within 30 minutes.You could also have carbs such as air-popped popcorn or a slice of whole wheat bread. But be sure to skip foods high in protein, like cheese and poultry. These foods suppress serotonin because all of the amino acids in them compete with and ultimately block tryptophan from releasing into your brain., Sometimes a consistent and boring routine can make you feel bad.Do something out of the blue (but without making any rash decisions!). Go visit a friend or a museum, surprise your Mom with lunch, or take a weekend trip outside your city or town. By mixing things up a bit, you may rediscover your passion for life.


You could even shake things up by creating small "disturbances" in your everyday schedule. For example, do things in a different order in the morning. Make coffee after your shower, for example. Leave earlier for work. Just break out of that daily routine for a bit and see how you feel. Sometimes the routines that we become accustom to, while initially comforting, can become a trap., Channel your negative or overwhelming emotions into some other activity. Do something you enjoy and that relaxes you, such as painting, photography, poetry, or ceramics. Find whatever makes you feel at peace and helps transport you "away" from your daily struggles. This doesn't mean that you can "escape" your sadness, but it does mean that you are better able to cope with it by making time for yourself to do something that you enjoy.


You could also take up a new activity. Maybe you've always wanted to try yoga but never got the chance. Throw yourself into something new to reinvigorate your life; trying out a new activity or hobby can also be a great way to meet other like-minded people.
 You'll be amazed at how much of a lift taking a shower can give you. Consider making your shower colder than you would normally. Cold showers can be very beneficial and healing; research has suggested that they can improve circulation and blood flow, reduce stress and tension, and boost your mood. The cold releases endorphins into your blood stream and brain and gives you a feeling of rejuvenation and positivity.If you're more inclined to baths, try putting some Epsom salts (about 1-2 cups) in the bath. In addition to helping detoxify the body and reduce tension, Epsom salts are reported to trigger the release of endorphins, and thereby reduce stress and improve mood.