 This is more for when applying dandruff shampoo treatment on the scalp.The over-the-counter treatments for seborrheic dermatitis in shampoos should include one of the following: coal tar, ketoconazole, salicylic acid, selenium sulfide, or zinc pyrithione.
Wash the scalp daily with the chosen product and warm (not hot) water so the skin is not damaged.
Continue this for a couple of weeks. If the condition hasn't improved, gotten worse, or you are otherwise concerned about the situation then you need to consult your doctor.
Most therapeutic shampoos should be left on a minimum of five to 10 minutes before rinsing.
Gently clean your eyelids by washing them each night with baby shampoo and wipe away scales with a cotton swab. Warm or hot compresses also may help to loosen the scales.
This is usually the step to take for infants with "cradle cap" irritation.;
, The dandruff shampoo treatment may be very specific, but you can still look for several qualities in products for other areas of your body.Look for antifungal treatments, creams that fight rash, itching, and inflammation.
Get skin moisturizing creams and gels. Find ones that are oil based (not water based) so they actually trap in moisture.
Treat the affected area to regular washing with the cream/gel a couple of times per day.
Continue this regular washing for a week or so. If there is no marked improvement, worsening of the condition, or you are worried about the condition then you should consult your doctor.
For treating the chest, medicated shampoos may be used. Triamcinolone 0.1% lotion can be applied twice a day until clear and then use once or twice a week.
 There are a number of natural remedies that are unverified by scientific research but are considered helpful by some based on anecdotal evidence, or personal experience. You can add these products to your shampoos and creams.You can try adding tea tree oil to your shampoo. Adding 10 to 12 drops could add some anti-fungal and astringent properties to the treatment. But there are studies suggesting that this substance has a high risk of inducing allergic reactions.
Taking fish oil supplements can help reduce inflammation and accelerate processing of other vitamins which help with skin healing.
Apply creams with aloe vera. Aloe has antibacterial and skin healing properties thanks to its improving of blood circulation.
Taking probiotics, vitamin C, vitamin D can boost immunity and help with dermatitis., If none of the over-the-counter home remedies work, and/or your condition worsens, then you need to seek medical attention.You can help your doctor help you by preparing to answer questions about your symptoms, timing of your condition, treatments you've tried, what other medicines you are on, and any life changes or stress you might be experiencing.
 Infants' skin and scalp may be more easily irritated by some products. Consult a pediatrician if you are unsure of what to use.Use a bland shampoo such as Johnson’s Baby Shampoo. Leave it on for two to three minutes while gently scrubbing the baby's scalp with soft brush to remove scale and crust. Rinse thoroughly. Repeat this two to three times per week.
Don't move on to dandruff shampoos or other lotions without consulting a pediatrician.
Apply a topical steroid lotion of low potency to the areas on the scalp, such as hydrocortisone lotion 1% twice a day for two weeks.
To treat more extensive cradle cap, or in the milder cases in which medicated shampoo was not successful, treatment involves the removal of some of the scale prior to use of the medicated shampoo. Apply peanut or olive oil to the scalp at bedtime overnight to loosen scales, and then shampoo in the morning with one of the medicated shampoos.
If none of these techniques work or you want to try other products then you must consult a pediatrician.

