 The National Visa Center (NVC) coordinates consular processing. They will notify you of the date and time of your interview. You will receive notification by mail or by email.Make note of the date because you will need to have your medical exam completed before the interview date.;
, You can only get a medical exam from an authorized physician. You can find a list of authorized physicians in your area by visiting the website for the Secretary of State.At the website, select the embassy or consulate where you will interview from the drop-down box. Then click “Download PDF.” You will then get a list of physicians in your area and instructions about getting the medical exam.
 You should be given the doctor’s name, telephone number, and email address. You should contact the doctor as soon as possible to schedule your exam.Remember to schedule the exam in advance of your interview date.


Because you may have to have certain blood tests taken—such as an HIV test—you probably need to schedule the exam two weeks before your interview date.
 The instructions may tell you what you must gather and take to the doctor’s office. Each doctor might have specific requirements for what you must bring to your exam. However, you generally will need to take the following:your passport, identity card, or travel document
any prior chest X-rays
your vaccination records
copies of your medical history records

, The medical exam will check your general health and also make sure that you do not have certain diseases. Generally, you can expect the exam to cover the following:review of your medical history
physical exam
chest X-ray
blood tests

, If you don’t have the right vaccinations, then you will need to get them before you can obtain a visa to enter the United States. Current U.S. law requires vaccinations for the following:Hepatitis A
Hepatitis B
Influenza
Measles
Meningococcal
Mumps
Pneumococcal
Pertussis
Polio
Rotavirus
Rubella
Tetanus and diphtheria toxoids
Varicella

, You must pay the doctor directly for the medical exam and then get a copy of the medical exam results. The doctor may also send the results directly to the U.S. Consulate or Embassy., You have to show the U.S. Consulate or Embassy certain documents, so you should gather these in advance of your interview. Find and collect the following travel documents, which are required:Your passport. It must be valid for six months beyond the date you intend to enter the U.S.
The appointment letter NVC sent you.
 You also need to make sure that you have required certificates with you for the interview. You already provided these with your application, so gather them again:birth certificate
police certificates
marriage certificate (if applicable)
divorce decree or death certificate (if applicable)

, You need to show the U.S. Embassy or Consulate that you can support yourself while you are in the U.S. Accordingly, you should pull together financial documents that show you have sufficient financial resources:evidence of assets, such as bank statements
an offer of employment (if you are seeking a work visa)
an Affidavit of Support, signed by a family member who promises to support you while in the U.S.
 There are other documents you should bring with you to the interview. Find the following, which you should already have submitted to NVC as part of your application:Color photographs of your face.
If you are applying for a family-based visa, then all original documents that established you were related to the person who petitioned for your visa.
If you are applying for a job-based visa, then a letter from your prospective employer that lays out the essential terms of the job offer.
 You need to have documents translated if they aren’t in English or if they are not in the official language of the country where you are applying from. For example, if you are applying in Germany, then the documents must be in either English or German.Translations must have a certificate signed by the translator. The translator must state that the translation is accurate and that the translator is competent to translate.
Individual consulates may have specific translation requirements unique to that consulate or embassy. Check your individual instructions.
 You need to submit the original of each document or a certified copy. Then you must provide the Consulate or Embassy another photocopy of the document.You should make your photocopies before arriving for the interview.
 Take out your letter and review the date and time of your interview. Generally, you will have to wait around until you are called in to talk to the Consular officer.
 Each consulate or embassy may have specific requirements for the interview. You can check by visiting the U.S. Secretary of State’s website. Click on the city where you will interview.You will then download a PDF document that explains the particular process for that embassy., You should take out your copy of any document filed in your application. For example, you should look at any form submitted by you or your sponsor in the U.S. In particular, review the following:the dates you have visited the U.S. in the past
your financial information
your immigration history

, If there have been changes since you submitted the paperwork, then you should make a note of them. You want to point them out to the official you meet with. Also gather any documents to support the new information, such as new pay stubs or updated bank records., You should look professional when meeting with the Consular officer. Choose neat, comfortable, laundered clothes instead of T-shirts or clothing with slogans on it.In fact, you should dress as if you are going to court.
 You can’t have relatives or friends go with you to the consular interview. Instead, you must go alone. Make sure that you don’t arrive too early—15 minutes early is fine. Have your appointment letter handy, as you will need to show it first thing.You may have to wait in a line. At some consulates, applicants for immigration visas stand in the same line as those for nonimmigrant visas.
 You will be called by name to meet with the Consular officer. You may feel nervous, but there is no reason to be. Remember the following tips for giving a successful interview:Don’t guess. The Consular officer will ask you various questions. Always answer honestly. If you don’t know the answer, then say so.
Don’t argue. The worst thing you can do is get into an argument with the Consular officer.
Be yourself. You shouldn’t exaggerate why you want to go to the U.S. Don’t say anything like, “I will be a great asset to your country.” Instead, just answer honestly.
Take an oath. The interview shouldn’t last very long. At the end, you must raise your hand and swear that you told the truth.

