 Apply at least two coats of primer to your wicker before painting it. When applying primer, use multiple thin layers for a smoother, better looking, more chip resistant finish. Shake your spray primer thoroughly and then apply it by pressing its applicator button. Spray it evenly onto all wicker surfaces, including crevices and in between weavings. Wear a dust mask when priming.


When priming, keep your arm straight and use sweeping, left-to-right motions. Start from the top of the furniture and work your way to its bottom. Keep the spray applicator a few inches away from the wicker.
For most kinds of primer, the benefits you receive from extra coats stops at five coats of primer. Save primer by applying no more than five coats.
Primer is especially important when changing colors, or when covering over dark colors. Be sure to prime in these situations., Because wicker is so contoured, drips, runs, and unevenness in your primer are likely. Use a clean sponge or paintbrush to smooth any drips, runs, or unevenness so your primer coat is smooth throughout.


After touching up, allow your primer to dry completely before adding another coat. The wait time for your primer should be indicated on its can. In most cases you can expect your primer coats to dry fairly quickly. , Shake up your spray paint thoroughly. In the same fashion you applied your primer, you'll also apply your spray paint. In most cases, it is best to paint from top to bottom, though you may want to paint the underside and less visible parts of the furniture before painting its main parts.


Much like primer, multiple thin coats of paint will look better and be more chip resistant. Use at least two thin layers of paint, and no more than five.
After you are finished spray painting each coat, check for drips, runs, and uneven spots in your paint. Use a clean sponge or brush to touch up these so each coat is smooth and even.
Give your first coat sufficient time to dry completely before adding the next one. The paint will likely be dry in a few hours, but wait two days before using the furniture so the paint fully cures.