 If you get regular bones, bat bones, even big bones, bury them on the spot. There isn't really a point in taking them all the way to a gilded altar to sacrifice them.;
,


Recruitment Drive- 1,000 Prayer experience points
Land of the Goblins- 2,000 Prayer experience points
Mountain Daughter- 2,000 Prayer experience points
Ghosts Ahoy- 2,400 Prayer experience points
Another Slice of H.A.M.- 3,000 Prayer experience points
Missing My Mummy- 6,500 Prayer experience points
Dealing with Scabaras- 7,000 Prayer experience points
Rum Deal- 7,000 Prayer experience points
Summer’s End- 10,000 Prayer experience points
Swan Song- 10,000 Prayer experience points
The World Wakes- 350,000 Prayer experience points

In free-to-play worlds, the best kind of bones to bury are Big Bones, worth 15 experience points each. To obtain these, kill Hill Giants (level 28), Moss Giants (level 42), or Ice Giants and bury their bones until you have 99 prayer. Alternately, you can buy them from other players at the Grand Exchange.
 There are several different bones to bury and, as you would expect, the ones that give the most experience are often the most expensive. The current item that gives the most experience is searing ashes, giving 200 experience each, but costing 20k. These you would not want to bury of course, but use them on either a gilded altar or the Ectofuntus. Due to the ever-changing prices, the most cost efficient bone changes every minute, so you can find out here which is the most cost-efficient right now, World 31 often has many people with gilded altars you can use in Yanille. You can choose to use Dragon Bones if you want the exp fast and don't mind spending lots of money, or you can use infernal ashes if you want to save money but get the exp a bit slower. After all your bones have been used up, most hosts will have a hung amulet of glory so that you can teleport to Edgeville and get more bones.
 When you burn corpses on the pyre logs you can get quite a bit of prayer exp depending on which type of corpse you use. It is not the best exp per hour but it can be used as a break from the monotony of sacrificing bones.
 The Ectofuntus is potentially the best prayer exp in the game, giving 4x the normal exp gained from burying the bones, compared to the 3.5x gained from the gilded altar, however you can't use as many bones per hour as the gilded altar.

To use the Ectofuntus, withdraw 13 bones or ashes, 13 buckets, and your ectophial from completing Ghosts' Ahoy. If you do not have this, simply bring 14 bones and buckets. Go to the Ectofuntus via the Ectophial or walking. Go down and use the buckets on the pool of slime, then go back up and use your bones on the bonecrusher upstairs. If you are using ashes, you can skip this step. Then, go to the Ectophial on the ground floor, and click worship. You will be rewarded with prayer experience and Ecto-Tokens

, These can be competed once a month. If you pick the god that corresponds with the area, you get a nice sum of Prayer and Construction experience, as well as a free altar. This isn't much as it can only be done once a month, but it adds up.