 If you or another person do not have an inhaler, it is important to call your local emergency phone number. There are also other steps you can take while awaiting emergency services. However, you should always ask emergency services what they advise while you're on the phone with them.
 If at home, running a hot shower or bath can transform the bathroom into a good recovery zone due to the steam., Many people get anxious and panic when they suffer an asthma attack and this can increase breathing. However, panicking usually aggravates the asthma attack because it restricts the amount of oxygen that the lungs get. Try to do slow, conscious breathing. Breathe in through your nose for a count of four and then out for a count of six.Try pursing your lips as you exhale. This can help slow your exhales and keep the airways open for a longer time.
 Caffeine's chemical structure is similar to common asthma medications, and a small amount of coffee or soda can help relax the airways and reduce respiratory problems.The drug in question here is called theophylline, which can help prevent and treat wheezing, shortness of breath and chest tightness.There may not be enough theophylline present in coffee or tea to counteract the asthma attack, but it is one alternative option.
 Certain drugs may help relieve the effects of an asthma attack in the case of emergency, although they should never be taken in lieu of getting emergency assistance.


Administer a fast-acting antihistamine (allergy medicine) if you or the asthmatic thinks an allergen has triggered the reaction. This may be the case if you are outside on a day with a high pollen index. Antihistamines include: Allegra, Benadryl, Dimetane, Claritin, Alavert, Tavist, Chlor-Trimeton, and Zyrtec, to name a few. Echinacea, ginger, chamomile, and saffron are all natural antihistamines. If you can find any teas that contain these ingredients, this might help relieve some symptoms, although the effect of antihistamines in general is likely to be minimal. Be careful when using natural herbs or supplements as some people are allergic to the ingredients. Use a over-the-counter pseudoephedrine like .Sudafed. Sudafed is a nasal decongestant, but it could help during an asthma attack when an inhaler is not present because it can help open the bronchioles. It's best to break the pill down with a mortar and pestle and dissolve in warm water or tea before administering to limit the risk of choking. Note as well that while it does work, it can take up to 15 to 30 minutes to be effective. Keep in mind as well that pseudoephedrine can increase the heart rate and blood pressure.