 Although you don't need a prescription to buy iron supplements, it can be hazardous to your health to consume too much iron. Your doctor or health care provider will be able to tell you how many iron supplement pills you should take each day, and give you instructions on when and how to take them.Even if you're trying to choose non-meat sources of iron, you should be able to consume enough iron through food in most cases. However, if you are anemic or have other medical conditions that decrease your iron levels, you may need a supplement.
Have your doctor check your iron levels before you start taking a supplement to make sure a supplement would be of benefit to you. Your doctor may recommend dietary changes rather than simply taking a supplement.
 Your doctor may recommend a particular brand of dietary supplement, or you may be on your own. Read the label to determine what is included in the supplement and how much iron each pill contains.Most adults need between 60 and 120 milligrams of iron each day. Your doctor will tell you how much you should take in supplement form. Then you want to pick the smallest pill that will provide you that amount of iron without too much difficulty.
For example, if your doctor tells you that you need to take 30 milligrams of iron a day, if you find a supplement pill that is 60 milligrams, you could cut this pill in half to get your dosage correct.
However, if you plan to take your 30 milligrams in two doses, you'd be better off trying to find a smaller pill that was only 30 milligrams, or even 15-milligram pills.
 In most cases, iron supplements are best absorbed on an empty stomach. If you have cramps or nausea when taking your supplement without food, you may be able to eat a small snack first.There are certain foods, such as whole grains or raw vegetables, that you should never take at the same time as you take your iron supplement.
You also should avoid caffeine while taking your iron supplement or within an hour or two afterward.
Take your iron supplement with a glass of orange juice, as the Vitamin C will help your body absorb more iron – but don't choose calcium-fortified orange juice.
 If your doctor tells you to take an iron supplement, you won't necessarily be taking it forever. In most cases, your doctor will want you to taper off the supplements once your body reaches healthy levels of iron.Iron supplements typically are used to correct an iron deficiency. Once the deficiency is resolved, you should be able to get the iron you need through your normal diet, even if you are a vegan or vegetarian.
Typically, when your iron levels are back to normal, your doctor will tell you to continue taking supplements for about six months while regularly monitoring your levels.
Once you're able to manage your iron levels through your diet, your doctor typically will order periodic blood tests to make sure your levels are still in the normal range.

