 If your car does not have ABS, then you shouldn't hit or slam the brakes. Instead, you should squeeze the brake pedal firmly with your foot to stop the car as quickly as possible. You should squeeze the pedal down until right before the tires begin to skid, which will reach the limit of the traction of the tires. If you push down on the pedal too hard, you will lock the brakes and will lose control of your vehicle.
 This is called "threshold braking" and will make your car stop as quickly as possible. Listen for a faint howl from the tires, which will tell you that you haven't reached the limit and that you're doing the right thing. If the wheel locks up and you've lost control of the car, then you've gone too far and have to let go and reapply the brakes again.
 Look to either side of the object and try to aim the car away from it instead of colliding with the object head on. If you're mesmerized by the object that you're about to hit, then you won't be able to focus on threshold braking, which will require your full concentration.
 Pressing your left foot against the rest pad area will help you brace your body against the damage and will make you for sensitive to knowing how you should modulate the brake pedal.
 It takes time and practice to master this type of braking, and spending some time doing it in an empty parking lot can improve your chances of success if the time ever comes. Also, practicing squeezing the brakes both firmly and lightly in your everyday driving can help you improve your braking skills -- and can save your life when the time comes.









You can measure this by setting up markers as to when to start braking and when you stop the car, and you can visually see the difference between your tires locked up and not.
Extra practice: Purposely lock up your brakes. Now practice reducing pressure on the pedal until it stops locking up, then apply pressure again to the OSP (optimal squeeze point) again. Inevitably, you will go over your OSP, or you will change surfaces while braking, that is why this practice is essential.
Take note: each surface and speed will have different OSPs. This is why you should practice while it is dry, then while it is raining, and then when it is snowy, if it's possible.

