 Knowing where and how your audience best receives information is vital to getting your message across. Do not worry about advertising to those unlikely to attend your event or support your program. Focus on those who will.


Identify places where your target audience meets. Coffee shops, schools, local businesses, and youth organizations are common areas.
Find out what media your audience uses to get their news and entertainment. Radio stations, television stations, and websites provide ways to promote community events at a low cost.;
, Include all the details about your event or organization, including date, time, location, purpose of the event/organization, what people need to bring, cost, and a contact person. Refer to this as you are creating different marketing materials so that everything stays consistent.


Write a short text that promotes your event. After creating your standard announcement, you can adapt it to several alternate formats: post cards, posters, e-marketing, book marks, and press releases.
Provide the information sheet along with your publicity materials when you ask other organizations or businesses to help you advertise. This supplies additional information that may not make it into the press release or postcard.
 Businesses and nonprofit organizations often promote community events for free or at a low cost. Drop off fliers, posters, or brochures at their offices. Get on their websites to fill out a special form for promoting events. Partner with local businesses that are sponsoring the event and ask them to help you advertise.
 These are inexpensive or free options for promoting an event or program. Word of mouth is often the best advertising method, so get others talking about your event.


Engage your potential audience. Discuss issues they care about. Find out how your organization or event connects with their values and interests.
Invite people to respond. Challenge them to get involved in the community. Ask them to register for your event. Create some sort of call to action so you can gauge how successful your event will be.
Drive people to your website. Once on your website, they can find more information, sign up for your event, or learn about your organization.

