 A ponytail will help keep you organized as you work on finding each keratin bond. Some bonds may be obvious and some may be more difficult to find so you want to work on a small piece of your scalp at a time to avoid missing anything.
 Use your index finger or the thin end of a salon comb to pull out an even row of hair at the bottom of your head. If you encounter any tangles, pull out a little more hair from your ponytail so you can work on the larger section all together.Don't try to remove several hair extensions at once. You'll be able to remove hair extensions much more easily and safely if you work slowly and diligently.
 Isolate one keratin bond and use needle nose pliers to squeeze the bond. The bond will crack when enough force is applied and it will be easier to release your natural hair from it. After the first crack, move the pliers around the bond and squeeze a different section of it to weaken more of the bond.Crush the bond as many times as needed to loosen its grip on your natural hair.
Lightly twist the pliers if you have stubborn bonds but be careful not to pull hair out of your scalp.
After removing all of your extensions, some of the cracked bond may still be in your hand if it shattered, so use a fine toothed comb to weed out any debris.Simply brushing your hair will not help to remove keratin bonds. Instead, it will damage your natural hair and roots.
 Use your fingertips and rub any combination of olive, coconut, baby, or almond oil into the cracks of the bonds you created with the pliers. Let the oil seep in and sit for 10-15 minutes. The oil will break down the keratin and allow you to pull or gently comb the extensions out.Instead of a household oil, use a specifically designed keratin bond remover from a salon or beauty supply store.
A small amount of acetone or other alcohol-based gel on the bond can help as well. Just use a small dab so that you don’t damage your scalp with too much alcohol.
 To help speed up the chemical process of applying oil to the bonds, blow dry your hair on a low setting. Anywhere from 5 to 15 minutes will be helpful as heat makes bonds more malleable and easy to slip off.
 Keep in mind that as you pull on the keratin bonds, you want to keep your natural hair from being pulled with the keratin bond. Hold your scalp and the base of your roots with one hand while you lightly pull the bond with the other hand. If you feel too much of a pull on your scalp, try re-cracking the bonds and applying more oil., Use a combination or combs or brushes to help pick out any leftover bonds or extension leftovers. Overall, combs work better than brushes since they have stiffer teeth but a metal brush can also work as well., Take a shower and use a clarifying shampoo and deep conditioner to help restore your hair, roots, and scalp. Clarifying shampoos will help remove the excess olive oil as well as remaining glue from the weave while the conditioner replenishes any nutrients a harsh alcohol or chemical may have stripped away.

