 Mackenzie is very healthy. In fact, in Dork Diaries Book One, it is said that Mackenzie eats tofu salad! If you don't already have a healthy diet, construct one using the food pyramid. Make sure you include a variety of healthy foods in your daily diet to ensure you get all the nutrients you need. However, depending on what types of food groups you consume the most (like grains), you may have to alternate the amount of nutrients you ingest to get the wonderful body of Mackenzie Hollister.


For example, if you are eating too much from the fats/oils group, you should try to replace a sugary snack with a healthy fruit or vegetable.
If you aren't sure what nutrients you're lacking, it's best to ask your doctor and/or parents for advice on what to eat.
Drink lots of water! Drinking more water can improve your complexion, increase your energy, stop headaches, and make you feel better. You should drink at least a 1/32 your body weight of water per day.;
, Mackenzie is in very good shape. Make it a habit to exercise for thirty minutes every day. If you find that you don't have enough time or energy to exercise for the entire thirty minutes, split the thirty minutes into three ten-minute sessions, spreading them throughout the day evenly―ten minutes in the morning, ten minutes in the afternoon, and ten minutes in the evening.


Look up workout routines to learn how to strengthen and tone certain parts of your body.
Most schools have the Presidential Fitness Test in gym class. Try to pass each category as (at least) national.
Work on your splits. In Dork Diaries Book One, it specifically notes that Mackenzie ended her dance routine with a split. To stretch for a split, you should do the following every morning and night:


Straddle stretch―do this for two minutes total.

Butterfly stretch―do this for one minute.

Pigeon stretch―do this for one minute per side.
 Go to bed at a reasonable time and get up right away in the morning when your alarm clock wakes you up. If you lounge in bed or go back to sleep, you'll have lots of trouble falling asleep that night, and you'll also be late for school. Also, exercising daily will help you fall asleep faster at night because you will have used up all your energy and there will be none left to keep you awake.


Avoid cramming and doing homework late at night, as this will deprive you of the sleep you need and affect your entire day.
If you find that you have trouble sleeping, look up suggestions and try different methods to put yourself to sleep faster.
Don't set your alarm clock too early. Instead, adjust your morning routine a little so that you can get all the hours of sleep that you need. For example, take away five minutes from styling your hair so that you can get a bit more sleep.
Start setting out your clothes for the next morning before you go to sleep so that you aren't rummaging through your closet for an outfit to wear in the morning. You can do different things every ten minutes to prepare for the next day. For example, in the morning, Mackenzie would do yoga for ten minutes.

