 It should be large enough to contain the items suggested below, but small enough to pick up with ease and toss into a car or carry by hand if needed. Bear in mind that you may also need to be carrying or holding onto your pet/pets, your own bags and if you have any children, their items too, so choose a container or bag that provides for maximum convenience.;
, Gauze, clean rags, or even a clean, flexible sock can be used as bandage material to help control bleeding and keep wounds clean until they can be treated by a veterinarian.


Non-adhesive vet wrap is also great to have in a pet first aid kit, as it does not stick to animal fur and is easier to remove. Meanwhile, duct tape can be useful for holding temporary wraps or splints.
 This is to cut tape, gauze, splints, or any other type of bandaging material. There are specially designed scissors or shears with an edge that allows you to remove bandaging near your pet's skin without accidentally cutting him or her––perhaps this is a good choice.
 Sterile saline wash is vital should your pet ever have debris or smoke in its eyes. Just apply liberally and flush the eyes until all debris is removed. You may also want to keep some sterile eye lubrication in your first aid kit, so that you can sooth your pet's eyes after using the sterile flush.
 Water is not only useful for rehydrating a pet, but also for flushing wounds, soothing burns, washing off toxins, soaking a paw, or cooling an overheated pet. Keep a gallon of water in your first aid kit along with a collapsible dish in case you are away from home.
 In addition to a small quantity of your pet's regular medications, keep styptic powder, diphenhydramine, and sugar tablets in the pet first aid kit. Styptic powder stops bleeding in cases of minor cuts or torn nails; diphenhydramine (or Benadryl) is an antihistamine that can be used temporarily for mild allergic reactions; and sugar tablets can help a diabetic pet or a small pet with low blood sugar.
 Dish soap, such as Dawn, is very effective in removing toxins from the skin and fur.Just remember to rinse and flush your pet afterwards with water.
 A thermometer is necessary in determining if your pet has a fever or is hypothermic (the normal body temperature for a cat is approximately 99.5-102.5°F).However, veterinarians typically recommend that the temperature be taken rectally, as it more accurately reflects the pet's core body temperature. To make the insertion easier on your pet, keep a petroleum or water-based lubricant in the first aid kit.
 In an emergency, don’t lose valuable time looking up the phone numbers for an animal emergency hospital, veterinarian, local police, or poison helpline (Pet Poison Helpline at 1-855-213-6680 is recommended). Keep the details all on a small index card in your wallet, along with the identification numbers for your pet's microchip and rabies tag. The Pet Poison Helpline also has a great iPhone App for toxin information and guidelines.
 Cats can become fearful, aggressive, and unpredictable when hurt. Avoid injury to yourself and keep your pet safe by having a blanket, slip-leash, muzzle, and/or mesh bag in your first aid kit. Blankets can be used to wrap injured pets up like a taco, and mesh bags (with handles) work great for transporting cats. Muzzles, meanwhile, can ensure you're not accidentally bitten when administering first aid.
 Don't forget the treats! It's a great way to calm and distract an injured pet. This is especially helpful during bandaging, but really can help in any stress-filled first aid situation.
 Bring at least a week's worth of water. You never know how long it will take until you find a stable shelter that provides pet care. If your cat eats dry food then bring a bag of it. If your pet likes wet/canned food then multiply how many times your cat eats daily by 7 for the amount of cans you'll need. Most cans of cat food have an easy-open tab that you lift and pull backwards. Brands like Friskies and Olives have several flavors and easy-open cans. Bring a pack of small soak-free plates to put thee food on.


If your cat likes dry food then you can go to your local store like Walmart and find portable pet food and water bowls.
If your cat doesn't like food from the brands mentioned then you can bring a can opener if needed.

