 This is a classic early-relationship move. If she's open to a hug, she's probably open to this.


You can try this any time that you're sitting next to her for longer than a few minutes. Consider putting your arm around her during a movie, a concert, a school play, in the backseat of a car, or on a ferris wheel.
Make sure that the seat you're sitting in has a back-side to rest your arm on. Couches are great for this.
Consider picking a time when there aren't many other people around. She may feel self-conscious if a lot of her friends, or yours, see you make your move. If the lights are low--say, you're watching a movie, or it's dark outside--she may feel more comfortable.
 Sit close enough that you can reach around to her far shoulder--anywhere from a few inches to a foot apart.


Wait until you've been sitting next to each other for at least 5-10 minutes. She should be comfortable, and you should be comfortable.
Wait for the right moment: maybe there's a romantic scene taking place in the movie, or maybe it's a slow, cinematic scene when there's no dialogue and the music swells. Avoid making your move during an especially tense moment, such as a chase scene or a scene with complex dialogue. When you put your arm around her, the movie is the last thing that she'll be thinking about, and she might be irritated if you make her miss something important.
 Lift your arm slowly but purposely and reach behind her. Lay your arm against the back of the couch or seat, and gently rest your arm along the ridge of her shoulders.


Play it cool. Be casual and nonchalant. If she doesn't shake your arm away, there's a good chance that she's into it. Leave your arm where it is and keep watching the show.
Keep acting the same way that you were doing before, but feel about ten times cooler.
If she shrugs your arm away or moves your arm off of her shoulder, don't push it. She isn't in the mood, or she isn't interested. Keep your cool and keep watching the show.
 This is a classic "excuse" to lift your arms up and make the move.


Take a big, theatrical yawn, reach your arms high into the air, and lay one arm down on her shoulders. Rest your arm there unless she shrugs you away.
The yawn is a cheesy move, to be sure, but it might make her laugh and break the tension of the moment.

