 If you want your old dog to get along with your new dog, the best strategy is to use scent to introduce them. Don’t immediately introduce it face-to-face to the dog you already have. Instead, place each in separate crates on opposite sides of the house. Introduce them to each other using the sense of smell by placing scent articles, or objects that the other has come into contact with, into their crates.During this sensitive time, don’t let the two dogs make visual contact in order to avoid territorial aggressiveness. Your resident dog will feel the need to defend its territory from your new dog.
Keep swapping the scent articles back and forth to deepen the initial bond. Scent needs to be the key facilitator of communication during this early introductory period.
 While keeping your other dog in a crate and out of sight, let your new dog explore its new turf. Give it 15 or 20 minutes to roam around and become accustomed to its new home and new human companions. Do this several times a day, making sure that your other dog is out of sight.When you return your new dog to its crate, make sure to place scent articles that have your other dog’s smell in with your new dog.
Let your other dog out after your new dog is secure in its crate, and alternate this pattern several times a day. Your new dog will leave its scent throughout the house, and when you let your old dog out of its crate, it’ll gradually become accustomed to this new scent.
 Your dogs will be ready to meet when they show signs of being comfortable with each other’s scent, like not sniffing and chasing furiously around the house after a new smell. When they seem accustomed to each other’s scent presence at home, take them somewhere that they won’t feel the need to be territorial, like a neighbor’s yard, enclosed park, or other confined space.Take them there separately and continue to keep them from making visual contact. First, let the old dog run around the outdoor space while the new dog is out of sight.
Then, get the old dog out of sight and let the new dog run around. Just like in your home, you are training your dogs to recognize familiar scents, and thereby “formally” introducing them.
Finally, after taking the time to let your dogs’ main sense and natural instincts guide them, you are ready to let them meet face-to-face. When they do meet, they’ll recognize each other’s familiar scents.
 Next, with both dogs leashed, bring them both into the confined area so they can make visual contact. Let them keep their distance, and do not use too much pull on the leash or force them face-to-face. Instead, allow them to walk around each other and become acclimated.If, after a couple minutes, they seem to be getting along, drop their leashes and let them freely play around for a few minutes.
If they stare, aggressively posture, or bark, then separate the dogs, repeat scent article training, and try having them interact again after a day or two has passed.
 After they’ve met on neutral turf, bring them back home separately. Have them interact as they did on neutral turf in your yard. If all’s gone well so far, bring both dogs into your yard with their leashes dragging and allow them to interact.If signs of tension arise, then separate the dogs and try letting them interact in your yard later.
If they play nicely in the yard, bring them inside separately and give them some time to chill out in their crates a bit. Then, let them both out in the house and allow them to get acclimated to each other’s presence inside.
 Once they’ve met, continue to keep them closely supervised and, use a sturdy baby grate to keep them separated until you are completely confident they are comfortable and safe with each other. Monitor their body language, look for signs of aggression, and use treats to reinforce positive behaviors and associations.Keep the dogs separated while you’re not home using crates or sturdy grates.
Make sure there are no treats or toys scattered around that the dogs might fight over.
Interrupt any situations where the dogs are barking loudly, staring each other down, running, or engaging in any other high-arousal activities.
 If your efforts at crate training, scent training, and gradual introduction aren’t working, you might want to consult a professional trainer. A trainer can also help you if you’ve acquired an adult dog and didn’t have the opportunity to begin socialization early or in a controlled settings as is typically recommended.Ask your dog owner friends, veterinarian, groomer, or local boarding kennel for trainer recommendations. Try to obtain a range of options and look for those that are highly recommended and fit your budget.
Ask your prospective trainer about their qualifications, educations, and techniques. Ask them how long they’ve been in business, and ask if they have client recommendations to validate their work (if they haven’t already listed such information on a website or brochure).

