 Some investors make lots of short-term trades with the intention of making quick financial gains. This is often known as “day trading.” Others invest conservatively, buying stocks and other financial instruments for the long term. Some brokers are best for day traders, while others are good for more conservative investors., A full-service broker provides expert guidance and a wide variety of services ranging from investment advice to retirement planning. While expensive, they are often best for those who are novices when it comes to investing. Discount brokers, on the other hand, charge less and offer fewer services. These brokers may be better for those who already know more about making sound investments.Some discount brokers will offer high-quality research on their websites, making them potentially good options for a novice investor who can’t afford a full-service broker.
Full-service brokers will often offer one-on-one investment advice, whether in a physical location or through online chat. Some discount brokers also offer this service. But be aware that such specialized service usually comes with a high price tag, even in the case of discount brokers., Brokers who deal directly with the investor are known as regular brokers, while those who act as intermediaries between their clients and larger brokerage firms are known as broker-resellers. Resellers are generally less likely to have gone through the same kind of intense training and certification process that regular brokers go through. They may also be regulated less carefully than regular brokers. This doesn’t mean that all resellers are disreputable. But it does mean that you should be careful before you hire one, especially if you’re picking a broker for the first time., Some online brokers may require a high minimum amount for investment. This is because it can be difficult for them to make money on small accounts. And if you don’t have much money, you won’t be able to diversify your holdings well, which will leave you vulnerable to market downturns. Still, several highly-rated brokers don’t require account minimums at all, or have low requirements., High fees and commissions can wipe out your return on investment. At the same time, a broker who charges only a minimal fee per transaction may not be very helpful when it comes to investment advice. Some brokers will charges different fees for nearly every possible service, which can add up quickly. When choosing a broker, be sure that you examine their fee structure carefully so that you’re only paying for the services that you want., These can include fees for inactivity or fees for requesting paper statements instead of online statements. Pay close attention to whether or not potential brokers charge these sorts of fees., Never choose a broker without conducting intensive research into what kind of value they get for their customers. You don’t need to go through a bank or the brokers themselves for this information. There are numerous reputable third party finance websites that rank brokers.A good starting point to determine broker competence is to check if they’re a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). FINRA is the largest independent regulatory body for securities firms in the United States. Most reputable brokers are FINRA members., Speed an important factor in finance. Therefore you want to make sure that your broker can keep up with the market. Visit their website several times per day. Make sure to visit during peak trading hours to make sure that their website can keep up with the market.Speed is more important for investors who make lots of short term trades than those who are concerned with investing for the long term. But no matter what type of investor you are, you’ll want to be sure that your broker’s website won’t go down during a trade or any other inopportune time.
 Brokers don’t just help you pick stocks. They also deal with many different kinds of bonds, futures, and stock options. Some even offer credit cards or checking accounts. Look at each broker’s specific list of services to figure out which one is right for you., You may want to initiate trades at times you cannot be at your computer. Some brokers offer trading options that include telephone operations (either automated or "live") or orders by fax. Take note of the fees associated with these alternatives. Often they differ from regular online trades., Waiting on hold for 20 minutes or longer can mean the difference between a successful and unsuccessful trade. Before picking a broker, make sure that their customer service department will be willing and able to help you with potential problems quickly and efficiently. Consider prioritizing firms that offer a variety of different ways to contact them in case of emergency. A broker whose customer service you can call, text, or email with the expectation of a quick response may be a better choice than one who you can only call. Some brokerage websites may also allow for online chat., Traders typically keep some uninvested money in their account for purposes of quick investment. Find out how much interest -- if any -- the broker will pay you on that parked cash. Don’t consider it a deal breaker if the broker won’t give you interest on uninvested money, since you may not want to keep it uninvested for long., Look for perks from the broker. Some will offer a bonus of free trades to entice you to open an account. Others might offer online finance courses. If you think these bonuses might make you a happier and more well-informed investor, you should consider hiring brokers who offer them.