 Pour a teaspoon or two of oil into a wide, steep-rimmed pan. Warm over medium heat for a few minutes until hot (a drop of water should immediately start to "dance" and sizzle). Pour the dry rice into the pan and stir to coat with oil. Spread the rice out into a single layer. Let the rice cook for about 10 minutes this way, stirring frequently.


As the rice toasts, it should gain an opaque white color — it will look almost pearly.If it starts to turn brown or black, you're using too much heat or not stirring enough.
This technique brings out the naturally nutty flavor of good basmati rice and improves its texture. You should be able to smell the former as the rice cooks., Remove the toasting rice from the heat. Pour the rice into a slow cooker (e.g., crock pot, etc.), then add the lentils, broth, bouillon, chopped onion, and seasonings. Stir a few times to combine.


If you like your rice somewhat spicy, at this point, you can try adding a dash of cayenne pepper or a generous pinch or red pepper flakes to give the mixture some heat. Paprika is another good choice for its easy flavor.
 The convenient thing about this recipe is that it doesn't require much work from you. Simply set the slow cooker to medium heat and let the ingredients cook for several hours.


Different cookers will cook the meal at different rates. After about an hour and a half, you can carefully remove the lid and test the rice and lentils for texture. Both should be soft and smooth. If either has a stiff or crunchy texture, let the mixture cook for another forty minutes before trying again.
 Though they aren't as common as they once were in the US, pressure cookers are commonly used in Indian cooking. They are cheap, easy to use, and work similarly to slow cookers. The most important thing to remember when using a pressure cooker is that they work much faster than slow cookers and that you must allow the high-pressure steam to dissipate before removing the lid. See below for instructions:


Add the ingredients to the pressure cooker.
If you have an electric pressure cooker, set it to high pressure. If you have a stovetop pressure cooker, set it over high heat on the stove. When the meter indicates it has reached high pressure, reduce the heat to low.
Let the mixture cook for 6 minutes at high pressure.
Turn off the heat and let the cooker sit for 10 minutes. The contents will continue to cook. After this, release the rest of the pressure with the valve and remove the lid.
 When they are finished cooking, stir the rice and lentils — they may have settled while cooking. You can drain off any excess moisture or leave the rice in it for a soup/broth like dish. Spoon onto plates or bowls and enjoy.

