 Many students are discouraged when they are assigned to a remedial class. Some assume this placement means they aren’t ready for college. However, being assigned a remedial class doesn’t mean that you are behind, just that you have an opportunity to receive better instruction and improve your skills in a subject that you have struggled with in the past.There is nothing unusual about being asked to attend a remedial course: two thirds of community college students take at least one remedial course. At four year colleges, approximately 40% of students take a remedial course.;
, The number one obstacle to being good at math is the belief that you just don’t have the ability to succeed. Many people only develop a mastery of a subject later in life. Perhaps, you believed you were bad in the subject and therefore never tried hard enough. Perhaps, you just didn’t have talented teachers.


Once you convince yourself that there is nothing wrong with you, it’ll be easier to commit to work hard enough to succeed., While you might think that math doesn’t matter if you want to be an artist, you would be wrong. If you are successful, at some point you will need to price your work and account for your sales. Your career can take you in unexpected directions and you should master all the skills that you can, because you never know which will be useful., If the material is so familiar that it is becoming boring and hard to pay attention to, ask you professor if you can be assigned extra credit. Don't tell her that you find the course "boring" and don't give the impression that you are above the course. Just indicate that you want to learn more and ask if you can be given something more challenging.If you go above and behind and establish a special relationship with a professor, she might be willing to help you out in the future when applying for jobs.
 There might be nothing you can do to really get interested in your remedial course. In that case, look ahead to what it means to finish up and pass the class. Remember that to move on to the major courses you want to take, you will need to finish your remedial course first. Think about where you want college to take you in life. Focus on that to muster the energy to get through this obstacle.