 These nutrient rich materials are especially beneficial to vegetable gardeners,but the downside is that they decompose quickly and are not very good at keeping out weeds. Lawn clippings should be used in conjunction with newspapers where weed prevention is needed.;
, Leaf mulch works well for keeping out weeds initially but after the leaves start to decompose, they may lose some of their effectiveness. Therefore, it’s a good idea to add newspaper under leaf mulches.


Consider running the leaves through a lawn mower a few times before using them as a mulch because this makes them easier to handle and less likely to form impenetrable clumps.
 Widely considered to be one of the more aesthetically appealing options available, woodchips can be found at a number of retailers. While this biodegradable material does eventually decompose, it won’t vanish as fast as grass clippings, newspapers, or leaves.Those who plan on using woodchips in their gardens should take care to get the untreated kinds, because otherwise the dangerous chemicals on them could leach into your vegetation.
 This mulch is useful for vegetable gardeners because it warms the soil quickly and does not decompose. A number of colorful plastic mulches are available and each one serves a specific purpose in the garden. Those who are concerned about the environment should look for the biodegradable types, but even those plastics do not disintegrate with any rapidity.
 If not confined in some fashion, these lightweight stones tend to migrate. They do, however, allow water to drain and make good pathway markers in your yard. The stones also absorb heat and make a good mulch for desert climate plants and xeriscapes.


However, gravel and pebbled areas can be hard to clean and expensive to install.
 When used in layers that are three to six pages deep, ordinary black-and-white newspapers make a good defense against weeds. These lightweight sheets should be dampened with water or sprinkled lightly with soil to keep them from flying all over your yard.


However, colored newspaper should be avoided as a mulch because it may contain potentially toxic chemicals that you most likely don’t want in their yards.
 This inexpensive option works well for acid-loving plants but may not be good for those plants that prefer alkaline conditions. This sort of mulch also tends to migrate from place to place so it should not be used in gardens that have a slope to them.
 Horticultural or washed playground sand makes a relatively inexpensive mulch for Mediterranean herbs, cacti, succulents and other plants that need fast-draining soils and warm growing conditions. It can also be used to mark pathways, but it does tend to migrate.
 This long lasting material is generally cheaper than pebbles or gravel to install. However, it does tend to attract vermin and it is relatively ineffective at keeping out weeds. As with pine straw, straw does tend to move around and does not work well in yards that have a slope to them.

