 To wear and fasten a French cuff shirt, start by pulling on the shirt and allowing the cuff flaps on each arm to spread over your hands. Don’t try to fasten the cuffs before you put the shirt on. If you do this, you will struggle to get your hands through the cuffs.;
, Now fold back the cuffs on each side, making sure each cuff's buttonholes align. You should be able to do this easily by using the crease in the cuff., Use a pair of cufflinks or knot closures (knotted bundles of silk or rayon cording) to close the cuffs and keep them in place. Pass the cuff links through the holes on each side of the cuff and twist them so they cannot pass back through the buttonholes.Knot closures and cufflinks come in a variety of colours and styles, allowing you to coordinate colours with your tie and shirt or display a special but understated accessory.
 French cuffs are at their best when worn for a formal occasion and teamed with a sharp suit. If you are attending an event that is black or white tie, you will certainly want to wear French cuffs, and secure them cuff links. Black and white tie events are generally the ones which require you to be the most formally dressed, and French cuffs are an important part of this.


Judge your choice of cuff links by the occasion. A formal event will require a more subdued and subtle cuff link, rather than a bright or colourful one.A plain gold, silver, or platinum cuff link is a good choice for formal wear.
 A step down from a tuxedo is a normal suit, and again French cuffs can be worn to add an extra touch to your formal dress. You will have the judge each situation independently, but you might consider French cuffs as an extra to be worn on special occasions both in your social life and your work life.


One good rule of thumb could be, don’t wear French cuffs if you are not wearing a tie.Remember that style rules can be broken, and it’s important that you feel comfortable with how you are dressed., If you are wearing French cuffs then you have a great opportunity to wear some nice cuffs links that draw attention to your smart shirt. Cuff links can be great accessories for men. They are practical and smart, without being too gaudy or over the top. A nice gold, silver or platinum cuff link can add a lot to your look.


Depending on your taste you can opt for functional, or more flashy and attention grabbing cuff links.
Keep in mind the colour of your shirt and avoid clashes. Neutral coloured cuff links give you more flexibility.
You can coordinate cuff links and knot closures with your tie and shirt. Matching each item with complimentary colours may make a more successful outfit.
Keep an eye out for older cuff links in second-hand and thrift stores.