 Junie B. wears a variety of different clothes, but her trademark top is a pink sweater.Get creative. A solid pink long-sleeved sweater works well, but you can also choose one with a pattern on it. Another option would be to wear a short-sleeved pink sweater or pink sweater vest over a long-sleeved white shirt.;
, Look for a bright purple skirt that stops at or around the knee.


The skirt should be bouncy and fun.
Just like the sweater, you can have fun with the skirt. A solid purple skirt works, but you can choose one with a print if you like that option better.
 Once you have the sweater and skirt on, you need to cover your feet with knee-high white socks.


Mimic Junie B. even better by pulling one sock up to the knee while allowing the other sock to crumple down into a heap above your ankle.
 Even though Junie B. is often shown wearing other types of footwear, her original favorites were classic black Mary Jane shoes.


If you can't find Mary Jane shoes, wear simple canvas sneakers instead.
 If you want your hair to match, too, you might need to wear a brown wig.


When she was in kindergarten, Janie B. had short brown hair cut into a bob that stopped just above her shoulders.
After becoming a first grader, her hair grew down to her shoulders and became a little messier.
 In kindergarten, Junie B. almost always wore a bow in her hair. By the time she entered the first grade, she stopped wearing hair bows and started wearing purple glasses.You can pick one accessory or the other, or you can wear both together. The choice is yours to make.
Any hair bow should work. For a twist, you could even wear a big flower hair clip. If you do not have a bow or flower that you want to wear, though, you can make one simply by following the instructions provided in the “Hair Bow” section of this article.
If you cannot find purple glasses, you can make your own using purple pipe cleaners. See the “Purple Glasses” section of this article for more information.
 One piece of ribbon should be about the same length as the wearer's forearm—the portion of your arm between your elbow and your hand. The second piece of ribbon should only be about 4 inches (10 cm) long.


Cut the ribbon using scissors or sewing shears.
This project should be completed with the help of a teenager or adult. Steps that require the use of scissors or hot glue should not be performed by a young child.
 Lay the longer strip flat, then fold the two ends in toward the center of the ribbon.


You'll fold one-third of the left side in followed by one-third of the right side. The two ends should overlap at the middle of the ribbon.
 Carefully apply a dot of hot glue to the top of the left end (or whichever end is on the bottom of the stack). Press the bottom of the other end into this dot of glue.


Allow the glue to cool and dry before continuing.
If preferred, you could sew the two ends together instead of gluing them in place.
 Take the second, smaller strip of ribbon and wrap it around the center of the first piece.


This piece of ribbon should cover the seam of the longer piece.
Wrap tightly. You should wrap the second piece so tightly that it squeezes the center of the first piece, giving it a bow-like shape.
 Once you have completely wound the second ribbon around the first, apply a little hot glue to the bottom side of the second ribbon's loose end. Press it in place over the center of the bow.


The seam of this second piece should be at the back of the bow, where the hidden seam of the first piece is.
Allow the glue to dry before continuing.
You can use a needle and thread instead of glue if you would prefer to do so.
 Apply a small dot of glue to the bottom center of the bow. Press the glue-covered portion onto the top side of a plain plastic headband.


The exact placement of the bow is your decision, but to mimic Janie B. Jones as well as possible, you should position it toward the top of the headband yet slightly off toward one side.Let the glue dry.
 When the bow is firmly attached to the headband, your accessory is complete and ready to wear. Put it on when you wear the rest of your Junie B. Jones outfit.
 Take one purple pipe cleaner and cut it in half using a pair of wire cutters or sharp, durable scissors.


Set the two halves aside for now.
Note that an older child or adult should take care of this step. The remaining steps can be performed by adults and children of all ages.
 Take a second purple pipe cleaner and bend one end so that it forms a "P" shape.


The closed part of the "P" should come down to a place just above the mid-point of the pipe cleaner.
Lock the bend in place by wrapping the end around the straight part of the pipe cleaner once.
 Take the other end of the same pipe cleaner and bend it into a backwards "P" shape.


The rounded part of the backwards "P" should face the same direction as the rounded part of the forward facing "P." It should also be approximately the same size.
These two "P" shapes will form the eyes of the glasses.
 Take one half of the cut pipe cleaner and wrap one end around the outer side of one glasses eye.


Position this piece at the center of the eye piece's outer edge.
You only need to wrap the end of this pipe cleaner half around the eye frame once or twice to hold it in place.
 Bend the free end of the attached pipe cleaner half slightly, creating a "J" shaped hook.


The point of the hook should face downward.
This piece forms one stem of the glasses. The hook needs to be able to sit on top of and behind your ear.
 Take the other cut pipe cleaner half and wrap it around the other glasses eye in the same way you wrapped the first.


You also need to bend the free end of that pipe cleaner half into a hook so that it will fit behind your other ear.
 Your purple glasses are now complete. Try them on, make any necessary adjustments to improve the way they feel, and wear them with the rest of your Junie B. Jones outfit.

