 One thing that you may do during treatment is to work on your social skills. If you suffer from HPD, you probably have difficulties with others. You may have strained relationships with your family and with your friends, and you may find it difficult to make meaningful connections.During treatment for HPD, you can work on being more of an others-oriented person instead of a self-centered person. Stop trying to take the spotlight and draw all the attention to yourself.
This means you need to work on not making up things, doing things to draw the attention to yourself, or only focusing on your immediate interests and needs.
 Another thing you may want to work on during the treatment of your HPD is to limit or reduce your provocative and overly sexual behavior. Those with HPD will wear inappropriate clothing, flirt, and try to seduce others to draw attention to themselves.During treatment, you should work limiting your sexual actions. Limit flirting and behavior that others may find offensive, like coming on to friends’ partners.
Try to start dressing in a more modest way. Start wearing appropriate clothing to social functions, like dressing professional for work and wearing modest clothing when out with friends.
 Another thing you may want to work on to treat your HPD is to learn how to control your emotions. If you have HPD, you probably feel uncontrollable urges to act dramatically or indulge in theatrics to gain attention. With or without the help of a therapist, you can work on recognizing the beginnings of an emotional spiral.For example, if you feel that people are not paying attention to you and you feel like throwing a tantrum or causing a scene, you can recognize this feeling and step away from the situation. You can coach yourself to be less emotional by saying, “I do not need to cause a scene. I do not need the attention to feel validated.”
When you are with others, they may be able to help you figure out when you are being theatrical or causing a scene. If your behavior is causing them embarrassment, learn how to accept their analysis of your behavior and step back to reassess the situation.
 Many people with HPD have a lot of trouble dealing with any type of failure and cannot take criticism. They react negatively if someone points out a fault, disagrees with them, or tries to tell them their behavior is problematic. Work on accepting criticism and seeing failures as a natural part of life.Everyone faces failure from time to time. Everyone makes mistakes. It doesn’t make you a bad person or an inferior person. Start by thinking those thoughts when you face failure. Think to yourself, “Just because I failed at this thing does not mean I am a failure” or “I am a human and I make mistakes. That does not make me an inferior person.”
When you receive criticism, look at it calmly instead of reacting emotionally immediately. Looking at criticism calmly and rationally will help you decide if there is validity in the criticism and how to learn from the criticism.
Learning to accept criticism and failures can help you reduce the dramatic reactions to things that happen in your life.

