 Most schools will give you a list of what you need. On the day before, pack your bag. You only need a few binders and things to write with. You can bring locker things too. If you got your schedule, put that in there. If you got a bus pass, put that in your bag if you plan on taking the bus. Be sure you have something to eat! Pack your lunch, or get money to buy school lunch. A water bottle isn't a bad idea either. If you are a girl, bring a A Just In Case kit. During the first few days, you are being explained procedures and are most likely not going to need all of your supplies.


Express your style. If skinny jeans are your thing, then wear them. You don't have to wear designer clothes. It's optional.;
, You can buy a lock at your local store and practice.
 If your parents can't take you, arrange to take the bus. If you can't do that, walk.
 Some schools have advisory, or homeroom, while others you go straight to your first class.
 This is the most important thing you can do to prepare for eighth grade. If you find yourself sad, be optimistic. Focus on the good things. Have fun; eighth grade is what you want it to be.
 You cannot be prepared to go to middle school if you got three hours of sleep.


Know when to wake up. It might not seem like the biggest worry, but you're wrong, it is. If your bus comes at 8:30, and you wake up at 8:25, you're going to feel disorganized and awkward when you finally sit down in class. The thing is, you should allow yourself enough time in the morning to shower , eat breakfast, dress, do makeup , style your hair, and get ready for the day. Personally, I like to allow myself at least 1 1/2 hours in the morning to prepare.
 You can decorate your room with colorful streamers, confetti, or even an 8th Grade banner! If it helps the anxious and excited feelings cool down before bedtime, do it!

, Choose healthy, wholesome foods like whole grain oats, cereal, or toast with jelly. Eat a fruit like an apple or a banana, or slice a pear. Drink milk, juice, water, or coffee, or perhaps nothing at all. Make sure you don't rush in your eating, because you want your stomach to be settled. A good example of a healthy breakfast is oatmeal with a side of toast, a banana, and a glass of milk or soy milk. If you need a quick meal, if you wake up late, grab a banana or handful of strawberries and something with a few carbohydrates to get your day started.
 When you pick out your outfit for school, do it the night before. Make sure of a few things before you leave the house: Bend over. Make sure your shirt doesn't droop too low, or lift up in the back. Sit down. Make sure that your skirt doesn't lift too high, or your jeans don't rip. You should choose something that will keep you comfortable, but that expresses your individual style.
 When you style your hair, don't just plop it on top of your head. Make sure it looks good, too, by pulling back any leftover wisps of hair and clipping them back. Make sure you wash your hair in the morning or at night before you go to sleep.
 No one wants to be caught with stinky breath or something stuck in there teeth. Not only is this good hygiene, but it also makes for a good first impression.
 Don't overdo your makeup. Always use ChapStick on your lips, so they don't become chapped. That wouldn't be very fun. Make sure the colors of your makeup coordinate with your outfit.
 Check your planner to see if you have everything you need, like homework assignments and permission slips.
 The worst way to start a new school year is in the detention room. Don't try to slide by with shorts that just barely break dress code (if you have one), or a baseball hat if hats aren't allowed. Wear something modest and clean, with no wrinkles in the fabric.
 You'll be meeting your teachers for the first time, and first impressions are everything. Greet your teacher with a smile (even if you're shy) and shake his or her hand if they offer. Say ma'am and sir, and know the difference between "Can I use the bathroom?" and "May I use the bathroom?" (especially when talking to your English teacher):)

, Handwriting is something that teachers respect. Good penmanship can go a long way in an attempt to stay off of the teacher's "bad kid" list.
 Smiling will make you more approachable and make you seem nicer.
 Once you get home after school eat something After that you should start on your homework right away. Make sure you go to sleep early around 9:00 or 9:30

