 Lightly moisten the shoes’ exteriors with a clean cloth dipped in plain, warm water. Add a few drops of dish soap to the water and swish it around. Dip another clean cloth, or a soft-bristled brush (like a shoe brush or toothbrush) into the solution and wipe the shoe down. Wipe away soap residue with a final clean cloth dampened with just water.Most wrestling aficionados recommend using your shoes only on the mat, so they probably won’t have caked-on dirt on them. If they do, though, wipe that away with a clean, dry brush or cloth before proceeding.
 Add a small dab of plain, white toothpaste to either your first two fingers, a clean cloth, or a soft brush that has been dipped in the dish soap solution. Scrub the stain or scuff in a circular motion. Wipe away the toothpaste with a clean, damp cloth. Repeat as needed.


A toothpaste scrub can be particularly helpful for scuffs on the rubberized areas on the soles or toes of the shoes.
Instead of toothpaste, you can also make a paste with baking soda and water. Use a few spoonfuls of baking soda, and stir in small amounts of water until you achieve a toothpaste consistency., Whether you’re washing your wrestling shoes by machine, by hand, or both, it’s most effective to remove the laces and any inserts. You can use the same hand soap cleaning solution, or just machine wash them.Cleaning insoles or inserts with the baking soda paste may help with odor control as well.
Make sure the laces and inserts are fully dry before re-inserting them.
It’s best to replace worn or frayed laces — you don’t want them to snap in the middle of a match!

, Wrestling shoes can get very stinky very quickly, especially after a few sweaty practices or meets. Regular washing will help, but you should also regularly deodorize the insides as well. Commercial shoe deodorizers are a solid option, but you can also try some DIY solutions.


Try, for instance, sprinkling baking soda into the shoes overnight. This works best if the shoes are already completely dry.Or, try placing a dryer sheet into each shoe overnight.