 Generally, $20 to $25 is the recommended cap on cost for gifts, but you should adjust that amount to suit the situation. For casual gatherings, a smaller amount might be appropriate. Likewise, if it’s just a silly game for kids, it will probably be more fun with small, inexpensive toys than bigger items., Give them the price range, and let them know that they should wrap whatever they bring.


If the game will include all ages, ask guests to label any adult items, such as alcoholic beverages. Likewise, if they bring a toy, they can label it specifically for children.e
Specify in advance whether they should bring silly gag gifts or something small but nice, just so all of your guests are on the same page.
 Write numbers on pieces of paper from one up through the total number of participants.
 Have each person to take one. This will determine the order that they go in to pick their gift.
 They can unwrap it immediately. Otherwise, they don’t have to do anything else for now, just hold on to what they chose., Once they have unwrapped it, they can either trade with the first person as long as the first person agrees to the swap, or they can keep what they chose.
 During their turn, they can trade with anyone who has gone before them or keep the gift they chose.
 This way they won’t miss out on the chance to make a trade even though they went first.
 Don’t let them unwrap it yet. This will be a "blind" exchange, where nobody gets to see what they've chosen until the end.
 They can also steal from the first person. If the second person decides to steal, then the first person gets to choose another gift., Once you have three or more participants, a person who loses their gift to a thief now also has the option of stealing from someone else.


You might want to have a “three steals” rule for gifts, people, or both. This means that a gift can only be stolen three times before the third thief gets to keep it. Similarly, a person can only be stolen from three times before they get to keep what they have.
If you have a large group or you put a limit on the number of steals, you may want to tell those who have been stolen from just to choose a new gift from the pile. Otherwise, it could prolong the turn indefinitely, because whoever they steal from could steal too, and so on.
 Once everyone else has gone, go back to the first person. If they want to keep their gift, they can, but at least they have the chance to participate in the stealing.
 Now that everyone has a gift, tell them to unwrap what they have and enjoy!

