

Dig into the caulking lining the edges of the shower pan with a flathead screwdriver until it begins to loosen.
Use a drill to break the seal created by the rubber flange compression seal around the shower drain pipe by piercing the seal repeatedly with the drill.
Use a flat pry bar to pry the edges of the pan away from the floor until it can be lifted.;
,,

At about a foot off the floor, cut into a grout line with a dry cut-off saw.
You'll need to replace tile below that line, flush to the new fiberglass shower pan, and seal around it with a silicone sealant.
Use a pry bar to loosen and then remove the old tile below your cut line.


Any serious rot or mold must be addressed before you replace the shower pan and tile.
The sub-floor must have at least a 3/4-inch (1.91 cm) construction grade sheathing.


The spirals in the drywall screws or spiral flooring nails will pull the drywall and sub floor together tightly.
Driving the nails or drilling the screws into a floor joist will further secure the drywall.


Prefabricated showers are made to be installed as-is, and most require only the addition of silicone sealant along the edges to complete.
If you have a ceramic wall or other type of solid wall, it may be necessary to frame under the flange of the pan in order to provide needed support.
If you plan to frame under the flange of the pan, fasten lengths of 4x4in (10.16 cm) wood or laminate lengths of 2x4in (5.08x10.16cm) planks around the pan.
,

Assure your pan is level.
You may need to apply thin-set mortar after it has been mixed according to manufacturer instructions to any voids in the floor that are causing the pan to sit unevenly.
Clean any excess thin-set.


You will need to attach the drain to the waste pipe with a rubber washer, a fiber washer, and finally with a nut.
After the drain is attached, seal it with plumber's putty or silicone to seal the drain.


Find stud walls using a stud finder.


The glossy, gel coated surface of the pan can easily be scratched with the rough materials.


Use a razor knife to cut the backer board to the necessary size.
,

The flashing should fit under the tile and over the flange of the new pan.


You will need a tile saw, a chalk line with chalk, mortar, a bucket to mix your mortar, a flat trowel and rubber gloves to protect your hands.
Use the chalk line to mark where you will lay your new tile.
When you reach the tiles you must cut to fit, measure the size, mark your tile with a pencil, and then use a wet saw the cut the tile to fit.


Use the trowel to spread mortar on the wall and place tile against the lines you made with your chalk line.


Grout should be mixed according to manufacturer instructions and then applied with a large sponge.


Be sure to clean out any grout from corners and between the new and old tile, and at the base of the new tile.
Use a silicon sealant at these areas.
