 Pick out your boots according to the setting and activity you will be doing.


Choose ankle or knee-high boots with a low heel or no heel for walking around town, attending a sports game, or other casual occasions.
Choose heeled boots for a party or nighttime outing that is a little dressier.
Get a quality hiking boot for hiking or work boot for outdoor work that will support your ankles and feet against rough terrain and labor.;
, Find a boot that will work with the proportions of your body.


If you have wide calves, look for boots with elastic panels, slightly stretchy fabric, or adjustable closures like buckles or laces that will allow more room for your leg. Find a boot with an angled top or wear tights that match your boot color to make your legs appear long and lean.If you have skinny calves, do the opposite: wear contrasting tights and choose boots that have ruffles, straps, or other three-dimensional detail.If you have short legs, favor slim-fitted boots with heels to add length to your legs. Wear these boots with a slim-fitting skirt or pants, or tights in a matching color, to add to the appearance of length.If you have wide feet, go for boots that have a round or almond-shaped toe rather than a pointed one. Avoid straps or buckles near the base of the boots, and try wearing bootcut pants over them to minimize the width of your feet., Look for well-made boots and spend a little more if you have to so that they’ll last longer.


Signs of quality boots are that they’re made of genuine leather, have a thick sole with good tread, and they seem solidly constructed (no loose threads, zippers that stick, etc.).
To find the most comfortable boot, make sure you try on several sizes and walk around in them. Choose the size that feels comfortable, holds your ankle and heel in place, and has ⅜-½” of space beyond your big toe when standing., Invest in boots appropriate for bad weather so that you don’t ruin other boots that are not meant for rain, snow, etc.


Get a quality pair of rubber boots (or Wellingtons) for rainy weather, which you can also line with boot liners for warmth.
For cold weather, try Uggs or other shearling boots, moccasin boots, or knit sweater-like boots.
Go with moon boots or mukluks for snow to repel moisture and stay warm.
 To make boots the focal point of your outfit, try out knee-high boots in a bright color like red or purple, cowboy boots with colorful embroidery, or a high stiletto-heel boot. Make sure you wear more neutral and solid color clothing when you opt for a statement boot., Keep an eye out for what the latest trends in boots are, because they’re always changing. Try the current trend on the runway: Western-style ankle boots with a pointed toe.