 The most likely culprit of uncleanliness in your hamster’s cage – and the location where more mites are likely living – is the old bedding. When setting out to clean the cage, your first step should be removing all of the bedding and disposing of it in an outdoor trash receptacle., Take everything out of the cage and take it all apart. Remove the lid, any feeding dishes or water bottles, and all toys, tubes, ladders, or other furnishings. Anything plastic or metal should be washed with antibacterial soap and warm water, and then thoroughly rinsed and allowed to fully dry.Opt for an unscented antibacterial soap, as aromas are likely to persist and bother your hamster.
Wash any food or water equipment in the same way. Be sure to rinse food and water equipment an extra time; you do not want soap residue getting into anything your hamster will consume.
 Be diligent in cleaning every single spot in the cage. For instance, your hamster likely urinates and defecates in a particular location. Pay extra attention when cleaning this area. Wash everything with antibacterial soap and warm water, then rinse it and allow it to fully dry. Ensure the cage does not still smell of soap, and rinse it again if necessary., Following a mite infestation, you’ll need a second cleaning to disinfect all of the surfaces of your hamster’s dwelling. Rub rubbing alcohol on any surface of the cage or plastic or metal climbing structures, and dry the surfaces with a clean paper towel.Take care to avoid applying rubbing alcohol to any food or water equipment.
 You should replace anything you were unable to clean. Wooden toys in particular should be replaced frequently. Further, make sure a water bottle is not leaking after it is re-installed. Finally, make sure all the fastening components of the cage and any structures are also secure., Mites can be prevented from returning by maintaining a clean living environment for your hamster that will prevent your hamster from becoming stressed. Relatedly, be sure you are providing ample high quality food for your hamster, as proper nutrition also decreases the likelihood of a mite infestation.For more specific information regarding your hamster's dietary needs, see the wikiHow article on how to feed hamsters.

