 Street races are not a part of the main storyline; they are a side quest exclusive only to Franklin. This mission appears fairly early on in the game and can be identified as a green F on the map, located at Forum Drive in Chamberlain Hills.;
, Press the Start button (PS3 and Xbox 360) or M key (PC) to open the world map. Find the green F, and once you locate it, move your cursor over to it and press the X button (PS3), A button (Xbox 360), or Left click (PC). This will mark the mission as your destination.


A purple path will appear on the minimap (located in the bottom left hand corner of the screen), follow it until you reach your destination, which is a person named Hao.
 Once you approach Hao, a cutscene will begin, and he’ll challenge Franklin to a drag race.
 After the cutscene ends, drive to the new checkpoint on your mini map. Once you arrive, you’ll pull up to several other parked cars, and the race will begin.
 To successfully complete the mission, you’ll have to finish in first place. The race consists of three laps, so make sure to drive carefully. Follow the yellow checkpoints to drive around the course, but be very careful; there are several sharp turns, and if you crash into a street light, you’ll lose serious momentum., After finishing the first street race, Franklin will be able to participate in four different street races around the world map. Street races are only available at night, from 9PM to 4AM. You can check the time by opening up the menu.
 There are four races that you can participate in, and they are located in Clinton Avenue, Los Santos International Airport, Del Perro Freeway, and the Vespucci Canals. During the night, street races can be located on the world map. Their icons appear as black cars. With your cursor over one of the icons, press the X button, A button, or Left click to mark it as your destination.
 Once you’ve selected a street race location, a purple line will appear on the minimap. Follow it to the street race.
 Once you reach the assortment of cars, an on-screen prompt will ask if you want to participate. Select the “Yes” option to begin to race. Each race will cost $100 to participate in, and can yield up to $2,500 for winning.