 Start by drawing at least 5 to 6 spokes radiating outward. Starting from the center, connect the spokes using straight lines. Work in rings, from center out. Leave some space between the rings; the bigger your spider web is, the more space you should leave between the rings.


The radiating don't all have to be the same length, or the same distance apart.
The connecting lines don't all have to be the same distance apart.
Having trouble drawing a spider web? Find a picture of a simple one online and trace it.;
, Unscrew the outer hoop enough so that you can pull it off. Center your fabric over the inner hoop, then place the outer hoop back on top. Screw the outer hoop shut slowly, occasionally tugging on the edges of the fabric to keep it taut. Once the fabric is taut, tighten the outer hoop the rest of the way.


You can use any type of fabric, but a loosely-woven fabric, such as cotton or linen, will work much better than a tightly woven one, such as satin.
 The type of needle you use will depend on the type of thread you are using. If you plan on using embroidery thread or embroidery floss, you should use an embroidery or tapestry needle. You can, however, use yarn for a larger project. In that case, use a sharp, yarn needle.
 Make sure that the final stitch goes downward, through the fabric, and out through the back. You can use a chain stitch or a backstitch for this.Alternatively, you can also do a simple straight stitch. In this case, start from the center of your web, stitch all the way to the end of the spoke, then stitch all the way back down to the center.
 Bring the needle up through the fabric fight at the start of the second spoke. Stitch along the second spoke using the same stitch as you did on the first one: chain stitch or backstitch.
 You have just finished your first two spokes.
 You will be stitching two spokes before knotting and cutting the thread. If you have an odd number of spokes, simply do the last spoke at the end, and tie the thread off at the center of the web, behind the fabric.
 Start with the upper-right spoke. Thread your needle, and push it up through the fabric, on the left side of the spoke. You can use the same color of thread, or a contrasting one.
 Pull the thread over your first spoke towards the next one. Bring the thread past the second spoke, and push the needle through the fabric, just to the right of the spoke.
 Your needle should now be behind your work. Push the needle back up through the fabric, just to the left of the second spoke. You have wound the thread around the spoke, holding it against the fabric.
 Starting from the left side of the spoke, bring the needle over to the right side of the next spoke. Push the needle through the fabric, and pull it back up through the left side of the spoke.When you finish the first ring, tie the thread into a knot behind the fabric, and snip off the excess.
 Once your spider web is done, you can take the fabric out of the embroidery hoop, and use it for your project. Alternatively, you can leave the fabric in the hoop, and use the hoop as a frame. Here is how you can turn your embroidery into a framed artwork:Take the fabric out of the hoop, and paint the hoop a matching or contrasting color.
Let the paint dry, then put the fabric back into the hoop, making sure that it is pulled taut.
Trim off the excess fabric, about ½-inch (1.27-centimeters) away from the hoop.
Fold the excess fabric onto the inner hoop and secure it with hot glue or fabric glue.
Thread some ribbon through the screw on the outer hoop, and tie it into a loop.
Hang your piece on the wall.

