 There are plenty of resources available to learn all about black diamonds. Black diamonds are crystallized carbon, just like regular diamonds. Either the color black occurs due to dark inclusions, or due to changes in a white diamond due to high temperatures or radiation.


A natural black diamond is quite rare and naturally very expensive. Most black diamonds occur as irregular black masses called carbonados. (Portuguese for black).Most black diamonds in the market today are treated. Treatment of gemstones is a process that dates back to several centuries. In fact, were it not for these, we wouldn’t know our gemstones as we do. An untreated tanzanite looks nowhere near the form it is used in jewelry as.
Black diamonds are treated to achieve that uniformity of black color. This is the norm of the industry, so long as you are not buying a black diamond believing it to be a natural black diamond. Those command astonishingly high prices.;
, A good cut, a smooth surface and a rich color is the pride of black diamonds. Even if treated, a black diamond is very much a real diamond.


Learn the Four C’s. All diamonds are evaluated on the basis of Cut, Color, Clarity, and Carat Weight. Black diamonds are no exception. Black diamonds have a simple cut (16 facets). The surfaces should be smooth. Color should be evenly distributed. Clarity refers to presence of inclusions or flaws. Grades are AAA, AA+, AA, A, and I1 with AAA being the best. A black diamond should have a glossy, sparkling surface. Carat is the weight of a diamond. Since the density of a black diamond is greater, a one carat black diamond will appear smaller than a one carat white diamond.
A great number of black diamonds on today’s market are not real. They are treated stones or simply dark brown or very dark green diamonds. What’s a real stone? It is difficult to cut and can be much more brittle than other diamonds.
 Beware of misleading ads. Go for terms that say untreated or GIA certified. Fancy black is untreated. When an unusual color is an asset in a diamond, the term ‘fancy’ is used.
 If you are going to buy black diamonds, do a search on different websites to see what black diamonds are listed and simply compare prices. Be aware that vendors can list the same stones from wholesaler lists and some diamonds on the Internet may not be available after one calls to inquire about them. They may be either out on inspection or sold by another dealer.
 In a fiber optic light, the edges of a black diamond will appear to have dark brown edges.
 A solitaire black diamond is more for a very strong personality. Combining black diamonds with white ones in a piece of jewelry becomes poetic and enhances the beauty of both the diamonds. Quite a balance between conventional and modern.
 Before buying, there are a few things you are to consider. To begin with, check vendor’s associations and credentials with public and professional organizations. Inquire about vendor’s credentials, if you didn’t manage to find them on the official website. Make sure you’ve checked the feedbacks from previous customers on the consumer forum.
 Surprisingly, but buying black diamonds over the Internet is a rather pleasant experience. A great variety of well-cut stones at the best prices can be easily found on the Internet. It is easier to buy online than to find a reputable local jeweler, whom you can trust for setting a diamond, maintenance, cleansing, repairs and so on.

