 The Pap test or pap smear tests for cervical cancer and the human papillomavirus (HPV) test checks for changes in cells that could cause cancer. During a Pap test, the doctor will place a special tool (speculum) inside your vagina to swab for cells. This is sent to a lab for examination. If you're menstruating, have had sex (or used contraceptive jellies or foams), or douched, wait at least two days before getting the Pap smear. Follow the Centers for Disease Control's recommended Pap schedule:Women over 21 should get a Pap test and HPV screening once every three years if the results are normal.
Women over 30 should get a Pap and HPV test once every five years if the results are normal.
Women under age 65 should continue getting Pap tests until age 65 or until getting a total-hysterectomy for non-cancerous conditions.;
, HPV is a group of viruses that are directly connected to cervical, vaginal and vulvar cancer. To make the vaccine more effective, it is usually given as a series of three shots to girls starting at the age of 9 and boys starting at the ages of 11 or 12. If you haven't already gotten it at an early age, the HPV vaccine is recommended for:Girls and women between the ages of 13 and 26
Boys and men between the ages of 13 to 21
Men who have sex with men through age 26
Men with compromised immune systems through age 26

, If you're overweight or obese and don't get much physical activity, you could be at a higher risk for uterine cancer. Try to lose weight by eating a healthy diet and becoming physically active. Talk with your doctor or a registered dietitian to create a personalized diet. Avoid processed foods, eat more vegetables and fruits, and choose lean protein sources.Your doctor or dietitian may recommend reducing your intake of animal fat, which appears to increase the risk of gynecological cancers.
 Smoking is associated with cervical, vaginal and vulvar cancers. If you're struggling to quit or even cut back, talk with your doctor, who can recommend support groups or cessation aids.You can use nicotine replacement therapies (like patches or gums) or smoking cessation medications, which may help smokers quit.
 If you're taking an estrogen therapy alone, you may actually increase your risk for uterine cancer (if you have a uterus). But, if you take estrogen plus progesterone together as a hormone replacement therapy, you can reduce that cancer risk, though this may increase your risk for breast cancer. You can also reduce your uterine or breast cancer risk by taking oral contraceptives that contain these hormones.Progesterone treatment can be used to treat uterine cancer in some situations.
 Talk with your female family members about their medical histories, especially close relatives like your mother, sisters, aunts and grandmothers. Some cancers are linked to gene mutations. If a close family member has a cancer caused by a gene mutation (like ovarian or breast cancers), you might benefit from genetic testing and counseling.When you talk with your family about their medical histories, find out how old they were when cancers were diagnosed. Remember to get information from both sides of your family., Cervical cancer is more common in women over 30 and is commonly caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). Your risk factors are higher if you smoke, are infected with HIV/AIDS, or have a suppressed immune system. Using oral contraceptives for five years or more, giving birth to three or more children, or having several sexual partners can all increase your risk as well.Early cervical cancer often has no symptoms, but advanced cervical cancer can cause vaginal bleeding or an abnormal discharge.
 Talk with your family to find out if close female relatives have a history of ovarian cancer since this may increase your risk. You may be at a higher risk if you're middle-aged or older, have a genetic mutation like BRCA1 or BRCA2 (or are of an Ashkenazi Jewish background which is associated to these mutations), or have a history of breast, colon, rectal, cervical or skin cancer. Endometriosis and a history of taking estrogen (without progesterone) may also be risk factors. Watch for symptoms of ovarian cancer that include:Abnormal bleeding or discharge
Pain in the lower part of your abdomen
Back pain
Bloating
Feeling full after eating only a small amount of food
Changes in how often you urinate

, Find out if you have a close family member who has had uterine, colon or ovarian cancer since this can increase your risk. Your risk for uterine cancer is also higher if you're over 50 years old, are obese, use estrogen replacement therapy alone (without progesterone), or have had irregular periods or difficulty getting pregnant. Women who have used a drug called tamoxifen to treat some forms of breast cancer also have an increased risk for uterine cancer.Symptoms of uterine cancer are abnormal bleeding or abnormal discharge, especially in post-menopausal women. Women with advanced uterine cancer may experience pain or a sense of pressure in the lower abdomen, but this is rare.
 Cancers of the vagina (the birth canal) and the vulva (the outer part of the genitals) are very rare. Your risk factors for these cancers are higher if you're infected with HPV, have a history of cervical abnormalities or cervical cancer, you smoke, or you have chronic itching or burning around the vulva. Get medical attention if you notice symptoms of these cancers which include:Abnormal bleeding or discharge
Blood in your stool or urine
Urinating more frequently
Pain the the lower abdomen (especially during sex)
Itching or burning sensation around your vulva
A rash or physical changes (like warts) around your vulva

