 We all wish we could eat yummy foods like brownies and pizza to improve our skin, but usually, healthy food is the way to go to accomplish that goal. Eating the right foods can promote skin plumping, which is definitely motivation to healthier. Some good choices for antioxidant rich foods are berries, broccoli, carrots, honey, and yogurt. These foods keep your levels of collagen and elastin strong and less susceptible to damage., Basking in the sun can make you look and feel good temporarily, but it will age your skin faster in the long run. Exposure to the sun is a large reason why skin begins to thin and wrinkle. Keep your youthful glow for longer by incorporating a sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30 into your morning skincare routine. Apply the sunscreen before you outside, even on cloudy days.Look for oil-free sunscreen that is specifically made for the face if breakouts are a concern.
 Vitamins are good for your inner health and outer appearance. Vitamin A is a contributor to collagen production, which plumps the skin. Vitamin C and E are good choices for adding moisture and radiance to your skin. Take your vitamins every morning and instantly feel like you’ve done something productive for the day.You can get vitamins out of eating well, but taking supplements is an easy way to get enough vitamins if you are lacking.
Consult with your doctor before taking too many vitamin supplements.
 This doesn’t necessarily mean that you have to lose weight; it just means to stay at the weight that makes you feel healthy and confident. Maintaining a healthy weight is good for your general health, but it is also good for your skin. Too much weight fluctuation can cause a loss of elasticity in the skin.Eat well and exercise at least three times a week to maintain a healthy weight.
 Who can argue with getting enough sleep to help your skin say young and glowing? Sleep is important to feel good and look good. Adequate sleep promotes the production of collagen and elastic. Eight hours a night is a good amount of sleep to strive for, though you may need slightly less or more, depending on your age.