 For speedy training, be vigilant and spot signs that your Chihuahua needs to go to the bathroom and is thinking about toileting in the house. Watch for behavior such as sidling up to furniture and sniffing, or sniffing the carpet and maneuvering as if to squat. When you see that behavior immediately scoop the dog up and pop it outside on to the toilet spot.It can help to keep the Chihuahua on a leash in the house, so that it can't wander off to a quiet corner and indulge itself in a spot of illicit peeing.
When it's not possible to be with the dog, put it into its crate. However, you need to be sure to observe the 20 minute toilet break rule for pups and 1 hour for adults., All this teaches the dog is that you have an irrational dislike of its bodily functions. This could make the dog more devious (it will hide to go to the bathroom) and actually sets potty training back because the dog may become fearful to toilet in front of you, even on the designated spot.


Instead, bite your tongue and wait for the Chihuahua to wander off. Then clean up thoroughly using an enzymatic cleaner. The enzymatic cleaner gets rid of all traces of urine or poo so there is no scent mark for him or her to return to. Do not use household cleaners containing bleach or ammonia, since these are components of urine and can amplify the scent and draw the dog back to that spot.
If Chi has already established an inappropriate place to toilet then clean it up with enzymatic cleaner and put its food and water bowls there. Dogs do not foul where they eat, so this will help to break that habit.
 Do not be violent or shout at your chihuahua. Instead, be loving and supportive. Your chihuahua will need time to get potty trained. Just continue to be consistent and don't get angry if your dog doesn't go to the bathroom on command right away.


If the dog goes potty where it's supposed to, remember to reward it with treats. This will help to reinforce the desired behavior.
Don't change the potty place every week or else the dog will be confused.
If the puppy goes in the wrong place, be gentle, don't be angry because it happens.
 If potty training is not working and you have been at it for quite awhile, try contacting a trainer. Look for a training program that will work for both you and your dog. Getting professional help is the best option when in a position like this.

