 Teaching your dog to focus on you and practice impulse control is a long process that can take months. Patient repetition is the best guarantee of success. Always use the same commands and offer positive responses to get the best results., While consistency is best when it comes to your commands and responses, your dog will get bored with the same routines. Vary the types of rewards and circumstances in which you practice to hold their attention and keep them learning., Dogs are often hyper and misbehave when they have pent-up energy. It’s hard to keep your pooch’s attention when they’re bursting with energy, so be sure to give them daily walks and play sessions.The necessary amount will vary according to your dog’s age, breed, and fitness. However, most dogs need a minimum of 30-60 minutes of aerobic exercise per day.
 Often times, the things that distract your dog are due to their instinctual drives to chase, play, and hunt. Training your dog to have strong focus and recall is the best way to control these drives. However, it also helps if you can channel these drives into controlled activities. That way, your dog can act on their impulses in a safe way while still focusing on you.For instance, if your dog loves to chase, play fetch with them or teach them to catch a frisbee. If your dog loves to hunt or chew, play tug or get a toy that has a furry ball on the end of a long rope for them to pounce on (at a safe distance from you).
 If your dog is frequently distracted by things that frighten them, sometimes the key to gaining their attention is to boost their confidence. Training and socialization are both great ways to make your dog more self-assured.Training includes the recall and focus exercises described above. Attending a basic obedience class with your pooch can also go a long way towards boosting their confidence.

Socialization involves introducing your dog to a variety of new environments over time. Comfort them if they have an anxious reaction to a new place, and reward them when they’re at ease with a new place.
Socialization also involve introducing your dog to new people and animals. If your dog is wary of strangers, start by letting them watch others at a distance while you reward them and speak reassuringly to them.

