 This is one of the most accurate means of testing for EPI. In a function test, a small needle is inserted directly into your small intestine and used to withdraw pancreatic enzyme secretions. These fluids are then tested to determine if they contain healthy or unhealthy levels of enzymes.Despite its efficiency, this test is relatively limited and is only performed at certain medical centers or labs.
If your primary care physician is unable to perform a direct pancreatic function test, ask if they can refer you to a nearby clinic that can do the test.
 An endoscopic ultrasound will allow your doctor to look at your pancreas itself (and other internal organs) to see if internal damage or inflammation is causing EPI or EPI-like symptoms. This test will likely need to be given in a hospital: a doctor will snake a thin, specialized tube down your throat, through your stomach, and into the top of your small intestine. The tip of the specialized tube will contain an ultrasound probe that produces sound waves and will produce an image of your internal abdomen, which will help doctors tell if your pancreas is damaged.An endoscopic ultrasound is an outpatient procedure and should take less than 45 minutes. The test can be performed with the patient either conscious or unconscious; if you’re conscious, the medical staff will give you medication to reduce the discomfort.
 A CT scan is usually not necessary for diagnosing EPI, but in some cases it may be helpful. If your doctor decides that a CT scan is needed in helping to diagnose your EPI, you’ll be referred to a clinic with a CT machine. For the scanning procedure, you’ll need to lie on your back in the large donut-shaped CT machine; you’ll be slid into the machine as it scans your abdomen.A CT scan will provide X-ray images of your abdominal region, and will help doctors detect signs of chronic pancreatitis, one of the most common causes of EPI.In some cases, you’ll be asked to drink a tea-like mixture called a “contrast” in order to highlight different parts of your internal abdominal structure and make it easier for the doctors to read the CT scan results.Depending upon your doctor’s preference and the medical equipment available, you may be given an MRI scan or an MRCP scan in the place of a CT scan. All three serve largely the same purpose and will be similarly helpful in allowing doctors to diagnose chronic pancreatitis.

