 Consume foods that are rich in dietary fiber, such as leafy vegetables, oats and bread products made with whole grains. As part of the digestive process, fiber is used to sweep fats, toxins and other waste products out of the body. More fiber means more efficient digestion, which can help you metabolize more calories and cut down on fat storage in the future.Broccoli, brussel sprouts, carrots, bananas and raspberries, along with things like oatmeal and whole wheat bread in moderation, all make great sources of dietary fiber.Avoid sugary processed food items like sweetened breakfast cereals and snack crackers, even if they claim to be made with whole grains.
 High protein offerings should comprise a substantial part of your normal food intake. Choose lean meats like skinless grilled chicken, steak and fish, along with protein sources that also contain healthy fats, like eggs, nuts and legumes. When you supply your body with protein, it enables it to build and maintain lean muscle mass, which burns calories, makes you feel stronger and more energetic and improves your overall appearance.The average adult needs somewhere from 50-70g of protein per day. Most of this should be received from natural food sources.Take a protein supplement, like a shake or bar, along with your regular meals if you’re having meeting your protein requirements., Calorie dense foods that offer no real nutritional value are largely to blame for making cellulite worse. Say no to fast food meals, processed sugar products (candy, soda, sports drinks, etc.) and excessive carbohydrates like bread, pasta and potatoes. Stick to whole natural foods in balanced portions, namely lean meats, fruits, vegetables and whole grains. In just a short time of clean eating, you’ll notice those annoying cellulite dimples becoming less pronounced.Preparing and refrigerating your meals in advance can spare you the headache of always having to find something to eat.When you buy food, read the labels carefully. Even foods marketed as “natural” or “organic” can contain shocking amounts of added sugar, salt and trans fats.
 Proper hydration is critically underrated when it comes to health and wellness. Not only is water a vital part of every cell in your body, it also improves bodily functions and keeps you feeling capable and alert. Water flushes out toxins, repairs damaged tissues and even uses up a small amount of calories to process. Try to drink at least 8-10 cups of water a day, or more if you’re engaged in strenuous physical activity.One good way to tell if you’re getting enough water is to check the color of your urine throughout the day. If it’s relatively clear, it means you’re keeping fresh water cycling through your system. If it’s cloudy or yellow, you may need to up your fluid intake.If you’re tired of only drinking water all the time, switch it up with unsweetened green tea or coffee. Just make sure you’re getting enough liquids. Caffeinated drinks are diuretics, meaning they'll cause you to urinate more frequently.

