 Before an international trade regime can impose human rights rules or regulations directly on private entities such as corporations, it must provide them with the same rights as nation-states have within the regime.For example, the World Trade Organization (WTO) recognizes rights of economic actors such as international businesses, and requires their needs to be considered when disputes are decided by WTO tribunals.
This also requires making room for non-state actors such as global organizations in international organizations, which previously have been made up solely of state governments.
Creating opportunities for global corporations to collaborate with governments on the development and implementation of human rights agreements can strengthen the protection of human rights in international trade.
Providing global corporations with a voice in the organizations that create and administer international trade agreements ensures all actors due process rights are protected under the trade regime.
 International financial institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) may require states to prove a percentage of funds will be used to improve the human rights of its citizens as a condition of receiving financial assistance.The U.N. Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights publishes a set of guiding principles for businesses and international organizations to use in entering trade and investment agreements with developing countries that have mixed records on human rights.
Both the World Bank and the IMF, in response to criticism from non-governmental organizations, have pledged to place greater emphasis on poverty reduction and the recognition of basic human rights as fundamental to sustainable development in poor countries.
When particular policies or practices are required to obtain funding, the lending organizations can impose human rights protections directly on the businesses receiving the money.
 If a country receives funds contingent on the continued development of human rights, international financial organizations can create benchmarks to measure the country's progress towards improved human rights.Benchmarks also are beneficial in monitoring and evaluating human rights progress in countries that have joined trade regimes such as the WTO but which have objectionable human rights records.
Setting goals for progress and requiring independent evaluation and assessment of the country's steps towards those goals allows continued economic involvement and investment in the country without sending the message that the international community approves of continued violations of human rights.
Allowing time to correct human rights abuses also acknowledges the fact that policies and standards can take time – and considerable economic investment – to change.
 Multinational corporations can be held liable for the violation of international human rights laws if victims are empowered to sue those companies.Such lawsuits have been allowed in American and British courts, in which individual plaintiffs sue to hold multinational corporations responsible for violations of international human rights laws that occur in their factories overseas.
These lawsuits reflect an understanding that global corporations should be held responsible for violations of international law.
This is a change from the traditional understanding that only national governments were accountable for violations of treaties and international agreements, not private actors.
However, states allowing private lawsuits also is in line with the understanding that states have a duty to protect the human rights of their citizens, both from government action and from the action of private parties.

