 After your baby is one year old, they will probably be able to say one or two words. After your child is 18 months old, they will have a vocabulary of 5-20 words and will be able to say some names. When your baby is between one and two years old, they will understand and use words like “more” and “no.” When your child is two to three years old, they will have a 450-word vocabulary. From this point on, your child’s vocabulary will grow by about 500 words each year.In other words, when they reach three to four years of age, they will have about 1,000 words at their disposal.
At four to five years of age, they will have around 1,500 words under their belt.
And between five and six years of age, your child will command 2,000 words.
 As your child ages, they should begin using the same word in different ways. For instance, one month, the child may mean, “Give me the bottle” when they say “Bottle.” The next month, they might mean, “There is a bottle” when they say “Bottle.”Pay attention to how your child uses words to determine if they are using words in a rigid way, which could be a sign of speech delay.
 When your child is between three and four years old they will be able to tell a story. If your child cannot tell a story with a (relatively) logical beginning, middle, and end at this age, they may have a speech delay., Your child’s grammatical abilities should continue to become more developed as they age. For instance, at between two and three years of age, your child should be able to combine nouns and verbs in simple sentences. They should also be able to form some plurals. Between four and five years of age, your child should be able to use the appropriate past tense form of many words.If your child’s grammatical abilities do not advance, they likely have a speech delay.
 At some point, your child should be able to conceptualize and express information about themselves and their feelings. For instance, when your child is 12-18 months old, they’ll begin to recognize their own body parts and point to them when directed to do so. They’ll also be able to understand notions of property and might go through a phase in which they refer to everything as “mine.”Between two and three years of age, your child should be able to refer to themselves as “me.” When your child is about three or four years old, they should be able to identify their full name The inability to be able to use self-aware language indicates that your child may have a speech delay.
 Eventually, your child should begin to understand and express information about where they are and the differences between objects and places of different sizes. For instance, between two and three years old, your child will be able to differentiate between “big” and “little.” Between three and four, they’ll be able to recognize the name of the street they live on. Between four and five years of age, your child will be able to use color and shape to describe things. Finally, between five and six years old, your child will be able to recite their full address, differentiate between left and right, and describe things as “near” or “far.”