 Creative mode gives you access to all of the different blocks in the game in unlimited quantities, and you don't have to worry about monsters or surviving. You can start a game in Creative mode and then transfer it to Survival mode when you're finished building.

If you've already started a Survival mode game, open the Pause menu, select "Open to LAN," and then make sure cheats are enabled. You can then type /gamemode c in the chat window (T) to change to Creative mode.;
, A castle should be an imposing sight to behold, and were traditionally placed in highly defensible positions. You'll also want it near important resources, such as at the mouth of your main mineshaft, near your farms, or close to your Nether Portal. Scour your map for a good place to construct your new castle.

You may want to build near a village so that you can act as their lord.
Consider placing your castle high up on a mountain, or at the mouth of a river.
Get creative with your castle placement. Suspend it between two mountains, build it in the treetops, carve it out of a cavern deep underground. The possibilities are essentially endless.
 Depending on how big you plan on having your castle, you may need to do a little terraforming before you start construction. Use your tools to clear out vegetation and level the land.

Take your landscape into consideration when getting ready to build your castle. Depending on your design goals, you may want to preserve some natural structures.
 A sheet of grid paper and a pencil are all you need to design a layout for your castle. This can help immensely, as building from plans will speed up the building process and ensure that everything lines up properly.

You can use different color squares to indicate what types of materials you want to use.
 There are tons of castles you can take inspiration from, both real and fictional. You could look up castles in Europe for a traditional medieval style, or look at Japanese or Chinese castles and palaces. You can look up pictures of Lord of the Rings and other fantasy castles.

Many real castles will have layouts available online, potentially as part of their tourism information. You can use these layouts as a guide when designing your own castle. Some real castles, such as the Dover Castle in England, have official Minecraft recreations and instructions.Lots of Minecraft players have posted their own castle layouts online. Simply search "Minecraft castle blueprints" in Google Images to see a large number of layouts you can copy or use as a starting point.
 Your castle doesn't have to be a boxy collection of square rooms. By learning how to create circular structures, you can create realistic towers and more creative room layouts. Below is a basic 7-block circle that you can use as the basis of a tower stairwell:XXX  
 X   X 
X     X
X     X
X     X
 X   X 
  XXX  

, If you're building your castle while playing in Survival mode, you'll need to gather the materials for it yourself. This isn't necessary in Creative mode since you have unlimited access to all the materials in the game. Some essential castle materials include:

Stone Bricks and Cobblestone Bricks
Stone Stairs and Cobblestone Stairs
Stone Slabs and Cobblestone Slabs
Fences
Glass Panes
Wood Planks
Ladders
Trapdoors

, Lay the foundations of your castle by referring to the layout you diagrammed on grid paper. You only need to put a single layer of blocks down to begin with to get a feel for how the castle will look and flow from room to room., As you build up, you can create multiple floors for different rooms. Use staircases to reach the upper floors. You can also use ladders to reach your castle walls and the top of your towers, with trapdoors to cover the hole.

See Make a Trapdoor in Minecraft for instructions on making an using trapdoors.
 Many castles are more than just stone buildings. Pay attention to the grounds of your castle, including your courtyards, stable areas, and entryways. There's a lot you can do with elevation changes and foliage to create a believable, realistic castle grounds., Save your wall for last, in case you decide you want to expand the inner portion of the castle beyond your initial plans. Once you're satisfied with your keep and grounds, you can build your outer wall., Staircase blocks can be placed rightside up or upside down, and can create a much more convincing sloped look than regular blocks. Use these for your roofs and for embellishing wall supports.

See Make Stairs in Minecraft for instructions on creating staircase blocks.
 Stone fences make very good ramparts along the top of your castle walls. This will look a lot less blocky than using full-size blocks for ramparts.

See Craft a Fence in Minecraft for a guide on making fences.
 For a secure entrance, place an Iron Door in the open entry to your castle. You can place a pressure plate on each side of the door so that it opens when you walk up to it. An iron door will help protect your castle from monsters.

Check out Build a Door in Minecraft for a guide on making doors and using pressure plates to operate them.
 Once your castle is finished, you can dig a moat around the wall to add an extra layer of protection. Dig the moat at least three blocks deep and run it around the entire edge. Once you're finished digging the moat, you can use buckets to fill it with water. For a more intense moat, fill it with lava!

Make sure you have a bridge over the moat before filling it so that you can access your castle.
If you have access to redstone and some time to tinker, you can create an automated drawbridge. See Build a Piston Drawbridge in Minecraft for more details.

