 This branch can stem from a tree, a bush – any substantial wood source. Search for a branch that is at least a foot long, from tip to tip. Make sure that the forks are relatively equal in length; otherwise, your dowsing rod may be unbalanced.


Scan the ground for forked twigs that have already broken – perhaps by the passing of a deer, or perhaps by something more mysterious. If you see a perfect Y-shape that is still growing from a tree, feel free to break it off and use it.
If you break the forked branch from a tree, do it with intention. Don't blindly blunder about, smashing trees to bits. Think about the tree, the surrounding area, and why you are commissioning this dowsing rod. Consider leaving something of your own behind to replace what you have taken from the tree.;
, If you're going to be using this dowsing rod to, say, explore an unfamiliar stretch of woods, or look for water in a mysterious valley, try to find your dowsing rod nearby. Look at the brush at the edge of the woods; look for a tree at the rim of the valley. Some dowsers prefer to use branches from particular trees, and many dowsers prefer that their rods are freshly cut.Hazel and witch-hazel branches are commonly used in Europe and the U.S., respectively – as are willow and peach-tree cuttings.Most of these branches are popular because they are light and porous: many believe that rods from these trees can better absorb vapors rising from buried metals or water, which weighs down the un-forked end so that it points toward the source.
 You can use the forked branch as you find it, but you may also consider putting your own mark onto the rod. This is especially fruitful if you plan to use it more than once, or if you plan to give it to someone as a gift. Consider carving patterns into the dowsing rod (carefully!) with a knife, wrapping beads or charms around the wood, or even painting portions of it.


Consider wrapping fabric around the forks of the rod to make it more comfortable to hold. This can also function as decoration.
 Point the dowsing rod (the bottom section of the Y) away from you at arm's length. Make sure that the fork is parallel with the ground or tilted very slightly downward. Learn How to Use Dowsing or Divining Rods to get into the right headspace!

