 It may take some time for you to have your bullying case resolved with your HR department or, if necessary, to find a new job. If you have vacation time saved up, it may be a good time to take a break.


Take care of your mental and physical needs so that the bullying does not affect your health.
Have outlets outside of work for socializing and reducing stress.Take a few walking breaks during the day to lower your stress level and get some fresh air.
Seek out a counselor who specializes in workplace issues and work with them to develop coping skills.
 Bully bosses may be more likely to pick on employees who don’t socialize much with others or are alone a lot. To counter this, develop friendships with coworkers and be social with others when possible., Despite the bullying you face from your boss, try to keep your cool and demonstrate that you are just there to do your job. Continue to show up to work on time and complete your projects in a timely manner.


Don’t respond to the bullying with an outburst of your own. Try to either diffuse the situation or simply leave the area without responding.
Develop good relationships with others in the office. That way, you will be viewed as a true professional if ever there is a choice between you and the bully.
 Although acknowledging situations that set off your boss does not excuse the bad behavior, this may be useful in helping you avoid some of your boss’s wrath. If your boss tends to act out when corporate supervisors are in town or when the fiscal year ends, try to see if there is a way to diffuse the situation before the bullying starts., Bullies prey on those they consider weak, so don’t let them know that they are getting to you emotionally. Do not take bullying personally. Reframe the bullying behavior as a knock against your boss instead of a criticism of yourself.


Don’t let the bully see you cry or get upset by their behavior.
If necessary, go to your car or the restroom to decompress or even cry after a bullying episode, rather than breaking down in front of the bully. Just ignore the inflammatory comment and change the subject, or assert yourself calmly and professionally.
 You may need to look for a new job in the near future if you cannot handle your bullying boss. Before that time comes, however, it is wise to lay the ground work to make a potential job search easier.


Document every accomplishment, happy client, big sale, etc. By keeping an ongoing record of your accomplishments during this difficult time, you will be able to show you were working hard while in a challenging situation.
Volunteer to work on projects with those outside of your department. That way, you’ll be able to demonstrate your skills to others in the company, which will be helpful if you try to transfer departments.
Join local networking groups or professional societies. The more contacts you make, the easier it will be to find a new position.

