"“His Holiness” and “Holy Father” both address the Pope by his title and position in the Church. You should address the Pope only by these titles rather than by his name when speaking to him face-to-face.
 The amount of applause will vary depending on the venue, but you should always stand in respect once the Pope walks into the room you are in.Usually, if the venue is a small room with a small to mid-size crowd, the applause is quiet and polite.
For large venues, however, like a stadium Mass, loud applause and even cheers are appropriate.
 If the Pope approaches you directly, you should kneel with your right knee bent to the floor.


You do not need to make the Sign of the Cross, as you would do while genuflecting to the Eucharist, but you should still bend at the knee. Genuflection is a sign of high respect.
 If you are Catholic and if the Pope offers you his hand, that would be an appropriate time to plant a quick yet respectful kiss on the Piscatory ring, also known as the Ring of the Fisherman, traditionally worn by the Pope.


On the other hand, if the Pope offers you his hand and you are not Catholic, you are not obligated to kiss the ring. You could simply shake his hand, instead.
The Ring of the Fisherman is a symbol and mark of the office. By kissing it, you show both respect and sincere affection for the man who holds that office.
 Plan what to say beforehand so that you do not stumble too much over your words, and maintain a tone that is both clear and respectful the entire time.


Start by introducing yourself. Give your name and say something important or fitting about yourself.
If you came to the Vatican for a specific purpose or desired an audience with the Pope for a specific purpose, you should also state that.
The Pope will guide the conversation, and you should let him do so. Keep your answers direct and brief, and speak in a clear, loud voice so that the Pope can hear you.
 As soon as the Pope stands to leave, you should stand, as well. Wait until he leaves the room before you sit down again or pay attention to anything else.


Applause is not usually necessary at the end of the audience or event, but if you are in a large crowd and the crowd begins to applaud, it is appropriate to join in if you so desire.

