 Do not use ammonia if your ring contains other gems besides diamonds. Diamonds are hard gems, which won’t be damaged by ammonia. If your ring includes softer materials like opals, emeralds, pearls, or onyx, you should stick to a cleaning method that doesn’t include ammonia.You can find out the hardness of gemstones by looking up their rating on a gem hardness scale. However, you should know for certain that the stones in your ring are the natural gemstones you’re identifying them as. If in doubt, use a gentler cleaning method such as soap and water instead, or consult with a professional jeweler first to verify what stones are in your ring., Fill a glass bowl with equal parts cold water and ammonia. Don’t fill the bowl all the way to the top, or you won’t be able to move the bowl easily without spilling it. Put your ring into the bowl of solution. Set the bowl somewhere away from children and pets and allow your ring to soak for 30 minutes.After half an hour, put on rubber gloves and plug the sink drain before you retrieve the ring. Or, remove the ring with tongs.
 Once you’ve soaked your ring to loosen any built-up grime, it’s time to scrub that grime away! Fill a glass bowl about 3/4 full with hot water. Add a splash of ammonia and a squirt of dishwashing liquid – exact measurements aren’t needed. Just don’t pour so much ammonia that you can’t handle the strong odor of it., Wear gloves to protect your hands. Use a light scrubbing motion to clean the ring with a soft-bristled toothbrush.Clean well on the inside of the ring underneath the setting. Scrub the back of any diamonds if you can, and pay special attention to any hard-to-reach nooks., Rinse your ring in a bowl of plain water. Make sure that you rinse it well enough that all of the solution is washed away. Plug the sink drain before attempting to retrieve the ring. Set your ring aside in a secure place to air dry.You can use a dry lint-free cloth or blow dryer if you want to resume wearing the ring immediately.

