 The synopsis should be written from a third-person perspective rather than from the point of view of your main characters. Synopses are also usually written in present rather than past tense.For example, instead of writing “I went to the beach house every summer,” write, “Susan travels to the beach every summer.”

, Synopses are meant to be brief, and wordiness is a common mistake in synopses. Although it can feel painful to cut out dialogue and trim down wording, it will help you create a more sleek and readable synopsis.Ask yourself if all the details are really relevant to the synopsis or if they can be left out. If your reader can still get a good idea of what the book is about without those details, scrap them.
Dialogue is usually unnecessary in the synopsis, but if you do include it, keep it to a minimum and make sure it is used to reveal an important turning point or character development.
Don’t worry about making your prose lyrical or elaborate. It will take up too much space, and you should focus your energy on using precise wording and providing a clear summary of your book. When you re-read your synopsis, ask yourself if there is a clearer or more precise word you could use in place of the one you currently included.
 You’ve probably spent a lot of time developing your characters and their backstories, but the synopsis is not the place to explore all of these details or introduce every character in your book.Include just enough detail to make the characters interesting and establish how they are connected or related. In the synopsis, a few phrases are typically sufficient to explain who a character is and where they come from.
 The synopsis is intended to be a summary or brief overview of the book, so do not feel pressured to engage in literary analysis or interpretation of the book’s themes or hidden meanings. The synopsis is not the place for this kind of examination.
 Although you might feel tempted to build suspense and leave certain questions unanswered or ask rhetorical questions, these will distract the reader from your synopsis.For example, don’t write, “Will Tyler ever identify his mother’s killer?” Instead of posing this question, your synopsis should provide an answer.
 You want your synopsis to draw readers in and make them want to read the entire work. Offering a basic play-by-play of the story will make the reader feel like they are reviewing a dry, technical manual.Instead try to inject more emotion and detail into the synopsis by giving insight into how the characters feel.
If you find yourself writing things such as “this happened, then this happened, and finally, this occurred,” it’s time to take a break and revisit the synopsis when you are feeling fresh. You don’t want the synopsis to feel like a boring rundown of a sports game.
Some writers suggest pretending you are describing the book to your friends in the same way you would describe an exciting movie. Omit the boring or trivial details and focus on the highlights.