 The good thing about having family, friends, and colleagues is that they expect you to show up for holidays, social outings, and meetings. You become part of the “family” or the “team” and your absence will have a negative impact. Therefore, having expectations placed upon you like this will keep you focused on your goal of getting your life straightened out and focused on the things that matter the most.You do not have to necessarily be a part of a team. Make friends doing the activities you enjoy. For example, if you like to work out make some friends at the gym to exercise with. After a while, they will expect you to show up so you can work out together.
Think about it this way: a team needs all members to participate in some way to achieve success. Being a part of a successful team will motivate and reward you for your part. Don’t live your life in a vacuum, meet expectations and stay focused on your goals.
 Most people like to think about the things they want or wish they had. The next step – making excuses why you don’t have those things – is a deflated way of thinking that could lead to depression or disinterest and, therefore, taking your focus away from keeping your life on track.

Spending time thinking about the reasons for why things are withheld from you is a major factor in pushing focus and goals off the track. Instead of thinking “I don’t have enough time,” “I don’t have enough money,” or “I don’t have enough experience” stay focused on the possible and remain positive.
Remember that most successful people start in the same exact place that you are in: no money, no time, and no experience. Just like them, set reasonable and achievable goals, building confidence and experience along the way. Say, “I can do this” as part of your motivation.
Making progress, no matter the time, money, or resources, is always better than lying around thinking about what you can’t do. Do what you can do and you feel the power of progress.
 We all like to think of the bigger picture of how things will turn out in the end, but overlooking details will make expectations harder to achieve. Looking only at the optimal picture, important details will be missing and the conclusions you jump to will lack important patterns and relationships. Therefore, you are more likely not to be able to distinguish relationships between ideas that are critical to a complete understanding of what the bigger picture entails.Strive for balance so that you do not get overwhelmed and abandon your goals. It’s okay to visualize the optimal picture, but realize that it is all the little details that will make accomplishing your goal special.
It might be a good idea to write down the process or steps that you need to take to achieve your dream. Then, think about all of the things you need to do under each of the steps to complete it and move forward. An outline, brainstorm web, or map will help keep things organized.
Evaluate each step you take and summarize the results.
 Motivation, inspiration, and willpower – These general desires come and go and rarely can be maintained in the long-term. Rather than rely on them, create an environment for you to succeed. This includes people, places, and events that influence your behavior.

Your environment can trigger a wide-range of responses. The pictures on the wall, the desk you work at, the coffee shop you go to, and the people you see all influence the actions you take. Make sure to notice these influences and change the scenery for an optimal environment.
Environment impacts mood as well. Choose an environment that is comfortable, well-lit, fresh air, and has happy people.
Environmental change can also relate to behavior. If you have a habit of forgetting, you can make changes to the environment to be more successful in daily life. For example, a simple change such as placing your journal beside your house keys to remind you to make an entry before leaving the house will take one more responsibility off of your mind and lessen stress.
 Make sure the route you take is sincere and will help you get your life back on track. Don’t get caught up in chasing things you really are not interested in because if you fail to achieve your pursuit, it could lead to negative feelings of being a loser or failure. Care about what you are doing and your chances of success will be much greater.If you have trouble achieving all of your goals try to focus on successfully mastering one at a time. If you really care about that goal or habit, you will work hard to make it successful. If not, then maybe it is not as important as you thought.
Keeping your life on track is difficult. Therefore, anticipate setbacks, missteps, and complications, but don’t give up. Develop a well thought out plan that will successfully put you back in the place you want to be in.

