 Do this after the skin has cooled and you are able to lay it out on a flat rock or cool concrete. Use a knife or a flesher to remove every little bit. It's very important to get all of the flesh off of the hide so that it doesn't begin to rot.Don't wait too long to flesh the hide after you've skinned the deer. If the hide begins to decompose it won't hold up during the tanning process.
Use a fleshing tool intended for scraping flesh from a hide, rather than a knife. Sharp tools could pierce the hide and damage it.;
, Make sure you put down a fairly thick layer of salt to draw out the moisture from the pelt. Use 3-5 pounds of salt, depending on how large the hide is.


The salting process takes a day or two if the proper amount of salt is used. Keep adding salt to the hide until it dries out and becomes crispy.
Cover wet areas of the hide with more salt.
 Before you use the brine solution, soak the hide in clean water until it is soft and flexible. This helps it absorb the tanning chemicals. Peel off the dried inner skin from the hide.
 This solution relaxes the hide and helps to preserve it, an essential step in the tanning process.Here's what you'll need:


2 gallons water
1 1/2 gallons bran flake water (Make this by boiling 1 1/2 gallons of water and pouring it over a pound of bran flakes. Let the mixture sit for one hour, then strain and reserve the water.)
8 cups salt (not iodized)
1 1/4 cups formic acid
1 box baking soda
2 large trash cans
1 large stick, for stirring and moving hides

, Put the salt in a trash can and pour 2 gallons of boiling water inside. Add the bran flake water and stir until the salt has completely dissolved. Add the formic acid. Put the hide in the trash can, punching it down with the stick to make sure it is completely covered in liquid. Let it soak for 40 minutes. Remove the hide from the brining solution and drain.


Make sure you wear gloves and take other precautions to prevent getting burned from the acid.
 Mix an ounce of baking soda for every 1 gallon (3.8 liters) of water needed to cover the hide in a large garbage can. Place the hide in the neutralizing solution, and stir for 20 minutes. Remove the hide from the neutralizing solution, rinse, and drain.
 Remove the hide from the rinse and hang over a beam to drain. Rub it with neat's foot oil to condition the skin.
 Hang the hide on a stretcher or hide dryer to finish the process. Place it in a place out of the sun to dry. After a few days the hide should feel dry and flexible. Take it down from the rack and go over the skin side with a wire brush until it has a suede-like appearance. Let the hide finish drying until it is fully dry, which should take a few more days.