 Try to find a journal that you can stow away in your backpack, purse, or pocket. You never know when a stressful moment may arise, so being prepared at all times is best. Also take into consideration the journal's cover (do you like its appearance?) and paper (do you like the texture?).

On that note, be sure to have a pen or pencil (whichever you prefer) on hand at all times - maybe a backup as well, just in case.
There are also apps and websites you can use for this purpose, if you prefer. A text editor document would work, too. Storing your journal on the Cloud or Internet also ensures that you can access your journal nearly anywhere.
Consider having multiple journals, in the event that you forget one. Maybe you'll keep one in your desk at work and another in your nightstand at home.;
, You might want to start with an entry that states your name and the purpose of the journal. Go into a bit of detail on the latter, if you like. Where are you now and where do you hope to be with your journal's help?, If you feel anxiety or pressure coming on, pull out your journal and write about how you feel and, if you can identify it, the source of your stress. Perhaps when flipping through on a later date you might discover patterns you never noticed before., Your journal need not be completely focused on your stress - write about pleasant things, too! Reminding yourself of good things might help in the future. Some things you could write about include:

Good days
Your dreams and goals
Ideas
Things you'd love to do
Your favorite things

, Sometimes people feel jumbled emotions, which only makes them more stressed. Trying to put words to your thoughts and feelings helps put them in a logical order and, hopefully, understand them better.

Writing before bed can help your mind settle down; with all that's swirling through your mind on paper, you might find it easier to sleep.
Talking through/writing through all that's on your mind, such as tasks and what you need to do, might be able to help you prioritize and set goals, and monitoring goals is easier with a journal.
 Every so often, read some old entries from your journal. How far have you come from when you started? Has your stress decreased? Since these changes are gradual, you might not realize they have happened until your look back and see the contrast.