 There's usually something in softball you're really good at and something you really need to work on. While still practicing the thing you're good at, you should set a goal for yourself on the thing you need to work on so you can get better each time. Once you accomplish that goal, set a new one. Keep that thread going, and you'll start to be better at that than the thing you used to be the best at!
, You can do this in a variety of ways from playing catch with family or a friend to hitting a balled up sock off of a tee with your bat! If you have a personalized softball at your house, you can just lay in your bed, toss it in the air, and then catch it. There are so many ways to practice at your house, you can make something up on your own!, If you're not on a softball team yet, you should try out for one. If you live in a suburban area, there should be a community softball league at the nearest park. Once you're on a team, you will usually have practice for two hours, two times a week. During that time, you should work hard!,


Watch The Ball! It might sound crazy, but the first thing is to watch the ball. You'll be able to tell if the pitch is a ball or a strike, and if you should swing or not.
Stride forward with the foot that's closest to the pitcher, and take your swing at the ball. Don't forget, keep watching the ball.



Pay attention. Don't stop watching the game if nothing comes to you.
Get into a ready position as the ball is being pitched. Keep your glove down and be able to move from side to side very quickly.



Use two hands if a grounder is coming to you. This means have your glove down on the ground and keep your other hand above the glove to trap the ball. This way if the ball takes a bounce you're not expecting your hand will block it. Also, when you get the ball in your glove your hand will be on it very quickly so that you can throw the ball to your target faster and beat the runner to the base.



Use two hands. If you have to do a basket catch, have one hand close so you can throw it quickly and to help keep the ball in your glove when you catch it.



Keep your eyes open and on the game. You must resist the urge to space out, even though the game can be dull for an outfielder.
Back up the infield. Stay behind them and in a position to recover the ball in the infielder misses it.
 One day, you'll get to a point when you're not sure why you signed up to play softball. You'll start getting bored and upset when you have to go to practice. Why? Because you need to work harder! Since you're not working hard anymore, your coach is getting onto you because everybody else is working hard, and you're not! Don't worry. Once you get there you'll be glad you came.