 Click on the image of the Altador Cup official to sign up for a team. You may join any of the 16 available teams in a particular season. Although some people join the same team every year, you may join a team different from the one that you joined in the previous year. You may also join the Altador Cup if this is your first year playing.
 You will be playing the same opponent in all four of the Altador Cup games: Yooyuball, Make Some Noise, Slushie Slinger, and Shootout Showdown. You can also look at the results page for your team's and the other team's strengths and weaknesses and adjust your play strategy to address them.
 Yooyuball is considered the main game if the Altador Cup. To win this game, score more goals than your opponent. This game is closely based on soccer. Keep in mind that unlike soccer, only one character in the game can move at a time.
 Mini-games available this year include Make Some Noise, Slushie Slinger, and Shootout Showdown. These games will also help your team win the Altador Cup. Please read further on in the article for instructions on playing each of these three mini-games.
 Many people love the Altador Cup because it gives them a chance to meet and bond with people who are playing on their team. In addition to meeting your teammates in the forums, there are team-based webpages, guilds, and images for every team. To find your teammates, go to the Altador Cup section of the Neopets forums and search for your team's board. Your teammates will also encourage you and give you game tips.
 Remember that everyone wins something even if his/her team does not make it to the finals. The rewards vary year-to-year and are announced after the Altador Cup playing period is over. In addition, many participants consider their new friends as part of a reward from playing in the Altador Cup.
,

Alternatively, you can just listen to the roar of the crowd in the game; the louder it roars, the better you are doing.
 The bonus keys only appear when you are doing very well in the game.,

If you feel your energy ebbing the middle of the game, click the spacebar to send in your score early.
,, Press the right button to get one of the three flavors of slushies from the slushie machines on the right side of the screen. Hit the spacebar to fill a cup with the slushie mix., Press the left button to turn around so that you are facing the customers. Press the spacebar. to serve the customer his/her slushie., for the customer to finish his/her slushie.

While the customer is drinking, you can serve other customers. Higher levels will require you to serve slushies to customers when other customers are drinking.


Remember that the top counter is the shortest lane and the bottom counter is the longest. Keep this in mind when you time your catches.
 The game automatically ends when you do any combination of the following five times:

A customer goes to the end of the line without receiving his/her slushie.
An empty cup hits the ground.
The stand operator serves a slushie to an empty line.
, The Yooyu should slip pass the goalkeeper.,,