 Stress and anxiety in a kitten can lead to digestive issues. Diarrhea and constipation are common reactions to stress. As you clean out the litter box, notice any abnormalities or changes in their habits.They may also start defecating outside of the litter box.;
, Kittens that are stressed may stop eating as much as usual. They may eat less in volume each day, or they may stop eating completely. This can lead to problems since a cat that goes without eating for more than a day can get sick.If you notice your kitten is not eating, take them to the vet as soon as possible.
 Unclean litter boxes can lead to stress for a cat. If the litter box isn’t cleaned regularly and it is dirty, your cat may eliminate outside of it. This may also happen if there are not enough litter boxes or they are placed in high traffic areas.If you have cats that don’t get along or there have been any major changes in the house, your cat may also not use the litter box.
 Cats who are stressed may groom more than is normal. Most cats groom often, but a kitten who is stressed may groom themselves until they have bald spots or sores.Some cats may even experience hair-pulling behaviors.
Your cat may also scratch excessively.
This excessive grooming is usually centered around the abdomen.
 Stressed cats may start acting different than normal. They may isolate themselves more than usual. This means they may start hiding in rooms, running from people or other pets, or finding dark, solitary spaces to spend their time in.If your cat was solitary to begin with, they may start being needy and clingy with you.
 If your cat has started vocalizing excessively, they are probably trying to tell you something. This usually points to stress due to a huge change in the house, like a move, someone leaving or arriving, or another change.Your cat may meow, screech, whine, or make other signs.
 Cats are lazy and like to sleep. However, a stressed kitten may sleep more than is normal. They may sleep most of the day or through an excessive number of hours each day.Think about your cat’s normal sleeping habits. Look for any changes that could indicate something is wrong.
 If your kitten starts acting aggressively or violently towards you, people, or other pets, they may be stressed. This may be irritability or violence towards a person or other animal when bothered., If there are multiple cats in the house, there may be conflicts between the cats causing your kitten stress. If another cat is hostile, this can upset the cat. Notice how the cats in your house interact with your kitten.If there are cats outside, this can upset your cat because they think that a cat is encroaching on their territory.
 Moving to a new location can also cause a lot of stress to your cat. This can be because of a change in location or familiarity. Cats may also not do well if you move and expect them to go outside or inside when they are used to the opposite., Cats may become stressed if the situation in the home has changed. This may include different people moving in or leaving, or getting a new pet. Even something like remodeling your house or playing loud music can cause stress for some cats.New smells, new furniture, or too much activity in the home can also cause stress.
 Many of these symptoms may indicate a problem. Some of the symptoms, like lack of appetite or excessive grooming, can lead to other conditions or problems. If your cat shows signs of stress, you should take them to the vet for an examination.Make sure to tell your vet all the symptoms your cat has, along with any recent changes in your home.
 Having too many cats in your home can cause unnecessary stress to all of them. You should evaluate the number of cats you own and consider reducing that number. Fewer cats in your home may help lower your kitten’s stress.This is particularly important if your cats don’t all get along or you have hostile cats.
 Cats may get stressed if they don’t have their needs met. This includes keeping them busy. You should make sure your cat has the right things in your home to make them feel safe and happy.For example, you want to make sure there are enough food and water bowls and litter boxes for your number of cats.
Provide beds, hiding places, perches, scratching posts, and toys for each cat.
Shoot for around one for each cat. If you want cats to share things, like the litter box, limit it to two cats per litter box.

