 Some people have trouble getting older because they focus on what they lose as they age. While the loss of some things are inevitable, many things people fear they will lose is exaggerated. Being over 50 doesn’t automatically mean you will lose your health, energy, vitality, or sexuality. Many people lead fulfilled, active, and healthy lives as they get older, and sometimes they’re in a better place than when they were younger.Try to focus on the positive things in your life instead of the negative. Try not to give up or convince yourself that age means negatives. Growing older can be a great time of your life.
 Some people think they have to stay stoic and keep their feelings hidden as they age. Suppressing your emotions can lead to stress, anger, guilt, resentment, and depression. Find ways to express your feelings as you go through difficult life changes.This may include talking to a trusted friend or mental health counselor. You may also choose to write in a journal or find a support group.
 Getting older doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy life. Being retired and having your children leave home means that you can focus on what you want to do. Nourish yourself and your interests by returning to old hobbies, spending time with those you love, and learning new things.If you gave up an interest when you were younger, return to it. Start playing the piano again, take up sewing again, get back into playing tennis, or return to your model car collection.
Try a new hobby. Think of things you have always wanted to do and go for it. Learn to play an instrument, try a new sport, learn a foreign language, or take cooking classes.
Spend time with friends and family. Become involved in your community so you can meet new people.
Travel to places you have never been.
 Depression and anxiety commonly occurs to those over 50. This is due to the many life changes that they may not be able to adjust to. However, you do not have to deal with depression and anxiety alone. If you are feeling down and can’t seem to work through it, go see your doctor or a mental health provider.You may benefit from talk therapy or medication to treat your depression and anxiety.

