 There will be dozens of social events in the first weeks of law school. Students will organize cookouts and nights out at the local bar. You should try to meet people, but do so on your own terms. If you are shy, don’t worry. You will slowly get to meet people through your classes.


If you’re outgoing, jump into the fray and meet as many people as you can. Also try to meet people outside your section.
If you’re married, look if there are student groups for married students. This is a good way to meet other couples.;
, Most 1Ls are obsessed with grades. Unfortunately, you probably won’t receive any grades until you take final exams, so you will spend your entire first semester comparing yourself to other people in your section. Avoid this temptation.


Other students will exaggerate how much they are studying, so take everything they say with a huge grain of salt.Don’t be impressed by students who talk all the time. They don’t always finish at the top of the class. In fact, you’ll notice many will become quiet in the second semester. Why? Because they got their fall semester grades!

, The easiest way to keep up with your reading is to develop a schedule early and stick to it. In undergrad, you might have been able to sleep until noon, but in law school you’ll have to attend classes early in the morning and get all of your reading done in the evening. Develop a schedule and stick to it.


Also schedule time to get away from law school. The worst thing you can do is to spend all of your time in the library or around law students.
Remember to take care of your health. The stress and workload will take a toll on your health, so remember to schedule regular exercise., In a study group, you can compare your notes, bounce ideas of each other, and commiserate. Study groups are also helpful for getting to know people, though this isn’t their primary purpose.


Make sure your study group is small—usually no more than four people.If you decide to join a study group, commit to keeping up and staying in the group throughout the entire semester. For this reason, you might want to wait a few weeks before forming your study group.This will give you a chance to scope out who you think knows their material.
 Law schools are usually small—fewer than a thousand students in total. Also, your section might have around 40 students. This environment will feel a lot like junior high.Whatever you tell someone will probably get repeated.
 Most days you can roll into class wearing your PJs, but you’ll be surprised by how often you need to look professional. For example, you might have to attend a lecture given by a federal or state judge. You’ll also need a suit if you participate in moot court. It’s probably best to buy one early in your 1L semester, if not before school starts.


Make sure your suit fits you well—but isn’t too tight. Students often gain 15 pounds or more during their 1L year.You don’t want the waistband to cut off your circulation by the end of the spring semester.

