 Add an even layer of white granulated sugar to a light-colored, heavy-bottomed saucepan or skillet. As you heat the sugar, it will release its water and caramelize.









As this method requires no other ingredients, the exact quantity of sugar is unimportant.
Go for one or two cups, depending on how much caramel you need.
 Watch the caramel closely as it heats - it should begin to liquefy around the edges, turning from a clear liquid to a golden brown color.









As the sugar begins to brown, use a silicone spatula or a wooden spoon to move the liquefied sugar from the edges of the saucepan to the center.
This will ensure the sugar on the outside doesn't begin to burn before the sugar on the inside has melted.
If you have a very thick layer of sugar in the saucepan, be careful that the sugar at the bottom of the pan doesn't begin to burn before you realize.
 The sugar will probably melt unevenly, so don't worry if it looks lumpy in some parts, but is liquid in others. Just lower the heat and continue to stir. This will ensure that the caramel doesn't burn as you wait for the stubborn lumps to melt.









It doesn't matter if you can't get all of the lumps to melt - you can easily strain your caramel afterwards to remove them.
Be careful not to over stir the caramel either - if you do, the sugar may start to clump up before it has a chance to melt.
Don't worry though. If this happens, just turn the heat to very low and refrain from stirring until the sugar begins to melt again., Carefully watch the caramelizing sugar until it reaches exactly the right color - no more no less. Perfect caramelized sugar should be a dark, amber color - almost the color of an old copper penny.









You will know your caramel is finished when it is just past the smoking point. If you take it off before it smokes, it will be slightly undercooked.
You can also gauge if your caramel is done by the smell - it should be deep and rich smelling, with a slight nuttiness.
 Once your caramel hits perfection, don't waste any time in removing it from the heat. Caramel can go from perfect to burnt very quickly, and burnt caramel is bitter and unusable.









If you're using the caramel for a flan or crème caramel, you can pour the caramel directly from the saucepan into the molds.
If you're making spun sugar, it's important that you stop the caramelization process by dunking the bottom of the saucepan in ice water. Otherwise the residual heat from the saucepan could burn the caramel.
If you're making a caramel sauce, immediately add butter or cream to the caramel. This will stop the caramel from cooking and create a wonderfully creamy topping for ice creams and desserts. Just be careful, as the molten caramel can splatter when the dairy is added.
