


Botulinum is one of the most common procedures used to fight most wrinkles.
When the muscles are too weak to tighten, the skin becomes flat and looks smoother.
The effect of each treatment usually lasts for three to four month.
 Chemical peels use acid to "burn" the epidermis and, on occasion, part of the dermis. Once these top layers of skin are removed, new skin takes their place.


The new skin is usually smoother than the removed skin.
Additionally, the damage caused to your skin usually prompts the creation of fresh collagen.
 The surface of your skin is sanded down with a rotating brush. New, smoother skin grows in its place.


Redness, swelling, and scabbing can last for several weeks.
Opt for microdermabrasion if you do not want to try full dermabrasion. This technique uses vacuum suction and aluminum oxide crystals to "sandblast" the surface of your skin. Less skin is removed, creating a more subtle result, but the redness usually fades faster.
 During a laser treatment, a laser destroys the epidermis and heats the dermis, thereby causing new collagen to form.


It may be several months before new skin forms and your skin fully heals.
Note that there are newer types of laser treatments that cause less damage to your skin while triggering the formation of new collagen. The effect may be less pronounced, but the side effects may be less pronounced, as well.
 Fat, collagen, or hyaluronic acid can be injected directly into your wrinkles to fill them in.


Your skin becomes plumper and smoother afterward.
Redness, swelling, and bruising may occur immediately after the treatment.
Treatments will need to be repeated every few months to maintain the effect.
 This cosmetic surgery procedure removes excess skin and fat in your face and neck, tightening the muscle and tissue underneath. Ultimately, many of your wrinkles will vanish as a result.


The result usually lasts 5 to 10 years.
You will likely experience bruising and swelling after the surgery, and this may last for weeks or months.

