 This recipe is very simple and can be made quickly, so it’s perfect for a busy weeknight. Instead of making the white and red sauces from scratch, this baked pasta calls for 2 jars of your favorite store-bought sauces.Along with being a fast meal to prepare, it’s also fairly inexpensive and kids love it. Serves 6-8.


4 cups penne noodles;
1 jar Alfredo sauce (15 oz.);
1 jar marinara sauce (24 oz.);
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese;
1 cup shredded parmesan cheese.;
, Cook and drain the pasta according to the directions on the package (different brands vary). While you’re working on this, go ahead and preheat your oven to 350 degrees to prepare for the baking portion of the recipe.Carefully pour the boiling water and cooked pasta into a strainer to drain.
If you don’t have penne noodles on hand, feel free to substitute with 4 cups of your favorite pasta shape.
 Pour both the marinara and Alfredo sauces straight from their jars into a large mixing bowl. Using a big mixing spoon, stir them together until well blended. The red and white sauces will combine to create a creamy orange-red hued sauce.
 Mix 2 cups of shredded mozzarella cheese into the sauce mixture in your large bowl. Stir the cheese into the sauce well. Then add the cooked and drained pasta to the mixture. Stir well to combine all of the ingredients., Carefully pour all of your mixture into a 9x13 baking dish. Confirm that your oven is now heated to 350 degrees. Slide the baking dish into the oven and bake the pasta uncovered for 20-25 minutes. By that time, it will be hot and bubbly., Carefully pull the pasta dish from the oven and sprinkle 1 cup of parmesan cheese evenly over the top. Pop it back into the oven, still uncovered, for another 5 minutes. Confirm that the parmesan has fully melted, then remove it from the oven.


Allow pasta to cool for at least 5-10 minutes before serving.Feel free to chop and sprinkle fresh parsley and/or fresh basil on the top of the dish before cutting and serving.
 Prepare the recipe all the way up to baking step. Tightly cover the dish with two layers of aluminum foil. You can freeze this for up to 2 months. To reheat the dish, remove it from the freezer and put it in the refrigerator for about 2 days to thaw it out.


Cover the dish with foil and bake at 350 degrees for 35-45 minutes (or until heated through).