 Oftentimes, there are sources of fructose that are not overtly advertised on a product's label. Even when a product has a low sugar content, the ingredients label may reveal hidden sources of fructose. Do not buy products containing any of the following ingredients:Fructose
High-fructose corn syrup
Honey
Agave nectar
Invert sugar
Maple syrup
Molasses
Palm or coconut sugar
Sorghum;
, High-fructose corn syrup is an especially unhealthy source of fructose.While high-fructose corn syrup is found in some obvious places, like soft drinks, it's also found in unexpected products. Things like salad dressings, bread, juices, granola bars, and pasta sauces may contain high-fructose corn syrup, so read labels carefully., If fructose consumption causes digestion problems for you, watch out for the ingredient "sorbitol" on labels. This is a sugar alcohol that can worsen digestive symptoms for some. When trying to find products friendly to a low fructose diet, avoid sorbitol in general., If cereal is a staple of your breakfast, be aware it can be high in sugar and fructose. Ideally, the cereal you eat should have no more than three grams of sugar per serving. Cereals like Porridge, Weetabix, and shredded wheat without added sugar are great options., Dairy products are generally lower in sugar and can be healthy on a low fructose diet. However, things like flavored milk and yogurt may have a high sugar content and should be avoided.Dairy products with fruit flavoring are high in added sugar and fructose-containing products, even products flavored with natural fruit. Opt for plain dairy products.If you want to add some flavor to your yogurt, try mixing in extracts like vanilla extract and naturally sweet spices like cinnamon.
 As safe fructose levels vary depending on your personal health, talk to a doctor about establishing a meal plan. If you've been diagnosed with a health condition that affects your ability to consume fructose, sit down with your doctor and go over what you can and cannot eat. You should also make sure your doctor lets you know the precise amount of fructose you can safely consume each day.
 Certain fruits, such as bananas and grapes, are very high in sugar and fructose. While such fruits are not necessarily bad for you, it's best to cut them out if you need to maintain a low fructose diet. Limit your fruit consumption in general and, when you do eat fruit, aim for low fructose options.Fruits that are very low in sugar include options like avocado, rhubarb, lime, lemon, strawberries, watermelon, blackberries, grapefruit, cranberries, and raspberries.
Fruits with a moderate amount of sugar include nectarines, peaches, cantaloupes, pears, plums, apples, apricots, oranges, and pineapple.
Even when consuming fruit low in sugar, limit your overall fruit intake. When it comes to consuming healthy produce, strive to eat more vegetables than fruit.
 In general, vegetables tend to be lower in sugar than fruit overall. However, not all vegetables are completely safe for a low-fructose diet. Make sure you ask your doctor which vegetables you can and can't have, and factor in vegetables when calculating your daily fructose consumption. If you're trying to limit your fructose intake, go for some of the following veggie options:Asparagus
Bok choy
Brussels sprouts
Cucumber
Kale
Lettuce
Parsnips
Spinach
White potato
Zucchini

, You do not need to drink anything but water to quench your thirst. Many other drink options are high in fructose. While soda is an obvious culprit, even juices made from natural fruits contain a high amount of fructose.If you prefer to sweeten tea or coffee with sugar, use an artificial sweetener like dextrose instead or sweet extracts, like vanilla extract.
 When it comes to snacking, fill up on snacks that are low in overall fructose content. Opt for filling options that are low in fructose. The following are healthy snack options for a low fructose diet:Popcorn
Low fructose fruits
Celery and carrots
Cheese
Meats like salami
Nuts

, Ready made meals are high in unnecessary additives, including sources of corn syrup. Strive to eat meals you prepare yourself at home over boxed dinners or other microwavable meals.You should also avoid any commercial baked goods, as these tend to be particularly high in fructose., If you're craving something sweet, satisfy your sweet tooth with a piece of fruit. Go for a fruit with a low to moderate amount of fructose, such as a peach or a handful of strawberries.However, make sure to account for how much total fructose you've had in the day to make sure you don't go over. Also, talk to your doctor about having fruit as a snack. Some people with conditions like fructose malabsorption may not be able to have fruit on its own at all., Bread is a staple of many people's diets as it can be used for quick lunch options like sandwiches. If you're craving bread, look for bread marked as low fructose in the grocery store. This can allow you to enjoy bread without sabotaging your efforts to avoid fructose.Even while using low fructose bread, you should still strive to limit your overall bread intake. You should also talk to your doctor first. Not everyone on a low-fructose diet can tolerate bread, even low-fructose varieties.
 If you drink, be aware fructose is found in alcohol. Stick to low fructose options such as red wine and dry beers and spirits. Avoid mixing spirits with mixers that contain sugar.