 Recognize the important role that other people play in your life. Go to your closest family, friends, and colleagues, and tell them a simple, “Thank you.” By acknowledging these relationships, you are being honest about your allies and making these ties stronger as a result.You may feel vulnerable when talking to someone in this way and that is perfectly normal. You can even acknowledge that feeling by saying, “I know I’m putting myself out there, but I really do appreciate what you do for me.”
Don’t be afraid to reach out to acquaintances as well. Sending a quick thank you note can win you a new friend, which is always good for your self-esteem.
 When you tell ‘white lies’ you may be attempting to shield someone from a painful truth but, in the end, you can cause much more damage. Instead, try to tactfully provide the truth. For example, if a friend asks your opinion on a movie they enjoyed, but that you disliked, you could say, “It wasn’t really for me, but there were some good parts.” You will eventually gain a reputation as a forthright person who speaks their mind, regardless of repercussions.These small omissions add up over time and can create entire alternate realities between people. You don’t want relationships built on lies, even well-intentioned ones.
Avoiding ‘white lies’ doesn’t give you a license to be rude or mean-spirited. Try to pair more biting truths with a gentle opening phrase, such as, “I know that you worked really hard on this project, but it’s still missing too many critical details.”

, Think about someone who you admire for their honesty and forthright character. Spend time with this person and watch how they emphasize the positive or handle uncomfortable situations. You could even ask them, “Why do you think honesty is important?”


If you are younger, a parent might seem the obvious choice, but try to be objective in evaluating their honesty. For example, you might ask yourself, “Have they ever told me to cheat or lie?” If so, they may not be the best choice., It is natural to size yourself up against other people. However, if it gets to the point where you think about others more than you do about yourself, it has gone too far. Recognize that all comparisons of this sort are inaccurate and really pointless.


Instead of dwelling on the achievements of others, look for real ways that you can improve your situation. Take that dream job or go on that trip you’ve been putting off., There is no better feeling than when you realize that you actually did something to protect yourself in the midst of an attack. By asserting your right to be treated fairly, you are teaching people what you will and will not accept. This will boost your self-esteem because you are defining personal limits.


It is normal to want to fit in and to crave acceptance, but letting yourself be pushed around by other people is not blending in, it is disappearing. Don’t’ be afraid to be visible. For example, if your boss passes you over for a promotion that you deserve, approach them and ask about it.Your friends may occasionally make degrading comments as well. Let them know that it is not okay by stating, “I don’t know why you would say that, but it’s hurtful and wrong.”

, Being eager to help out others is a positive quality until it damages your well-being. If you agree to every opportunity that comes along, you run a risk of being overcommitted and stressed. And, you may involve yourself in activities that you don’t really care about to the detriment of those things you are passionate about.Politely turn down an offer by stating, “This is a really great project, but I’m totally booked up at the moment.”
Remember that you are the only one who truly knows your time constraints. Let your language reflect your confidence in your ability to make the right choice. Instead of saying, “I don’t think I can,” you might state, “I really can’t, I’m sorry.”

, Sit down and think about your friends and family. Ask yourself, “How does this person make me feel? Do they treat me good or bad?” Pessimistic or negative people often blend in with your other friends, gradually poisoning your mindset and ruining your day. Weed them out by limiting your time around them, slowly reducing it to zero.Just because someone is negative doesn’t mean they aren’t exciting. Remember, though, that this excitement may involve putting others down and that isn’t good for anyone.
Complainers are dangerous because they will gradually turn you away from things that you used to enjoy. Nip this in the bud by saying something like, “Well, this park is beautiful to me, so let’s just leave it at that.”

, Rumors are often built on half-truths and exaggerations. Embracing honesty means moving away from gossip, in all its forms. When you do this you will find that you have much more interesting conversations about real things that are going on around you, not fake ones.


One of the problems with gossip is that it is not entirely abstract, it does actually effect people’s lives in a negative way. For example, if someone is rumored to be dating the boss (even if it is untrue) it could lead to them becoming a social outcast in the workplace.