 The members of your business team should contribute in ways you can’t. Honestly self-assess what skills you lack.Then go out and find people with those skills.


You’ll need the help of certain professionals, such as a lawyer, accountant, and banker.
However, you may also need to hire employees to fill business roles. For example, you might not be good with marketing, or you may be a poor salesperson. You can hire people to fulfill those roles.;
, Employees need to know their job duties. Undefined roles can create confusion and lower your team’s morale.Work won’t be completed on time, and people will begin stepping on each other’s toes. Before advertising your job, you should spend some time outlining the duties of each new hire.


If you need help, look online for common job descriptions. Go through the list of duties and decide which tasks each person should perform.
You can also look at the Occupational Handbook put out by the U.S. Department of Labor, which provides a list of duties for common jobs., Instead of immediately placing a “help wanted” ad online, you should ask people you know if they would recommend someone for the job. Employees found this way often stay with a company for a longer time.Ask friends and family if they know someone with the skills you need.
Also approach old business contacts. They might know someone who will fill the role nicely.
 Ideally, the people you hire will have the appropriate experience to jump right into their jobs. If you are a startup or a small business, you might not have a lot of time to train people. Employees will also feel more engaged if they are able to immediately contribute to the team., You should let potential employees know how you see the business. Remember to discuss the following with potential hires:The type of culture you want to build. For example, you might want a business culture that is horizontal, not hierarchical, where everyone participates in meaningful business decisions. Alternately, you might want a culture dedicated to expanding as rapidly as possible.
Your plans. Tell potential hires where you see the business in the short-term and long-term.
 Instead of having a standard interview, you should mix things up so that you can gauge a person’s interest in your business. Consider the following interview techniques:Give them a tour, even if your office is empty because you have no employees. Pay attention to how many questions they have. Are they as enthusiastic about the business as you?
Introduce them to other employees. Judge whether they treat people with respect. Are they curious about the other team members’ jobs? Do they ask intelligent questions, or do they simply shake someone’s hand and say, “Nice to meet you”?
Share a meal. A person’s true personality will come out in an informal setting, such as a restaurant. If the job candidate is rude to staff or flustered, they may be a poor fit for a business team.
 If all of your employees are like you, then you’ll never feel challenged at work. Your business will benefit from a diversity of personalities and life experiences. Find people who aren’t like you by paying attention to communication styles when interviewing.


For example, if you’re extremely bull-headed and extroverted, find a business partner who is more thoughtful and quiet. You will benefit from their perspective.
Also commit to creating a culture where employees don’t categorize each other based on race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, etc., People close to you will lack the incentive to be truthful. Instead, they’ll want to avoid crushing your dream.It’s better to hire people who will level with you.


However, if you know people primarily through business, then it is okay to partner with them. For example, you might have worked at an old job with somebody who you consider a friend. They could bring valuable experience to the team.
 Once you’ve hired someone, schedule a meeting one month in. Check to see how the employee is doing.You can ask the following:How are they doing? If they are struggling, try to identify the reason.
Are there any obstacles that are keeping them from doing their job effectively? Check if you can remove the obstacles.
What else do they need? Consider giving new hires a mentor who can show them the ropes.Is there anything they don’t know that would help them? If so, you might want to hold a company-wide training session, or locate help for them individually.
 If at all possible, you should share information freely with your entire business team. People will feel less valued if you withhold information from certain employees.Employees will feel more invested in the team if they know what is going on—even if the information isn’t immediately relevant to their jobs.


For example, imagine you are thinking of expanding. Now imagine you are a secretary who is suddenly told one day that you are opening a new office in a neighboring city. How do you think they feel if this is the first time they have heard of the expansion plans?
Team meetings and company-wide emails are good ways to communicate. Remember that your employees talk to each other, so information will get out if you tell only a few people.
 Make sure the meeting goes beyond a checklist of things to do. Instead, have a conversation. Encourage everyone to participate. Some team members might offer ideas on topics they never knew they had an interest in.Pay particular attention to people who aren’t talking at meetings. You want everyone to feel united for the team’s success.However, you also need to be sensitive to the fact that some people aren’t extroverted. For example, you might send out an email before the team meeting and ask people to email you with any issues they want to discuss. Then, at the team meeting, you can raise them.
Use “we” language, not “I” statements. This helps create a sense of cohesion., Research shows that groups don’t brainstorm effectively when gathered together. In particular, team members might be afraid of being judged harshly, which will limit their creativity. Alternately, they may expect other team members to do most of the work.


You might address these problems by using electronic brainstorming. You can use a chat program that allows you to communicate ideas.
Another option is to have people brainstorm on their own and then send you their ideas. In the team meeting, you can discuss each idea without attributing it to a specific team member.
Always promote civility when discussing ideas. Don’t trash any idea as stupid. Instead, focus on improving ideas or combining them., Your instinct might be to keep everyone’s nose to the grindstone during work hours. However, team members benefit from some non-work conversation during the day.Avoid cracking down on people who gather for a short chat.


You can encourage non-work communication by creating a break room where people can gather on their coffee breaks.
You also might want to install a water cooler, which is a popular spot for people to stop and talk.
 Not everyone is great at listening. To improve your team’s success, identify and address any communication problems you see in your business team. For example, team members might need help learning to give everyone a chance to speak.You might not know how to address these problems yourself. Seek out workplace consultants who can help you.
 It’ll be hard to create a good business team if you constantly have people leaving. You can retain key employees by making sure each employee feels valued.Praise people when they do a good job. Acknowledge their successes so that the entire team is aware of them. To keep team members from getting jealous of each other, recognize several people at once.
Valuing remote workers can be a special challenge because they are not physically present. Nevertheless, it is important to make them feel valued.Invite them to join meetings by Skype.
 Engaged employees often can identify how their daily tasks contribute to the big picture. To keep your employees motivated, discuss your company’s long-term goals.Don’t forget short-term goals, either. In fact, you should create quarterly benchmarks or milestones for individuals and groups. As they attain their goals, they gain a sense of accomplishment and satisfaction.
 When your business falls short of your goals, you should avoid the temptation to blame someone.Instead, come together as a team and discuss how to improve the team’s performance as a whole. Reaffirm your short-term and long-term goals, or collectively change those goals if necessary.


Of course, if you have a terrible employee, you’ll need to replace them or move them to a more appropriate job. However, you should terminate them in a way that doesn’t make the rest of the team feel insecure about their jobs.
For example, you should acknowledge the termination in a team meeting. Stress that the firing was for cause and that you aren’t downsizing. However, don’t go into the reasons for the termination, which are confidential., Business teams won’t perform effectively if subgroups form. You’ll want to keep the team from splintering into smaller groups.Some cliques might form naturally. For example, if two people handle marketing, they will get to know each other better than they will get to know other people in the team. However, you still need to keep a team united in order to be successful.
If possible, try to get people who don’t work closely together to team up on projects. For example, you can create a committee and appoint people from different departments. This will allow them to work collaboratively.
 Have a team meal once a month or host a cookout at your house. Getting to know people as people (and not employees) can help you understand what motivates them and how they respond to success or failure.You don’t need to be best friends. In fact, being too friendly might undermine the team. You shouldn’t hire friends in the first place, so why become best friends at work?

, You might dread the idea of having your employees sit in a circle and share secrets as some sort of team-building exercise. However, team-building has measurable positive effects—when done right.Consider the following options:


Sports. Find a sport everyone can participate in that does not have a high risk of injury.
Field trips. Visit the local museum or attend an afternoon baseball game.
Workshops. Invite a speaker to lecture on recent developments in your field. This is a great way for employees to get the training they need, but in a supportive environment where all attend.
 This is another great way to foster a sense of team spirit.Find a worthy cause the entire business team can volunteer for. Set up a weekend where everyone gathers to perform some volunteer task.


Try to pick something non-political. Remember, you want everyone to participate enthusiastically.
For example, you can volunteer to read to children in a local elementary school or to pick up trash around your neighborhood.
 Trust is vital for a team’s success. If you need to delegate a task, can you trust the person? If the answer isn’t “yes,” then work might not get done and conflicts can escalate. As a leader, you’ll need to encourage trust by doing the following:


Trust someone first. You can model trusting behavior by delegating tasks to other people.Offer negotiable deadlines. This shows you trust the person to get work done on time. In fact, being flexible in general is a good way to build trust.Remain calm. If you explode at people for mistakes, then you can expect everyone to remain on edge.
 Your business might benefit from the help of an outside expert. You can hire a team coach to analyze your business team and recommend changes.Search for business coaches online and ask if they will provide a free session.Emphasize to your team that the coach is not a management consultant employed to find jobs to eliminate.

