 The PlayStation 4 is constantly recording, and will always save up to the last 15 minutes of gameplay for you. The PlayStation 4 will not record any system menus or videos.;
, Did something amazing just happen in your game? Did you just beat a tough level or boss? Press the Share button to open the Share menu so that you can save the recording of what you just played.
 The footage that was recorded, up to the last fifteen minutes, will be saved to your PS4's hard drive., If you're playing a game and want to start a fresh recording, you can do so by double-tapping the Share button. Be aware that this will delete anything that was already recording but not yet saved. Tap Share again when you want to finish recording. Recording will stop automatically after 15 minutes.
 All of your saved videos and screenshots can be found in the Capture Gallery app. You'll find this app on your main PS4 menu, or in the Library if you haven't used it recently.
 The Capture Gallery will organize your videos according to game title. Navigate to the game that you recorded the video in and then select "Videos" to find your saved videos.
 You can watch the video in the Capture Gallery or open it in ShareFactory to make edits. Select the video to start playing it.
 You can upload the video to Facebook or YouTube from the Share menu. You'll be prompted to log in with your Facebook or YouTube account. Before uploading, you can trim the video clips with a basic editor. Make sure to give it a catchy title and a good description., If you want to move your video clips to your computer, you'll need a USB flash drive. Plug the thumb drive into the USB port on the front of the PS4.
 To copy videos to the USB drive, press the Options button on the controller and select "Copy to USB Storage". Select each of the videos that you want to copy to the USB drive. Select "Copy" after you have finished selecting videos and they will be copied to the USB drive that you plugged in.


The transfer process may take a few minutes to complete. The videos will be in MP4 format in a folder called "PS4" on the USB drive.

