 Focusing on what you need to improve before you’ll allow yourself to feel confident is a losing game. Once you realize that your body is perfect, just the way it is, you’ll feel a lot better about putting on any kind of bathing suit.It will help to remember that you’re probably the only one focussing on your perceived flaws. Other people are more aware of whether or not you’re having fun, or appear to be down in the dumps.
If you find yourself thinking negative thoughts, force your attention onto something positive. For example, follow the negative thought, “I hate how large my thighs are,” with the positive twist, “but my collarbones are gorgeous.”

, The simple act of smiling communicates self-confidence and friendliness. When you smile, people are more likely to smile back at you. You’ll likely return the smile, and feel more confident.When you’re smiling, your voice will sound friendlier and more pleasant to listen to.Smiling releases endorphins, which bring about good feelings and greater confidence.
Laughing is good for your body as well. It stretches your muscles, and helps your release tension.
 If your friends are always complaining about their own bodies, chances are you’ll be tempted to join in with them. This won’t do your confidence any favors. Instead, make an effort to hang out with friends who are proud of who they are. Confidence is contagious!Remember, the more you complain about your own perceived flaws, the more you’re likely to start to believe they’re real.
If your friends start criticizing their bodies, disengage. Change the subject, laugh it off, and don’t allow yourself to start the cycle of complaining.
 Set the timer for 5-10 minutes, and take that time to meditate on self-compassionate loving thoughts. Deciding to refrain from negative self-judgment is a discipline that needs to be actively practiced and honed over time.An example of a positive meditation that you can focus on might be: “I am loved,” or simply the word “love”.
Concentrate on the feeling of your breath. If you start to notice self-judgments entering your consciousness, let them go.
 Try wearing clothing that draws attention, such as animal prints, bright colors, or revealing necklines. If you pay attention to how you feel when you wear these “forbidden” clothes, you’ll build courage slowly over time.Wearing clothing that feels revealing to you, like short skirts or low-cut tops, is a way to get used to feeling brave about your clothing choices.
It may seem hard at first, but gradually you’ll come to realize that you deserve to be noticed and to be seen.
 If you find yourself being hyper-critical of others, chances are you’re being too hard on yourself as well. Instead, try focusing on what you admire about others in their swimsuits. Practice turning your negativity in a new, positive, direction.Try to avoid using this as an opportunity for comparison with yourself. Your goal is to improve your overall kindness, so that you’re more likely to be kind to yourself.
This is a way to realize that no 2 bodies are exactly the same: everyone’s body is differently beautiful. This includes your own!

