 When choosing a battery, look for information on your Power Wheels battery to guide you on the exact specifications. You must note the voltage, chemistry, and size. For example: Fisherbrand Power Wheels batteries are often lead based, 12 Volt and are 16.0 x 11.0 x 8.0 so you must ensure ensure that the aftermarket battery you choose matches these specifications. The advantage to after-market batteries are that they are inexpensive compared to the Power Wheels brand batteries., Completely remove the top piece but be gentle to avoid damaging the casing of the battery.


Stay away from the black connector inside the battery as this will be used to hook-up your new battery to your Power Wheels car. It will need to be replaced if you unintentionally damage it.
 After some wiggling, the connector will pop up and out of the rest of the battery. Pull the two attached positive and negative wires out as far as you can, and then gently clip them as close to the battery as possible.Use wire cutters or crimpers to ensure a clean, crisp cut. these are available for only a few dollars at your local hardware store.After the connecter has been disconnected, recycle your battery at the recycling depot. Batteries contain a large amount of nasty chemicals and are harmful to the environment., Insert a 30 Amp fuse into a fuse holder. Once connected, strip approximately 1 cm of wire cover from each side of the connector using your wire crimping tool. Insert the exposed wire into a wire connector and crimp down on the wire connector to hold the wire firmly in place.


The positive side of the connector will be white or red.
After crimping the wire connector, insert the one wire from the fuse to the other side of the battery connector. Crimp down to connect the fuse to the battery connector.
Fuses, fuse holders and wire connector are available at local hardware stores., Attach an insulated female spade to the negative wire of the battery connector (often black) and the remaining exposed fuse wire.Female spade connectors come in many different styles. To save time, take your aftermarket battery with you to the store and compare the male components located on the battery terminals to the positive connectors in the store.
 Connect the negative battery terminal (black) to the negative wire of the connector (also black). Connect the positive terminal (red) to the fuse end of the connector., Be cautious and place your car upside as the speed will be greatly increased.

