 You may not be able to control that person’s behavior, but you can control how you respond to it. Sometimes, people are mean just to get a reaction, you can control whether they get it or not. You are in control of how you react and where the situation ends up.You also control some of the times you may interact with the mean person, while not everything is within your control you can keep your distance from social times or break times. Draw a clear boundary as to when you will not be interacting with the mean person.
If you are the type of person who tends to be very positive, you may choose to overwhelm the negative behavior with positive. Instead of avoiding the mean person go out of your way to be nice and create a better interaction.;
, There may be a deeper issue that the mean person is using negative behavior to hide. Sometimes, the biggest bully is the one that has suffered unthinkable abuse elsewhere.Meanness may be displayed through frustration, irritation, or impatience. If you spot a mean person experiencing such an emotion, you might say "Looks like you could use a break. Why don't we take 5 minutes?" Or, you can try, "Is there something I can help you with?"
Taking the time to get to know the mean person may clear up some things for you. There is a chance you are taking things too personal or maybe the mean person is just misunderstood. Taking a compassionate approach can help to show the other person that you actually see the person and not just the behavior., Assertiveness means standing up for yourself and your needs while also respecting the needs of others. At some point, you might encounter a mean person who doesn't respond to compassion and you can't simply take the "high road". In these types of situations, it's best to be straightforward and let the person know that you will not allow yourself to be walked over.


For example, imagine you are in a school and another kid drops his tray beside yours and tells you to do dump it. You might respond in an assertive way by making eye contact, keeping your voice calm and steady and saying "I'm not going to do that." The other kid might constantly ask you to do it and you can simply keep repeating "No". He will get the message when you stand firm in your refusal., Being within proximity of a mean person often requires proper armory. You know, at some point, the individual might throw something vicious your way. Feel the emotions that come with being around such a person. Don’t push these feelings away or act as if they are irrelevant. Name them.It’s easy to dismiss your feelings but this isn’t really fair to you or the mean person. You just end up bottling things up that some point might explode.
Addressing your feelings might give insight as to why this is happening. Does your reaction fuel the fire and give the mean person more reason to pick on you? Sometimes, the mean person may target another simply because he or she gets so upset and it is comical or a power play.
Take a moment to step back and observe how the mean person interacts with others. Is the behavior only happening with you or is it how he or she generally acts?

, Care for yourself. Do a self-soothing exercise. Preparing yourself for a necessary interaction can also help to take some of the sting out of what he or she might say.


Deep breathing coupled with positive affirmations can help to calm your nerves after a run in with the mean person. Getting upset can be the exact reaction the other person is hoping for, so it is in your best interest to learn to step away from the interaction without reacting in the moment.
 This means taking the time to focus on your body, how it handles stress and a way to focus on relieving that stress through meditation or concentrated thought. Dealing with a mean person can be stressful and exhausting—this is a way to let that go.


Try a body scan exercise to release the tension. To start, you lay down on a flat surface which could be a bed or floor. If you are in the office, it can be done in your chair if it is not realistic for you to lie down. Clear your mind of everything except what you are feeling in your body. Start with the tension in the tips of your feet, first tensing up and then relaxing. After each area is tensed and then relaxed move up the body until you have completed the full body. This usually takes about 15 minutes.You can also download many relaxation videos on YouTube if you prefer to listen to something that will guide you through the process.
 When you go to confront a person who is being mean, you must come off as brave and confident. Pull your shoulders back. Lift your chin and meet the person’s eyes.


You can choose to either stand up to the behavior in a confident way or use your confidence to defy the behavior. That is up to you, but confidence is the key., Tell the person what you thought of his or her words or behavior.Many times the mean person is masking an underlying feeling with negative attention, so avoid making this a personal attack. He or she needs to know that you were upset by the behavior but not the person.

"Hey, I felt humiliated when you teased me in the meeting earlier." Something straightforward and to the point should do the trick.
Avoid being vague, do not tell the mean person that he or she is mean for example. Saying this does not specify which action was not OK. Instead tell the mean person that the way he or she teased you in front of others at the last staff meeting was demeaning, for example. That is clear and to the point.
 Instead of simply telling the person what he or she did wrong, explain how the situation could have been handled in a more kind way.


An example might be "The next time you have some suggestions for my work performance, can you please share them with me privately? I'd greatly appreciate that."
Another way to redirect the situation is to ask for the help of the mean person so he or she can showcase talents instead of seeking negative attention. Letting the mean person know that you recognize the value of a key skill can start a better working relationship.
Be the first one to extend the olive branch and offer kindness, creating a friendship can help to fix a negative problem. If the mean person is able to gain positive attention, often the mean behavior will stop. , This should only be done after you have tried other approaches since it may affect the relationship long term with the other person. If this is someone you only interact with for a small bit of time every once in a while it may not be worth the extra involvement.


Bullying, for example, is against the rules in most schools and work environments. If you feel like you are the target of bullying, reach out to someone you trust who can help you put a stop to the behavior., In some cases, you cannot avoid interacting with the person, but you can keep the time you spend with him or her to a minimum. Keeping your interaction short and sweet is key.


For example, if you feel like this person has a snappy attitude each time you engage with him or her, you might try to mainly communicate via email.
When encountering a mean person face-to-face, prepare your statement ahead of time so that you can steer the conversation to a quick end. "Hey, I'm headed to a meeting, but I wanted to check in to see how the report was progressing."

, This is a big part of having an exit plan. If you have to ask for his or her help, do it on the way out to lunch, so you do not have time to stay for any negative feedback.Your exit strategy should be very obvious, like having your coat on and walking out the door. You are in control of this interaction and can simply walk away after the short conversation as if you are busy. Don’t give him or her enough time to be mean.
You can say something like "Oh, well. I'm running late for my lunch break. I'll catch you later."

, You may have a choice in some cases like avoiding a mean cashier at the local grocery store but in other cases like the mean person being your boss you may not be able to avoid him or her altogether. Mean people can spread their negative energy, so keeping your distance allows you to preserve a positive outlook.For those whom you cannot avoid, consider each encounter as a challenge for you to show compassion and practice patience. Just as mean people can spread negative energy, you can spread the positive.
 Being around mean people can be draining. Just as you should try to avoid a person who is mean to you, you should also make an effort to be around people who are nice and supportive. Doing so can provide you with much-needed nurturing and counteract the negative energy a mean person gives off.