 Sort all of your stuff into five piles; Keep, Sell, Recycle, Throw , or Donate. After you've sorted everything, take all of your old toys and donate them to a charity; they could really make a child happy. If you have old clothes, hand them down to a younger sibling or family member, or give them to charity. If you have old game consoles or CDs, try selling them on E-bay or at a garage sale.;
, Can you refurbish them by painting them? Make sure your room has enough storage for all your clothes and other bits, and if it doesn't, buy a wardrobe or chest of drawers.Try to put it to the side and your tables should be more wood like to make it modern but keep it your own style if you want. Make sure all your furniture colors match, that will look stylish.
 Pick a color or two that you like and paint your walls that color. If you want, buy some funky wallpaper for one wall. This will be your feature wall (it's usually the wall that your headboard will be on). Make sure that the wallpaper isn't too dark and that it has a bold pattern on it, such as damask. If you don't want to use wallpaper, simply paint your room or hire a painter to paint it for you.
 Is it carpeted, or wooden? If your carpet is a really horrid color and doesn't match your room, mask it with a funky rug. If you have enough money to get the floor re-done, try wooden flooring with a bright rug.
 Simply moving your furniture around can make a huge difference in a bedroom!

, Add some beanbag chairs, mirrors, cool lamps, toss pillows, and whatever else to your room to make it cool, comfortable, and very funky. Add some photos of you and your friends, family, or pets to personalize your room.Add your style.
 Make sure to have enough storage space for it all, as well as space to display all of your stuff. Cool shelves are a great thing to have in your bedroom.
 If you like your current bedding, keep it, but if not, buy a new set! Bright, vibrant colors or cool patterns on bedspreads are really modern and funky. Make sure that it all matches your room!

, A good idea is to usually have 2 sources of lighting in your room. You should have a main source of lighting, such as a chandelier, a floor lamp, or a light attached to your ceiling. You should also have a desk lamp so that if you want to keep the lighting low, you can only have your desk lamp on, or it gives you extra light if you need it. Lighting really sets the mood in your room, so keep that it mind!

,