 For roses and similarly sized plants, they should be planted about 1ft (30cm) apart.Plant them in a nursery bed and care for them according to the needs of the species and variety. They can be raised from seeds or cuttings, but they will need to be planted enough in advance that they have sizable, woody stems by the time the scion plant is budding.


Unlike other forms of grafting, which attach a portion of the main plant, budding only requires the scion plant to form buds. This means the scion plant can be a different age or size than the rootstock.
See Understanding Grafting Basics to learn about rootstock and scion plants.
 If the weather is hot and dry, water the rootstock plants heavily for two weeks before grafting. This helps make the bark soft and easy to cut and manipulate., The cut should be about 8–12 inches (20–30 cm) above the ground. The vertical portion of the T shape should be 1–1.5 inches (2.5–4 cm) long, and the horizontal portion should cover about 1/3 the distance around the stem.There should be two flaps of bark, each on one side of the vertical cut, that can be lifted away from the trunk slightly.


Roses and small flowering bushes may be cut 2–4 inches (5–10cm) above the ground instead.As always when cutting into the trunks or stems of plants, it's a good idea to use a sterilized, sharp knife and to wear latex gloves. This reduces the chance your plant will get infected.
 Select a shoot from the scion plant that is growing strongly and healthily, and remove one of its buds. Cut into the wood at an angle to remove a strip of wood beginning 1/2 inch (1.2 cm) below the bud, and ending about 3/4–1 inch (1.9–2.5cm) above it.Carefully pull away this piece of wood, cutting it off from the branch if necessary.
 Gently ease the flaps of bark on either side of the T apart to reveal green wood underneath, called the cambium layer. Insert the strip of wood containing the bud, with the bud pointed upward. Push it carefully into the vertical T cut until the bud is just below the horizontal cut of the T.Each piece should have a layer of green wood lying against each other. You may need to practice several times to cut the plants to the correct level. One rootstock plant can receive several scion buds., You can purchase a special gardening material for this purpose called budding rubber. Otherwise, use wide rubber bands or green tie tape.Do not cover the bud with the wrapping.
 The cuts will take anywhere from 3 to 8 weeks to heal, depending on season.Once the plant looks healthy and the cuts have healed over, remove the binding.
 You don't want the rootstock to grow more shoots, but don't remove it all immediately. Cut the rootstock stem off approximately 12–14 inches (20–30 cm) above where the bud was attached, or a few inches above it if you are working with a small plant. This "nurse branch" will help protect the vulnerable place where the two plants were joined.
 Once the wood inserted from the scion has become established and grown a few new leaves, remove the remainder of the rootstock branch above the joint. Cut it down almost the entire way, to about 1/8 in (3 mm) above where the bud was joined. This will put all of the plant's energy into growing the new scion.

