 Topical corticosteroids are usually the first treatment recommended for psoriasis. If used correctly, they can be quite effective.


Corticosteroids come in a variety of types. There are sprays, creams, gels, ointments, solutions, and foams. The type you choose depends on personal preference, as well as location of the psoriasis (e.g., use a liquid for psoriasis on the scalp), but if you're concerned about choosing the right brand talk to your doctor.Strengths vary. Ideally, you should use stronger types on tough areas like elbows and knees and use a lighter variety on your face and underarms.Creams are usually applied once or twice a day, but you should limit your use of stronger steroids. Overuse can cause rashes and permanent skin thinning and other damages.;
, Salicylic acid is a topical cream available at most drug stores and supermarkets. If corticosteroids are not improving symptoms to your liking you could try adding salicylic acid to your skin care regimen.


Salicylic acid prevents scaling and other rash-like symptoms. You do not need a prescription to buy salicylic acid but you should consult your doctor before adding any additional creams, especially if you are taking other medications.Salicylic acid is often combined with corticosteroids and other treatment options., Coal tar is a black petroleum byproduct that is one of the oldest treatment options for psoriasis.


Coal tar comes in a variety of forms. You can get coal tar infused shampoo, bath wash, and creams.Coal tar reduces skin flakiness and also reduces the appearance of psoriasis.Coal tar's main drawback is that it is very messy. It can stain clothing, furniture, and carpeting and also has a strong, pungent odor., Vitamin D analogues are synthetic forms of vitamin D. You generally need a prescription for analogues, so you should talk to your doctor if it's something you're interested in trying.Calcipotriene (Dovonex) is the most widely prescribed cream that contains vitamin D. It is used alone or in conjunction with other treatment options.The main drawback is potential skin irritation, which can worsen existing psoriasis. Unfortunately, Vitamin D analogues do not work for everyone. Ask your doctor if these would be helpful for you., Anthralin is a medication that normalizes DNA activity in skin cells, which can lead to a reduction of psoriasis. It comes in cream form.Anthralin has been known to remove scales for some patients, resulting in smoother skin.Unfortunately, anthralin has drawbacks. It can cause skin irritation and stains anything it touches, including hard surfaces like countertops. If you use anthralin, you should only leave it on for a short period of time before wiping it off., Topical retinoids are often used to treat acne or skin damaged by the sun but can be successfully used to treat psoriasis as well.


Retinoids decrease inflammation by normalizing DNA activity in the skin. This can help with symptoms of psoriasis.Sensitivity to the sun is a common side effect of retinoids. You should be sure to use sunscreen while taking topical retinoids.Retinoids are not recommended for women who are pregnant or breastfeeding.