 You'll, of course, need to prepare first of all. Here's a list of some necessary items you'll need as well as some optional ones. You don't have to follow this list exactly; make adjustments as needed. Always bring an extra! This step should be done the night before the meet. (Or, if you're swimming on a Friday night, during the day.)


Your team suit. always bring your good meet suit so you can swim fast.






two or three towels. If you know you're going to a place where you have to sit on the floor, bring three; one to sit on, and another two to dry off and etc. You will need two to dry off with because when you get out of the pool you are very wet. If you want, you can still bring two or three even if you're not sitting on the ground.






A pair of goggles. Bring only one pair of goggles because usually your coach will have an extra pair.






Water/Energy Drinks. You can buy them at the meet, so it's optional. Gatorade and Powerade is good for energy drinks, but you can also use other brands. It is also a good thing to bring a bottle and fill it up at a water fountain. Or bring a pre-packed bottle of water.






Two swim caps. You should bring one team cap and one plain cap. Don't bring one that has another team's logo on it or you could get disqualified!






Something to kill boredom. Aside from talking with other people, you will get bored. Bring something like a notebook, a book, or a game like the Nintendo DS.






A sharpie or pen. This is the method most swimmers use to keep track of their events. If you've been to one with your team you may have used one before. If not, you'll have to use the sharpie or pen and write your event number, heat, and lane on your hand.






Directions and maps if you've never been to the pool before bringing directions to get there.






A camera. make sure you can take a picture with out using the flash






If you're going to an out-of-town meet and want to stay somewhere, be sure to pack your clothes and other necessary belongings.





;
, You probably are nervous, and that's completely normal! Try to sleep earlier than usual since your swim meet will likely be in the morning. If it's in the afternoon, it's still good to sleep well!

, If your warm-ups start at 7:30 AM, be sure to be there before 7:15 at the latest! That means waking up at 7 or earlier. Likewise, be sure to arrive at least 15 minutes before warm ups. You wouldn't want to miss check-in, would you?

, You might not be hungry or you might feel too worried to eat. Even if you're feeling like that, it's good to eat at least something, even a bagel or some cereal. Try some bagels, toast, or something along the line, even pretzel snacks! DO NOT EAT FAST FOOD!

, This could be about anything you might be anxious or worried about. Swim meets are tiring and stressful events, even if it's not your first meet alone. You can ask for emotional support from your family and/or friends. Don't worry!

, If it is, first find an entrance. If you see a parking lot with a lot of people and cars with people walking to the building, it is most likely your best bet. Go with the flow and follow where everybody's going.
, This spot could be by yourself or you could ask a coach to let you sit with their team. They will most likely say yes. This is the easiest way, since the coach will probably help you out.
 You'll have to, of course, wait until the announcement. You can now warm up alone or with the team you've chosen. Just warm up like you usually do when you're practicing. Stretch if you like. This should, at the very least, take 15 minutes.
 The wisest thing to do, though, is to check your events. They may have not put up the heat sheets up yet, though. If not, wait until they do so. If so, go look up your events and write your event, heat, and lane number on your hand. You could have the coach you're with look it up for you.
 You can do anything that time permits. You should arrive about one to three heats before it starts. Try not to be nervous.
 If it's a longer event (200 yards/meters and up) remember to pace yourself. For 50s and 100s, sprint! Or just do whatever is best for you.
, Cool down (if the pool has a warm up and cool down pool) and hit the locker rooms! Shower if you want, dress, and walk out with your head high. This meet might not be the best or it wasn't what you expected, but it was your first meet alone! Pat yourself on the back, hug yourself, and prepare for tomorrow if you have another meet day ahead of you.

