 Also known as “shoulder shrugs,” shoulder rolls help release tension in your neck and shoulder area, which can help relieve upper back pain.Sit upright in a straight-backed chair. Keep your feet flat on the floor.
Bring your shoulders up to your ears, as if you were hunching. Then roll them back behind you, and then down.
Repeat this exercise in the opposite direction: up, forward, and down. Repeat this exercise two to four times, several times a day.;
, Begin by placing your hands, palms down, on your shoulders. Your left hand should go on your left shoulder and your right hand on your right shoulder.Keep your hands on your shoulders as you pull your elbows together. You should feel a stretch in your upper back and shoulder area. Hold this position for three deep breaths and then relax. Repeat several times throughout the day.
 Lie down on your stomach with your hands and legs straight. Your arms should be stretched out in front of you. It’s advisable to place a small pillow under the lower stomach area.From this position, gently raise your right arm and left leg, in addition to a slight raise of your head. Hold for a couple of seconds and then lower.
Repeat with the left arm and right leg. Repeat a couple of times a day.
 Lie on your stomach, arms at your sides, legs straight. Squeeze your shoulder blades together and, keeping your neck straight, raise your head, arms, and chest off the ground. Hold for two seconds.Slowly lower your body to the ground. Do three sets of ten darts.
 You need an armless chair or stool for this exercise. Cross your left leg over your right leg. Place your right elbow at the outside of your left knee. Twist gently toward the left. Hold this stretch for 10 seconds, then repeat on the other side.Repeat this stretch three to five times per side, per day.
If you feel any pain, stop stretching. Do not stretch farther than is comfortable.
 This exercise can help release tension in your upper back and shoulders. To perform the shoulder squeeze, sit or stand with your arms at your sides and squeeze your shoulder blades together. Hold for a few seconds, release the stretch, and then repeat.Make sure you do not simply arch your chest forward. Try to imagine strings in your shoulder blades pulling them together. Create the movement from your shoulder muscles, not your chest.
 This stretch will help your shoulders stay flexible and relieve tension, which can help reduce and prevent pain.Stretch your right arm across your chest, reaching as far across your body as you can. Place your left hand on your arm near your elbow and gently pull on your right arm to deepen the stretch.
Hold this stretch for 10 seconds. Repeat this three to five times and then repeat the stretch with the other arm.
If you feel any pain, stop the stretch.
 This Pilates position will help increase your flexibility and will also help you stretch out tense muscles in your back and shoulders. Begin on all fours. Inhale, then lean back on your heels as you exhale. Lower your head, tuck your chin, and extend your arms in front of you into Prayer pose. (This is also known as “child’s pose” in yoga.)From this pose, inhale as you move back to all fours. Arch your back toward the ceiling, tucking your head and abs. This is Cat pose.
Exhale and lower your abs toward the floor. Arch your back down toward the floor and reach your chin toward the ceiling. This is Camel pose.
Return to Prayer pose. Repeat this sequence for 5 repetitions.
 This type of stretch, called “segmental rotation,” is a good way to gently stretch your back while building core strength.Lie on your back on the floor with your arms out to your sides. Make sure your back is in a “neutral” position (you should be able to just slip a hand between the natural arch in your back and the floor), but not arched or pressed into the floor.
Bend your knees, keeping your feet flat on the floor.
Tighten your stomach muscles. Keep your shoulders flat on the floor as you lower your knees gently to one side. Your knees should move together toward the floor. Don’t go farther than is comfortable.
Hold this position for three good, deep breaths. Gently bring your knees back to the center position, then repeat the stretch on the other side. Do this several times a day.

