 Garden trenches are smaller in nature, usually intended to border flower beds keeping overgrowth and crowding of your flowerbeds to a minimum. Even if your trench is shallow or only a spade deep, it can unearth unexpected and unwanted surprises. You should make sure the place you are digging is free of utility lines, pipes, roots, foundation, or other obstructions. Call 811 or another utility location service before you begin.


The blade of your round-point shovel will sever roots up to half an inch thick. Place the blade of your shovel atop the root and stomp on the flange of the blade to sever it. For extreme cases, you might want to consider purchasing a Pulaski digging tool.
While mechanical trenching devices will usually sever roots, they may react violently or unpredictably when they encounter a thick one. Consider removing roots by hand before using a machine.
 A thicket of weeds can put a halt to digging quick, causing tangles with your shovel that will take time to cut through. Trimming lawn or plants as low reasonably possible

, Do this as you would for any other trenching or excavation project, using highly visible marking paint to establish the layout of your trench. This will help prevent you from making mistakes and wasting unnecessary effort., Stepping on your spade to drive it through the dirt at about a 45 degree angle, insert your spade about 6 inches into the soil approximately 2 inches out from your guideline.Angle your spade, so that your trench walls are slightly angled and the bottom outside edge of your trench sits beneath your guideline., You should use the same angle you did previously to leave the outside bottom of your trench directly under your guideline and your trench walls slightly angled. Wiggle your spade back and forth to further loosen the soil, and remove what you can, switching to your clear-out shovel when convenient., Using a trowel, you can pack soil along the trench walls to prevent collapse. With shears you can trim grass to more cleanly define the boundary of your trench, or you can lay plastic edging to minimize maintenance effort on your part.


Typically during the change in the seasons, debris like leaves and intrusions like growing plant matter might leave your trench looking less than tidy. Take time in spring and summer to keep it maintained.
Plastic edging generally installs easily, either being laid in the space you've excavated or else being laid in your trench with some light fill dropped on top to keep it in place.

