 It is best to have a serious talk with your friend in private. You do not want to embarrass them in front of your other friends, or else you will look like the bully. Suggest a time when you both are available and ask your friend if they want to hang out.
 Start by asking them if you can talk about something serious. Bring up the topic in a cautious manner. You should not blame them or accuse them of wrongdoing; rather, tell them that certain things have been causing you stress and anxiety recently.


A good way of starting the conversation can be, “Hey, can we chat about something? I want to have an honest talk with you. You’re a good friend to me, but recently some things have been happening that have really hurt me. I want to make sure that we can come to an understanding together so that we can remain friends.”

, Beginning your sentences with “I” instead of “you” make your statements sound less accusatory. You do not want to blame your friend because they might respond negatively, and they may even blame you in return. Instead you want to foster an atmosphere of acceptance and communication. Your statements should start with statements like “I think” or “I feel.” For example, you can say, “When I hear that I am overweight or chubby, I feel as though I am ugly and worthless.” Or you can try saying, “I know that sometimes you like to joke around, but I feel sad when I am told that I am dumb.”

, Invite your friend to be completely honest. Inform them that you will not judge them before asking them why they put you down so often. If they react negatively, emphasize that you want to know their side of the story and that you are not angry at them.


You can say things like, “why do you always comment on how much I eat?” or “why is it so funny that I like to read comic books?”
You may even ask them how they might feel in your situation: “How would you feel if someone kept making fun of how you do your hair?”

, Your friend might be confused, surprised, sad, or angry about the conversation. Give them plenty of time to think through their answer and respond. If they say something you disagree with, wait until they have finished speaking before you defend yourself. Do not interrupt them or it will escalate the tension in the room.
 At the end of your conversation, you should both set boundaries for your relationship. Both of you should come up with ideas of what is and is not acceptable within the terms of your relationship.For example, you may not want your friend to tease you about a crush while your friend might be uncomfortable with how you talk about their family. At the same time, you both might be fine with jokes about each other’s habits or hobbies. If you both agree to these boundaries, your friendship will actually become stronger than it was before.

