 After using a text editor, such as NotePad, to create your Java program, save the program with a .java extension. Of course, the file name can be anything. For the purposes of this tutorial, "filename" will be used as a placeholder for your file name.


To ensure that your file is saved as a .java file, be sure to write .java after the file name, and select All Files from the dropdown extension menu.
Make note of where you saved the file on your system.
If you are unsure of how to write a program in Java, check out our tutorial on how to program in Java. For the purposes of learning how to compile and run a program, though, you can use any sort of Java program.;
, Accessing the command line differs slightly for Mac and Windows.



Windows: Press ⇱ Home, then type cmd. Press ↵ Enter to open the Command Prompt.

Mac: In Finder, press the Go tab, select Applications, select Utilities, then select Terminal.
 Type java -version into your command line. If java is installed, you will see a message stating what version of Java is currently installed.


If not, you may need to install the Java Development Kit from their website. It is free and can be found at this link: http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html.
 Use the command cd followed by the directory name to change your working directory.


For example, if you were operating in C:\Users\Bob\Project and wanted to get to C:\Users\Bob\Project\TitanProject , enter in cd TitanProject and press ↵ Enter.
You can see a list of what is in your current directory by typing dir and pressing ↵ Enter.
 Once you are in the correct directory, you can compile the program by typing javac filename.java into the command line and pressing enter.


If you have any errors in your program, or if there is difficultly compiling, the command prompt will notify you.
Check out our article about how to fix compiler errors in Java for more help.
 Enter in java filename and press ↵ Enter. Of course, replace "filename" with whatever the name of your file actually is.


After pressing ↵ Enter, your program should run. If you receive an error, or if your program fails to run in any way, refer to the troubleshooting method.

