 Put random but relevant-looking work (ex: 2+2= 23/7 Carry the four Multiply by two 7) and hope that they don't look too closely.


If your teacher walks around the class checking for homework, but doesn't take it in, write your homework page and task at the top of some random notes you have for that class. If she's not attentive she won't notice.
If she is attentive try to distract her by asking her a question related to her subject or show her a word in the text book you don't understand.
 Many textbooks have all or half of the answers listed in the back of the book (especially math books). Your teacher may have found the worksheets or questions online, too, so search for the answers online.
 Search your bag thoroughly in front of the teacher before coming up empty handed. Say something like "I'm so sorry, my alarm didn't go off this morning and I was so late that I just shoved everything in my bag. I must have forgotten it."


Say you must have left it on your desk/in the car/on the bus and ask if you can turn it in at the end of the day. Then you can quickly do the assignment during lunch.
 Ask someone for the answers or to do your homework for you. You can make a deal with a friend that if they do your assignment this time, you'll get them back another time. Just remember that this can be considered cheating, and you could be in big trouble if you get caught.


Try asking one friend for answers to questions #1 and #2, then another friend for the answers to questions #3 and #4, and so on until the assignment is complete.
Assemble a study group and let them work out all the answers.
If you have a friend who owes you a favor, tell him this is how he can repay his debt.
 Crack the CD in the case before class then carry a lot of stuff to the class and fall or drop everything as you walk into class. Pick up your broken CD. Your teacher will be sympathetic as the entire thing just happened in front of her eyes.


Bring in a blank flash drive and swear to your teacher you saved it to the drive and you don't know what happened.
 You can open a program in one program and then forcefully save it as a word document. When your teacher tries to open the document, it will show an error message.


Go into File Explorer and find the file you want to make corrupt. Right click over the file and select 'Open With...', then select Notepad. Once the file opens in Notepad you should see a really bizarre document with gibberish. Click anywhere within the document and type something random in it, disturbing the flow. After this just save and submit. When your teacher opens it, it will show up an error.
Do not select "use application as default" when selecting Notepad after File Explorer step or else all word documents (.docx) will automatically in Notepad showing gibberish.
Create a blank image in Paint and save it in .bmp format. After that, forcefully change its format into .doc, and change the title to the name of your homework assignment. Now, when you try to open the file in any text viewing program, it will show up as a broken file. Send it to the teacher, and if he asks you the next day just say sorry about this inconvenience and promise to send it this evening. Now, you have an extra day to complete your homework.
Open a non-word document say a song so its a .mp3 file. Right click > Properties. In the top of the properties name change .mp3 to .docx. It will now default to opening in word and look like a corrupt word document! Many professors I've had give me a day to "resubmit" the paper. In that time I write the paper and submit it.

