 If you are under 18 years old, you must use your learner’s permit for at least six months before you are eligible to move on to an intermediate license.


If you obtain a learner’s permit over age 18, you must drive with the learner’s permit for at least 30 days.
If you are over 18, you may apply directly for an intermediate license. The learner’s permit is not required., Using your learner’s permit, you must drive at least 50 hours with a licensed driver over 21 years old, who has been licensed for at least two years. At least ten of these hours must be at night.


When you complete the 50 hours, a parent or guardian must sign an affidavit, available . You will need this affidavit to get your intermediate license.
 To apply for an intermediate license, you will need to take one form of primary identification (usually a birth certificate or passport), one form of secondary identification (usually a social security card or other state-issued ID), and your social security number. In addition, you need the following items:In addition to the required identification documents, you must have a completed Insurance Security Verification Form. This form must match the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) for the car that you will be driving for the road test.
Driver’s education completion certificate. This is actually only a requirement if you are between the ages of 16 and 16 1/2. If you are older than 16 1/2, you may show proof of driver’s education, but it is not required.
Parent Affidavit of Driver Training. If possible, you should have your parent or guardian accompany you to apply for your intermediate license. They will then complete the Affidavit of Driver Training, to certify that you completed 50 hours behind the wheel. If your parent or guardian cannot accompany you, then they need to complete the form and have their signature verified by a notary public, and you then need to take the form with you. The form is available . The Parent Affidavit is not required if you are over 18.
 When you are ready, contact a convenient Driver License Exam site office to schedule a driving skills test.You can find a complete list of Driver License Exam Sites at http://www.dps.state.ok.us/dls/exam_sites.php.
Making an appointment for your driving test is not required at every exam site, but calling ahead is a good idea. At most sites, driving tests are administered in the afternoon, from 1:00 p.m. to 4:45 p.m., although hours vary from site to site.
 You will be accompanied by a driver’s license examiner and will have the opportunity to show general driving skills.The best preparation for the driving skills is the practice that you will get during your 50 hours with the learner's permit. You should also continue to study the Oklahoma Driver's Manual to become very familiar with the rules of the road and traffic signs.
 After you pass the driving skills test, you will be required to pay a license fee of $33.50 to get your license. If you do not pass the test, the fee will not be collected.


If you fail the driving skills test, you may retake it up to three times, after waiting at least one full day between testing attempts. If you fail the driving test more than three times, you must wait at least 30 days before trying again.
 After you pass the driving skills test and pay the fee, you will get your intermediate license. The intermediate license allows you to drive, unaccompanied, according to the following rules:You may drive only between the hours of 5 a.m. and 10 p.m.
These times may be extended for activities related to school, work or church.
You may drive at any time if accompanied by a licensed driver over age 21.
You may drive with only one passenger (not counting family members). If you are accompanied by a licensed driver over age 21, there is no limit to the number of passengers allowed in the car.

