 Foreign bodies can get lodged in the nose, throat, trachea, or bronchi of a cat, and the symptoms vary depending on the exact location of the foreign object. Look for any of the following symptoms:Nasal discharge
Sneezing
Nose-pawing or nose-bleeds
Head shaking
Gagging
Salivation
Difficulty swallowing or breathing
Bad breath
Pawing at the face and mouth
Coughing
Retching
Blue coloured gums
Fainting
Anorexia;
, In most instances a foreign body, such as a blade of grass or a piece of a stick, will enter your cat while they are smelling or chewing these objects. Keep a close eye on your cat while it is playing outside. This way you will have a better indication of what might be the problem if your cat starts to develop symptoms., If you notice any common symptoms associated with a respiratory foreign body, or you believe your cat may have ingested a foreign object, you should take your cat to the vet immediately. If left untreated, a foreign body in the respiratory system could cause an infection or lead to chronic lung disease. In some cases the foreign object may travel through the body, causing severe complications and even death.Your vet will need to run a number of tests in order to rule out other possible illnesses and to find the exact location of the foreign object.
 Your vet will likely need to administer a number of examinations in order to determine the exact location of the foreign object. An examination can also provide your vet with more detailed information concerning the type of object that has been lodged in the respiratory system. Your vet may administer any of the following tests:A complete blood count (CBC), biochemical profile, and urinalysis.
An x-ray of the throat and chest.
Skull/nasal radiographs.
A scope may be used to evaluate the nasal cavity, trachea, and bronchi.
A CT Scan or MRI may be useful in some cases.
 This is often done by administering a local anesthetic and then reaching in and grabbing the object from the throat or nasal cavity. This type of removal is only possible if the object is visible and easily accessible.In some cases, you may be able to do this without the help of a vet, if you are able to see the object and are certain you can remove it completely and without causing any damage to the nasal passage. It is safest to let the vet do any removal, however.
 Your vet may be able to encourage the foreign object to dislodge itself, by flushing the respiratory tract. A lubricant will be flushed through the respiratory tract in the hope of dislodging and washing out the foreign object., To remove a foreign body using a scope, the vet will place a tube into the cat’s nasal cavity or throat and pull out the object. Typically the object will be removed using forceps or a balloon catheter.If the lodged object is sharp, a protective tube can be placed down the cat’s throat to protect the esophagus while the object is retrieved.
 In severe cases, the foreign object may be lodged deep within your cat’s internal respiratory system. In these instances, the vet may need to complete a surgery to remove the object. Your vet may use a local anesthetic or full anesthesia, depending on the location and invasiveness of the procedure.This type of surgery is relatively common and safe, and has a 93% recovery rate., Although cats generally recover quickly from removal procedures, it is still a good idea to schedule a follow-up appointment with your vet. During this appointment your vet will check to make sure that your cat is not suffering from any lingering pain or infection as a result of the lodged object or removal procedure., Your vet may notice that the foreign body has caused a secondary infection. This happens if the foreign body contained bacteria that was spread to the cat. If this is the case, your vet will prescribe antibiotics to help treat the secondary infection.Follow all instructions provided by your vet for administering the antibiotic.
 If your vet suspects that your cat is still experiencing residual pain as a result of the foreign object removal, they may prescribe pain medication during the follow-up appointment. It is very important that you follow of the instructions provided by the vet when administering medication.For example, your vet may prescribe a corticosteroid, such as methylprednisolone., Giving your cat wet food can also alleviate pain following this procedure. This type of food is typically softer and will be less irritating if your cat experienced a foreign body lodged in the throat. Talk with your vet to see if this is a suitable option for your cat.