 Your wardrobe can help make you appear friendly and inviting, and looking presentable can help boost your self-esteem.

Ask a salesperson at a clothing store to help you select clothing options that are well-suited for you and appropriate for your body type. Selecting clothes that are flattering, well-tailored, and versatile will demonstrate to others that you are composed, self-assured, and pleasant to be around.Make sure your clothes are clean and wrinkle-free., Dressing appropriately at events will communicate to others that you are respectful and happy to be there. Be sure your clothing is in good taste. People may be less inclined to approach you if your clothing garners negative attention.


Wearing shorts and sandals, for example, may not be formal enough for a wedding shower. If you are unsure of the formality of a particular event, politely ask the host if there is a dress code.
 Ask a hairstylist what style would work well for you. They will help decide what would work well for your hair texture and face shape. Maintaining a well-groomed appearance can help others notice you and signal that you are collected and outgoing.
 Colors can influence how people perceive and react to you. Wearing blues, greens, and warm earth tones such as light yellow and beige can make a person appear more approachable, reliable, and confident.Individuals who wear red may seem assertive, less approachable, and less friendly than others.

Utilize the colors in your wardrobe project a positive, welcoming personality.

When going in for a job interview or attending a social event, opt for a navy or green outfit to set people at ease.
Accessorize your outfits with calm, friendly tones. Wear a green scarf or jacket when going to a casual brunch with a new group of friends to appear calm and peaceful., If you are at work or are at a business conference, be sure to wear a name tag. People will see the name tag as an invitation to approach you and will be more likely to strike up a conversation. This helps you to project the notion that you are willing, open, and available for conversation or networking.