 The pan must be shallow and wide, as the trick to poaching well, without an egg poacher is to gently slip the egg into a wide, shallow pan filled with simmering water. The pan should be able to take about 1.5 liters (2 3/4 pints) of water, or 10cm (4") depth of water.






;
, Fill the pan about two-thirds or a bit more with water and bring to a gentle boil.









Milk can be used in place of water if you're seeking a richer taste.
 It's not essential but it improves the egg's appearance because the vinegar coagulates the egg white.









Other vinegars (balsamic, red wine vinegar, apple cider vinegar) are fine, and sometimes taste great when poaching eggs, but will possibly affect the final coloration.
Larousse Gastronomique recommends 1 tablespoon of vinegar to be added per 1 liter (1 3/4 pints, 4 1/3 cups) of water. On the other hand, chef Michael Romano recommends adding one teaspoon of vinegar per liter (1 3/4 pints).Lemon juice can also help set the egg but its flavor will also come through. Some people advise to add salt but it can hinder coagulation so it's best not used.
If vinegar is used, the eggs will have a vinegary taste. Chef Michael Romano advises that in commercial restaurants, poached eggs are usually plunged into another pan of hot water which is salted but vinegar free and that this both seasons them and removes the vinegary taste., The fresher an egg is, the better it will poach because its white is thicker. Use eggs that are as fresh as possible; an egg straight from the chicken will poach without any need for vinegar as it will coagulate immediately.
 For the best results, only poach one egg at a time. More than one egg risks merging into other eggs when cooking. If you need to poach more than one at once, stop at four because any more will throw out the timing and merging mess is inevitable. The instructions following deal with both a single egg and up to four eggs at a time.
 Do this gently so as not to harm the appearance of the egg. Alternatively, crack the egg onto a small, flat plate as this makes sliding the egg into the pan of water easier. Don't break the yolk when cracking the egg.









Given the possibility of breaking the egg when moving it from a bowl or plate to the pan, some people prefer to skip this step and break the egg straight into the water. If you do this, be careful and only add one at a time. And note that by cracking the eggs separately into a cup and not straight into the water, the cracked eggs have the chance to set back up into their little "protein cocoon". You might like to experiment to work out what works best for you.
 The water should be barely simmering and the temperature about 160-180ºF (71-82ºC).









Make sure that you do not drop the egg into boiling water (100ºC/212ºF), as this will toughen the eggs and make them unpalatable.
, To help maintain the shape of the egg, swirl around it in a circular motion.









Chef Michael Romano recommends using a basting method to envelop the yolk with the white, shaping it like this for about 20 seconds or until the white sets., You will know that the egg is cooked when the whites are set and the yolks begin to thicken.
 Place the first bowl with its side just breaking the surface of the water. With a gentle quick motion, dump the egg into the water.









Quickly repeat this step with the other eggs, adding them at 10-15 second intervals. Leave plenty of space for the eggs in the saucepan. Depending on the size of the pan, two or three eggs at a time is about right.
Remove each egg in succession after they have cooked for three minutes each.
 Work quickly to transfer each egg onto the plate, letting excess water drip back into the pan. Larousse Gastronomique advises to refresh the egg in cold water and then drain on a cloth. Chef Michael Romano recommends dipping the eggs into simmering, salted water for 30 seconds and placing them on a dry tea towel to dry.









If the edge isn't neat enough, trim with kitchen shears––the cook's secret.
 Poached eggs should be served as soon as they're removed from the water and drained. They cool down quickly and once cold, they're not as desirable for the diner.









Serve on thick slices of crusty toast.
Serve with baked beans, a cooked tomato and sausages.
Serve with a salad.
Serve inside a pita bread pocket.
Serve on vegetables.
Serve the poached eggs over toasted buttered English muffins and topped with Bearnaise or Hollandaise sauce, maybe a little bacon or grilled ham on the side.
Serve as eggs Benedict.

