 Buy the foods you need to make your new healthy dishes at home. Buy ingredients, not prepared or processed foods — these are typically going to have the same sodium and preservative levels as restaurant food. Even though it might take time getting used to cooking at home, your food is going to be both healthier and better.
 A half hour of moderate exercise six days a week is all it takes to start making a difference if you’re exercising little. Keep in mind that you also don’t have to do it all at once — ten minutes here and twenty there will work just as well., Don’t do the same thing every day (unless you love it). Walk one day, take a yoga class another, and try new activities. Check with your local gym or YMCA for their schedules and amenities. If you try and do a new activity every week or so, you might find your new favorite exercise routine., You can often eat some of the same foods you’ve always enjoyed — just not the same amounts. Rather than the focus of the meal, high-fat and high-calorie foods can be a small side, with vegetables as the main course. Sometimes a few bites is all it takes to stop a craving — not an entire portion., Having a person to talk to about your weight loss journey can be extremely helpful. He or she will be able to cheer for you on days when it all goes well, and commiserate when things didn’t go as planned and you didn’t follow your program. It can also help to have someone who has also gone through a weight loss program and knows how difficult it can be. The person might be someone in your family, a co-worker, or someone you meet at a weight loss support group., If you’ve chosen to join a group, make this part of your new lifestyle. Continuing to go and encourage yourself and others can be as important as the food and exercise., When you have lost the 2 pounds a week that you set out to, do something nice for yourself. Watch a new movie, go for spa day, buy yourself a little present. Don’t reward yourself with food — if it’s something you’ve done before, it’s time to make a new habit.