 An electronic poster is easier to copy and distribute on the internet. On the other hand, a simple paper poster may be easier to make, especially if you don't have access to a computer.


Using a computer to help make and print out your initial copy will also help you check your spelling and grammar easily. There are even websites that specialize in allowing you to make missing pet posters quickly and easily.;
, Make sure both the font and format are simple and clear. Resist the urge to make a couple different styles of posters, as you want one style that is distinctive and will stay in people's minds.Stick to bold lettering and clear fonts. Don't use a font that has lots of flourishes, as this can be hard to read from a distance.
If you can't figure out how to format your poster, you can use a template to make it. There are many websites online that supply templates for lost pet posters., While colored paper may attract more attention, it can also make your information harder to read or distort the colors on the photo of your pet.


Consider printing a colored border around the poster instead of printing on colored paper. This will make your poster easier to read.
If you must print on colored paper, avoid using dark colored paper that will make black text hard to see and will make your pet's picture unclear.
 This will allow someone without a piece of paper or a phone on them to get your number easily. If you want to add these tabs you will need to take them into consideration when you are working on the layout of space on your poster.


Once you've made copies, you will need to cut in between the numbers, so that people can just rip one off easily. This will add just a little bit of time to the time it takes you to make the posters.
 A color photo is best, but black and white will work just fine. Be sure that the photo is clear and that it shows any defining physical characteristics of your pet, for instance distinctive patterning on its fur.
 It should be at least a couple inches high and state clearly what it lost. For example, if you lost your cat it should say "Lost Cat." The goal should be to have a clear and readable header that can easily be seen from a distance.Remember that presentation is important. People can walk right past a boring sign. Make sure you have a bold heading to catch their attention.
 It should be the size of a normal photo, around 5 x 7. If you are making a handmade sign, you can simply paste the photo in place. If you are making a poster on your computer, you will need to scan your photo or use one that you already have in electronic form.
 Go straight to the details. People usually don't feel like reading a long paragraph, so making bullet points can work effectively. Include your pet's sex, age, coat length, color, and any collar or tags.


If it is microchipped, mention that as well, but don't put down the microchip number on your poster.
If you know the area (with cross streets) that your pet was last seen in, mention that. Any information can help!

, Include your first name and your phone number on the poster.Place it centered near the bottom of your poster in a larger font than the description of your pet. This will allow the average reader to scan the poster quickly and find it.


If you are afraid to put your phone number on a public poster, you can get a prepaid phone for about $40 and use that number. That way, you can dispose of the number once you are done.
 If you want to offer a reward, do so, but do NOT mention the dollar amount. Many times thieves will take a purebred dog or cat and hope for a large reward to be offered.


Don't tip your hand, if you get proof someone has your pet, then it's time to negotiate.
 This is a personal touch that might encourage someone to take action. It doesn't have to be long. It can just simply say "please help us find our beloved dog," or something like that.
 Otherwise, you can probably make copies on a home printer. You will want to distribute your poster widely, so make sure to get enough copies made.
 Make sure they know your pet's name and what it looks like. Some missing pets have a tendency to stay close to home, so your neighbors may be your best help if finding your missing loved one., Make sure to put some up at local stores, which usually have spots where you can do that. However, be sure to ask before you post your poster. Consider placing your posters at coffee shops, libraries, grocery stores, and high traffic streets., Use social media and email to get the word out that your pet is missing.You can either scan your handmade poster so that it can be posted electronically or you can simply use the electronic file if you made your poster on a computer.


To get the word out online about a missing pet you may not even need to use your poster. Try posting your pet's image on social media, such as on websites such as Facebook, and write a caption about when and where your pet disappeared, what is looks like exactly, and your contact info. Make sure that your post is made public, so even strangers can see it, and ask your friends to share it, so members of their social network see your pet's picture., When you put your phone number out in public, you are bound to get some funny calls. Just be polite and gracious with people calling in tips. If the caller doesn't have any pertinent info on your pet but doesn't want to end the call, just graciously say goodbye and hang up. While you will get some worthless calls, the next call could always be about your lost pet!


Don't let your kids answer the phone for awhile but don't avoid answering the phone yourself. Kids may not understand the difference between a call that could lead to finding your pet and a call that is just a waste of time.
 You can, if you like, leave one or two up, and put the word 'FOUND' on them in big letters. This will let neighbors know that your pet has been found. After all, everyone likes a happy ending! However, take the posters down after a week or so, before they get destroyed by weather and become litter.

