 Open a web browser on your computer and go to the Flipboard Editor website (https://editor.flipboard.com/).;
, Enter your account’s username/email address and password on the respective text fields and click on “Sign In” to continue.


If you’re using your social networking accounts as your login credentials, just click either “Sign In with Facebook” or “Sign In with Google” to log in.
 Click the “Create Magazine” tile on the home page to start making a new one. The “Create New Magazine” window will appear.
 Do these on the text fields provided.


You can use both alphanumeric and special characters for the name and description.
 Click the “Select a category” and choose from the list of choices available on the drop down list.
 Put a check mark beside the “Make this a private magazine” option if you want to be the only one who can view it.
 Click the “Save” button on the top right corner of the window to save the details you’ve entered and create the magazine. You’ll be redirected back and you can now see the newly created magazine on the Editor home page.
 From the Editor home page, select the tile of the magazine you want to edit to open it. Afterwards, click the gear icon on the top right corner of the magazine cover to open the “Edit Magazine” window.
 Type in the new name and description you’d like to use for your magazine on the text field provided. You can use both alphanumeric and special characters for the name and description.
 Choose the category you like your magazine to be listed under. Click the “Select a category” and choose from the list of choices available on the drop down list.
 Put a check mark beside the “Make this a private magazine” option if you want to change its view settings from public to you being the only one who can open it.
 Click on the “Save” button on the top right hand corner of the window to save the changes made on the magazine you edited.
 From the Editor home page, select the tile of the magazine you want to add contributors to. Afterwards, click the “Invite Contributors” button on the lower right corner of the magazine cover.
 The Flipboard Editor will send out email messages to different people you want to invite as contributors. Choose which of the applications you like to use in sending out emails, and click the “OK” button to confirm.
 Do this on the recipient field of the application you chose to use, and click the “Send” button to confirm sending.
 The message you sent includes a link to your magazine which your recipients may use to add contents to your magazine.
 From the Editor home page, select the tile of the magazine you want to either share or delete., Click the “Share” button on the top right corner of the magazine cover and choose where you want to post your magazine.

Facebook – A link to your magazine will be posted on your Facebook wall. Your friends may click the link posted to view your Flipboard magazine.
Twitter – A tweet will be posted on your profile containing a link to your Flipboard magazine. Your friends may click the link posted to view your magazine.
Email – A message containing a link to your Flipboard magazine will be sent to your contacts. The recipients of the message may click the link to view your magazine.
 If you need to delete a magazine, just click trash bin icon on the top right corner of the magazine cover and the magazine will be removed from the editor.