 Air plants can also be used as table top decorations. Because these plants are so versatile you can essentially attach them to any type of base and situate them on a bookshelf, coffee table, countertop, or bedside table. Air plants can be displayed on decorative plates, in transparent vessels or cups, or placed directly on furniture. When choosing a unique base for air plants consider the colour scheme of the room, and the amount of space you have. Here are some unique ways that you can decorate by displaying air plants:Partially fill a glass container or vase with sand or rocks and then place an air plant inside the vase. You can display plants this way in a small group of three or four.
Select different colours of sand or rocks to make the display stand out. For example, fill one with light sand, another with clay coloured sand, and another with dark sand.Use a wooden bowl or ceramic dish and cover the bottom with moss, pebbles, or sand and then place air plants on top.
Recycle old tea cups by filling them with pebbles and topping them with an air plant.
 Another way that you can decorate with air plants is by making an air plant terrarium. Air plant terrariums can be purchased pre-made, in a DIY kit, or you can buy and collect each item separately in order to design your own unique terrarium. When buying or making a terrarium, make sure that the container you choose has plenty of holes to allow for airflow. Do not create a terrarium in a dome with no airflow. Air plants get most of their nutrients from the air and therefore require airflow.Try collecting rocks from the different places that you travel in order to add a personal touch your DIY terrarium.
Find a unique glass container to use for the terrarium.
Add shells or larger rocks to create a focal point within the terrarium.
Use a variety of air plants to create a diverse looking terrarium.
 Air plants can also be used as a centerpiece for your next big dinner party. If you want to create a rustic and simple centerpiece using air plants, try this DIY design.Purchase three white pillar candles of various heights and encircle them with a glass pillar.
Choose a variety of large and small air plants and place them directly on the table around the three candles like a wreath.
This will give your dinner table a rustic feel.
Alternatively, if you have a rectangular table, you can line up the pillar candles lengthwise across the table and sprinkle the air plants throughout in a random pattern. This is a simple way to decorate using air plants.
Be creative and come up with your own idea for a table centerpiece that uses air plants.

