 Most of all, you must feel ready and capable to do so. This includes knowing how to cross roads safely, how to deal with traffic in general and feeling safe in your neighborhood. Understand the dangers that your parents are trying to guard against. Be smart about walking alone, don't just do it to rebel or be cool.;
, Are you truly going alone, or are you going with friends? Think about the reasons as to why your parents won't let you walk alone too, as you'll need to address these in order to convince them that it is safe for you to do so.
 This will allow you to gather your points together and gives you the opportunity to rehearse both the talk and your answers to their potential concerns. If you address the concerns now, you won't be stuttering when they raise them during the talk. Consider the following:


Use your reasons from the previous part to explain why you want to walk home.
 Set out a list of the likely objections and write the solution next to each one. Some examples may include:


Your parents say that it is unsafe to cross the roads by yourself. Tell them that you will only ever cross at pedestrian crossings or traffic lights, that you will never cross a main or busy road anywhere else. Tell them that you know to look both ways and to wait for cars to slow down at crossing points, and to make eye contact with drivers before crossing.
Your parents are worried you might dawdle and spend time on the streets instead of at home. Reassure them that you will walk straight home and that if you want play dates, you'll set these up beforehand so that they know and can confirm it with your friends' parents.
Your parents are worried about strangers. Tell them that you will not have conversations with people, that you will not go anywhere with people you don't know and that you'll avoid anyone showing suspicious behavior you see and report it to your parents or the school. Tell them that you're walking home with a friend.
Your parents are worried that you're not ready yet. Explain to them that you think you are and that having gone through all the possibilities and reasons, this demonstrates you are able to think about it in a responsible way.
You might find other things to bring up, such as the age a sibling first walked home, the fact that you'll be walking with someone or a group or that you don't have to cross any roads, etc. You could also let them track your progress using a smartphone app, or at least make it clear you can be contacted by phone anytime during the walk.
 Choose a time when they're happy to sit down with you and have a chat. Let them know what you would like, namely to walk home by yourself. Explain why you want to walk home, how long it will take, who you are walking with, and any other information that they may need to know.
 They are genuinely trying to determine your readiness and asking questions isn't an outright no yet. Use the preparation you did before the talk to give reasons that cover their objections.
 A parent who remains unconvinced might be okay with letting you walk some of the way, perhaps with a friend for that portion of the walk, then meeting a parent or older sibling for the rest of the way home. This could be gradually extended over time until you're walking all of the way home alone.
 If they say no to begin with, don't fight. They probably need time to think through what you've asked for and just need time. It can be helpful to ask again in a few weeks. Understand that your parents just want you to be safe, they don't want to ruin your life.


Never be immature. If your parents say no, don't throw a tantrum, as in running around screaming, No!


