 This shouldn't take long, especially with modern resources such as Wikipedia and fansites. Find out their names, role in the band and whatever else about them you want to know.


Knowing the band members can sometimes enrich the band experience, as you may understand their songs more (if, for example, one of them tried to kill himself and there was a song penned by said member about depression, the song may have more meaning to you).
Tumblr, Facebook, Twitter, Fanpop, Pinterest and other social media platforms will most likely have pages, websites or posts devoted to your chosen band. Try searching the sites for keywords to do with the band.;
, When walking, on the train to work, working out - there are many times when you could listen to music while still completing other activities. Knowing the band's music will help you become a band fanatic.


If you can't afford to buy the band's music, you could try asking around for any CD's of theirs that your friends may have (which you could then burn to your PC), using a YouTube-to-MP3 converter to gain MP3 files of their songs from YouTube videos of them, using Spotify, a totally free way to listen to music or looking on the band's website (if there is one) for a free music player.
If you find you have no time during the day to listen to their music, you could put a little time aside every morning or before you go to bed to listen to a certain amount of songs.
 This could be anything from Snapchat to Twitter - try looking for verified accounts or accounts under their name with a large number of followers if you are unsure of which accounts may be theirs. This will help you to know more about their day to day lives, as well as keeping you up with any band news.
 You could do this in real life or online. This will help you to meet other fans and may help you to learn more about the band.
 Often, live performances from the band will be very different from recordings, and will give you more of a feel of the band, as well as a taste of their personalities on stage.


If you can't see them live, try to find a live DVD, CD or YouTube video of them. This may give you a similar experience, just without the localized atmosphere of the specific performance.
 They may sell things such as books, clothing or jewelry. Wearing your band's T-shirt or having headphones with their logo on in public may attract other fans to you, as well as showing everyone that you are devoted enough to the band to wear their merchandise.
 These will tell you a lot more about the band members, their history and their personalities. Having read them, you may feel more of a connection to the band members, which may increase your connection with them.
 Perhaps even write some yourself. This will help you to meet more people who like the band, and could lead to you finding out more about them through author's impressions of true events.


Fanfiction.net, Archive of Our Own and Livejournal all have extensive collections of band fanfiction. Just try typing in their name or a keyword.
 You could do this through telling them your favourite songs by the band or sending them links to videos of the band. This will let other people know how serious your intentions to become a band fanatic are, as well as warning them that you may spent less time occupying other interests compared to before as you increase your dedication to the band.
 On here you could upload images, write fanfiction and communicate with other fans. Forcing yourself to keep said page updated would also force you to research the band further and find out more about them so as to keep the website fresh.
 Don't let them take over your life completely, as you may get bored of them. Have a healthy interest in them, but don't let it become an obsession.

