 This is a middle ground approach, moderately effective and relatively easy to install. You can expect it to add roughly 6 to 9 "STC points," reducing loud conversations to indistinct speech or murmurs.If you're trying to block music and other loud noises, decouple the ceiling instead.Use the decoupling method for concrete ceilings as well.;
, Drill a quarter-sized hole in the ceiling and look for insulation. If none is present, blow in cellulose or medium density fiberglass insulation.There is no need to repair the holes afterward, since you will be installing new drywall underneath.


Do not install new insulation if there's any old insulation, even if it's worn out. The old insulation will prevent you from blowing in new insulation evenly.
Avoid foam insulation and expensive "extra dense" products. These can make low density vibrations worse., "Green Glue" or another damping compound will reduce vibration between the two layers of material. Apply it to the back of a new sheet of drywall, according to label instructions.


⅝" (15.9mm) drywall is recommended, since extra mass blocks more sound. However, if the existing drywall is ⅝" thick, choose ½" (12.7mm) sheets for the new layer. Different thicknesses resonate at different frequencies, so two different types will block more sound.You can buy pre-dampened drywall, but this is expensive and no different from what you could make yourself., Screw the drywall to the underside of your ceiling. Try to keep the gap around the perimeter as small as possible.
 Even a narrow gap around the perimeter or ceiling fixture can let a lot of noise through. Before choosing an acoustical caulk, read the label carefully:


Confirm the caulk is suitable for use on your materials.
Check whether you can paint over the caulk. If not, make sure the color matches your ceiling.
Consider a fire-resistant caulk to prevent spread of fire between floors. This may be required by your local building code.
 The damping compound is a major part of this installation. It may take ten days or more for the compound to cure fully and reach its final soundproofing qualities.Check the compound label for a specific time frame.
 If soundproofing is improved but still not ideal, consider repeating the process. A third layer of drywall and damping compound can make a significant difference.If the room is not noticeably more soundproof, another layer is unlikely to help. It may be more effective to treat the ceilings in adjacent rooms, or to soundproof the walls.

