 Although it is certainly important to in some sense live for the future (by doing things like planning, saving, etc.) it is also very important for your well-being to enjoy life in the moment. During your day, pause a few moments. Take 5 deep breaths in and out and notice all your sensations. Try not to judge your sensations but rather just experience them freely.
 Hobbies help us grow and re-charge our batteries; they stimulate our minds and our bodies and they allow for creativity. All of these things can help us to feel like we are living a good life.If you are stuck figuring out what activities to engage in, try the website: http://www.meetup.com/


, Studies show that money does buy happiness, but only up to about $75,000, and then the relationship between money and happiness (i.e., a better life) becomes much weaker.That said, depending on how you define "a better life," income may continue to be associated with greater life satisfaction the more money people make, even above $75,000. It is important to think about your particular circumstances and definition of a better life and to decide how important money is to you., Children laugh way more than adults do; they are free and happy and their lives are great and care-free.Being an adult doesn’t have to mean that life is serious and dull. Try your best to laugh and joke around each day to keep things light and fun.


If you don’t feel like generating humor yourself, try watching some stand-up comedy or a funny TV show.
 If someone you know is constantly dragging you down or making you feel bad about yourself, stop associating with this person. Although you may feel guilty at first, over time without his negative influence in your life, you will likely feel better.If it is a friend, let him get the hint by responding to his messages less and less and with longer and longer delays or just stop all contact immediately.
If it is a family member or someone you live with, try to avoid this person by being out of the house when he is around, or by staying in your room when he is out in the living room.

