 A common cause of inflammation in the mouth is mouth ulcers. Mouth ulcers, also called mouth stomatitis, vary in size and shape and are caused from a variety of different factors. They can be caused from herpes (cold sores), canker sores, yeast infections, tobacco use, medications, fungal infections, injury, and some systemic illnesses.See your doctor or dentist for mouth sores that are painful and last for more than 10 day.;
, Ulcer inflammation is painful and can last five to fourteen days. Avoiding certain types of beverages and food can help to heal the inflammation, reduce your pain, and reduce the amount of time you suffer. In order to lessen irritation, avoid hot beverages and foods as well as foods that salty, spicy, or have citrus elements. These can increase the irritation to the mouth tissue.This includes hot coffee and tea, spicy red peppers, foods with cayenne pepper or chili powder, overly salted soups and broths, and fruits such as oranges and grapefruits.
 Ulcers from tobacco use are called aphthous ulcers, which is also known as a canker sore. These irritations can be healed by reducing or eliminating the use of all tobacco products. If you continue to use tobacco products, the sores may take longer to heal and continue to reappear.
 Yeast infections of the mouth can cause thrush to the tongue, which is when the fungus candida, the fungus behind vaginal yeast infections, occurs in the mouth. Thrush can cause an inflammatory response and pain in your mouth.Thrush can also cause mouth ulcers.Healing inflammation from a yeast infection will require medication from your physician.


These medications can be used in otherwise healthy adults and children for 10 to 14 days and come in lozenges, liquid, or pill form. However, children and adults with a weakened immune system require different help., Some medications, such as anti-cancer drugs, can cause mouth ulcers. These drugs kill the fast growing cells but do not specifically target cancer cells, which means they can also kill the cells in your mouth, which grow and replicate quickly. These sores are painful and can last for more than two weeks.


Sores from these medications may require topical painkillers applied directly to the mouth sores. These medication can also numb your mouth, so use caution when eating or brushing your teeth after you apply them., If you are not sure what causes your mouth ulcers, there are some general guidelines you can follow to ease your pain and discomfort. Other than the techniques used to treat and prevent certain kinds of ulcers, you can also:


Use coating agents to help protect the sores and minimize the pain you’ll experience while eating and drinking
Avoid sharp or crunchy foods, such as chips, crackers and pretzels
Limit or eliminate alcohol, which can irritate an already sore mouth. This applies to drinking alcohol as well as mouthwashes and mouth sprays.
Eat smaller meals more frequently and cut foods into smaller pieces, in order to reduce irritation to your mouth
Talk with your healthcare team about using special foam swabs that reduce the physical irritation if brushing is too difficult.