 Here's a list of what you will need to make one:


Wooden clothespins
Magnet (sheet is recommended)
Glue
Decorations, such as paint, washi tape, etc

, They must be the type that have a spring in them. The solid wood ones that don't open and close won't be suitable for this.
 This is where you can get really creative. However you decide to decorate it, make sure that you leave the back blank, or you won't be able to glue the magnet on. Also, make sure that you can still open and close the clothespin. Here are some decorating ideas:


Cover the top and sides of your clothespin with washi tape. Washi tape is a type of patterned scrapbooking tape. You can find it in the scrapbooking section of an arts and crafts store.
Paint your clothespin using a small paintbrush and acrylic paint. You can paint it all one color, or many colors. Simple designs, such as stripes, will work best on the clothespin.
Glue a thin, flat wooden shape, such as a cat or dog, to the top of the clothespin. The wooden shape should be about the same length as the clothespin. You can find the wooden shapes in the wood section of an arts and crafts store.
Glue down some buttons down the center of your clothespin. Play around with different shapes, colors, and patterns, just make sure that the buttons are the same width as the clothespin.
 Depending on how you decorated it, this can take anywhere from a few minutes to a few hours. Some decorations, such as washi tape, don't require any drying time.
 Cut a strip of magnetic sheeting down to fit the back of your clothes pin. If you are using round, button magnets, plan on using two magnets per clothespin.
 You can use an industrial strength glue or hot glue. Draw a line of glue down the back of the clothespin and press the magnet down into the glue.


If you are using round button magnets, place a drop of glue on the top and bottom of the clothespin back. Press the round button magnets into the glue.
 Once the glue dries, you can use the clothespin to hold recipes and memos to the door of your fridge.

