 Reading aloud is a great way to slow down while reading. Slower reading usually means more comprehension, because you have more time to process what you're reading. An added benefit of slow reading is that you get to see the words on the page (visual learning) and hear the same words spoken aloud (audio learning).


If you decide that hearing spoken words helps you improve your comprehension, don't be afraid to get narrated books. Of course, you'll want to read the books in addition to hearing them spoken, but this could greatly improve comprehension.
 It's like being thrust into a chess match with a master when you've only just started playing. Of course you're not going to do well when that's the match up. Start with books at your level; you shouldn't be straining to figure out what words mean, or reading sentences over and over again.


If you're reading for a class and the book you're assigned is above your level, read it as best you can, but continue to read other books at your level. Reading those books will help you understand the harder ones.
 Reading teachers talk about this concept called fluency. Fluency is the ability to read words at a certain speed. To be fluent, you want to be able to read 90 words a minute.That seems like a lot, but with only a little bit of practice, you should be able to get there. What kind of practice? Re-reading! Read books over again, twice or even three times. After the first time, the words will read easier and fluency will improve.
 If you don't know what a word means, it's going to be hard to improve comprehension. Have a rough idea of what vocabulary level you should be at given your age. If you're below your level, try starting with books that you fully understand and then work your way up.


There are a number of ways to improve reading comprehension:
Have a dictionary or computer with you while reading. When you come across a word you don't know, look it up and write the definition down in your notes.
Read lots of books. Sometimes the definition of a word will be clear given the context of the sentence. The more you read, the better you'll get at guessing the definition of a word given its context.
Read books above your level. Books above your level will contain lots of tricky vocabulary words. Getting through these books will be harder, but you'll come away with great knowledge.
 Whether that helper is a teacher, a friend, or a parent, read with someone above your level who you're comfortable with talking to and asking questions. When reading with a helper, follow this structure:


Pre-reading: define vocabulary words ahead of time; preview key comprehension questions so that you can look out for them while you read.
Reading: look out for the comprehension questions you went over before reading; ask questions; read aloud if necessary; take notes; listen to someone else reading.
Post-reading: summarize what you just read; ask any questions you had; predict what's going to happen next based on what you just read.

