 The time taken to replace drivers side: 25 minutes on the first attempt.;
,, Find a mirror on a stick and a flashlight. It helps if the car is not in the sun to cut down on deep shadows. Almost everything you will be working with is black.
, It will loosen and come off. Use the cover to hold the tools. It is not necessary to remove the front dust cover held on with phillips fasteners.
 This can be done with a Phillips screwdriver (quarter turn to left to pop loose, then push from behind / pull up the reusable clips). If you remove the cover of the fuse box first, you can use the fuse box cover to hold the screws.
 This will require a small blade-type screwdriver to pry off re-usable plastic rivet.
 You might need a long-handled flat blade screwdriver to loosen it at first (see video below). Push cover back from headlight assembly to gain access to bulb / wiring harness.
 Reach into the car with the back of your hand facing forward so that the square white plastic removable socket for the lamp passes between your index and middle fingers. Wiggle the socket off. Do not let go until you look at the configuration/position of the holes in the socket and note them for reconnecting.
 To remove the driver's side rubber weatherproofing boot which is fitted with bump-outs to aid removal stand at the front of the car, place the shaft of a screwdriver on the side of the bump and push it toward the driver's side fender to rotate the boot about 1/16th of a turn (Clockwise when viewed from front of car looking back towards engine). If the boot does not wiggle out of the hard plastic track/housing, push to turn the boot some more.
 TIP: This is the hardest part as the fit around the bulb is tight to keep out water. So push bulb forward when you pull rubber boot backwards (otherwise you may damage metal spring and have to go to dealer) Remove and read the cover to see what is the top. Feel the 4 square bumps around the hole.
 Look for a hook that captures the wire and holds the wire under tension. Unhook the wire and swing it away. practice hooking it up again.(TIP: Drive side and Passenger side are different. Unhooks down on driver side up on passenger side)(Note:2003-2004 Prius had exactly same hook position. both side Unhooks down)

,,, This will ensure the bulb is aligned before you re-hook the retainer.
 This may be hard, especially on the Passenger side, where the body of the car blocks your view. TIP: This can be done with one hand, by holding bulb forward and swing retainer behind bulb. Then just hook metal spring over hook.
 This is very difficult to do. A mirror placed in front of the boot is a great help in getting the boot back on. Ask your helper to hold the mirror. TIP: This can be done without a mirror by pushing small hole around back of bulb. But be sure outer four tabs are aligned (one of the four is larger then the other three)

, Reconnect the electrical connection after redistributing the grease in the socket.
,,,, The whole process takes about 1.5 hours because you can't see anything you are doing and wonder if you are doing it correctly.
 Estimates from $100 to $600. A 61 year old woman with little experience and stiff fingers just did this on the drivers side in less than 30 minutes -- two beers for me!

