 Start with clean, dry hair. Use a flat brush or comb to remove any knots and tangles.


This hair style works best with long hair. It's also easiest to create on straight and wavy hair, but might be a bit more difficult to duplicate on curly hair.
 Work a small amount of hair gel through the hair. Only use enough to lightly coat the hair without weighing it down.


The hair gel isn't strictly necessary, but it'll make the bow cleaner and may help hold the style in place. Baby detangler can be used instead of gel if you'd prefer a less sticky option.
Use your fingers or a comb the run the gel all the way through the hair. It should coat the hair from root to tip.
 Gather all of the hair into a high ponytail at the top of the head. Carefully shift the ponytail so that it leans to one side of the head.


The ponytail must be very tight. Use your hands or a comb to smooth down any hair sticking up around the head.
Secure the ponytail with a ponytail holder. Wrap the band around the ponytail as many times as needed to hold it in place. Pause before the final wrap but continue to hold both the ponytail and the ponytail holder.
 Instead of completely pulling the ponytail through the band during the last wrap-around, only pull a portion of it through. This should create a tight bun at the top of the head.


Position the tail toward the front of the face.
Pull the tail through the hair tie for another wrap-around. Instead of pulling it completely through, only pull one-third to one-half of it through.
Adjust the bun at the top of the head as needed to hold it in place. Note that the extra hair should stick out toward the face.
 Use your fingers to carefully separate the bun down the center. Keep both halves as even as possible.


Smooth everything out using your hands to make it look as neat as possible. Work carefully to avoid pulling any additional hair through the ponytail holder.
 Take the excess hair hanging in front of the face and draw it over the split center of the bun. Secure the hair with a bobby pin.


Pull the excess hair tightly over the center of the bun. It should be able to hold the split. Furthermore, as you cross the center, you should also notice the bun shape taking form.
Insert a bobby pin directly over the excess tail at the base of the bun and the back of the head. Keep the pin as close to the bun as possible.
 Carefully pull down on one side of the bun, fanning out the bow in the process. Use a bobby pin to hold the hair in place.


Repeat the same procedure on the other side of the bow.
 Use your fingers to smooth down any flyaway strands of hair, then gently mist the entire thing with hairspray to hold everything in place.


The style is complete once you finish this step.

