 Now you will want to create the tube. This tube comprises the main section of the headband. It will go around the head and embellishments will be added to it. Make it as even as possible but since it is made of stretch fabric, most imperfections will be hidden naturally.









Fold the rectangle of fabric. If you’ve chosen to use stretch lace, this will be unnecessary. If using other materials, fold it lengthwise so that the wrong side is facing outwards.
Pin the material using straight pins, so that the long edges are in line with each other. Straight pins should be placed perpendicular to the long side of the fabric. This will keep your sewing machine from catching on a pin if you forget to remove one. It will also make it possible to sew right over the pins as well.
Sew the length of the material, leaving your quarter to half-inch seam allowance and the ends open. Use a stitch and sewing machine needle appropriate to the material you have chosen. Stretchy fabrics will require a ball-point needle and a stretch or zigzag stitch. For plain cotton a normal needle and straight stitch should suffice. The same methods can be done by hand but will be more time consuming.
Reverse the fabric. This can be done simply by hand but it may be easier to use basic tools. The most common method is to use a small safety-pin. Pin it at the end of the tub in such a way that the dead of the pin is inside the tube. Begin pulling small sections of fabric over the pin and pushing the head down the length of the tube. This takes time but is fair simple. When you are done you may wish to iron the tube flat, to create more of a band appearance. You may also wish to forgo ironing, in favor of a looser, draped look.
 The elastic will allow the headband to gently stay on your baby’s head, without constricting or requiring snaps or ties. It will also allow the band to grow with your baby, allowing her to wear it for longer. Be sure that you have enough elastic, as a too-tight band is not good for your baby.









Feed the elastic through the tube. This will be easiest if you place a safety-pin at one end of the elastic and use that to guide you. Make sure that as you pull the elastic through the tube, the elastic remains flat.
Sew the two ends of the elastic together by hand or by machine. A zigzag or x-shaped stitch is good for this. Be sure that the elastic is flat and did not twist inside the tube.
Close the tube. While it is possible to use your machine, this step works best when using hand stitching. Tuck the ends of the fabric inward as much as possible. Use careful, small whip stitches to join the ends of the tube together. If you do not want to sew by hand, close the tube with your machine, overlapping the fabric and sewing a line down the back. This method will be more visible that hand-stitching. With the tube closed, now your band is done!

