 Being happy every day does not mean that you will be happy every moment. That is impossible and unrealistic. Instead, aim to become a person who is well-rounded emotionally. Once you are comfortable feeling a range of emotions, you will be better able to get in touch with how to be happy.Self-validation is the process of acknowledging your feelings and reactions. It is healthy to understand that everyone has a range of emotions, and it is normal to express them.
Don't put pressure on yourself to feel happy all the time. Instead, if you are feeling down about missing out on a big promotion, acknowledge that that is a normal reaction. Give yourself permission to feel. Then you can move on.;
, Sometimes the things that make you happy are pretty obvious. For example, you probably know that you enjoy having a day off from work. But you'll have to dig a little deeper to get beyond the surface of what makes you happy. Spend some time reflecting on what truly brings you joy.One way to go about this is to think about your purpose. People who are fulfilled often report being happier.
Ask yourself questions such as, "What excites me? What am I passionate about? How would I like to be remembered?"

, Similarly, the process of getting to know yourself better should include spending some time thinking about things that do not make you happy. Again, some might be simple and obvious. For instance, no one likes being stuck in traffic. But take time to reflect on pieces of your life that might be significantly impacting your happiness.Make a list of the stressful components of your life. Often, putting things in writing can help us get a more clear view of the situation.
Is your job stressing you out? Write down some specifics, such as "I feel stressed because my boss does not seem to value me."

, Journaling is one of the most effective ways to get to know yourself better and become more in touch with your emotions. Try writing in a journal each day. You can record not only your activities, but also your thoughts and feelings.Once a week, take time to read through your journal entries and reflect. You can begin to see patterns in the things that are making you feel happier.
Journaling has been shown to reduce stress and anxiety. This alone can lead to more happiness each day.
 It can be easy to focus on all of the tasks that need to be done on a daily basis, rather than focusing on yourself and your feelings. Try taking multiple short breaks throughout the day. Taking a break from work will give you time to check in with yourself and see how you're feeling.Every hour, give yourself a break of about 5 minutes. You can go get a drink of water, stretch, or just zone out for a few minutes.
Taking a break is good for your mind and body. While you stretch, daydream about something fun you would like to do after work. This is an excellent mood boost.
 One of the keys to being happy to is to practice self-acceptance. While we all have changes we would like to make, it's important to remember to also appreciate ourselves for who we are. Recognize that acceptance is not the same as resignation. You can learn to accept the things you cannot change without giving up on your goals.
Make it a point to appreciate something about yourself each day. You could devote part of your daily journal entry to writing down one good thing about yourself, such as your work ethic.

