 Any drug or substance that increases the amount of serotonin in the body (or decreases the breakdown of serotonin in the body) can cause dangerously high levels of serotonin in your blood and potentially cause serotonin syndrome. There are a number of drugs, mainly antidepressants, that can do this. This can happen especially if over-used intentionally or non-intentionally. Serotonin syndrome most often occurs when combining medication from different classes. These include:Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs): These are antidepressants and include drugs like citalopram (Celexa), fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem), fluvoxamine, paroxetine (Paxil), and sertraline (Zoloft).
Serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs): These are a class of antidepressants similar to the SSRIs and include drugs like trazodone, duloxetine (Cymbalta), and venlafaxine (Effexor).
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs): This group includes antidepressants like isocarboxazid (Marplan) and phenelzine (Nardil).
Other antidepressants: These can include drugs like Bupropion (Wellbutrin, Zyban), and the Tricyclic antidepressants, including amitriptyline and nortriptyline (Pamelor).
Medications for migraines: This class includes the triptans (Axert, Amerge, Imitrex), carbamazepine (Tegretol), and valproic acid (Depakene).
Pain medications: These include drugs like cyclobenzaprine (Amrix and Fexmid), fentanyl (Duragesic), meperidine (Demerol), and tramadol (Ultram).
Mood stabilizers: The main drug in this category is Lithium (Lithobid).
Anti-nausea medications: These include the drugs granisetron (Kytril), metoclopramide (Reglan), droperidol (Inapsine), and ondansetron (Zofran).
Antibiotics and antiviral medications: This class includes Linezolid (Zyvox), which is an antibiotic and Ritonavir (Norvir). Ritonavir is an antiretroviral used to treat HIV/AIDS.
OTC cough and cold medications containing dextromethorphan: This group includes Delsym, Mucinex DM, and other OTC medications.
Recreational drugs: This group includes LSD, Ecstasy, cocaine, and amphetamines.
Herbal supplements: St. John's wort, ginseng, and nutmeg are in this group.
 To prevent serotonin syndrome, always let all physicians that you are working with know all the medications and supplements that you are taking. Supplements such as St John’s wort can interact with prescription medications. Prescription medications can interact with each other. Taking prescribed medication from a physician who doesn’t have all the facts can lead to problems.For example, if your physician doesn’t know that you are taking Lithium because it was prescribed by another physician, and prescribes you an SSRI, this will increase your risk for serotonin syndrome.
Only take the amount of pills prescribed. Do not attempt to self-regulate your dose by taking more than directed by your doctor.
 People who take multiple kinds of medications from the drug classes which often lead to serotonin syndrome are at a high risk for the condition. It commonly occurs when you increase the dosage or start a new medication. If you take multiple medications from these classes, make sure to carefully monitor your symptoms, especially if you have just started a new medication.Serotonin syndrome can be dangerous and lethal, especially in the young, the old, or those with a history of heart disease.

