 This can be a little confusing, as "dry" cleaning solvent is generally sold in liquid state. The reason these solutions are so called is because these solvents are made without water.You can find these products in the home supply or cleaning section of most stores. If you cannot find something suitable in your area, an online retailer might be the way to go.
 Dry cleaning solutions can have a very strong odor and can be harmful to your health if breathed in for extended periods. A ceiling or box fan blowing fumes out an open window can help dissipate this smell.
 Putting your cleaner directly onto your cushion cover can do damage to the fabric, as these solutions are typically highly concentrated. To prevent this from happening, apply a small amount of cleaner to a clean rag, and follow any other instructions as directed.
 With your cleaner already applied to your rag, rub the rag on a part of the couch that is out of sight. Allow the spot to dry for about 10 minutes. After that, take a clean piece of paper towel and press it into the fabric where you applied the cleaning solution. If the paper towel picks up dye or the fabric becomes discolored, the solution you bought may be too strong.
 Rubbing your rag applied with solution against the fabric of your cushion can be too abrasive in combination with a harsh cleaning agent. Although this may take a considerable amount of time, you should press the rag and solution into the dirty








Do not apply too much solution to your fabric or you may cause discoloration or harm.
Taking frequent breaks and allow the cushion time to dry between applications can help prevent over-saturation.
 Even trace amounts of dry cleaner solutions can have a negative effect if allowed to remain in the fabric of your cushions. After you have finished applying the solvent and allowed the cleaner to set for the amount of time indicated in the instructions, moisten a clean cloth and blot the areas you have cleaned.








Be sure the cloth you use for blotting is only lightly damp, and rinse and wring it out regularly.

