 Hold a contest to see who can do the most pushups or situps. Have special activities that you do as a family when breaks occur in screen time.


For example, have your children create a dance together or an art project during breaks, then show it off at the end of the show.
Have challenges your kids compete for during breaks. For example, say, “Who can hold a handstand for the longest time? Who can do the most yoga poses before the show comes back on?”;
, This is especially good if you have a young child. Use screen time to encourage language development and motor skills.Interact with your child about what is happening on the screen. For example, if you are drawing together, ask your child to get the blue marker or to talk about what your child is creating.


Create a dialog and talk about themes. Exchange ideas and describe concepts for your child, similar to how you would interact with a book. If your child is playing a game, say, “Wow, you jumped over that green monster!” or, “Why do you think that happened? How did you do that?”

, Participate with your children during play time.Whether with a screen or not, actively engage what your children’s activities. You can play group games on phone applications or participate in 2-player video games that encourage movement.


Playing together with your children helps you to bond and enjoy the experiences together.
Create a weekly game night with your family. Even if you don’t have board games, lots of multi-player games are available through video game consoles and phone applications.
 Children learn a lot from modeling their parent’s behaviors, especially in early childhood. If you spend a lot of time watching television or being on the computer, don’t be surprised if your child chooses similar activities.Encourage your child to play by playing yourself and playing together with your child.


Spend some time engaging in play after school. For example, jump on the trampoline with your children or take the dog for a walk. Minimize your own screen time.
 Many video games require active participation as part of the game. Buy your children video games that they can interact with on a physical level to get your child moving and fit.For example, purchase video games that encourage learning music with an instrument or that require movement and physical activity. Use your child’s love of video games to encourage play and activity.


Some video games are specifically designed to encourage physical activity and fitness. See which ones appeal to your child. For example, try Dance Dance Revolution (DDR), wii fit, and Winds of Orbis.
 Draw inspiration from tv shows, video games, and applications to act them out in real life. Use the characters from screens and bring them to life in other ways. For example, your children can use characters from a video game to create a play or an obstacle course outside.


Encourage your children to dress up as the characters and act out scenes with their peers or siblings. For example, if your children enjoy superheroes, allow them to wear costumes and use their superpowers in their own play.
Let your children put their own twist on their play and create new scenarios for the characters, such as running through the jungle (the yard) or confronting new foes (like your pet cat).
 Make play appealing for everyone in your home. Rearrange furniture and purchase some inexpensive equipment outside.Instead of arranging the family room around the television, arrange it to encourage discussions or play. Place the television in a smaller room or somewhere with less focus in the home.


Make your television secondary to play. Or, have your room set up to encourage active games rather than sitting games. For example, clear space in your family room for dancing games.
 Screen time has some benefits, such as engaging children with technology. Interacting with technology is a large part in many adult’s lives, and it’s important for children to begin to enter this world as they develop. Educational programs and applications can help your child learn skills and gain knowledge. Screens also allow for your children to communicate and have relationships with friends and family who live far away.However, some children become glued to screens all day, which can impact emotional and social well-being.Over-exposure to screens can potentially affect a child’s ability to concentrate.
 Children under the age of two should not have any screen time. For children between the ages of two and five, screen time should be limited to one hour per day.Try setting a rule to limit screen time to one or two hours per day, depending on your child's age. Most importantly, enforce the rule.Create rewards for following the rules, and consider having incentives for less screen time. Possible rewards can include more allowance or fewer chores.


Follow your own rules involving screen time. For example, your children may be upset if you limit their screen time but spend much of each night watching television or surfing the internet

, For example, your child may come home from karate practice and be allowed 15 minutes of screen time. This can get your child excited to do activities and then also be rewarded afterward.


Let your child “earn” screen time by doing certain activities. For example, say, “Once you finish your chores, you can watch one tv show” or, “You can play on your tablet after dinner. Before dinner, you can play with your toys in the toy room.”

, Children who spend a lot of time in front of screens tend to have a higher obesity rate, lower levels of physical fitness, and problems with mental and social development.Too much screen time can negatively affect your child’s overall health and well-being.


Your kid may have too much screen time if they are sad, lonely, isolated from friends and family, or withdrawn.

