 Cover the basics: be polite, do your chores, and maintain good grades at school. If you’re having trouble in a particular class, study that much harder. Prove to them that your trouble isn’t due to a lack of effort.


Keep it up when you’re alone. Do your chores and homework when they’re out of the house. Provide evidence that your alone-time is spent productively and responsibly. Inspire trust that you can be left alone without causing any worries.;
, Show your parents that you think about family and how you can make things better for them. Offer to do more around the house or, even better, just do it and surprise them. Prove to them that you are both mature and considerate toward others., Ask about their day. Ask about their own experiences as kids. Show concern about their well-being and interest in their own lives. Make them feel appreciated and loved.


Set aside your cellphone when you engage them. Show them that they have your full attention. If you receive a call, check who it is and set your phone back down. Show your parents that they’re a priority in your life.
 Acknowledge the nice things they do for you. Show them that you appreciate the time, effort, and/or money they spend in trying to make you happy.Show gratitude even if the nice thing they do is something you could really do without. If your parents buy season tickets for the local baseball team without realizing that you hate baseball, you don’t have to pretend to love the game, but you should still make a point of thanking them for the effort that they’ve made. Showing appreciation even when you’re disappointed will help ensure that they’ll do the same if and when you disappoint them.
 Be on your best behavior in public. Parents feel judged by others when their kids act up. Bolster their self-esteem by being polite and attentive to other adults., Behave at school and elsewhere exactly as you would at home. Keep your parents’ image of you intact by ensuring that no teacher or other adult breaks it.

