 Everyone's caloric needs are different, based mostly on your weight and activity level but also on your metabolism. To lose weight, you need to eat fewer calories than you would to maintain your weight. Once you figure out how many calories you need to sustain your current weight, subtract 250 to 500 calories per day to figure out what you need to lose weight.For instance, if you are underweight with a low activity level, multiply your weight by 16 to see how many calories you need to sustain your weight. If you have a moderate activity level, multiply by 18, while if you have a high activity level, multiply by 22.If you are of normal weight, you multiply by 14, 16, and 18 for low, moderate, and high activity levels, respectively, while if you're overweight, your numbers are 11, 14, and 16.Low activity is defined as engaging in little to no physical activity every week. Moderate activity is 30 to 60 minutes of aerobic activity three times a week, while high is an hour or more of aerobic activity at least 3 times a week.;
, Sugar can put on weight in your belly area, and even healthy-seeming drinks can contribute. For instance, you may think fruit juice is a good idea. However, it's as sugary as some sodas, and you don't get the good fiber you do with whole fruit. If you want something sweet, try a piece of fruit., The vegetables on your plate are the healthiest part of your meal. If you start with them, you won't have as much room for other options that aren't as good for you. Plus, the fiber in vegetables tends to fill you up., If you focus on plant-based foods, including vegetables, fruits, and whole grains, it's much easier to lower your overall caloric intake. Plant-based foods are much lower in fat than other foods, so they fill you up without too many calories., When you do eat meat, restrict your portion to 3 ounces, which is about the size of a deck of cards. In addition, choose lean meats, such as chicken breast (without the skin) and fish., When eating dairy, stick with low-fat options. For instance, choose skim milk over whole, low-fat yogurt over full-fat yogurt, and low-fat cheeses.