 Ask questions and get as much detail as possible: full names, maiden names, date of birth, date of death, date of marriage, date of divorce, names of children, and places they may have lived. Family bibles often have familial information recorded in them, and old personal notes or letters may be helpful as well.


If all you have is a photo of your family member, ask other family members if they recognize him or her. Look through old family photo albums and try to figure out who is who. If you aren't sure when a photo was taken, check the back of the photo for the date.
 You can use the Internet to put together all of the information that you gather. Websites like Ancestry.com and FindAGrave.com are a good starting point, and some offer free trials. These sites have access to US census records, birth, marriage, death certificates, and other family trees that may intersect your own. If you have a name to search for, you can find out where family members are buried, and you can find information about any memorials that have been held.


Bear in mind that you may find many people with similar names. Immigrants from similar backgrounds often tend to congregate in a given neighborhood or region, so you may find find individuals with extremely similar names.
Names may have been misspelled or arbitrarily changed in older records, so you may find many different iterations of certain names and dates. Follow up with local municipalities to verify any information that you find.
Ancestral search sites usually allow you to search international repositories and documents. If your ancestral family hails from another country, you can piece together the journey that you ancestors took from their homeland.
 If you do not make as much progress as you like, or you find you need a language translator, you can find professional genealogists on ancestral search websites.


Remember, information such as your mother's maiden name is often used to as a security question for your financial information. Be careful sharing personal information.
Research professional genealogists thoroughly. Read reviews and references before deciding who to trust with your information.

