 Look up your state's or country's homeschooling laws. Even if you've been homeschooling your child her whole life, prepare to meet the requirements for high school (secondary school) graduation and college applications. If you have any questions about this, contact your State Board of Education (or a similar government education office if you're outside of the United States).;
, Your child's studies rapidly become more difficult as he becomes a teenager. Most parents do not remember the material well enough to teach it, and do not have the time to learn it all before their kid. The student will need to learn how to teach himself, but there are ways to encourage this:


Online courses or private tutors give the student access to expert help.
Cooperative classes with other homeschoolers let each parent teach to their strengths.
A good textbook can work for a motivated student, but it cannot fully replace a teacher.
 Some parents have a hard time watching their son or daughter struggle with an assignment or fail to meet a deadline. However tempting it is to do some of their work or manage their schedule for them, this is a big mistake. Teenagers need space to grow into independent adults. Let them study by themselves, and even grade their own tests. They need to understand that success is their own responsibility, and that acting foolishly will have consequences.


You do not need to limit teenagers' time by subject. Let them spend as much time as it takes to understand each assignment.
 Include time in the education to explore topics outside of the required classes. This can be anything from woodworking to marine biology. Including subjects that match your teen's interests will make her much more motivated to get through the last few years of school


Expose them to music, sports, art, and other extracurricular activities as well. But remember: it's her turn to decide what she'll become. She gets to decide which activities to pursue.
Extra points if you can satisfy class credit with activities. Join a theater camp for English credit, or learn cake decorating for art.
 Many homeschoolers have a problem meeting solid deadlines. Stay in communication about your teen's learning schedule, how much work he's doing, and whether it's going well. Encourage him to stay on top of his work, and even get ahead of schedule whenever possible.


If your teen is procrastinating, you may need to adopt a stricter schedule, requiring homework time before social activities. You can also help them stay on track with engaging assignments, and a reward system for completing work.
 If your teen might be headed to college, both of you should be thinking about it early. Look into the application requirements for various colleges well in advance, so you know you're covering all the required coursework.


If you're in the US or thinking about a US college, plan on taking the SAT or ACT tests in the equivalent of 11th grade. Start studying early with online resources, from Khan academy to the official ACT and College Board websites.
 Isolation has a terrible effect on mental health and happiness. Even introverted teens need some time with friends, and away from their parents. Don't let the heavier workload drive away a healthy social life.


Your teen's friends in regular school may suddenly have very busy schedules, and may not be as available as they were before. It can help to find one or two homeschooled peers with more flexible time commitments.
 Raising a teenager isn't easy, especially when you're his teacher as well. Show unconditional love, and don't let conflicts over schoolwork drive a rift between you.


You may discover that certain tasks or subjects lead to arguments, even if this wasn't a problem in the past. Pass on these duties to the other parent or someone outside the family.

