 As a smart candidate, you should be able to make the best out of the opportunities the interviewer presents and build an insight about the company and whether the job is the right one for you.


Therefore, the questions that you ask must be intelligent, well-thought out and pertinent. Your questions should demonstrate your attitude, your interest in the job or company as well as your work ethic.
When you ask the wrong questions, you stand the risk of being judged as the wrong fit for the job. When you do not ask any questions, the interviewer may form an opinion that you are not interested in the job.
 There may be a valid reason why a candidate does not ask a question when they are given this opportunity by the interviewer. However, you should still try to avoid or overcome these reasons:


You're caught off guard by the request for questions.
You feel like you already have the information you need.
You're afraid to seem like a nuisance.
 The questions that you ask during an interview process can affect you positively. Some of the key benefits that you derive from asking the right questions during an interview are:


You can find out whether this is the right company for you or not.
When you ask smart questions the interviewers know that you have prepared for the job and are serious about taking it up.
It shows off your ability to sell your skills.
The right questions not only talk about your abilities but also help you direct the interview towards the areas you are happy about.
 This can be an instant put off. Remember promotions are a dynamic situation, and there will need to be a lot of effort on your part to make them happen.


It is not the amount of time you spend in a certain job that will determine your career progression, but rather how well you can handle your current responsibilities and show your potential for handling bigger responsibilities will determine your career progression in any organization.
Therefore rather than asking when you will be promoted, the question can be rephrased to ask about what qualities you will need to display to achieve this.
 Another area that is best avoided is the question of salary. This often disappoints the interviewer.


This topic is best avoided in the initial rounds of interviews, and you should focus more on convincing the interviewer about your suitability to the role.
Along with the salary levels for the role, avoid the temptation to ask about salary raises at this stage, as this can be a touchy topic, especially depending on the financial status of the company.
 These two areas are also best avoided during an interview as they tell the interviewer about your eagerness to get out of the office before you’ve even stepped in.


The interviewer may wonder if you are interested in the job at all. Therefore save it for some appropriate time later on.
 It’s best not to ask about any generic business information that you could easily have found on the internet or on the company’s website. This suggests that you did not bother to find out about the company, which shows lack of interest.
 Be attentive during the interview so that you do not miss out on any important facts that are discussed. If you end up asking questions that might have already been discussed, shows disinterest and can prove catastrophic.
 You can keep your questions on the right track by adhering to the following tips:



Know that open-ended questions are the best: These begin with ‘how,’ ‘when’ and who’ and give opportunities for meaningful conversation.

Avoid confrontational questions: Any question that starts with why may sound like a challenge or confrontation and can put the interviewer in defensive mode. It is a good idea to rephrase the question to "how".

Avoid long and confusing questions: When there are too many points to a question, you may lose the essence.

Avoid obvious questions: Do not ask for information that is readily available in the public domain, these will not show you in a good light and will highlight your lack of preparation.

Avoid manipulative or leading questions: These questions can make the interviewer feel cornered and give a bad impression.

