 Sugar is sugar, but foods with added sugar and highly processed foods usually don't offer much else in the way of nutrition, unlike nutrient-packed fruits and vegetables with natural sugars. These processed foods are therefore the most important to eliminate. That means soda, sweets, biscuits, cakes, pasta and white bread.Allow yourself healthy carbohydrate-rich foods such as fruit, brown rice, whole-grain pasta and bread, oatmeal, honey, dried fruit, and sweet potatoes.
Remember that having something fatty, like cheese or nuts, can really help with sugar cravings until they pass. However, make sure you don't go overboard on the fat, either. Keep yourself to one ounce of cheese (a 1" cube) or one ounce of nuts (about a handful).
Even if this is the one and only step you ever take down the carb ladder, you and your family will likely be much healthier for it, and might lose some weight, too!

, Do this if you want to reduce your sugar or carb intake further for health reasons, such as lowering blood sugar, controlling insulin spikes, or losing weight.In this step, you will cut down further on the amount of sugar and carbohydrates you consume.


Remember that it may take weeks or a couple of months to comfortably wean yourself off refined sugar and processed foods, so don't rush into this second step.
Increase your intake fresh vegetables — they provide crucial vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants.
Keep dried fruits to a minimum or eliminate them completely. They should be celebration foods, not everyday foods. They are also packed with sugars.
Cut out sugary sweeteners like maple syrup. Honey has a lot of great nutritional benefits, but try to keep your use to a minimum.
 This type of diet, also called the "caveman diet," means completely grain free. There isn't a lot of research to support this type of diet or its health benefits,but if you feel better without eating grains, you can try it out. By this stage you should be completely over your sugar cravings, and eating minimal amounts of starchy carbs or grains already.


A Paleo diet does not include potatoes, grains, rice, or legumes such as beans or peanuts. It does not include processed sugars of any kind, although fruit is allowed.The Specific Carbohydrate Diet is another grain-free diet. However, experts suggest that it may result in nutritional deficiencies because of its strict limitations., Are you happy where you are? You might find that you thrive on next-to-no carbs, or you might notice that your body needs more carbs than you are giving it. You can move up or down the ladder as you feel, but don't start eating refined sugar or processed foods again. They are very harmful to your health. If you start getting sugar or carb cravings, it's a sign you have woken your sleeping Sugar Monster by eating too much sugar, so you need to cut back until the cravings pass again.


Don't make life a misery. If you're at a dinner party and your friend has baked an incredible chocolate cake, have some! Just remember that sweet treats should be occasional, not an everyday indulgence.

