 It's easiest to make an equilateral pyramid, meaning the sides of the structure are all the same size.









Fabricate the base. Pyramids have 4 sides, so you will need a square base. Pick a size, say 6 inches (15.2 cm) by 6 inches (15.2 cm). Measure the dimensions with a ruler and draw an outline for the base on your construction paper.
Measure an additional 1/2 inch out from all sides of the base and draw the outlines. These extensions on each side of the base will provide flaps that you will use to secure the base of the pyramid to its sides. Fold the flaps so they extend upward from the base.
Measure and cut the 4 triangular sides of the paper pyramid. Make the base and sides of each triangle the same width as the base of the structure. In this model, they should be 6 inches. Also measure and draw in flaps on the right side of each triangle, just as you did for each side of the base.;
, Use a straight edge to make a precise fold along each flap.
 While the paint is still wet, cut horizontal and vertical lines at regular intervals with the edge of a piece of paper. This will give the effect of individual stones in your pyramid project.










Apply glue to the outside edge of one of the flaps on the base and press a triangle onto it. Repeat with the other 3 sides.
Dab glue on one of the triangle flaps and join it to the section to the right. Gently force the 2 sections inward so their apexes meet. Continue with the next connection, again making sure the tops of the triangles form the summit of the pyramid. When connecting the third and fourth sides of the structure, put glue on both of the remaining flaps. Join the 2 sections on the left first and then pinch the last junction together.
Make sure the tips of the 4 triangles meet, forming the pyramid summit. Dab a bit of glue at the top. Then gently place a thin wire ring on the pyramid. It should be narrow enough to rest about three-quarters of the way up the pyramid. This will help hold the tips together while the glue dries.
