 Find out which shows require volunteers (because it's usually shows), what type of volunteers they're looking for (male, female, over 18 or general) , what you'll be expected to do, and most importantly how and when volunteers are picked. For example, at the Tarzan show a boy and a girl are picked as they walk in, without anyone raising hands (we'll call this picking-type volunteering). At the Indiana Jones show, adult volunteers raise their hands (we'll call this survey-type volunteering). If you can't figure out how people are picked, ask!;
, If it's a picking-type show, they almost always pick people during the first few minutes. If it's a survey type show, you'll need to get a good seat where you can easily be seen by the person who chooses volunteers.
 It's no fun having a volunteer without anyone to laugh at them. Friends work just as well, if not better. If you're alone, find a small family to sit near, if not with.
 At the Tarzan show, they need exactly two people, usually children. So if your party has four children, split up. If you only have one child, sit a single parent with them. At the Flights of Wonder show, have a dollar bill ready and wave it in the air.
 Be memorable. Wear funny hats and bright clothing. Little girls dressed as princesses and little boys dressed as Stitch are hilarious. Look happy and bouncy -- no one wants a sad volunteer. Laugh. If it's your birthday (or anything close), get a button from guest relations. If it's your anniversary, get a button. If it's your honeymoon, get a button and add those silly bride/groom mickey ears.
 Trade pins. Ask where they're from. Ask if the show is good. Ask where the best place to sit is. DO NOT ask if you can be a volunteer. In picking-type shows, you can *sometimes* get away with asking them to choose your child because it's their birthday, but you'd probably have better luck with just mentioning that it's so and so's birthday and he's having so much fun today. Be happy. Don't be annoying.
 The moment they ask for volunteers, launch yourself out of your seat, jump up and down, wave your hand over your head, and shout 'me me me!'. You don't even have to wait for them to finish telling you what to do. Don't sit down. Don't stop hopping. Don't stop waving your arms. Encourage your family to point at you and shout 'him, him, him!' if needed.
