 These live rabbit traps consist of a cage with a trigger plate forces the door of the trap closed once the rabbit triggers the plate by entering into the cage. You can choose between one door or two door traps, but you'll want a trap that is 22 to 30 inches in length. You can often purchase these online or at an animal feed or hardware store or make your own rabbit trap. Havahart is a popular brand for rabbit traps.The one and door two traps are both effective traps, but have different benefits. The one door trap is favored by professional trappers and it allows you to place the rabbit bate behind the trigger plate, which lures the rabbit further into the cage.
The two door trap allows the rabbit to enter the cage from both directions, thus providing a higher catch rate for rabbits. Rabbits will also become nervous or fearful once in the trap, but having a two door trap allows the rabbit to see through the trap, which can be comforting for the rabbit. The two door trap can also be set as a one door trap if desired.;
, Determine where you have the most rabbit activity and place a trap along that area. Rabbits don't often cross stretches of land, so avoid placing a trap in an area that would require the rabbit to be vulnerable. You'll want to place your trap on a flat surface, placing a small weight on top of the trap so that other animals cannot tip it over to reach the bait.


Rabbits are often in areas where they have cover and open land. Common areas rabbits are located are hedges, shrubs, trees, fence lines, tall grass, wood and brush piles, bushes, and tree lines. These are the locations you'll likely have the most success in catching a rabbit.
If you are able to locate a rabbit's den or warren (rabbit hole), then place the trap a few feet from the entrance.
You can often locate areas where rabbits have been by their droppings, which are dry, round pellets.
 Choose a bait that is likely to attract rabbits and place bait behind trigger plate. In the winter, dried foods are better because they are less likely to freeze and in the summer, when food is abundant for rabbits, choosing richer fruits or vegetables, like apples and carrots, will be more effective in trapping a rabbit.


If you are using a one door trap, place bait at the end of the cage, behind the trap opening. If you are using a two door trap, place bait between the two doors, in the center of the trap.
Some baits to use for rabbits are fruits and vegetables like apple cores, bananas, potato peelings, lettuce leafs, raw cabbage, carrots, dandelions, and leafy weeds.
If you find traditional baits aren't producing success, you can try using baits that are more unusual. Some ideas for these types of baits are cheesy biscuits crumbled up and peanut butter.
Rabbits may be able to smell your scent on the trap and will avoid the trap because they feel that something is wrong. To cover up your scent, drip or spray apple cider onto the trap., Now that you have placed your bait, it's time to set your trap. Follow the trap's instructions explaining how to set your trap. After you have set your trap, you'll want to check the trigger to make sure it is working properly. Gently press down on the trip plate, and the doors should immediately snap closed.If the rabbit you are trying to trap is on the smaller side, they may not be able to trip the trigger, so place a small weight on the trigger plate so that the combined weight of the two will be enough to make the trap effective.
It could also be good to camouflage your trap with twigs and leaves, because a metal trap can produce a glare in the sun, causing the rabbit to avoid it.
 After you have set your trap, you'll want to check it often to see if you have caught a rabbit. If a rabbit is caught and you neglect your trap, the rabbit can quickly become malnourished, so you want to check the trap daily to prevent harming the rabbit.


Keep in mind you may accidentally trap other animals in your trap. Raccoons are often lured into rabbit traps as well as other animals, so if you catch another animal release it immediately.
You may find that you are not having much success with your trap if you are trying to catch a rabbit in the summer. That's because during the summer, rabbits often have a much higher supply of food and nutrients available to them. The best time to trap a rabbit is in the winter, when food is more scarce and the rabbit will be in search of food.
 If you have checked your trap and found a rabbit in it, be careful when removing the rabbit as it is probably scared and may bite you. Consider wearing gloves when removing the rabbit to prevent disease from spreading if it bites you, and approach it cautiously to prevent from frightening it even further.If you have caught a rabbit in hopes to keep it from destroying your garden or flowerbeds, then relocate the rabbit at least five miles away, if local law permits. Try placing the rabbit in a covered area, for extra protection.

