 Acidity in the foods we eat is the main culprit in damaging our teeth. Baking soda is one of the best defenses because it helps to neutralize acids, encouraging healthy bacteria and protecting your teeth’s enamel. Further, it is also much less abrasive than many commercially available toothpastes, while still capable of providing enough abrasion to clean your teeth., Baking soda stimulates saliva and minerals, which helps the natural process of remineralization. This creates a stronger cohesion with the enamel.
To make a roughly 5 oz batch of baking soda-based toothpaste — about the size of a standard toothpaste tube — start with 2/3 cup of baking soda in a medium-sized bowl.;
, Though it may sound like an unpleasant component of toothpaste, sea salt provides minerals that can help your teeth remineralize and rebuild. Go with fine sea salt. Add 1 tsp directly to the baking soda.Enamel is the only protection that coats the surface of our teeth and acts like a shield against bacteria, temperature, or abrasive factors. As an organic tissue, enamel is constantly suffering from trauma of all types. Minerals are the only "ingredients" that can help a fast recovery of the enamel's surface.
 You can use either peppermint extract or peppermint essential oil to improve the toothpaste’s effectiveness and flavor. Other essential oils, such a spearmint, will also help you combat plaque and gingivitis when featured in a consistent brushing and flossing routine.If opting for extract, add 1 or 2 tsp.
If using essential oil, add 10 to 15 drops.
You can pretty much use as much flavoring as you like. Add the flavoring little by little and taste your toothpaste along the way to find your ideal amount of flavor.
Keep in mind that you are not supposed to swallow toothpaste.
If you're making a batch of toothpaste that will be used by children under ten, do not include essentials oils., The amount of water you use is up to you. Shoot for a consistency that’s comfortable for you to use.Don’t worry about it being too thick, as the drier it is, the longer it will last. If it begins to dry out too much, you can always add more filtered water.


Start by mixing in about 1/2 a cup of water.
If the paste is too thin, add a bit more baking soda until you reach the desired consistency.
If the paste is too thick, add a bit more filtered water.

