 Before you can call yourself a graphic designer, you have to make some decisions. For example, are you interested in advertising, web development, multimedia (ex. the TV industry), print design, or animation? These can all be considered different forms of graphic design. Narrow your focus on an area that appeals to you.


While graphic design is fundamentally the same whether in print or online, there are also key differences in resolutions, color space, and other variables that are specific to the medium you want to focus on. Though you can certainly do both, it's best to focus on one to begin with.;
, The industry standard applications for graphic design are Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator. (If you plan to go all-out, the full Adobe Creative Suite includes Acrobat, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, Premiere, Photoshop, InDesign and After Effects.) While both applications are designed to be easy to use from the start, they are very feature rich and will require a great deal of focused effort to master them.


These programs aren’t cheap. To get started, play around with free alternatives like Gimp, Scribus, Inkscape, and Pixlr, all of which will help you learn the ropes until you’re willing and able to drop big bucks on the real thing.
 Focus on books that teach design fundamentals, then study as though you were taking a college course. Instead of working for a grade, however, your reward will be a career that you love.
 It's not just to become an expert in programs like Photoshop and Illustrator, but to learn how to use these valuable tools in conjunction with developing a marketable design sense.
 Practicing at home is a great, safe way to learn the ropes, but eventually, you need to put yourself out there so you can get feedback. Though it may be painful at first, keep your ego in check and take the tips seriously; the payoff will be enormous. Additionally, it’s important to see what other people are doing so that you’re exposed to more than just one or two styles.


As with any business, networking is important in graphic design, especially if you intend to freelance. Make friends, keep in touch, be willing to learn, and you might just get work out of it.
 Really interested in graphic design? Consider getting a degree. Academic settings can be inspiring and networking with others in your field is always a good thing. On top of that, many people won’t hire a graphic designer without seeing some proof that they’ve been properly trained. Consider these options:


If you want a degree that will lend you credibility but don’t have much time or money, get an associate’s. This is typically a two-year degree and can be acquired at a community college or trade school. The emphasis will be more on computer skills than art theory, but it’s a good place to start.
If you want a degree with some weight to it, get a bachelor’s. This is typically a four-year degree that can be acquired at a college or university. In addition to learning all the necessary computer skills, you will also be trained in art and design.

Not 100% sure that graphic design will be your career path? Get a bachelor’s of arts degree, not a bachelor’s of fine arts. Though both are great for this type of work, a B.A. is less focused than a B.F.A., covers more general education, and makes it easier for you to change to a wildly different major should you choose to pursue something else.


If you already have a B.A. or B.S., do post-baccalaureate work in graphic design. These courses may even earn you a certificate, credential, or second bachelor’s degree.
If you’re dead-set on being a graphic designer, get a graduate degree. If you haven’t done so already, you will first have to get a bachelor’s degree. Consider minoring or getting a second major in a business-related field if you’re also interested in freelancing.

