 One of the strongest ways to defend free speech online is by speaking out about issues that threaten free speech and sharing your posts across the internet to raise awareness.There are many websites where you can create a blog for free and write about threats to free speech, as well as share posts written by others.
You also can join networks that publish posts by bloggers and activists committed to fighting censorship and promoting free speech rights on the internet.
If you aren't confident in your writing abilities, you might consider creating videos in which you talk about free speech issues.
As you hear about situations in which people's rights to free speech are at stake, you can write or talk about what's happening and spread the word about the danger presented.
Some nonprofit organizations also have badges you can place on your own blog or website to notify your visitors that you support free speech online and link them to more resources.;
, If you feel strongly about free speech, your passion and enthusiasm can be contagious. Encourage those closest to you to join your fight and defend free speech online with you.Emphasize that free speech is a global issue, and efforts by foreign governments to limit the speech of their citizens can have an impact on U.S. companies and interests as well.
Tell people close to you about the things you're learning or efforts you want to support. If they ask for more information, provide links to websites or other resources for them to learn on their own.
If you've started your own blog or website, let your friends and family know so they can follow your posts and share them with others to spread the word.
 Anytime the legislature is considering a bill that threatens free speech online, send a letter to your representative urging him or her to keep free speech rights in mind and vote against the proposed legislation.You can find contact information for your elected officials by visiting usa.gov, or by going to the website of the particular branch of government and searching the directory of officials.
Your letter may be only a few sentences long, and merely state that you want the official to vote against a particular bill, or it may be longer and include information about you and the reasons you believe the official should oppose the bill.
If you want to write a longer letter, use the first paragraph to describe personal information about yourself. Then write a second paragraph with facts about the bill you're asking the official to oppose.
State exactly what you want the official to do, and conclude with your signature.
Generally, you should include your full legal name and contact information when you write to an elected official. You want them to know who you are and understand that you are a constituent. If you voted for that official, feel free to tell them so.
 Many websites enable you to create a petition that can be signed by others who agree with your stance and also want to fight to defend free speech online. Your petition can then be submitted to elected representatives in government.Websites such as change.org, or the "We the People" page on the whitehouse.gov website, have forms that allow you to quickly and easily create and post a petition for others to sign.
Create a sense of urgency in your wording, and encourage people to join the fight and pledge their support for your efforts to defend free speech online.
Keep in mind that most people aren't interested in reading a long, rambling message. Keep your petition brief and action-oriented, and let your readers know right up front the goal of the petition and how their signature will help.
Make sure you proofread your petition carefully for spelling or grammatical errors before you post it to the site. You may not have the ability to change it after you've posted it.
 An online petition is a great way to learn about issues affecting free speech rights. Many individuals and organizations worldwide have petitions you can sign to express your support for free speech online and fight against laws and actions that seek to limit or control online speech.The same websites where you can create your own petition also have open petitions that you can sign. Typically you have the ability to filter search results based on specific issues, or conduct an open search for petitions related to your interests.
For example, you might conduct a search for "online free speech" or "internet speech."
Nonprofit organizations also may have their own petitions available on their websites. You can add your name and contact information to sign the petition, as well as sign up for updates and other information about the campaign.
 There are many organizations that are dedicated to protecting, defending, and preserving free speech online. By donating to these organizations, you help support their efforts by providing them with much-needed resources.Typically you have more than one way to donate, so you can pick a schedule that meets your budget, whether it's donating a small amount monthly or making a one-time donation.
These organizations use your donations to create tools used to defend free speech, as well as mount public awareness campaigns and legal defense funds for individuals and businesses whose free speech rights have been threatened by lawsuits and other government actions.
Before you donate, review the organization's financial statements and conduct research to find out where your money will be going so you can make sure your donation dollars are well placed.
Check the organization out using an external validation service to make sure the organization is legitimate and your money actually will go to defend free speech online. You can search for charity evaluators online and find a number of websites dedicated to monitoring and reporting on nonprofit organizations and how they spend the money they receive.
 If you hear about a protest or rally being staged near you to defend free speech online, your attendance allows you to connect with other like-minded people and learn more about the challenges to free speech.Both established nonprofit organizations and grassroots movements often use the internet to organize public demonstrations and rally support. Sign up for updates if you want to receive an alert when a public event is being held in your area.
Activist networks also can connect you to individuals who live near you and are passionate about fighting for free speech rights. Making contact with these people can keep you informed and involved with local issues.
 Most nonprofit organizations provide newsletters and other information to their members, allowing you to easily stay ahead of the issues and identify threats to free speech online.Typically when you donate to an organization, you have the option of also becoming a member. In addition to newsletters and invitations to events, membership may come with other benefits or gifts such as T-shirts or bumper stickers that you can use to spread the word about the cause.
Newsletters alert you to developing issues as well as keeping you informed about the agency's efforts to defend free speech. They also may provide information on how you can get involved or what you can do to help their efforts.
 Use specific key words such as "First Amendment" or "free speech" in an online search and set an alert so the search engine will notify you when there are new results for your search.You have the ability to limit the filter for your alert in the same ways you can limit a regular search.
Typically you can set multiple alerts, so you may want to build a number of different alerts to cover areas of law and activity you want to monitor.
If you are interested in keeping up with developments in a specific case, or activities conducted by a specific organization, you can set up a separate alert.
You also may have the ability to determine how you want alerts to be delivered to you, and how often you want to receive notifications. You may want to change this depending on the scope of the search.
For example, if you have an alert set up for a relatively broad search such as "free speech online," you may choose to have those results delivered to you on a weekly basis, or in a digest format. On the other hand, you may want real-time notifications for new results on a more specific search, such as if you're tracking the progress of a particular Supreme Court case.
 Most nonprofit organizations have a presence on social media networks such as Facebook and Twitter, and following these accounts is one way to ensure you have up-to-the-minute news about free speech issues.Following organizations you support on social media also allows you to quickly share information with your friends and followers if you see something posted that you think others should be aware about.
You also have the ability to comment on posts and connect with others who feel strongly about free speech online. Checking out the accounts of others who follow the same organization can help you expand your own network.
 Universities and nonprofit organizations often sponsor public lectures and other events dedicated to free speech issues. These events give you a deeper understanding and perspective on the challenges facing free speech online.Many events are planned in conjunction with Free Speech Week, a yearly event that takes place during the third full week of October. Individuals, schools, libraries, and other organizations take part in activities to mark the week.
Libraries often hold public events related to free speech and censorship, especially in connection with Banned Books Week, which is sponsored by the American Library Association.
Many universities also have video or audio recordings of lectures on free speech issues available online for free, so you can watch them and learn more about First Amendment law and the challenges the internet poses for protecting free speech.

