 First is the transmitter. This is the hand control; usually rechargeable batteries power it. They are available in FM and AM frequencies. Both transmitters and receivers have changeable crystals or frequency chips. The transmitter emits the signal to the antenna, which will be carried to the receiver. The receiver usually has a power supply, and is built into the vehicle to control the transmitter's signal to the final part of the radio controller, the servo. The servos, or servomotors are the devices which are responsible for controlling the throttle and or brakes, (some machines have separate throttle and brake servos), steering, and shifting (for units with reverse). The servos use linkages, usually adjustable, to control the vehicle.;
, Always follow recommendations for storage and use of this product since it is combustible. There are several different blends of nitro methane available. Higher concentrations of nitro methane will run hotter, but will decrease the total run hours of the machine.
 On-road nitro cars are ideal for racing on a hard surface. They are designed for speed and more difficult to control. Because they can be easily damaged in a crash, these are not suggested for beginners. Off Road vehicles are ideal for beginners. Capable of huge jumps and difficult climbs, they are suitable for almost any terrain. The durability and power make these a great choice for the novice. The ultimate for speed, acceleration, handling and durability of all is the Nitro Buggy.
 Always follow recommended steps from manufacturer. Often a “slow break in” is suggested. This allows more fuel to enter the engine, thus allowing it to run at a lower temperature. RTR cars will be set up for a break in at the manufacturers default setting. After each use shake out loose dirt and clean with a soft cloth. Routine cleaning of the outer air filter is recommended. An air compressor will do the trick. Replace all worn components of the clutch system and air filters. Pay close attention to the clutch ball bearings, these will take most of the abuse from regular use of your vehicle. Clean them often.
 Beginning drivers need to master control of the vehicle. By rolling into the throttle smoothly the car will handle better. Before cranking up the speed, take a few accident free laps around the track.
 Should you damage a servo, you should definitely consider upgrading to higher torque servos for faster throttle response, harder braking, and tighter turns under high speed. These servos also consume more power from your battery packs, so consider upgrading battery packs also.
 Understand how systems work, spend lots of time looking at the workings of it, you may see a way for something to work better. Examples are changing differential oils, adjustment of ride height, possibly adjusting battery pack locations to allow better balance.
 Some people get to run only a few gallons of fuel before repair/replacement is needed, while others get 20+ gallons of fuel through an engine.
 Dirt ingestion will destroy an engine very quickly.
 Colorful graphics, led lighting systems, brake and headlights, flashy stickers and bright colors let everyone know which car is yours!

