 You have to really know someone if you're going to truly love them, so make sure that the two of you get some quality time together. This means talking to each other! Talk about things that are important to you. Talk about significant matters (like religion and politics). Talk about your hopes, dreams, and goals for the future. This will help you understand who your husband really is, and let him understand the same of you.


Tell your husband that you want some quality time with him and why! This will help him understand why it's important.
Try going for a leisurely drive or a walk somewhere, in order to get time to talk together, especially if you feel like you can't talk at home.;
, Everyone has something that they're good at or something that makes them incredible and unique. Find this aspect of your husband and love him for it. There are lots of good reasons to love a person.


Maybe your husband is a good provider. Maybe he's got a great sense of humor. Maybe he's affectionate and loyal. Maybe he's really smart. Driven? Good at this job?

, Your husband is human, not a god, so expect there to be some flaws. We all have them. You too! However, when we love someone...really love them...we embrace those flaws. We love them not despite their weaknesses but because of them. Just like he will love you for who you are, you must love him for who he really is.


Maybe your husband is too talkative...but this can be an endearing quality. Maybe he's a bit messy...but he's your messy husband.
 This is the whole point of marriage: we work together to get through life and make each other better, more fulfilled people. You should also encourage each other to pursue the things you've always dreamed of and become the people you've always wanted to be. You will always be your husband's biggest advocate and he will always be yours...so cheer each other on!


Help him to really shape up and look more impressive, so that he can get that promotion at work.
Let him help you work on that bad nail-biting habit!

, Marriage isn't some romantic comedy movie. Those always end with the couple getting together. They don't show that marriage is really a lot of hard work. It's about butting heads sometimes and going through really difficult situations. Don't hold out in your heart for some guy that sweeps you off your feet and feeds you strawberries while he sings you a song he wrote. Appreciate that your husband will be the one who comforts you when your mother dies or helps you raise wonderful children. Marriage is a partnership, not an empty bouquet of roses.
 If you close your heart to your husband, you may be missing out on a truly fantastic man that will make you happier than you ever thought. Notice when he does sweet things for you and give him more opportunities to show you just how incredible he is.


Let him know that you like it when he's romantic. Maybe all he needs is an invitation!

, Imagine the future that you and your husband have together. Think about all of the wonderful things that the two of you could share in the future. Then, throw yourself into making those dreams come true. Whether it's saving up money for your child's college fund or making your home into a place you'll both be happy to retire to, this can help you see the bright future for yourself, rather than your current cloud of doubts.
 If you want to be a happy, fulfilled person, you need to rely on more than just your husband for your happiness. You're your own person! This means that you need to take things into your own hands in some parts of your life. If you feel unfulfilled, don't be too quick to blame it on your husband.


Try pursuing the career you always wanted or going back to school.
You can also try picking up a hobby that excites your passions but not his. This will give you a chance to have fun and also give him a break to relax.

