 Antiarrhythmics and anticoagulants are commonly used to treat AF. Antiarrhythmics are used to normalize heart rhythm by changing the amount of electrolytes in your heart. Anticoagulants thin your blood to make the formation of a clot less likely. Talk to your doctor about these medications and their potential side effects.


Examples of antiarrhymthics include beta blockers (metoprolol, atenolol, carvedilol, and propranolol); and calcium channel blockers (Diltiazem and verapamil).
Examples of anticoagulants include aspirin and warfarin.
 Your heartbeat is controlled by electrical currents that travel through your heart. Electrical cardioversion uses an electrical shock, delivered via paddles or electrodes on your chest, to reset your heart rhythm. This is done while you are under sedation so you don't feel the shock. It may take more than one shock to restore a regular heartbeat.Your cardiologist will likely have you take an anticoagulant two to three weeks before the procedure, as there is potential for the shock to loosen a blood clot in your left atrium. If the clot travels to your brain, it can cause a stroke. Taking a blood-thinner before the procedure will decrease the risk of this happening.
The procedure usually takes about 30 minutes.
 This is a procedure in which radiofrequency energy is used to destroy the tissue that is causing the irregular beating of your heart. This is usually done only after medication has proven ineffective. The doctor (a specialized cardiologist called an electrophysiologist) will insert a tube through a small incision near your groin and use catheters to view your heart as well as to painlessly send radiofrequency energy to the tissue.This procedure takes two to four hours and is considered a low-risk procedure.
After the procedure, you should not drive or drink alcohol for 24 hours. Avoid heavy lifting and strenuous activity for three days, and follow all other post-op instructions from your surgeon.
 In some cases, it may be necessary to do a more invasive surgery, such as implanting a pacemaker or an open-heart maze procedure. A pacemaker is an electrical device that is implanted near the collarbone with wires connecting it to your heart. It uses an electrical signal to keep your heartbeat regular. An open-heart maze procedure involves a surgeon making a series of small cuts in the upper part of your heart and then stitches them together. This forms scar tissue which interferes with the electrical impulses that cause AF.