 Traditionally, Bundt pans are used to achieve an attractive circular shape. Purchase a non-stick Bundt pan for best results.;
, They are available for purchase on the Internet in holiday shapes, like hearts, Christmas trees and roses.
 You will need about five boxes of Jello to fill a standard Bundt pan. You will need one and one-fourth cups of boiling water and a bowl for each color of gelatin.
 Mix one packet of gelatin with one and one-fourth cup of boiling water. Mix thoroughly with a metal spoon until it has completely dissolved.


Note that this is less water than indicated on the packet, which will make a firmer mold.
 The number of Jello packets needed will depend greatly on the size of your Bundt pan or mold. Buy extra packets to ensure you have enough.
 Clear a space in your refrigerator for the next step.
 (30ml) of sour cream for each color you want to be opaque. Whisk the sour cream into the gelatin.
 Stir well to mix it uniformly.
 Place it in the refrigerator overnight before removing.
, Place it in the refrigerator for at least 20 minutes. Remove it when the top is just starting to set and leaves a tight edge against the side of the pan.
 Try a sour cream layer for a big contrast. Place the gelatin in the refrigerator again for at least 20 minutes to let the second layer set.
 Spoon in the next layer and refrigerate for at least 20 minutes. Repeat spooning and refrigerating until you have used the last of your Jello mixtures.
, Dry them.
 If you are using a Bundt pan, also loosen the center circle.
 It should be several inches bigger in all directions than your Bundt pan or silicone mold.
, Be careful not to get water inside the pan.
 Dry off the outside of the pan or silicone mold.
 Hold the top of the platter and the top of the mold firmly together between your thumbs and fingers.
 You should feel the Jello release from the mold. If it doesn’t release from the pan, flip it back over and stick it in the warm water for a few more seconds before trying again.
,