 When you touch a surface in the vehicle, gems may transfer to your hand. Regularly washing your hands will lessen the chance that germs are exposed to your eyes, nose, or mouth.Effective handwashing involves five steps: wet, lather, scrub, rinse, and dry. You should scrub for at least 20 seconds.
Keep a small bottle of alcohol-based hand sanitizer nearby. If you do not have access to a sink, you can apply the dose specified on the bottle and rub your hands until it evaporates.;
, Even if it’s difficult from your seat, put your shoes back on before going to the lavatory. Your socks may transmit germs from the bathroom floor to your luggage when you change clothes.


Keep your feet off of seats and trays. If you place your feet on these surfaces you can spread germs from the floor to surfaces where they are more likely to infect you.
Wearing shoes will also provide an additional barrier to prevent the spread of warts.
 Many common illnesses are transmitted through close contact with infected people.Germs can travel up to six feet from a sneeze.Limit your risk by maintaining several feet of separation from other travelers when possible. If you need to interact closely with a stranger, wash your hands after you finish.
 Hundreds of people touch overhead bins, seatback pockets, trays, and vehicle doors every day. Several surfaces in an airplane can house germs for up to several days. Be aware of your surroundings and do not make assumptions that something is clean to touch.


If you are staying in a hotel, disinfect commonly touched items, like a remote control, before using them.
If you are flying, bring your own sleeping supplies in your carry-on bag or as your personal item. Airlines clean blankets and pillows sporadically, and bus and train seats are not cleaned between each trip.
 Likewise, avoid touching your face after contact with the seat or tray-table. These surfaces are not frequently disinfected and everyone else who sat there touched them and potentially spread germs., If you can, skip using railings and the tops of seats as you walk to your seat. Though these may be convenient tools for maintaining your balance, they are touched by many other travelers and germs can survive on these surfaces for several hours.
 If you are sick, this will lower the amount of germs that you spread while traveling. As germs enter your body through your nose and mouth, a surgical mask creates a barrier that may also lower the number of germs that reach your system.Alternately, keep your nose hydrated with a saline nasal spray or by putting petroleum jelly on the outside of your nose. This can boost your body’s normal defenses.

