 Take a left near the cafe. You must do this the first time you visit Zozo.;
, Keep walking until you see the inn.
 You'll see a clock that needs to be reset. Since you don't know the time you'll have to head back out the city and ask around.
 Talk to the man behind the bar, and he'll tell you that there definitely isn't a girl at the rooftop of the building.
 You'll see a line of men walking toward the next room; talk to each and everyone of them and take note of the times that they tell you.
 You'll be able to enter another house with a man standing behind a bar; talk to him, and he'll say that his clock has no minute hands and it's always pointing the wrong way.
 Your character will comment that it's pointing at two.
 You'll see a man - talk to him. He'll say that the seconds are all divisible by 20—take note of this.
 Talk to the owner, and he'll say that the second hand is at 30.
 Head back to the Inn and look at the clock. Now that you have all the clues needed for the puzzle, it's time to open the door and access the clock.
 Previously you asked a bunch of men what time it was, and they answered "2:00," "12:00," "4:00," "8:00," and "10:00." The pattern of numbers given is based on a two hour time difference. With that in mind, it's noticeable that there is a number in that pattern missing - "6:00." Enter the number into the clock.
 The man behind the tower told you that his clock doesn't have a minute hand and that it always points to the wrong time. Since he was lying, it's safe to assume that the clock pointing at 2 is correct; since 2 means 10 minutes on a clock, the answer is 10:00.
 This one is a bit tough; you already know that it isn't divisible by 20 because of the man on the tower, which eliminates 20, 40, and 60.


Another man informed you that it's 30, but since he was lying, it's not 30. Now you're left with 10 or 50.
Try both 10 and 50 and see which one works. In this case, 50 will be correct.
Entering "6:10:50" into the clock will open a portion of the wall on the right side of the room. Climb up the stairs and open the chest to receive Edgar's chainsaw weapon.

