 A band with a more ornate uniform or that competes at high levels may require a different hat than one that has a simpler uniform or performs just for fun.;
,

Shako: The most typical type of marching band hat is the Shako. These are cylindrical hats with a small visor, a chin strap, a hole for a plume, and typically some ornamentation such as a chain and emblem. These are the hats you are most likely to see in a high school marching band. Shakos are the standard, and if you are unsure of what to get they are usually a good choice. They can also be made more or less simple with decorative and plume decisions.






"Aussie": Another type of marching band hat is the "Aussie" or "cavalier" hat. These are wide brimmed hats, typically with one side pinned up. They are usually dimpled in the top with a loose rope strap that hangs down. They can have decorative bands or plumes attached. These hats are good as a "stand-out" or "trademark" feature as they are less common. They also suit some schools' mascots or history, and may be considered a "fun" hat for a more relaxed band.






Helmets/Caps: Other hats include helmets or caps. These are often military inspired. If your band has a military background or uniform type, this might be appropriate. They also tend to look more formal than other hat types.






Some marching bands or groups have very unique hats. A more relaxed band may simply use a hat, such as a vintage jazz hat. Other unusual hats are those such as the British foot guards' "bearskin" hats. A "busby" hat is a tall furry hat of a similar nature, though often bearing a plume.
 Typical tuba or sousaphone players will wear a beret instead of the typical band hat. This is for ease of playing and to avoid knocking the hat off. The drum majors (or other special band leaders) may also get special hats, though not always. This can be as simple as a different coloring pattern for the hat, a different plume, or a more elaborate hat (e.g. "royal star helmet").
 The colors should be chosen to match the uniform. For a high school or university, school colors are typical. Black or white may also be good choices for a contrast. Try to match the exact coloring of the uniform so you don't end up with two obviously different shades. If there are buttons or other ornaments on the uniform that are one color (e.g. gold or silver) then be consistent with the hats.


Plumes: There are a few different type of plumes. Two typical types are feathered or ribboned. Consider what look is more appropriate for the uniform. Do research and check the durability of the plumes. A plume with feathers always flying off in performances won't be good! Consider options such as multiple colors or add ins such as metallic or colored tinsel.






Emblem or other decorative features: Your band will look more uniform and elite if your hats aren't plain or blank. School or group logos, mascots, or lettering can often be added to hats. However, keep in mind that schools sometimes change their themes and logos which could cause old hats to look outdated. A simple two or three color design, often standard when buying hats, can do the trick.
 Ordering the hats from the same place as the uniforms is often ideal as you will be more likely to be guaranteed a color match. However, a little research into price and quality of other retailers may pay out. Remember that you want these hats to last many years, so ensure that they are built to do so!

