 Get one 1 liter (0.3 US gal) and one 2 liter (0.5 US gal) bottles of soda. These should be bottles with straight bottom sections, rather than curved ones. Then, get at least 3' of thick wire, at least 2mm gauge. You will also want sharp scissors, a nail and hammer, and paint.
 Remove the labels and all glue.


Make sure you save the bottle cap for the larger bottle.
 Cut the 1 liter (0.3 US gal) bottle at roughly the halfway point between where the neck widens out and the bottom of the bottle. Keep the lower portion of the bottle.
 Cut the 2 liter (0.5 US gal) bottle at the widest part of the neck, where it evens out to form the tube of the bottle. Keep the upper/neck portion of the bottle. You can make the edges look fancy, if you like, by cutting a scallop or other pattern.
 Cut a 1.5-2" hole in the side of the smaller bottle, roughly 1" up from the top of the feet. Just be sure that it is not less than 1/2" away from the top edge.
 The bigger bottle will become the roof and the smaller bottle will become the main section of the house. Fit the two together to see how they fit. If the top section overlaps the entry hole or the top looks generally way too big, you will need to trim the edges so that the larger bottle section is shorter and looks more natural as a roof for the house.
 Use the hammer and nail to add holes to the bottle pieces. These will be used to thread the wire through the bottles to hold them together and hang the house.

There will need to be two holes on opposite sides of the smaller bottle. These should be 1/2" away from the top edge of the bottle and not on the same side as the entry hole.






Now put four holes in the bottle cap. These should not be too close together, nor too close to the edge of the cap.
 Paint the bottle pieces using acrylic, tempera, or any other paint you have on hand. This is a great time in the project to get kids involved. Make the bird's house beautiful! Let the house dry before continuing.


Make sure all of the holes remain open.
 Cut about 1.5' of the wire. Take the wire and thread it through the top of the bottle cap, through any one of the holes. Then thread the wire through the outside of the smaller bottle and then back up through the next hole. Repeat for the other side with a second length of wire.
 Making sure all of the wires ends are even, overlap their ends by about 2". Then wrap these ends to join them, either with heavy duty tape, wire wrapping, or more wire. You can also bend and twist them to hold together. Now you are ready to hang your bird house!

