 For this image I made a document that was 8"x2".;
, Click the text button (left side tool bar) and then use your mouse to click on the canvas and type your desired text. You can change your font face, size, and style with the tool bar that is along the top of the document. I used 72pt. “American Typewriter” in bold. You may want to use a thick font that is at least 60pt. in order to see the effect clearly.
 In the text layer, you can always find this under Select>Load Selection. In order to use the shortcut hold down the command key (mac) or ctrl key (pc) and click the layer thumbnail. The thumbnail is under the “Layers” toolbar (right side of screen), it is the small box located on the left side of the layer’s name (For text layers, it will be shown as a “T”). This should make a moving dotted outline around your text.
 To hide the layer click the little eye icon next to the layer thumbnail, this should make the black text disappear while leaving the moving dotted outline.
 You can do this Layer>New>Layer or by clicking the icon that looks like a page next to the trash can icon within the Layers toolbar.
 Choose any color you like, preferably a lighter more pastel one. In order to chose a color use the tool bar on the right.
 You can do this by pressing the brackets (bigger) and click over the text outline to fill the text with the brush style. Its okay if your brush outline exceeds the text outline, it is just easier to be able to see the outline in order to know where the brush is going to place color. The first color I used was #f3698c and brush number 3.
 Mix various colors, and brushes until the whole text outline is filled. Remember that if you click twice the brush will come out darker, or if you click over an area that has been painted it will show the overlapping colors.
 You can now see what your text will actually look like. (command/ctrl d)

, Select the eraser tool, instead of using the round, standard eraser tool, select the bittbox brushes. Use the eraser to delete some of the edges of the text.
 Now you can add other images or possibly save it to use on a website.

