 The "tips" show certain valuable references on correct singing, such as raising the soft palate, breathing and posture, jaw placement, breath control, and other aspects. The steps provide vocal warm-ups which may be beneficial as part of a vocal training practice. Enjoy!;
, The object is to decline back down to the pitch "do," by singing "do, ti, la, so, fa, mi, re, do."

, Start out by singing "mi" while moving the pitch up higher on the notes "do re mi fa." "Ya" is to be sung on "so fa mi re do." The note "so" is one pitch higher than "fa," and therefore, it is necessary to imply on one pitch higher with the word "ya" before going back down the scale. Try to connect the notes and the words sung on the melody in a smooth fashion. This is called legato.
 Ascend the word "ha" on the notes "do mi so," and descend the word "ha" on the notes "mi do." Sing this warm up in staccato, meaning, making each and every note short and separated, yet with control.It is best to place your hand on your stomach to make sure you are doing this exercise correctly. Each time you say "ha" while making sure the breath is coming from your diaphragm, you should feel a slight shaking feeling in your stomach, and the hand that is on it.
 Sing "zi-ya" on the pitches. "Zi" is to be sung on "do re mi fa" in legato. Make these notes smooth and connected. "Ya" is to be sung on "so mi do." It is supposedly sung in staccato. Make these notes short and separate, just like you sang "ha." Putting these concepts together requires practice, as it involves transitioning between concepts. When singing "zi," try to keep the jaw relaxed. Do not open your mouth too wide. In fact,sing this note with a rounded mouth that is only slightly open. This way, you will achieve a soft sound that is round and full. When you sing "ya," do not widen the mouth once again. Slightly elongate the shape of your mouth. Because this also involves arpeggiation to some extent, it is always best to leave your hand on your diaphragm.
 The entire range of notes from one "do" to the next is called an octave. As your vocal range expands, you may achieve the ability to sing several octaves. To practice this, a piano would be very helpful. Press the key of the note "do" on the piano. This may be anywhere, depending on the type of instrument you have, such as a soprano, alto, or mezzo. Note that your voice will be traveling in an uprising fashion, so choose the spot accordingly. Start from a pitch you can comfortably sing. If you are an alto, it is best to start at a spot further down on the piano. Likewise, if you sing soprano, start higher. Mezzos should find a spot somewhere in between, midway throughout the keys. If you do not know your vocal type, make an estimate and find what works for you. Press the key "do" on the piano, and match pitch with your voice. Hold out this note as long as you comfortably can. Then, press the "do" one octave higher than the one you were singing and match pitch, holding it out accordingly. If you find this is too high for you, either start lower from the beginning, or you could try half of an octave by going from "do" to "so" instead. After singing the higher note "do" match pitch with the lower one again and sing it out to a comfortable extent. If you are a beginner, this may be enough octave training for the day. If you choose to persevere and move on, try singing out the note "re" as long as you comfortably can, then matching pitch with the higher note "re" and holding it as long as you may. Then hold out the lower note "re" once more. Try this practice with the notes "mi, fa,, so, la, ti, etc. depending on the stretch of your range. This exercise is intended to lengthen and strengthen the range of your vocal chords. Please be cautioned of straining your instrument.
 The symbol for "do" is a fist. The symbol for "re" is a slanted hand with the side of your hand facing towards you, as should your thumb. Your finger tips should point slightly to the left. The symbol for "mi" is a flat hand as if you were placing it on a desk, and the side of your hand should face you once again, as should your thumb. The symbol for "fa" is a thumb's down symbol with the inside of your thumb facing outward. The symbol for "so" is a flat hand with the palm facing outward. The symbol for "la" is a cupped hand that faces downward. The symbol for "ti" is a fist with the index finger pointing up and slightly to the left. Then, bring your index finger back into your fist to make "do." You could attempt to master this method by practicing it over and over to gain the ability to symbol the notes faster. This could be an enjoyable and inspirational way to practice, as it helps to signal the notes while singing each of them. See what works for you. :)

, Hold out this note to the extent of your comfort. Then, sing and signal the note "re" while holding it out. Then, go back down and sing the note "do." The object is to move on and sing from "do" to "mi," then "do" to "fa," then "do" to "so," then "do" to "la" then "do" to "ti," then "do" to "do," or as far as desired.
 You can find classes in your area online or in your local paper.(They probably will cost money!)

