 Boil water in a kettle and pour it into a bowl. Put your face over the bowl, being careful to avoid getting burned. Breathe deeply and quickly to draw the vaporized water into your lungs. It will condense in your lungs, whereupon your body will mistake it for water in your lungs. Your body will try to expel the water by coughing., Citric acid has been used in a number of medical trials as a tussive agent (something that causes the cough reflex). Put citric acid such as orange or lemon juice in a nebulizer to produce a mist that you can then inhale into your lungs. This should induce a cough.,, An older medical study indicates that oil of mustard can be inhaled to induce coughing. Put a few drops of aromatic oil of mustard in a bottle. Sniff the bottle and you will begin to cough., Chili peppers contain a compound called capsaicin, which can irritate your mouth, throat and airways. When you have exposure to capsaicins by cooking chili peppers, some of the molecules become airborne. You may inhale them and cause irritation in your throat and lungs, which, for many people, causes a coughing fit., , If you have a cold and your nose is runny or plugged, bring the phlegm back into your mouth and throat to induce a cough. This will contribute to a postnasal drip, which is when mucous seeps into your throat through your nasal passages.Postnasal drip will contribute to your cough, potentially prolonging it.
 Deliberately inhaling allergens such as dust, pollen or smoke will likely make you cough, especially if you are sensitive to them. Hold your face over a feather duster and open your mouth. Breathe in a quick, deep breath.


Alternately, ask someone to blow cigarette smoke in your face. Breathe in through your mouth to bring the smoke into your lungs. If you are not a smoker, this may cause you to cough. If you are a smoker, this may not be very effective. However, remember, even if you're a smoker, the smoke can be dangerous for you.
 The lungs have a means of detecting odors and irritants that cause a coughing reaction, such as toxic chemicals or bad smells. The lungs are imprinted a sort of “memory” so that they protect themselves. This is why you often have a sudden and violent response, such as gagging and coughing, to irritants and odors.Find something that smells really awful, like rotting food or feces. You may have a reaction to the smell that includes gagging and coughing.

