 Now that your pizza sauce is on the crust add healthy toppings. Vegetables, especially green ones, are extremely low in calories and healthy for you. So, load your pizza up with them.


Spinach is one of the healthiest toppings you can put on a pizza. For example, it is loaded with vitamin K, which can prevent blood clots.
Broccoli is another good choice.Try adding eggplant. As long as you don't fry it, it's a healthy choice. Create a salad on your pizza. Arugula with tomatoes and a little Parmesan cheese makes a delicious pizza salad. Plum tomatoes contain lycopene, which is an antioxidant that has many health benefits. , Instead of the typical meats like sausage or pepperoni, try healthier, lower calorie meat, even if you don't normally think of them on pizza.


Recipes calling for turkey and part-skim cheese can clock in under 300 calories. Try putting shrimp and spinach on your pizza. Turkey bacon or chicken sausage give the feel of normal pizza without the fat. Some stores sell turkey pepperoni.
 You don't have to limit pizza toppings to vegetables and meats. Although many people have tried pineapple on pizza before, experiment with other fruits.


Put pears or apples on your pizza. Both fruits pair nicely with cheese.The good old staple pineapple will make you feel like you're eating the pizza you remember.
 If you must have cheese on your pizza, there are cheeses you can choose that are lower in calories and healthier.


Parmesan cheese has fewer calories than other types of cheese. Choose cheese made out of low-fat or skim milk. Ricotta is an interesting choice. Goat cheese and feta have less oil in them. They are pungent cheeses with a lot of flavors. Be aware that feta does not melt on pizza like other cheeses. However, there are many recipes that call for feta on pizza, especially Mediterranean styles. The cheese should be crumbled on the pizza and baked until golden brown. Skip cheese completely or only add it to half the pie. You can use online nutritional sites to check the number of calories in different kinds of cheeses. , If you load your sauce and pizza up with these, you will have so much flavor you might not miss the other more caloric items.


Basil and rosemary are herbs that taste good on pizza. Try chili pepper or hot peppers. In addition to boosting your metabolism, they will give your pizza's flavor a kick.

