 Combine the lemon juice, olive oil, garlic, rosemary, thyme, and salt in a small bowl and whisk until thoroughly combined. Transfer to a 1-gallon (4-liter) resealable plastic bag.








You can alter the marinade as desired, adding other seasonings, condiments, and flavors according to your own tastes. You can even exchange this marinade for a different one. Just keep in mind that a basic marinade should include an acid, an oil, and flavoring elements.;
, Add the tenderloin to the marinade bag, seal, and turn several times to coat all sides of the meat.









Squeeze excess air out of the bag by opening a small segment and gently pushing the air out with your hands. Reseal immediately.
 Place the bag with the tenderloin and marinade in the refrigerator. Allow it to marinate for 3 hours to overnight.









Flip and turn the bag over several times during the marinating process to stir the ingredients and re-coat the pork.
The longer you allow the pork tenderloin to marinate, the more flavorful, moist, and tender it will be after cooking. Avoid marinating it past 12 hours or so, however, since over-marinated meat can actually become tougher.
 Allow the excess marinade to drip off by holding the pork above the bag or above the sink. Do not brush off the herbs or marinade clinging to the surface, though.
 Heat the oven to 425 degrees Fahrenheit (218 degrees Celsius) and heat 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of oil or butter in an ovenproof skillet over medium-high heat.









If you do not have an ovenproof skillet, you can use a non-ovenproof skillet to sear the meat. You will simply need to prepare a separate baking or roasting pan by spraying it with nonstick cooking spray. Transfer the seared roast from the skillet to the pan when ready for the oven.
 Transfer the pork tenderloin to the hot skillet and cook until brown on all sides.
 Cook until the juices run clear and the meat is no longer pink, roughly 20 minutes.
 The tenderloin will cool slightly but still be warm.









Carve the pork tenderloin by cutting it into 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) slices.
Season with salt and pepper, if desired. Drizzle the juices from the skillet over the carved meat.
 Take out a broiler pan with a built-in rack.









Nowadays, many broilers have “high” and “low” settings. If your broiler has both settings, use the “high” setting. If your broiler does not have two settings, it likely only has an “on” setting.
Make sure to use a broiler pan with a rack rather than a baking or roasting pan. The rack allows the fat to drip off the meat as it melts, thereby preventing it from getting too hot.
Do not grease the pan or cover it with aluminum foil.
 Position the tenderloin in the center of the rack, and place the pan on the top shelf of the oven.









The tenderloin should be about 4 inches (10 cm) away from the heating element at the top of the oven.
 Once the meat looks well-browned on top, carefully remove the pan from the oven and flip the tenderloin so that the bottom becomes the top. Return to the oven and continue broiling.









The entire cooking time should take between 16 and 24 minutes.
 Allow the pork tenderloin to cool slightly before serving it.









Cut the tenderloin into 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) slices.
Serve with salt and pepper to taste, if desired.
 Most marinades consist of an oil, acid, and various flavoring ingredients, but they can be as simple or complex as you want.









Try a simple marinade made with garlic, olive oil, and vinegar.
To save time, use prepared marinades or vinaigrette dressings.
Create a sauce from any leftover marinade by bringing it to boil in a small saucepan. Reduce the heat and let simmer, low and slow, until it thickens and reduces down to a volume of about 2 Tbsp (30 ml).
 A dry rub consists of various ground herbs and spices.









Common seasonings for a pork tenderloin dry rub include parsley, basil, and cilantro.
You can rub the seasoning onto the meat several hours before so that the meat will absorb some of the flavor, or you could apply it immediately before you cook the tenderloin.
 Using a brine is especially useful in creating a juicy pork tenderloin.









Soak the meat in salted water for 30 minutes. Keep the pork tenderloin refrigerated as it sits in the brine.
Flavor the brine with spices and herbs, like parsley or garlic powder, to enhance the flavor.
 Brush the glaze onto the meat after you sear it but before you finish cooking it.









A glaze should have a syrupy consistency. Barbecue sauce, fruit jam, or fruit juice mixed with sugar are standard options.

