 Even though you'll be using Apple Pay on your Mac, you'll need to have it set up on your iPhone. You'll need an iPhone 6 or newer model.You can also enable Apple Pay on your Apple Watch paired with an iPhone 5 or later model.;
, This will open your device wallet. Touch ID will need to be enabled in order to use Apple Pay.


If you don't have the "Wallet & Apple Pay" option, and you're using an iPhone 6 with the latest iOS, you may need to change your region settings. Open the "General" section of the Settings app. Select "Language & Region" and set "Region" to your correct location.
 This will let you add participating cards to Apple Pay.
 Line your credit or debit card up in the viewfinder that appears. When properly lined up, your card will be automatically scanned and the payment details filled out.


If you can't get the scanner to work, tap "Enter Card Details Manually" and then enter your payment information.
Not all banks support Apple Pay, and it is not available in all countries. Contact your bank if you are not sure if they support Apple Pay.
 Depending on your bank, you may be able to get a text to verify your card, or you may have to call your bank to activate your card for Apple Pay.
 Apple Pay in macOS is only supported for purchases made on supported sites in the Safari browser. You cannot use Apple Pay in Chrome, Firefox, or other web browsers.
 Your Mac will be able to tell when an Apple Pay-enabled device is nearby. If your Apple Pay device is not close at hand, the Apple Pay button may not appear in Safari., Apple Pay support is up to the website owner. Not all stores will support Apple Pay, but expect more and more to adopt it as time goes on.
 You'll find the Apple Pay option during the payment part of the checkout process.
 You'll see this button if the website supports Apple Pay and your Apple Pay-enabled device is close by. If you don't see the button and you know it's supposed to be there, make sure your iPhone or Apple Watch are with you.
 You'll see the Apple Pay notification appear on your device when you click the Apple Pay button on the website. Use your Touch ID fingerprint scanner or press the Apple Watch's button twice to confirm the payment.

