 The most common time of the day that your dog is likely to be destructive is when you’re away at work or out doing things away from the house. Your dog can feel lonely, isolated, or unloved. Be sure to affirm your dog before leaving by giving him plenty of attention, playing a game of catch, or taking him on a walk. Dogs tend not to play with toys without the owner there. Leave the dog a Kong, or a chew toy stuffed with food, so that it gets his attention. You could also give the dog a cardboard box with a chew toy inside, so he has to chew his way into the toy.
 Your dog needs mental as well as physical stimulation, and puzzle feeders are a great way to accomplish this. There are tons of toys on the market that encourage dogs to use their brains to unlock hidden treats, but you can also make a puzzle feeder at home. Put treats in an empty muffin tin and then place tennis balls on top. Your dog must figure out how to get the balls out of the way so he can access the treats. This is a good beginner game, and you can work up to more difficult puzzles, such as those with sliding pieces.You can also play games that will keep your dog mentally stimulated, such as hiding toys or treats around the house or in cardboard boxes.
 Notice if your dog seems to get more wound up when there is a lot of stimulation, such as the television being on or sounds from another room. If this seems to be the case, turn the television down lower and close any doors where sound can impact her negatively. However, if she seems to like the sound and even seems comforted by it, consider leaving the radio or television on while you are gone at work. This might help with your dog’s separation anxiety., Training your dog to "Sit," "Come," "Lay," "Wait," and so on not only teaches him good manners, it also provides great mental stimulation. Try an obedience class to help you teach him the basics and work on training in short sessions every day. If your dog already knows the basics, step up your training with more challenging tricks, like rolling over or playing dead.
 Don’t always have the same old toys out. Dogs will tire of a new toy very quickly. Make sure you hide all of his toys in a closet and only allow two or three to be out at a time. When you switch the toys around, your dog will be entertained more and he'll think it’s a treat when he gets an old toy to play with that’s been hidden away. As an added incentive, this will prevent you from spending more money on new toys., This will stop them from chewing on other things. Chew toys made of rawhide and other organic matter are not intended to be durable or permanent. Pieces of these toys chip off; the size of the pieces can vary depending upon your dog’s size and enthusiasm. Such pieces can be sharp and can cause serious damage to your dog’s mouth, throat, and digestive tract.Never give rawhide chews to an unsupervised dog, as the may choke.
Don't leave the chew toy laying out all the time. Take it away when not needed so the dog doesn't become bored with it.

