 It should be the largest meal, as it provides you with energy for the day. Find low-calorie, healthy foods that contain nutrients, such as oats and orange juice. You can still have your favorite breakfast foods, but cut down on the amounts that you take in order to balance out your calories. For example, if you want pancakes and yogurt, give yourself three pancakes, a cup of low-fat yogurt, and about three tablespoons of maple syrup. By being moderate in your serving sizes, you can still enjoy your favorite foods while maintaining a healthy weight.


You should attempt to cut out syrups and sauces from your diet, as these contain high calories. Excess calories will eventually build up in your body, causing extra weight. Find a healthier alternative, such as lemon juice on pancakes.
Have a cup of green or mint tea. It speeds up the metabolism and also contains antioxidants.
If you crave sugar, replace sugary snacks with fruits. Mangoes, bananas, and an occasional drizzle of chocolate syrup are good for your body.;
, In order to maintain your energy levels throughout the day, introduce foods with carbohydrates into your diet. Pack a healthy sandwich, but cut back on the mayonnaise or jelly. If you like having spreads on your bread, find healthier ones with lower calories. Also, you could look up recipes for healthier sandwiches. Ones that contain healthy vegetables, such as lettuces and tomatoes, are excellent suggestions.


More examples of healthy lunches include:

A ham sandwich with mustard, a plate of broccoli, and a glass of skim milk
Flavored water, a peanut butter sandwich with jelly under thirty calories in one serving, one banana, a handful of nuts, and a blended smoothie



, You can mix healthy foods together into one, yummy bowl. Pasta salad is a great choice and can be prepared the night before for minimal morning stress. Simply cook pasta (preferably whole wheat but optional) and add steamed vegetables, such as carrots, broccoli, green beans, peas, etc. Protein, such as chicken or tuna, should also be added. Add a healthy, low-calorie sauce to your salad.


Steam the vegetables by cutting and placing them in a microwavable bowl. Add a bit of water before covering it with cling film. Pop it into the microwave for one-and-a-half to three minutes.
 Pastries and such often contain high amounts of unnecessary calories, which offer unwanted pounds to your body. Cut back on high-calorie snacks, such as cakes, cookies, and muffins. If you still crave those foods, find healthier alternatives and stick with them. Stores often sell brands that offer a healthier version of your favorite snacks, such as 90 calorie brownies.

