 If you own a business, you need a website. It doesn't need to be fancy, but it does need to present essential information to potential customers.Things like your business' contact information, product descriptions, an online store, etc.


Use search engine optimization (SEO) to ensure your website isn't buried on the last page of a search engine. To do this, you'll need to provide interesting, unique content on your website, use keywords, and get other websites to link back to yours.
 This is also sometimes referred to as Search Engine Marketing (SEM) or pay-per-click (PPC) marketing. All of these terms can be used interchangeably, and they refer to purchasing or renting traffic through online advertisements. Although it can be expensive, this strategy is effective because it is measurable and can be used to target specific niches in your target market. But you have to be savvy and develop a successful strategy.LinkedIn, Google, Facebook and Twitter all offer paid channel advertising.
 The most common forms of paid channel advertising are cost-per-mille (CPM) and cost-per-click (CPC). CPM ads are the banners you see across the tops of webpages. You are billed a flat rate based on the number of times the ad is displayed. CPC ads are the paid advertising results you see on a Google search results page or in the side margin on a Facebook page. You pay for every click on your ad.CPM is a cost per 1000 views and that it means that the ad is exposed, but not necessarily read or noticed. CPC is much more expensive since the reader has taken the time to "click through" to the website.
 Use strategies that let you get the most from your ads. You want to time them properly so they reach your target audience at the right time. Also, you must use strategies that target the location, behavior or browsing habits of your target audience.Day targeting allows you to manage how often and when your ads are displayed throughout the day.
Re-targeting is cookie-based technology. When new visitors come to your site, a cookie is dropped on them. As they browse the web, the cookie displays your ad.Keep in mind unsolicited cookies can have negative repercussions for the vendor.
Geotargeting markets to customers in a specific geographic location.
Internet-based targeting finds your customers based on their browsing activity.
Behavioral targeting finds customers based on their purchasing history.
 Use information about your target audience to evaluate the different networks and choose the right one for your ads. What works for another business might not work for you. Think about how you want to target your audience and the visual appeal of the ads.Decide if you want to target a business-to-business (B2B) or consumer audience. Also, choose to target your customers based on either demographics or their interests.
Consider the user experience of your ad. Depending on the network you choose, customers can see you ad based on keywords they search, products for which they shop or by their interests or job title.
Choose an ad format that is visually appealing, aligns with your brand and communicates about your business in a clear way.

