 Even if you’re not the most outgoing person, make an effort to introduce yourself to your neighbors. It can be as simple as greeting them if you pass them on the sidewalk or waving hello when you’re doing lawn maintenance. Developing relationships with your neighbors is mutually beneficial for fostering trust and friendship with the goal of making your community a better, safer place to live.Block parties are a great way to get out and meet your neighbors. Offer to host a cookout or potluck during summer months to bring community residents together in a relaxing atmosphere.;
, Building community is important to make sure everyone in your neighborhood is familiar with one another and is aware of the community’s safety goals. Aside from safety, community building can help neighbors build friendship and make the neighborhood a pleasant, inclusive place to live.Community building initiatives like National Night Out, held every August, are great ways to move out into your community to meet and engage with your neighbors and local law enforcement., It is helpful to know what initiatives the police are implementing to fight crime in your neighborhood. If your community members can help watch for and report potentially suspicious activity to law enforcement, this builds a relationship between your neighborhood and the police. These relationships help deter crime by employing a “brother’s keeper” strategy for community safety., Simply seeing residents outside and active in their communities is sometimes enough to deter potential criminals. Empty streets with residents who keep to themselves will have the opposite effect.


Going for a jog or walk around your neighborhood, reading a book on your front porch, or working in your garden are great examples of how to be present in your neighborhood.
 Don't limit your focus on community safety to only crime reduction. Community safety is a comprehensive goal that also includes accessibility for children, the elderly, and those with disabilities.


For example, crumbling sidewalks create a safety hazard for children who ride bicycles on the sidewalks and for those who use wheelchairs to get around on those broken sidewalks. It's important for the safety of these community member that the sidewalk be addressed as a component of community safety.

