 If you have accounts on social media networks such as Facebook or Twitter, one of the easiest ways to support political candidates is to make and share posts advocating for the candidate's election.Having a social media presence is important in modern political campaigns, so typically you can find your favorite candidate's account and follow him or her.
Share posts created by your candidate's official account as well as other supportive posts and messages.
Take care when sharing posts from other supporters and make sure they share your views. You want to avoid sharing a post from an offensive or questionable account, even if it is supporting your candidate.
You also can make your own posts or share articles you read elsewhere.;
, When you see an article in a magazine or newspaper discussing or criticizing a candidate you support, you can send a letter to the editor responding to the information in that article and expressing your support of that candidate.The publication typically will have guidelines for submitting letters listed on the same page where letters are published. Pay particular attention to length requirements.
Keep the publication's readers in mind. If you're writing to a local publication, stress your local connections or give your statements a local angle. Explain how the candidate you're supporting would benefit the local area specifically.
If the publication is geared towards a particular demographic, angle your statements toward that group of people and their interests.
Generally, keep your letter short and simple. Make sure you fact-check any factual statements or statistics before you send your letter.
 Running for office is expensive, and even if you don't have a lot of money, you can show support for political candidates by giving even small amounts of money to help cover campaign expenses.Federal election rules limit individuals to a maximum of $2,700 in donations to a single candidate per election.
Foreign nationals cannot make financial contributions to any political campaign in the U.S. You must be a U.S. citizen or a lawful permanent resident.
You also can donate to political action committees that have endorsed the candidate you're supporting.
In addition to donating to individual campaigns, you also can donate to your state, district, or local party committees. Money donated to political parties goes to support all candidates fielded by that party, as well as party events and activities.
 Political campaigns typically provide a number of ways you can display your support for the candidates, including wearing a T-shirt, putting a bumper sticker on your car, or posting a sign in your yard or in your window.Before you put a sign in your yard, make sure you're legally permitted to do so. Typically if you own your home you may put a sign in your front yard, although some cities regulate the size of those signs or require you to take them down within a short period of time after the election.
If you live in a neighborhood governed by a private homeowner or condo association, check with your association's regulations to find out whether you can post a political sign on your property.
 It may seem obvious, but as much as good as your campaigning efforts may do, the most important way you can show support for political candidates is to vote for them in the election.You must be a U.S. citizen over the age of 18 to vote, and you must meet your state's residency requirements to vote in that state.
If you're too young to register to vote, you can still support political candidates and make your voice heard. However, if you're old enough to vote and aren't yet registered, check your state's requirements and make sure you don't miss the deadline to register.
In 31 states and the District of Columbia, you can register online at vote.usa.gov.
If you're a college student going to school out of state, check the requirements for your state of residency and get an absentee ballot.

