 For intensive lessons in dog sledding, consider taking classes at a mushing school. Opt for a school or organization that does not require you to own your own sled dogs or equipment. Be sure to research the school's credentials or get referrals from other mushers before signing up.


For example, the Noble Paws mushing school in Fairbanks, Alaska, teaches participants how to run their own sled dog team ($100 for two 90 minute sessions).
 There are dozens of dog sled associations across the US which aim to promote mushing and unite members who are passionate about the hobby, sport, and sled dogs. Requirements for membership vary between clubs, but may be open to sled racers, spectators, and volunteers alike in some cases. Visit http://www.sleddogcentral.com/clubs_usa.htm for a list of sled dog associations in the US.


For example, the Colorado Mountain Mushers Association offers membership to both individuals and families (for $25 or $35 a year, respectively), in their capacity as either mushers or volunteers at races and events., It can take several years to train sled dogs, so mushers often welcome help from others interested in the hobby. Ask mushers at races if they need help, or visit the Sled Dog Central website at http://www.sleddogcentral.com/beginners/mentor_list_usa_states.htm for a list of mushing mentors from across the country. Helping to train dogs will provide critical experience with sled dogs and mushing without the commitment of having your own team, or the responsibility of vet and food bills. You can also offer to work as a handler for mushers, cooking and feeding dogs, and helping with other tasks in preparation for races.This kind of mentorship will also teach you everything you need to know about the equipment, training, and time necessary to start your own dog team.
 Getting into the sport of dog mushing should not mean rushing to put together your own sled team, which is a tremendous undertaking. It is best to spend at least a year or two participating in dog sledding and getting acclimated with all aspects of the sport, including taking care of sled dogs, before committing to it long-term. You can use this initial period when you start dog sledding to weigh the pros and cons and make a decision.
 As part of your reflection process, look up the prices for harnesses, tug lines, gang-lines, necklines and booties for your potential dog sled team. Find a local musher whom you can talk to and learn the equipment basics from. They can also advise you as to what equipment would be best for your needs.
 A big consideration in deciding whether or not to run your own dog sled team is whether you have (or can obtain) enough land to house the dogs. A suitable dog yard for 10 sled dogs will require at least 1,000 square feet of pens. Be realistic and start saving money as soon as possible if you intend to pursue mushing with your own team.