 Once you’ve created a positive lifestyle routine, stick to it to avoid unforeseen stressors. Regularity and consistency are also natural stress preventatives themselves.However, if you get out of your routine, don’t panic. Just return to your routine the following day.


Studies show staying busy by keeping up with a daily routine encourages happiness, promotes resiliency, and helps keep emotions in check., Putting things off until the last minute is a common cause of unnecessary stress. Prioritize all of your tasks, from homework to planning a party, and give yourself enough time to complete them.Try to give yourself more time than you think you will need to avoid any surprises.


Consider using a calendar or daily planner. Use paper versions if that’s what you’re comfortable with, or go for apps if you prefer to use your mobile device.
Take time at the start of the week to plan it out. Write down appointments, meetings, and the week’s assignments or projects. If you know you have an event or plans with a friend, give yourself enough time to get ready and arrive punctually.
 In addition to planning ahead, make sure you actually follow through on your obligations. Saying you’ll do something and not doing it increases stress and decreases self esteem.Break down projects into smaller, more easily doable steps. For example, write, “Monday - start outline for report due Friday. Tuesday - complete report’s introduction and evidence sections. Wednesday - complete first draft. Thursday - make revisions and clean up a final copy.”
You can also find an accountability partner or set up little rewards for yourself to increase your chances of following through.
 Try to find a balance between procrastination and obsessing over your stressor. It’s not good to put off your responsibilities, but you need to take a break from them in order avoid getting stressed out or overwhelmed.Give yourself permission to step away from a potential stressor, even for a matter of minutes, before it causes stress. Go for a breather outside, meditate, take a bath, or some other activity that will help you keep calm, then go back to the task at hand.
 Do your best to be gentle, encouraging, and balanced when you think or talk to yourself. It can be tempting to focus on negatives or view a problem like it’s a catastrophe. However, you should avoid negative or polarized thinking and try to focus on positive, productive solutions instead.For example, instead of getting frustrated and telling yourself, “I don’t know how to do this,” say, “This gives me the opportunity to learn something new.”
If you are having trouble putting things into perspective, you can also try calling a trusted friend to help put you into a positive mindset.
If something seems like it’s the end of the world or too much to deal with, try to break it up into smaller steps. For example, if you’re stressed out about losing weight, don’t think about the total weight you want to lose. Think about healthy meals you can prepare today and what you can do tomorrow, and break your goals up into smaller, realistic goals.

