 Over the counter medicine such as Advil, Tylenol, and Ibuprofen work miracles during your first week. Your doctor will tell you which ones are best for you and when to take them to reduce your pain.It will be much easier on your sensitive teeth.


Never take more than the recommended dose. Overuse of ibuprofen and aspirin can damage your stomach lining and cause severe pain and bleeding ulcers.
The liquid versions of these medications will be easier on your teeth than the chewable pills.;
, Press an ice pack against your cheek until the swelling goes down. Icing will also temporarily numb your gums and relieve some of the pain.


If you don't have an ice pack, use a bag of frozen peas. Wrap the bag in a paper or cloth towel and gently press it on your cheek for up to 15 minutes. You can do this two or three times a day.
 Over-the-counter oral anesthetics like Anbesol or Orajel will numb any painful areas in your mouth, and keep them from hurting for a few hours. Put a small amount on a Q-Tip and rub it on your gums around sore teeth, or on any sores in your mouth. These medications taste pretty terrible, but it's a good way to get rid of the pain so you can sleep at night., Keep ice water handy at all times, and remember to drink it. You can also hold it in your mouth for a few minutes and swish it gently. The cold temperature helps numb the feeling of the metal rings on the sides of your tongue. Keeping yourself properly hydrated will also help speed the healing process.


Drink plenty of water, but avoid soft drinks because these have a high percentage of sugar and acid.
 Clove oil will reduce inflammation and pain in your mouth. You can buy it at most health food stores and drug stores.Apply clove oil directly to swollen gums on the end of a Q-Tip.
Mix a few drops of clove oil in water, and swish it your mouth for a minute or two.
 Studies show that when you aren't thinking about your pain, you don't feel it as much. Go see a movie or go for a run, whatever floats your boat., Don't do anything that makes your teeth hurt. Rest as much as you can, and avoid hard foods or anything else that might make your mouth hurt.

