 If there is no way to organize your things, you’ll have no choice but to stuff them into piles. This is not only messy, but it will prevent you from being able to easily find things. Identify a place for all of your things, and make sure to put all of your things into their places.
 Again, clothing that is left out or not stored properly can make a significant impact on a space, making it look dirty and cluttered, even if the clothes are clean and draped over the back of a chair.


Use a hamper or basket for dirty laundry.
Store in a dresser any clothing items that can’t be hung up in a closet. If you don’t have a dresser or don’t have room for one, you can find inexpensive plastic drawers, plastic containers that fit under the bed, baskets, or even shelves to hold folded items. Contain shoes in an over-the-door shoe rack. You can put this inside your closet door to get it out of the way, free up space, and minimize clutter.
 Unless you have a large room, you are likely familiar with the struggle of limited storage space. Don’t be discouraged if your closet and dresser are full to capacity and you’re running out of places to put things. With a few creative adjustments, you might be surprised to find that you have more storage space than you thought.


Use stackable baskets, containers, or even old suitcases to hold things.You can tuck a stack of boxes into a corner to create functional, stylish storage.Optimize the space under your bed. If your bed is low to the ground, use cinder blocks from a local hardware store or plastic bed lifts to elevate it and give you more storage space. You can store things in boxes, baskets, or plastic containers that will fit neatly under your bed and out of the way.
Take advantage of wall and overhead space. Floor space is often limited in small rooms because furniture takes up a lot of it. Opt for shelves hung higher on your walls.
 It is important to know where items such as books, pens, envelopes, and paper clips are, but you don't necessarily need them cluttering up your work space. Store them neatly so that you can find them easily when you need them.


Contain and organize your books on shelves. Line books neatly on shelves, with the spines facing out and in the same direction so that you can easily search and find titles as needed.
Use plastic ziplock baggies to contain small items such as paper clips, thumb tacks, file tabs, sticky-note pads, and rubber bands.
Invest in a small filing box to store important papers and documents. Use file folders to store like items, and be sure to label the folders so you can find these items quickly when you need them. You can use folders to sort tax documents by year, papers associated with your classes, and a “important records” file for items such as your birth certificate and social security card.

