 One option to make your writing more inclusive is to write "he or she" or "she or he" in place of just using "he." That way, you're including at least two genders in each instance. The downside to this approach is that it can make your sentences more cumbersome.You can also use a backslash to divide the two pronouns, such as he/she, her/him, or s/he.Additionally, another downside to this approach is it also reinforces the idea that only two genders exist.;
, Another option is to switch back and forth between pronouns when giving examples. If you're writing a paper and giving examples throughout, use "he/him" in some examples and "she/her" in other examples. That way, you're not only using "he" or "him."This approach is more gender-inclusive than only using masculine pronouns or only using feminine pronouns.
 Another option to be inclusive is to simply rewrite sentences to be more inclusive. In other words, take out the pronoun if at all possible. For example, you be tempted to write, "If child is hungry, he should eat." Instead, change it to "A child who is hungry should eat."Changing the noun to a plural one can also make it easier to avoid gender pronouns, as you can use the non-gendered plural pronoun "they": "If children are hungry, they should eat."

, While not acceptable in all circles, using "they" as a singular pronoun is becoming more widespread. If you'd like to try this tactic, simply replace "he" or "she" with "they" in any sentence that calls for a singular pronoun.For example, if you wanted to write, "A teacher should always be kind to his students," you can write "A teacher should always be kind to their students."

, Another option is to switch to second person. Second person is when you address the reader directly with "you." While this approach won't work for every type of writing, it can work in some instances, particularly if you're writing an informal blog post or giving directions.For instance, if you’re addressing teachers and you want to tell them to be kind, instead of saying "A teacher should always be kind to their students," you could say, "As a teacher, you should always be kind to your students." Because "you" isn't gendered, it eliminates the problem.
 Often, examples used in writing fall into gender stereotypes, such as calling all firefighters men or using a woman as an example of someone who can be overly emotional. It's best to turn those stereotypes on their head if possible or to not include gender at all.For example, if you're writing something like "The firefighter rushed into the fire, as he was worried about the survivors," you might write one of the following instead: "The firefighter rushed into the fire, as they were worried about the survivors," or "The firefighter rushed into the fire to rescue the remaining survivors."

, Many titles in the world are gendered, such as "fireman," "anchormen," "mailman," or "businessman." When using these terms, especially in a general sense, stick to more neutral terms to be more inclusive.For example, use "firefighter," "anchor," "mail carrier," or "business person" in place of the more gendered words.
 Many phrases use "he" or "him" as a part of the phrase, such as "the best man for the job" or "man the booth." In addition, many words that people tend to use for a group of people or the world as a whole also tend to be gendered, such as "mankind." Try to substitute non-gendered words and phrases for these more gendered ones.For instance, use "the best person for the job" or "staff the booth." Instead of mankind, try "humanity" or "humankind."
In addition, always refer to an adult woman as "woman" or by her title, not as "girl" or "lady.", In some cases, such as when talking about an anonymous writer or an internet persona with a handle, you may not know the gender of the person. In that case, you should either use a phrase to refer to the person (such as "the anonymous writer") or repeat the handle. Of course, it's always preferable to find the gender of the person if possible.