 Keep your CV or resume up to date. Commit to spending a portion of each day or each week on the job hunt so that you can always see a light at the end of the tunnel. Network, search online, and ask your friends and family to pass job opportunities your way.Look online. Spend your free time searching the Internet for jobs that excite you. Choose from a wide selection of job-search websites.
Make connections. If you know anyone working in an industry or company that you find interesting, ask him/her for advice and recommendations. Consider going to career fairs and conferences.
Keep your eyes peeled. Notice job postings on the street, in the paper, or on the banner ads of websites. Always be looking for a way out.
 Create a better work/life balance. Take a mini-vacation, or call in sick when you need a day off. Use your sick days and your vacation days to create space for yourself to breathe. Just don't take too much time off, or else you may not have a job to hate!Get out of town for the weekend. Go camping, or visit another city, or just drive as far as you can until you need to turn back. Clear your head. Remind yourself that the world is wide and waiting., If you just can't take it anymore, then it may be time to let go. Make a plan for how you're going to hit the ground running: pay your bills, support your family, and actively look for another job. It helps if you have some money saved up. Give your two weeks' notice, and then take the leap.Try not to burn your bridges. You never know when someone from this job might help you out down the line! Clarify that you hate the job and not the people.Consider whether a life spent in waiting is a life well-lived. So you hate your job. Does that mean that you need to hate your life?
If you get fired, then you may be able to collect unemployment checks for a matter of months. You will need to prove that you were fired through no fault of your own, and that you are actively looking for a new job. If you can figure out how to get fired, then this option can give you a convenient financial buffer.