 In addition to the four major lines (heart line, there are several other lines that are worth noting and reading. These lines are the health line, the fame line, the marriage line, the money line, and the travel lines.


The health line can be found extending from below the little finger, down across the palm, to the base of the thumb. The fame line, if visible, starts at the base of the hand, and moves its way up to below the ring finger, running parallel to the fate line.The marriage line is the little line (or lines) that are located just below the base of the little finger.The money line has varying paths and its meaning is interpreted in relation to its location. The travel lines generally start from the edge of the palm at the 'heel," opposite the thumb, and extend horizontally. , The health line deals with material well-being as much as the physical. When the life line may be faint or hard to see. If a person has very faint fate, fame, or success line, then the health line also plays a strong part in the development of material wealth. The health line can be found extending from below the little finger, down across the palm, to the base of the thumb. Sometimes, it may even join with the life line. Some of the features to look for include:The lack of a health line indicates that the person will have few, or perhaps even no, health problems. A strong and undisturbed line means a strong business sense as well as the strength to work hard and make money.
A wavy line indicates potential health problems as a result of anxiety and nervousness
A broken line may indicate that poor health will cause problems in business situations. Smaller lines crossing health line mean that the person is prone to accidents. Extra lines branching onto the life line are a sign of a life-threatening situation in old age. A square encircling the line is a sign of protection, whether it be in the form of good medical treatment, or aid in solving a business problem. A break in the line to form a "donut" shape signifies a need for hospitalization.
A triangle formed by the life, head, and health lines is known as "the Lucky Triangle". This triangle signifies greater luck the broader its angle.
 The fame line influences the social rewards of success. This line, if visible, starts at the base of the hand, and moves its way up to below the ring finger, running parallel to the fate line. The following are characteristics of the fame line to look for.A missing fame line indicates that one's future fame must be looked for in other areas of the palm. The individual may still be successful but prefer to do without public acclaim. If the fame line is strong and clear this indicates distinction and satisfaction with your life's work.
If the fame line is broken repeatedly, it is an indication of the ups and downs of social recognition.
A fame line that travels straight to the ring finger shows a person likely to have fame in the arts. If it starts at the head line and runs through the heart line this shows hard work and success late in life. A separation at the end of the fame line (becoming two smaller lines) indicates that success may be dubious in value.
A fame line that ends beneath the ring finger in a star or triangle shows that spectacular success awaits in the fine arts field (acting, singing, dancing).If it ends beneath the ring finger in a square this indicates a kindly patron.
 Relationships are indicated by the little line (or lines) that are located just below the base of the little finger. The closer the lines are to the base of the little finger, the later in life these relationships will be. The characteristics of the marriage line to look for are: Several light lines indicate several romances. Strong and clear lines indicate marriage. Numerous overlapping lines indicate affair(s). Lines that meet but don't cross show children that will be born.
A fork in the lines towards the back of the hand indicates a long engagement. A fork at the end towards the palm means separation (with or without divorce).
A line at the end of the marriage lines that cuts the line off sharply means end to a relationship due to death or divorce. However breaks in the lines that resume with an overlap show separation with a later reunion.
 This line is not a direct indicator of accessing material wealth. It represents the bearer's skill in acquiring riches, as well as giving some indicators of how to achieve this. The characteristics of the money line are: A money that runs from the base of the thumb to below the index finger ending in a star shows a natural talent for moneymaking.
A line running from the base of the thumb to the little finger indicates wealth acquired through inheritance or family allowances. A line that runs from the base of the thumb to below the middle finger means money made in business. A money line running to the ring finger, cutting through the fame line would indicate money obtained through luck and surprise.
 The travel lines are a major indication of the trips taken throughout your life that have had or will have a penetrating impact on your life. They can also indicate your desire to travel. Some things to look for in relation to the travel lines are: Travel lines that intersect the life line mean a trip will be made under circumstances of health, or your health will be affected by a trip. Travel lines that intersect the fate line show that travel will present a life-changing experience.
If the the travel lines cross this means danger, or problems within travel. If a square encircles the lines this is a sign of protection in your travels. Breaks indicate possible delay in your travels.

