 While many diaries or journals serve the purpose of chronicling certain events from your own point of view, therapeutic journaling can include approaches situations from lots of different perspectives, dialoguing with yourself, exploring your thoughts and feelings, and drawing and doodling. Therapeutic journaling includes a great deal of introspection, reflection, and intention.Journaling is helpful for many reasons. You can sort out your emotions, track patterns of behaviors, and give you a sense of relief. Journaling can also help you reduce stress, problem solve, and improve your health.Instead of writing down what you did, write about how certain situations affect you. Write about positive experiences and negative experiences, and how you handle them. For instance, journal about the positive experience you had a restaurant and how good it felt to order something at a restaurant. You can also write about your fears of ordering at a restaurant, and how you deal with them.;
, Set aside time each day for journaling.You may wish to set a timer for the duration of your journaling, or you may wish to set an alarm to remind yourself to journal. The important part is to prioritize your journaling so it becomes a part of every day.


You may choose to write your journal on paper, on your computer, or online. Whatever you choose, make sure it’s accessible and easy to keep up. If you use a paper journal, keep a pen handy.
 When you write, don’t worry about spelling, grammar, or how it sounds. This is your opportunity to write freely without censorship. You can connect with the purest part of you and write from that level, without judging yourself or fearing criticism.If you notice yourself becoming critical of your thoughts, feelings, writing style, handwriting, etc., gently remind yourself that this is a time for you to express yourself, not criticize yourself.
 Use a journal to track your symptoms, emotions, and triggers every day.Having a daily/weekly/monthly/yearly tracker can help you pick up on when you may be vulnerable to relapse, what situations bring you stress, and when you turn to food or to your eating disorder. For instance, you may find out that you are vulnerable to feeling insecure about your body around your period, or that when you work overtime, you start to cope through food.


Track the things that feel relevant for you. You may choose to track your mood each day, or the times you want to restrict or binge eat.
 Part of the reflection process in journaling is to see your progress and look for patterns. Reread your previous entries to gain inspiration and offer perspective of how far you have come.You may have started a series of entries you forgot about, or decide to go back to an old style of writing or entry when you reread your journals.


Reread your entries in the same day or week, or go through your journal periodically, like every month.
 To properly track and monitor your nutrition, work with a dietician. Your dietician will help you determine what foods to eat each day and in what amounts to eat them.Your dietician can help you maintain proper nutrition and make adjustments to your diet.


Your dietitian may give you a log to easily track foods. You can also use a smartphone application or find downloadable resources online.
 For each meal, indicate where you eat. Be specific on your location. For instance, instead of writing “home” or “out,” write “home — at table” or “home — on couch” or “out — Chang Family Restaurant.” Also, indicate at what time you eat. Be as specific as possible.Your entry may look like this: “Tuesday, April 12, 2016. 11:26AM. Home — at the table.”

, Avoid counting calories and instead aim to eat certain amounts of food each day.Record your food intake (for example, bananas or a vegetable sandwich with lettuce, tomato, two pieces of bread, and mustard) and indicate what food group you are fulfilling. For instance, your dietician may tell you to have two servings of fruit each day. Instead of counting calories, use servings and mark off each serving after you’ve completely eaten the serving.


Your entry may look like this: “Smoothie — full serving of bananas and strawberries, soy milk (full serving). Then, check off food groups this fulfills.
Write down both foods and liquids, including water, coffee, tea, and alcohol., Before you eat, record your hunger level. You can do this by assigning a number to the level of your hunger. For instance, a zero may indicate feeling empty, a five may indicate feeling neutral, and a 10 may indicate feeling stuffed or so full you feel sick. Record your satiety after a meal using the same scale.Record your hunger and satiety for every meal, every day.
 Write your feelings before, during, and after meals. This can help you discover your triggers that affect eating behaviors. For instance, if you tend to overeat, notice if you eat more following a stressful exam or difficult meeting at work. Or if you restrict, notice how your feelings around meals affects the urge to restrict.Write down a brief background of what is occurring before, during or after meals, then re-read entries to find any patterns. For example, you may write, “Had a fight with a friend before eating,” or, “Feeling lonely today.”

, If you purge after a meal, indicate this on your food log and note the time. If you binge, also write this down. If you purposefully restrict, also write this in your journal.


If you purge, note your method of purging. You can write “V” for vomit and “L” for laxatives.
 Use your journal to track your exercise.Record your activity, the intensity, and duration.


Use your journal to note any changes to activity and exercise as related to your eating disorder and stress.
Be honest about your behaviors. You may be tempted to skip recording when you binge, purge, restrict, etc., but this defeats the purpose of the journal and makes the diary a much less effective tool.
 If you’re feeling overwhelmed by an urge to binge, restrict, or are struggling with your eating disorder, practice this exercise. Write down the main physical feeling you’re experiencing, and the thoughts that are running through your head. Once you complete that, write a pre-emptive “after” scenario. What is a better physical response? What are some calmer, more positive thoughts? What reaction would benefit you better than your current reaction?Situations might include a fight with a friend or boyfriend or girlfriend, a test at school, or your weight. Let's say you're stressing over a fight with your boyfriend. Write down the physical feeling you are experiencing — maybe you feel sick to your stomach, or your arms and legs feel heavy, or you feel hot or numb. Write those sensations down.
Next, write down the thoughts that are running through your head. "He's probably going to break up with me," "I hate him! He's such a jerk!," or "I can't deal with this; I'm going to go eat that box of cookies."
Look at how you are reacting, or how you are showing that you are upset. Did you scream insults at your boyfriend? Did you break something?
Now imagine a different, more productive and healthy way to react to the stressful situation. What can you do to counteract your physical reaction (Maybe with deep breathing or muscle relaxation)? How can you challenge those negative thoughts? Perhaps something like: "My boyfriend misunderstood what I was trying to say. I'm going to think of a different way to explain myself and help him understand." Finally, what might be a better way to respond outwardly? Instead of screaming, maybe you can stay quiet and say, "I need a break. We can talk about this later," and remove yourself from the situation., When you experience stress, write a one word representation of what is bothering you. Then, write one thing that can help you keep perspective about this situation. Lastly, write what you can do or say to reassure yourself about the situation.Following the previous example, your one word might be: "Boyfriend." In other situations, this word might be the name of a place or an emotion.
For perspective, you may wish to write that relationships are sometimes difficult, but also loving.
Lastly, reassure yourself that you are loved, despite your difficulties with people or yourself. Think about those who love you, from your dog to your grandma to your best friend. Write something like, "I may get in fights with my boyfriend sometimes, but everyone struggles with relationships. I know he cares about me, and even if things don't work out with him, there are a lot of people who care about me."

, When writing in your journal, try writing from the perspective of other people, not just yourself.For instance, if you are struggling with body image or weight, write a journal entry from the perspective of a medical doctor, psychologist, or family member. This can help you understand different perspectives and bring validity to any words they say.


Avoid becoming overly judgmental in these journal entries. Remind yourself that this is an exercise to explore varying viewpoints, not play out any negative scenarios you think your mother or medical doctor would say to you.
 Grab a photograph (or a few) and journal about them. Reflect on how you feel looking at the photograph, and what memories you have surrounding the photo. What would you like to say to the people in the photo? What do you think they would like to say to you? This can be especially helpful if it is a photo of someone who is no longer a part of your life.Many people with eating disorders have complicated family lives.Use the photographs to reflect on your family life, both the positives and the negatives.
Look at a photo of you before you had an eating disorder. What was life like then? What made you happy?

, Write a letter to your past self, or to your future self. Write the things you wish you could say but feel you cannot, or the things you wish you could have said given the opportunity. Write to your past self and say the things you wish someone would have told you then.
 You can’t evaluate something clearly if you’re in the middle of it. Remind yourself that emotions do not last and often they are fleeting.If you feel a strong emotion or urge, go to your journal. Re-read a positive journal entry, one that recounts a happy, relaxed, or calm experience. This can help remind you that just as you feel sad, angry, frustrated or upset now, you have felt and will feel happy, calm, relaxed, and balanced.


Try this exercise: write down your emotions and your current experience as you see them. Now, try the exercise but from three different vantage points: the view of someone you know well, an acquaintance, and someone who makes you uncomfortable. This can help you recognize that your thoughts and feelings are but one reaction, and not the only “right” one.
 Naming and exploring emotions can help you gain control of your emotions instead of them taking control of you. If you are struggling with feelings about body image or weight, stop and think about what emotion is behind this. For instance, you may feel guilt, shame or embarrassment. For each emotion, write about how you interact with that emotion. Where do you feel it in your body? What thoughts or memories come to mind when you think of the word “shame” or “guilt”? Focus on your awareness of each emotion. Increasing your awareness of emotions can help you identify and intervene sooner.Go deeper into understanding the emotion: What color is the emotion? What does it smell like? What are its friends like? What type of weather is it?

, If you feel negatively, you may feel a surge of energy. Instead of devoting that energy to feeling badly, see if you can divert it into something creative. Use your journal to doodle, write a story, or approach your emotions in a different way. Approach the negative emotions from a positive place, meaning, try to funnel them into something productive that adds to your life instead of detracting from life.If you’re angry with yourself for binge eating, go to your journal. Channel the negative feelings into a story or poem, or a picture. Note how you feel as you do this. Sometimes anger can be a very motivating emotion and help you make changes.
 Many people who suffer from eating disorders have experienced some sort of trauma in their lives.Work through the trauma by writing about it in your journal. Researches note that turning a trauma into a story can help make a complex subject more simple, and can help you cope with the feelings. It’s important to note that sometimes the healing won’t happen right away; you may feel a surge of strong emotions when you begin.


Write about the event, paying particular attention to the feelings and emotions associated with the trauma. Explore how the trauma influences various aspects of your life, such as romantic relationships, family relationships, and closeness with friends.Set aside 30 minutes for several days in a row during a time you know you won’t be disturbed.

