 PPI is an insurance policy that is activated when a qualifying event occurs, such as being laid off or illness. Once you submit a claim and the claim is accepted, the insurance company makes monthly payments towards whatever debt is covered under the policy.


PPI policies last for a finite amount of time, often one year. During this time period, you will have time to find another job, sort out your finances, and/or find another way to repay your loan.
PPI policies typically make the minimum payment on your loan, especially for credit cards. PPI should be considered a “safety net” rather than a long-term debt reduction strategy.;
, For some consumers, PPI offers peace of mind by enhancing financial security to carry you through significant illness or loss of income. PPI may be a good investment for you if:


You have a significant amount of debt that you will be unable to repay if you are unable to work or you lose your job.
You are employed in a profession where there is a significant possibility that you may be laid off.
You are at an increased risk of suffering from a debilitating illness.
You have no alternate sources of income, income protection insurance, or life insurance.
 For some people, PPI will not provide necessary coverage and therefore is a waste of their resources. PPI may not be a good choice under the following circumstances:


You are already unemployed or retired.
You need the payments immediately. Most PPIs do not pay within the first 90 days.
You have some other way to "survive" for a period of time without a form of income (e.g. savings, a second job, sick pay, or an existing insurance policy).
You don’t have the resources to be able to afford PPI.
You are self-employed, an independent contractor, or temporary employee. Many PPIs will not cover this type of employment., One of the easiest ways to identify PPI policy providers is to use an insurance comparison website. Conduct an internet search using the following search terms “insurance comparison website payment protection.” This search will provide you with several comparison websites. You should use at least two websites to locate PPI providers., When using an insurance comparison website, you will be asked to provide some basic identifying information in order to get a PPI quote. You may be asked for the following:


Name;
Annual salary;
Amount of PPI payout desired;
Occupation; and/or
Employer Name.
 Once the insurance website generates potential policies for you to explore, check to see whether you are eligible for the policy and whether it provides you the desired coverage (i.e. loan repayment, credit card repayment, mortgage repayment. You should also examine each policy for the following:


The length of the policy. PPI contracts typically last 12 or 24 months, so if you need a shorter policy, immediate access to funds, or a longer contract, you should dismiss any policies that do not fit your criteria.
The amount of time that you have to wait for payment. Most PPI policies do not pay out immediately upon accepting your claim. You should choose a policy that best corresponds to your ability to cover your expenses while waiting for the policy payout.
The monthly premium for the policy. You must determine the maximum amount that you can afford to pay for a PPI policy., It is very important that you closely and thoroughly read through any PPI policy that you may purchase. You should pay particular attention to the PPI policy's exclusions so that you don’t purchase a policy that will not benefit you. Some policies prevent you from making a claim if one of the following applies to you:


You work for a family business
You are under 18 or over 65
You are self-employed, an independent contractor, or a temporary employee.
You are aware ahead of time that you may become unemployed.
You are aware (or should be aware) of certain medical conditions that are listed in the policy.
You are unable to work due to certain common conditions (e.g. stress, back pain, etc.), You should never feel obligated to enroll in PPI. In recent years, some banks and lenders have been accused of mis-selling PPIs by using predatory tactics to trick their customers into buying PPI policies they don't need. Some of these tactics include:


Failing to properly explain the scenarios that you would exclude a claimant from receiving a payout under the policy.
Purposefully misleading customers by telling that the PPI policy was a required part of a loan.
Adding a PPI policy to the loan without the buyer's consent., Once you have located a policy that meets your requirements, purchase the policy and be sure to make your monthly payments.
 If you experience a loss of income, you must locate your PPI policy to determine whether you have grounds for a claim.


If you cannot locate your policy, contact your lender via email or telephone.
Request that your lender provide you with a copy of your PPI policy and discuss the details of your policy.
Be aware that you may be charged a fee if the lender has to locate an older policy.
 Review the original policy documents to determine whether you can make a claim. When reviewing your policy, consider the following:


Check whether the circumstances under which you lost your source of income are covered by your policy.
Carefully review all exclusions listed in the policy and determine if you are prohibited from filing a claim.
 Every insurance company is different, so you must follow the claim process for your insurance carrier. Insurance companies may require the following in a claims submission:


You must complete specific forms provided on the insurance company’s website or provided by the insurance company.
You may be asked to provide information about the creditor so that the insurance company knows where to send payments.
You may be asked to provide information about why your employment was terminated.
Your employer may be asked to provide information about why you are no longer working, when you stopped working, and the nature of your employment.
You may be asked to provide proof of an illness and documentation from a doctor explaining why you can no longer work.
You may be asked to provide documentation of your debt., Once you have gathered the necessary documentation and completed the required forms, you should submit your claim as soon as possible. You may be asked to fax, email or send your insurance claim to the company. Be sure that you receive delivery confirmation of your claim.
 Most PPI policies have an initial "waiting" period (usually called a "deferment" or "deferred" period) during which they won't make any payments toward your loan. This period can be anywhere from 30 to 180 days.


During the deferment, you will have to use other means (such as your personal savings) to pay down your debt.
You should note that if you get a new job during the deferment period, your provider won't have to make any payments on your behalf.
 If you believe that an insurance company improperly denied your claim, you should file a formal complaint. You can find a complaint template here: https://www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk/en/articles/what-to-do-if-your-insurance-claim-is-rejectedAfter lodging a formal complaint, PPI providers are usually obligated by law to respond with information regarding whether your complaint was upheld or not. Depending on the legal situation where you live, the length of time they have to respond may vary. For instance, in the UK, PPI providers have 8 weeks to respond.Don't worry about damaging your relationship with your lender. If you've lost your source of income you are entitled to try to file a claim and, if necessary, fight for a settlement.
 It is entirely possible to file and receive a PPI claim, or file a complaint and obtain a settlement on your own. However, because these processes can be long and drawn out, some customers decide to enlist the help of a financial claims management company.


Be aware that thousands of these companies exist and are known to charge high prices for their services. In some cases, these types of companies are known to take a commission of 25% or more from your settlement.