 Try to chose a unique and memorable player/ranch name.;
, There are many ways to do so:


Go to Horse Acquisitions and import a horse in Import Foreign Stock; or
Go the Classifieds and purchase a horse; or
Go the auctions and bid on a horse.
 Whenever you register a horse, you can choose to put the brand on its shoulder. Your brand should be distinctive as it will set horses owned/bred by you apart from other horses.
 Choose the color you think suits your horse best. Sometimes having your horse get a DNA test will help you figure out its color. If the name you wanted has already been used, change it slightly. Add an extra letter, number or punctuation.
 Every single real life day equals one month on the game. With every passing game month, you will get 30 game days. Days can be accumulated. This means that if you don't have time to train one day at all, you will have 60 game days on the next day. Or, if you only manage to train 20 days, you will have 40 games days the next real day.
 Learn about horse personalities and burnout to understand what affects training speed. Make sure you leave a little energy on the energy bar everyday, because if you don't, your horse will be exhausted. This means it will lose some health and its energy bar won't be full for three real days. Horse training is a very sought after skill on Equine-Ranch. People are always hiring trainers for their horses and they pay very well for an honest trainer.
 It is full of extremely important information that will help you get a grasp on the game.
 Equine-Ranch is a sandbox game and you will need to set goals for yourself. There are no objectives that will be given to you. Answer questions such as these:


What breeds do you want to concentrate on?
What do you want to breed your horses for (color, competition, etc.)
What discipline will you breed/train your horses for?

, It will make your life easier because you won't have to remake your ranch page from scratch every time you have an update. Keeping a ranch blog is also encouraged.
 This will help you produce some extra money gain show points. If you show your horses with enough consistency, they will earn titles. Titled horses are a lot more valuable and they bring fame to your ranch. They also earn you a lot of personal points which can be collected and then used for prizes.
 Try to breed them to titled horses only. You are much more likely to get a quality foal this way. If you're going to cross-breed, make sure it is a recognized cross-breeding as any other cross will produce a Grade foal. Also, if you use frozen insemination to breed, there is no risk of injury to either horse but settling rates are higher with live covering so you have to weigh the risk against the rewards. A foal-trained horse is less likely to cause or sustain an injury during live cover than an untrained horse that doesn't know what a halter or lead is, for instance.
 Will you offer stud, frozen semen, boarding, training and/or brood services?

, Pasture puffs are horses sitting around on your ranch, doing nothing. Maybe somebody else will give them a job to do. Retired show horses do not count as pasture puffs as they have lived a full life and deserve to live a pampered life in their old age.
 Join a contest or start a discussion with other players. Make some friends and have some fun!

