 When your doctor writes you a prescription for antibiotics, she will give you specific instructions regarding how to take the medication. Following these instructions exactly can help to reduce your chances of developing stomach pain, as your doctor will most likely give you tips on how to avoid this unpleasant side effect.


Your instructions may include a specific time that you should take the antibiotics so that they will have the least effect on your stomach.
Unless the label indicates otherwise, store your antibiotics in a dark, dry place.
Some antibiotics may need to be stored in the refrigerator. If so, store your medicine in the fresh food compartment. Never freeze your antibiotics.;
, Some antibiotics are meant to be taken with food. This is because the food acts as a neutralizer or shield against the antibiotics, protecting your stomach from gastrointestinal distress. If your instructions include taking your antibiotics with food, make sure to do so every time you have to take your medication or else you may end up with an upset stomach.Some antibiotics are meant to be taken on an empty stomach. These sorts of antibiotics include ampicillin and tetracycline. You should not take food with these drugs because the food affects the speed at which these medications can act upon your body.
If need to take your antibiotics on an empty stomach, it's best to take them before breakfast, Set an alarm for yourself if you need help remembering.
Some antibiotics may cause stomach pain when taken certain foods. For example tetracycline may result in stomach pain when taken with dairy products. To avoid stomach pain when taking tetracycline (or its counterparts, doxycycline and minocycline), stay away from dairy products for the length of time you're taking the antibiotic.
 Be precise in your taking of your antibiotics; do not underdose, overdose, or double dose. While underdosing will have less of an effect on the bacterial infection you are trying to fight, overdosing can increase the potency of the drug, making it much more likely that you will have an upset stomach.If you have a hard time remembering if you have already taken your medication for the day, hang a calendar where you keep your medications. When you take your antibiotics for the day, cross the day off on the calendar with a pen. That way, you will not double dose accidentally.
Your prescription will be written for the amount of time it will take the antibiotic to fight off the bacterial infection. If you don't take your antibiotic as prescribed, it's likely the bacteria that's left can restart an infection, or the antibiotics may not work as well the next time they're needed.
 Aside from fighting off the bad bacteria in your body, antibiotics may also attack the good bacteria in your body. When this good bacteria is attacked, you may experience stomach pain. Try restoring your healthy levels of good bacteria to address stomach pain.Yogurt is an excellent source of probiotics, or good bacteria. While you normally only have to eat one serving of yogurt a day to reap its benefits, consider eating three to five servings of yogurt a day when you are taking antibiotics in order to replenish your stores of good bacteria. Look for yogurt that contains live, active culture for best results.
Garlic is a good source of prebiotics. Prebiotics provide nourishment for probiotics (found in, for example, yogurt, raw sauerkraut). A serving of three large cloves per day may help protect your healthy levels of healthy bacteria (just be aware that this may cause bad breath).
Other sources of good bacteria include miso, sauerkraut, kombucha, and kefir., If you have a known history of stomach pain caused by antibiotics, you should discuss this fact with your doctor. Your doctor may give you an alternative drug.Your doctor may also adjust the dose so that it is less likely that the medication will cause you stomach pain, or he can prescribe antiemetic medication to lessen gastrointestinal upset like nausea or vomiting.
Certain antibiotics may cause an allergic reaction. If you start to notice rash or itching when taking a new antibiotic, call your doctor immediately.

