 Scrapings or samples may be required for correct diagnosis.  If you have any questions or concerns about your rat's health, seek professional advice.;
, Where is the lump located?  A lump may be a tumor, a cyst or an abscess. These can be easily confused by the average person. The location and size of the lump may give you some clues.



Is it on the foot? If it is on the foot, consider the possibility of bumblefoot.  Do you use wire floors?  Has your rat suffered a leg or foot injury recently?

Is it small and located on the back?  This is the most common place for cysts to erupt.

Is it located in or around the ear or mouth? This is likely to be an abscess.

Is it in the throat? If the lump is located in the throat, it could be an inflamed gland or lymph node.

Is it in the belly or groin area? Benign and malignant mammary tumors often occur in these areas.




Head tilt, falling over, bugging eye(s), confusion, running into things, seizures and stiffness in the legs. These may be symptoms of a pituitary tumor. Pituitary tumors occur inside the animal's brain and are not usually detectable from the outside.  

Heat or pain.

If the lump is warmer than the rest of the rat, you may have an acute infection.
Pain is associated more with abscesses than tumors.



Discharge. Is there discharge?

Discharge is often associated with abscesses. Abscesses are pockets of infection and can occur anywhere on the body. Look for an initial injury - a scratch, bite or scab - that could have introduced an infection.
Blood and pus are very normal for an abscess.   If there is blood and/or pus coming from a wound on the lump, it is very likely infected.
 Was the growth of the lump sudden or prolonged?


A sudden onset (within 2-4 days) is suggestive of an abscess, especially if there is a wound already present on the lump.
A more prolonged onset (2 weeks to a month) is suggestive of a tumor, either benign or malignant.
, Surgery is an option that is available depending on the size and location of the tumor.


For many mammary tumors, surgery can remove the tumor.
Benign tumors have a lower chance of growing back than malignant tumors.
 Surgery is stressful to an animal; is your rat strong enough to handle the stress?  Will it be able to recover quickly?


Is the tumor interfering with movement, eating or other bodily functions?
Is your rat otherwise healthy and active?
Is your rat lethargic and uninterested in toys or attention?
Is your rat refusing food and water?

, How old your rat is can affect its chances of surviving surgery.


Rats live between 2-3 years. Is your rat still young or is it older?
Older rats may have a harder time and take longer to recuperate from surgery.
Is your rat fairly young?  Would your rat have time for a comfortable life after recovering from surgery?

, Surgery is expensive.  You pay for the anesthesia, antibiotics, board, etc.


Do you have money saved if there are complications with the surgery?
Do you have money for antibiotics after the surgery?

,


Will you be able to take your rat to and from the vet's during their office hours?
Are you able to go to follow-up appointments?
Will you be able to pick up your rat's medications?
Will you be available to give your rat its medication?
Are you able to check on your rat several times a day in the week after the surgery?

,, Fabric bedding is softer than many commercially available beddings. Fabric bedding also makes it easier to monitor bowel movements. In addition, it is:


Reusable and easy to clean.  Just shake off the bedding, wash, dry, done.
No dust.
Toxin-free.
Inexpensive.



This is especially recommended for rats with pituitary tumors or large tumors.



If your rat is recovering from surgery, consider mixing its lab blocks with water, almond milk, or coconut milk to make it easier to eat and digest.
Provide your rat with a shallow food dish, one the rat doesn't have to reach too far into to eat.
A water bottle can be less messy and easier to place in a good position than a water dish.  Be sure to use glass so the rats don't chew through it.



Some tumors become infected.  This is treated with antibiotics and sometimes lancing.  Others may open on their own.  Clean the wound with rubbing alcohol once a day until it finishes draining and closes.
Set an alarm to remind you to give your rat its medication.
Ask your vet if the medication can be flavored to make it easier to take.
Monitor any surgery sites for redness, inflammation, pus or blood.  Call your vet if you observe any of these symptoms.
 This is the hardest decision a pet owner has to make, and although your feelings are important, it is more important to consider the quality of life your pet has.  If it is suffering and you cannot do anything to relieve the suffering, then it is time to consider euthanasia.



Is surgery an option?  Have you already tried it?
If surgery is not an option the tumor will continue to grow until the rat can no longer move comfortably and is drained of energy.
If it is a pituitary tumor, it cannot be surgically removed and the symptoms will get progressively worse.



Is it able to move comfortably?
Does it suffer from seizures?
Is it able to eat and drink?
Does it need pain medication or are they on a lot of medications?
Can it still play with toys or their friends?
Can it still play with you?

,


Is your rat younger or older?
How long do you expect your rat would live without the cancer?
If your rat is younger, it will be able to adjust to living with cancer, surgery or even amputation better than an older rat.
With older rats, it is best to leave the tumor alone and give them the most comfortable life possible.  Cancer is known to come back and older rats do not adjust to surgery or amputation well.

