 Grab a paper and pen. Jot down all your goals: short-term and long-term. What you want to achieve this year or what you want to do in your life. Remember: Dream big - really big. Stick it up on the wall or on your cork board, in your workplace. That way, when you feel discouraged,your goals will motivate you to achieve them.;
, Summarize what the teacher is saying. Write down the important points rather than the unnecessary information. Don't pay much attention to spelling and grammar. This is just a rough draft of your summary.
 There is no point in going to school to learn, if you're going to leave the class in a confused mess. When students do not understand a concept, they usually don't accomplish well in their exams. Do not be afraid to ask. Teachers are always more than happy to help.
 Don't go around passing notes to your friends, doodling on your notebook or twiddling with your pencil. You won't understand a single thing, and when it comes to exams and homework, you'll be begging your friends for help.
 Homework usually revisits the essential concepts that must be learned.Try making homework time fun. Bringing along friends can be fun too. Just don't start chatting, instead of working! Do not copy your friend's answers. You will not learn. Avoid any distractions that you may encounter while doing your homework and be sure to focus.
 When studying and doing homework, you can't go on forever. Information just won't stick in your head. Instead, have 10 minute breaks every hour or so. Do whatever. Read, exercise, write or even lay down. Just make sure that what you do doesn't set you off task.
 Rewriting the notes you took in class on the same day, allows the information to stick in your head. Make sure you understand everything you write. If you don't, make sure you ask your teacher the next day. Reading your notes won't get the information a hotel room in your brain.
 Using colored pens always makes things fun. Make sure you have subheadings and vocabulary in different colors. Try to write things in your own words rather than copying straight out of the textbooks. Make your notes neat and organized.
 Keep a binder for each major subject. Type up all your notes and summaries. Make them pretty. Put the vocabulary in bold type or italics. Again, make sure you are typing it actively rather than passively. It needs to glue into your brain. Put on some music for some extra fun.
 This amazing music is especially made by the superb composer: Dennis Kuo. It was created for hard-working students to listen to while studying. The beautiful music is a must for any study session.
 Buy an organized workstation and a comfy chair. Not too comfy, though. Boxes, drawers and shelves are great way to arrange things in an organized manner. Label boxes and put a cute pen cup on your desk. Good lighting is an essential must. You don't want to get tired while doing homework because you can't see. A cork board or whiteboard is good too. You can put up a calendar and write down important dates. Corking up your goals list is a great idea too. Add some pictures of family and friends.
 This is more organized than cramming everything into one large, heavy binder. Have tabs like: homework, tests/quizzes, etc... Have some loose leaf paper and plastic sleeves at the back. Keep your notebook at the front as well as your weekly timetable. Don't forget to be creative: decorate the inside and outside of your binder.
 This is a real must. You cannot rely on your memory. Jot down due dates, homework, your weekly timetable and test dates. Keep this 'book of miracles' with you and make sure you actually use it! It is a guarantee that you will never forget about homework again.
 Pile things neatly and put a shelf or two (unless you have a small locker). Put in a pen cup and a magazine file with your notebooks inside. Clean out your locker every week. Decorate your locker as cute as possible. (Optional). Try not to put food inside so your locker doesn't stink.
 Make sure it is big enough for all your books and binders. Lots of pockets will also help you organize your belongings. Put the larger and heavier objects closest to your back so that you can spread the weight over your shoulders.
 When it comes to tests, teachers love to ask their students for definitions. Memorize the meanings of the main concepts.
 Write when you will do homework, when you will study and when you will have breaks. Especially when you panic, this method will help you calm down and realize that there is enough time to complete everything. It also gets your tasks done quicker.
 Memorize those formulae and do an endless amount of exercises. Practice is the key to math. There isn't another way to study math and many people do not realize that until years of school.
 Tutoring isn't only for the 'dumb' kids. Tutoring can help even the best of students to further understand the given topic. An hour or two a week is usually sufficient to refresh your mind about what you are currently learning.
 Write down class notes and summaries, formulae and exercises, anything important when studying should go in either your binder or notebook.
 Put the question or word on one side and the answer or definition on the other. Have these in your pocket and test yourself wherever you are. Ask your parents to test you as well. Using flashcards is a helpful way of studying.
 Dictionaries, thesauruses, encyclopedias and math books are all essential when you need something to refer to while studying or doing homework.
 Always go to school happy to learn. Take pride in your work and always try your very best. Don't ever copy those lazy students who do not care for their priceless education. They are the ones that will regret it when they are older and you will have the better job in your life; achieving the best.
 If your art class or soccer training is getting in the way of your schoolwork, then you better take it aside. It doesn't have to be permanent; it can be temporary. Because as you know, school always comes first.
 This useless 'technique' never works. Studying at least 3 days before is more successful. Cramming too much information into your brain causes you to have 'mind blanks' during the test. No-one likes these little devils as they cause you to panic in a test.
 These bright, handy tools are excellent for reminding you to do things. Putting little tabs in your textbook can tell you the important pages to study. They can also help to remind you about what you need to do.
 Mind maps are a great way to summarize information. PowerPoint is fantastic for notes and summaries as you can choose how many slides you want on a page.
 Invest in a cheap folder to file away those old worksheets and papers. In future years, you will definitely need to refer back to them.
 In the bus or during that boring visit to your grandma's - study. It always recovers you from boredom and it makes the best use of your time. Carry around some flashcards for that spare moment. It all adds up at the end.
 Studying with friends can always be fun! Testing each other is a great way to learn. Make sure you do not get distracted, though.

