 It's unhealthy! You'll find that you are constantly arguing with yourself to convince that you don't like him. Accept and embrace it. It'll make everything a lot easier for you.;
, Are you a mean, nasty, hateful person? If you are, it's important to change now. Guys want a girl who's smart, funny, kind, caring, affectionate, thoughtful and knows how to enjoy herself. Don't totally alter your personality just to make a boy like you. It's important to be who you are but watch the way you treat those around you. Make sure to be genuine and don't pretend to be someone you're not.



Embrace your natural beauty. You can use makeup, it's your choice, but don't overdo it. Keep up personal hygiene and do your best to look your best!







, This is probably the most important step. Learn how to connect to the guy you like. If you don't know how, follow some of the following suggestions:


Find common ground. Find something you're both interested in. It could be a book series, a movie, a TV show, a sport - anything. This will give you a base to work off of. You can talk to him about how awesome that new episode of that TV show was or how excited you are for that movie to come out.






Get involved with something he does. Okay, don't go stalker-ish on this. If he's in a club or sport, only join it if you are honestly interested; so not only can you spend time with him, you can have fun yourself. If you are busy and can't join something he's in, embrace those times you see him like in class, the halls, church, etc.
 Contrary to popular belief, it's important to become friends before you start a relationship with him. Be careful to not fall into the friend-zone. In this stage, it is important to initiate conversation with him - don't be afraid to be the first to talk. At the same time, don't always be the first to talk or you may seem annoying.


Talk to him when you can in person, online, or through text






If you don't want to fall into the friend-zone, make yourself seem different. Don't act all buddy-buddy with him or like a bro. Act like someone he would be interested in having a relationship with.

Be a good listener, make interesting conversation, be funny, likable, and flirt - but don't overdo it.






As you talk to him, create inside jokes between the two of you. If you can, compliment him! You'll probably get one back!







Be unique, cute, and overall a fun person to be around.
 Try to be friends with different people and befriend some of his friends - both male and female. With these friendships, don't make them just because of the guy. Make these friendships because you want to create new friendships with other people in addition to connecting more to your crush. You may be surprised at who you meet! If you make friends who are friends with him, you can have a good time and may be invited to the same events as him, parties, and other activities in which you can spend time with your guy. You can then have more excuses to talk to him and make transitioning into conversations with him easier.


You can talk to one of his friends and if you're lucky, he might just walk in and start talking to the both of you.






His friends will probably hint to you if he has taken a liking to you.






It is very important to be real with this. Don't use people; it's a total turnoff. Create new and genuine friendships with his friends. Don't pretend to be friends with one of them just so you can talk to your crush. If you don't like his friends, you can choose to skip this step.
 A strong friendship and a relationship doesn't come easily or quickly. You have to continue to create a better friendship which may or may not lead to something more. Having a relationship may take awhile but it may vary. It is important to be patient and don't be pushy. Don't make him uncomfortable.
 By this point, it's either time to admit your feelings or get over him. If you feel like you've been waiting too long for him to ask you out, just admit you like him directly to his face. If you're feeling he's not the one anymore, try to move on.


Remember that it can take a while for him to ask you out. Admitting you like him to your crush can speed up the process though.
 You could just be really good friends with him or trying to handle rejection. Whatever it is, be happy because it is what is meant to be. If you're with him, congratulations! If you're not, it's okay. You'll find your Prince Charming soon enough!

