 If you've lived in more than one state, you'll need to get your criminal record from each one to find out if you have a felony. A list of past residences can help you determine which states you need to contact.It may be difficult to remember the exact street address where you lived in a state long ago. Typically, however, you won't need the exact street address – you just need to know the city and state.
Even if you've lived in several parts of the same state, make a list of the counties where you lived. Typically you'll only need one state criminal record, but you may need to identify specific jurisdictions.;
, Different law enforcement agencies are responsible for handling criminal records requests depending on the state. To find the correct agency, you can do an internet search for "criminal record request" with the name of your state.You also can find out which agency to contact by calling your local police department and asking. Make sure you call the non-emergency number.
When you get in touch with the correct agency, ask what you need to do to get a copy of your own criminal record.
Although this record is restricted for privacy reasons, you always have the right to get a copy of your own record.
 Most states have a basic form you must fill out to get a copy of your criminal record. Often you can download this form online, but you may have to go to a law enforcement office to pick one up.You also can get your state's law enforcement or criminal records agency to mail you a paper copy. However, keep in mind this will mean you'll have to wait a few days, if not longer, to start the process of getting a copy of your criminal record.
The form typically requires basic identification information, including your full legal name and birth date.
You also must provide a complete mailing address. Make sure this information is correct, since this is the address the state will use to send you a copy of your criminal record.
You may have to explain the reason you need a copy of your criminal record. Keep in mind that regardless of your answer, you always have the right to see your criminal record.
 In almost all states, you have to submit fingerprints when you request your criminal record. Your fingerprints help to verify your identity to the state law enforcement agency that processes your request.Typically you can get fingerprinted at your local police precinct. The form you fill out to request a copy of your criminal record will provide details on where and how to get your fingerprints.
Some states contract with private companies to get fingerprints made for these purposes, meaning you can't just go down to the local police station to get them done.
Keep in mind that you'll have to pay a fee to get your fingerprints taken, typically between $30 and $50.
 Once you have your form and fingerprints complete, you typically must mail them to the state bureau of investigation along with a fee. Your request will be processed and you'll receive a copy of your report in the mail.The form should have an address where your request should be mailed, along with information on any processing fee required and the methods of payment accepted.
The fee to get a copy of your criminal record typically is between $10 and $20, depending on the state.
In most states, you can expect to get a copy of your criminal record in the mail within two weeks to a month after you mail your request, provided all the information is complete and correct.

