 Apple's iTunes Store and Amazon.com are the mos popular places to purchase and download music online. Both services make signing up easy. Once you've made a free account and provided payment information, you're free to browse their collections. Amazon.com boasts over 20 million songs available to purchase, while iTunes' exclusive contracts and slick interface make it a great choice for new and up-and-coming bands in particular.


In addition to these sites, there are various other, smaller purveyors of digital music downloads. Feel free to browse these if you like, but remember: if a deal sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Amazon and Apple are good choices in large part because they're trustworthy.
 Both Amazon.com and the iTunes Store regularly offer sales on whole albums or individual songs. You can often find collections of older music (such as classical music recordings) for pennies per track, or interesting albums from artists you'd never have heard of otherwise.


Take advantage of previews before downloading new music. Check to be sure that the sound of the songs is pleasant enough to warrant spending a few dollars on the album.
If you really can't decide, you can sometimes use YouTube to look up an artist and hear whole songs before you buy. Streaming services like Spotify can also provide you with this option.
 As long as you're logged in, paying for your music is very easy: just click to download the tracks you want (or the entire album, which is usually cheaper than buying each track separately) and confirm payment. As soon as you do, the music will download very quickly onto your computer, at which point you can play it wherever and however loud you like for the rest of your life.


Apple in particular has made some ill-fated forays into digital rights management (DRM), which in plain English means technology to limit your use of the music you download. They don't have a strict DRM policy these days, but be wary of possible changes in the future.
iTunes music files typically download in M4A (MPEG-4 Audio) format, whereas Amazon files download as high-quality MP3 tracks instead. You may have options to change the file type before you download if you want; M4A files aren't as popular with audiophiles as lossless MP3 files are.

