 Texting to 9-1-1 is a relatively new technology. In most areas, you are unable to text to 9-1-1 and must call. You can call your local 9-1-1 center to see if you can text 9-1-1 in your area. You can find the number for your local 9-1-1 center in the yellow pagers or online.If it's an emergency and you don't have time to check, simply try texting to 9-1-1. You will receive a bounce back text, which is mentioned later, if the technology is not yet available in your area.;
, To start, you'll have to compose your message. Keep your message brief and to the point to avoid going over the standard text message limit, which is usually 160 characters of text. You should also avoid using slang, as this puts you at risk of having your text misunderstood.


Include which service you need, where you need that service, and why you need that service. For example, "Need ambulance at the corner of Sunset and Western due to car accident."If you do not know your precise location, list roads, landmarks, and other clues that could help emergency services find you. For example, something like, "By a theater called Hilton's, somewhere on west side of town."Try to include all the information right away. A dispatcher will want to get services to you as quickly as possible, so do not withhold necessary information like an address, if you have one., Even in an area where a text can go through, texts to 9-1-1 have certain limitations. Understand these limitations before attempting to text 9-1-1.


You cannot send photos, videos, or other media to 9-1-1 via text. All you can include are letters or numbers.You have to be in range of your cell phone's tower to text 9-1-1 in some situations. Texts to 9-1-1 may not go through if you're roaming., Once you've composed your message, you can send it to 9-1-1. To do so, simply type in "9-1-1" in the address line. Then, hit "send." You send a text to 9-1-1 as you would send any other text on your phone. You simply have "9-1-1" listed as the recipient of the text., If your area is able to respond to texts to 9-1-1, you should get a response from a dispatcher. If you included all necessary information, he or she will alert you emergency services are on the way. If further information is needed, the dispatcher will request it via text. Text back as soon as you receive a response., The FCC requires that all wireless carries and other text message providers send out what are called "bounce back texts" if your area is not equipped to respond to 9-1-1 texts. This is to prevent customers from mistakenly thinking emergency services area on the way if a text fails to go through. A bounce back text will come seconds after you text 9-1-1. It will inform you to call emergency services through other means., In the event you receive a bounce back text, calling is always the best option. This is the quickest and easiest way to get in touch with a 9-1-1 dispatcher and receive necessary emergency services. However, if you're texting 9-1-1, you may be unable to call for a variety of reasons. In this case, you have other options.


A voice call is your best option for contacting emergency services. Texts are not always read right away and, if you accidentally leave out information, a back and forth exchange can take awhile. Even if you're in an area where texting 9-1-1 is an option, only use it when calling 9-1-1 is not possible., If possible, ask someone else to call 9-1-1. You could ask a friend or family member to do so if you're hearing impaired, for example. If you're unable to talk due to a medical emergency, try to write down that you need someone to call 9-1-1 if possible.
 You may be texting 9-1-1 because you are in a situation where an aggressor is nearby. You do not want him or her to know you're reaching out to emergency services. In this case, you can text someone else to text 9-1-1.


As you would do when texting 9-1-1, let this other person know the nature of the emergency. Tell them where you are, what services you need, and why you need them.
For example, you could text a friend, "Uber driver took me way off track, is becoming aggressive, we're on Highway 101 heading north near exit 43, call the police."

