 To begin the process, you must have information about your income, expenses, debts, and assets.You'll need the records of any major financial transactions you've made in the last two years and all debts you've accumulated, both secured and unsecured.You also should gather any documents related to assets you own, such as car titles or real estate deeds.Pull together documents related to your regular bills and expenses as well, including rent or mortgage payments, utilities, and other bills., Creditors cannot take certain real estate and personal property to satisfy your debts.There is a federal list of property exemptions, and some states allow you to choose between that list and the state's list. However, Ohio state law requires you to use the state list of exemptions.The list includes your home and motor vehicle (up to a certain value), 75 percent of your disposable income, and certain household items such as furniture and clothing., Named for the chapters of U.S. code that provide bankruptcy as a remedy, Chapter 7 allows you to liquidate any non-exempt assets to pay creditors, wiping out any remaining debt. Chapter 13 reorganizes your debts and sets up a payment plan monitored by the court and a trustee.If you want to file Chapter 7, you must meet the means test required by federal law. Basically, the court compares your income for the past six months to the median income for Ohio. If your income is below the median you are eligible to file Chapter 7. If it is equal to or greater than the median, there are additional calculations to determine your eligibility. If you aren't eligible for Chapter 7, you must file Chapter 13.Median income figures and other amounts required by the means test are available on the U.S. Trustee's website at http://www.justice.gov/ust/means-testing.
If you plan to file for Chapter 13, you must submit a proposed payment plan in addition to your petition and other forms when you file for bankruptcy. Your plan must be confirmed by a judge, however, you must begin making the payments under the plan immediately upon filing., Before you decide to file for bankruptcy on your own, consider at least visiting an experienced bankruptcy attorney and getting a free consultation about your case.An attorney can ensure you file the right documents, include all the necessary information, and make correct calculations. If you make a mistake, it could result in having your bankruptcy petition dismissed.If you hire an attorney, you may be able to keep more property and discharge more debts. Getting a better result out of your bankruptcy could offset the cost of attorney's fees.If you decide to file by yourself rather than hiring an attorney, check with the clerk of the bankruptcy court to see if there are any workshops or clinics available for petitioners who are filing on their own., The bankruptcy petition is a two-page document that must be filed at your nearest district bankruptcy court along with some other forms.You will have to pay a filing fee of $306 if you're filing Chapter 7 or $281 if you're filing Chapter 13. The filing fees can't be waived, but if you're filing Chapter 7 you do have the option of paying your filing fee in installments.There are two federal districts in Ohio, so you need to file in the one that has jurisdiction over the county where you live. Typically you will file in the district where you've been living for the majority of the 180 days before you file. However, if you were living somewhere else temporarily, such as if you were stationed on a military base, you can file in the district where you live now.Ohio's Northern District encompasses Toledo, Cleveland, Youngstown, Akron, and Canton. If you live in or around Cincinnati, Columbus, or Dayton, you'll need to file in the Southern District.Once your petition is filed, the court will issue an automatic stay, which means creditors that were planning on garnishing your wages can no longer do so.The automatic stay also prohibits creditors from contacting you or attempting to seize any of your property.