 A vehicle history report will tell you about the vehicle’s past owner, accidents, service, warranties, and potential liens. This report is usually verified by law enforcement, so it can be trusted as a good source of information.Find the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) of the car. If you’re looking for the VIN, it’s usually outside the windshield on the bottom right facing out or inside the driver’s side door on the jamb.Look online for a place to get a free vehicle history report. There are plenty of places online that offer them for free; however, these reports won’t always indicate the accident or lien history.
Pay for vehicle history reports that offer all of the vehicle’s history. You may have to pay money to get a report that includes a total history of the car. It is worth it, though, in case there are any red flags when looking through the vehicle history report.
 The vehicle history report will give you a lot of information. However, there a few important things to look for that may be red flags if you’re buying a used BMW.Look for any tampering with the odometer. If the mileage on the vehicle history report does not match that on the car, the odometer has been tampered with and you should walk away from the car.
Check for failed emissions reports. If you live in an area with emissions standards (Such as California), you’ll have to get this fixed for your used car. Verify that all repairs have been done if you see evidence the vehicle has failed emissions tests in the past.
Beware of any major accidents. Even if the car looks fine now, it’s possible that major accidents have cracked the frame or caused other permanent damage.
Look for any vehicle damage, due to flooding. Flood damage to engines can be hard to find, but very expensive to fix.
Check for any irregularities in the vehicle history report. If anything looks unusual or fake on a vehicle history report, it may have been tampered with. Always order your own and don’t rely on individuals you may be purchasing a car from to produce one.
 Many used cars will still be under some form of warranty. Make sure the warranty covers all major issues. If not, consider extending the warranty if possible.Many BMW warranties cover the car for six years or 100,000 miles. This will cover the car for things like defects, but not for general maintenance and upkeep.Look for any handling charges on the warranty. These may amount to roughly $50 per visit in the event of any repair while the car is under warranty.
Check for a certified pre-owned warranty. Certified pre-owned warranty are warranties for used cars that have been verified to be in excellent shape. Read all the fine print if the used BMW has one, since some of these warranties are not transferrable to new owners., Your used BMW should be thoroughly inspected before you start negotiating to buy it. Have a third-party mechanic look at the car, since it’s better to have someone external to your purchase verify that the car is in good shape.Talk to a mechanic you can trust. If you have a regular mechanic that you’ve built a relationship with, this is the best person to check out your new BMW.
Have the mechanic look over the car for major issues. This should take about an hour, so it may cost around $100 to complete.
Inspectors can spot major issues that are not noticeable to the naked eye, such as poor repair work, flood damage, or frame damage. While some of this may come up in the vehicle history report, a good mechanic can verify any of these issues as well.

