 To show the speaker you are paying attention, paraphrase what they are saying. Don't repeat back exactly what they just said – digest the information and then put it into your own words.Wait until they look to you for a sign of understanding, or for a lengthy pause in the conversation.
Rephrase in question form. Say, “So, if I'm hearing you correctly, you're saying...?”
The focus of the rephrased comment should be on the speaker. Don't change it to include yourself or everyone in general. If someone says, “I don't have the funds to finish this project,” don't say, “Yes, it never seems like we have enough money to get things done.”
The ownership of the rephrased comment should be you. Say, “What I'm hearing is...,” not, “What you're saying is....”
Your version should be shorter than the speaker's original statement.
 Asking questions shows that you are trying to understand the speaker's point, and that you understand where you have gaps in that understanding. Request additional information where it is needed, so you can be sure you understand what the speaker means.Don't ask questions that challenge what the speaker has just said – this will just make them defensive.
Phrase your questions in a way that makes it obvious you aren't being argumentative. You're just trying to fill in the blanks.
Avoid asking “Why?” questions, because this can put people on the defensive. (“Why do you think that happened?”)
Use “How?” or “What?” questions. (“How do you feel about...?” or “What are your biggest concerns about...?”)

, Keep an open mind when someone is saying something you don't agree with. Try your best not to mentally correct or criticize them, or you will cease to hear what they're saying. Don't jump to conclusions – wait until they complete their thought before trying to interpret their meaning. , When listening to someone speak, try to look for the central theme of the conversation. Figure out the main idea they are trying to communicate, and why it is important to them.Pay extra close attention to the points of conversation that pertain to the core objective of their story or argument.

