 You should act fast to deal with any food that is spoiled or that will go bad quickly. Such foods should be separated from the rest of your trash, kept in heavy duty plastic bags and disposed of quickly.If practical, put meats and other foods that rot quickly into the trash on the day it will be collected. Rotting food will attract pests and insects.


Tie meats and any raw foods you are disposing of into plastic bags before you put them into your trash bag. This will minimize leaks and odours.
Ensure your trash can is fully secured and there is no odour that could attract pests.
Dispose of your meat quickly to avoid any potential problems with maggots.
 Dispose of cooking oils and fats by collecting them in a jar, tub, or other container that you don’t mind throwing away. Do not pour hot oil or fat from cooking meats down your sink drain. This will cause plumbing problems that may be expensive. You should always dispose of oil and grease in the trash, not down the drain.Throw the jar of fat into the trash when it gets full. Do not recycle the jar.
You can also use leftover fat (or suet) to make fat balls for your garden bird feeder.
Mix the fat with some dry kitchen scraps, such as porridge oats, and leave it to set in the fridge overnight.
Once it’s hard you can hang it from a tree or place it in a birdfeeder., If you have a garbage disposal attached to your sink, use it to dispose of food when you are cleaning up after a meal. Scrape food waste into your drain and turn on the disposal while running cold water. Listen for the grinding up of your food waste. Turn off the disposal and the water when you hear the blades return to their normal, empty position.


Remember not to put anything in your disposal that is not biodegradable.
Don’t put anything like glass, metal, plastic or paper in there.
Don’t pour grease or oil in your garbage disposal.
Don’t put expandable food, like rice or pasta, in there., Putting food waste in your septic system should be avoided. If you have a septic system take care not to wash food scraps, coffee grounds, oils or fats down the sink. The more solids that make it into your take, the more often it will need to be pumped.If you have a grinder or garbage disposal in your house try to limit the amount you use it as much as possible.
Using a garbage disposal may affect the warranty on your septic system.
 There are some foods that are inappropriate for composting or recycling, such as dried pasta, rice, bread and other grains. Dried foods like pasta and rice can be good to donate to food banks, and they generally have a very long shelf-life, so you shouldn't have to throw much away.


If you do find some really old pasta or rice at the back of the cupboard you can just toss it in the trash.
You may be tempted to feed stale bread to birds in your garden, but it has little nutritional value. Mouldy bread can even harm birds.Dairy products cannot be recycled or composted and should just be thrown in the trash.