 What is your company’s vision and mission statement? Use these as a jumping-off point to write briefly about your organization’s purpose and values.


If you don’t have a mission statement, you should develop one. The mission statement should describe the company’s daily operations. For instance, an eyeglass manufacturing center might have a mission statement that reads, “Our mission is to provide quality eyewear at affordable prices.”
If you don’t have a vision statement -- a statement that describes the organization’s imagined future and ultimate goals -- encourage your organization to create one. For instance, the above-mentioned eyeglass manufacturer’s vision statement might be, “To push optometry forward and ensure everyone can live a full life.”
Mission and vision statements should be stable and long-term fixtures within the organization, and not subject to frequent change.
 Resources are not only financial assets. They also include staff, stockholders, volunteers, and partner agencies or organizations.Incorporate these resources into your strategy in order to give yourself a clearer picture of where you are and where you’re going. When writing your strategy, you should answer the following questions:


Who or what are your resources?
How can you better utilize your resources?
Are there resources you need, but do not have?
How can you obtain new resources?

, Write about short-term and long-term goals. Where do you see the organization in six months? Where do you see the organization in five to ten years?Together, these two perspectives will gives you a broad outline of where you want to be and what will come next when you've successfully executed your strategy. When writing about the goals of the strategy, answer questions like:


How will the organization or business change or expand? Will the company or organization be leaner in five years, with fewer employees and less real estate? Or will it be larger than it is today?
What will the organization’s finances look in five to ten years? Use prior financial gains to make predictions about the future.
 Even though it might hurt to confront the difficulties your business or organization faces, you can only move forward if you accept where you are. This part of the strategy should not only identify the obstacles to your organization, but also reflect on ways to overcome them.


How will the organization adapt to the changing market? If you’re in the museum world, for instance, you might need to address the fact that the number of museum visitors continues to drop each year.
Write a list of what stands in your way along with actions you can take to successfully overcome these obstacles.
Think about how to adjust marketing, payroll, sales figures and expenses.
 Set goals for each category and describe exactly what that category will look like when finished. For best results, a goal must be specific, quantifiable and reasonable.


Your goals should be quantifiable. For instance, a goal like "Increase sales by 10%" is a good goal because it is specific, and you can measure sales using actual data.
Recommend a timetable for each goal. For instance, you might say, “We should increase sales by 10% in the first quarter, and by another 10% in the second quarter.”

