 For healthy skin, make sure your nighttime bath or shower is warm, not hot. If it's too hot, it can strip your skin. Plus, make sure you don't scrub your skin too much, as it can irritate it.Make sure you pick a gentle soap for your skin. Look for ones that say "for sensitive skin."However, make sure your bath or shower isn't too long, as it can dry out your skin.Instead of rubbing your skin dry afterwards, pat it dry. Rubbing can also dry out your skin. In addition, apply a light moisturizer after you dry off.;
, If you don't shower or bathe at night, make sure you wash your face. If you don't, the makeup and grime on your face from the day before will end up leaving your face looking worse in the morning. Try an oil-based cleanser, which will remove your makeup more easily with less rubbing., You don't want to wake up with terrible morning breath and plaque on your teeth. That is not sexy. You should floss between your teeth and brush for at least 2 minutes before going to sleep.Try using a paint-on whitener at night to wake up with even brighter teeth.
 To keep from waking up with dried, cracked skin on your face, use a moisturizer before you go to sleep. You can use a thick, oil-based cream if your skin can handle it. You can also use oil-free creams. Basically, using any type of lotion to moisturize your face can help plump out wrinkles and fine lines. Just rub it on before you go to sleep., If you have dry skin, applying a moisturizer at night can help cut down on dryness. Try picking a thick, oil-based cream, and rub it all over your body. Focus on tough areas such as your hands, feet, and elbows., Humidifiers help keep the air wetter. In turn, that helps keep your skin moisturized. As moisturized skin shows fewer lines, you'll have sexier in the morning., If you have allergies, you can wake up with puffy eyes. Tame your allergies by taking an antihistamine before you go to sleep. In turn, your eyes will be less puffy, and you'll feel sexier.Old-style antihistamines such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl) and chlorpheniramine can help you sleep, as they cause drowsiness, but they may leave you feeling groggy in the morning if you're not used to taking them.You can also try non-drowsy antihistamines, such as loratadine (Claritin), cetirizine (Zyrtec), or fexofenadine (Allegra)., If you always sleep on one side, try sleeping on the other. Sleeping on the same side all the time causes wrinkles, and you can give that side a break by turning over., Simply getting enough sleep can help you appear sexier in the morning. In one study, people who didn't get enough sleep were rated less attractive than those who had. So make sure you are getting the required 7 to 8 hours of sleep each night.