 The foot brake should only be used at slow speeds. If you’re flying down a steep hill and about to carve into a turn, the last thing you want to do is hang your foot of your board. Reserve the technique for casual riding at level ground and slower speeds.


Make sure you’re sporting proper footwear when using the foot brake. While using the foot brake is technically possible in thin-soled shoes and flip-flops, it’s not recommended. Using the foot brake involves sliding your shoe along the ground to come to a stop. Don’t use it as an opportunity to ruin shoes and gain friction burns!;
, To begin utilizing the foot brake, shift the majority of your weight (60 to 70 percent) to your front foot. It doesn’t matter whether you have your left or right foot forward. Use whichever foot you normally have out front.


While it is possible to foot brake by leaning onto your back foot, it’s not recommended. Since longboarding involves going down hills, leaning back can unevenly distribute the weight in regards to the angle you’re traveling at. This means your back foot is much more likely to be unstable than your front.
 Begin dragging your back foot along the ground. Do not lean onto your back foot, as that would be stepping off the board (potentially at high speeds). Use a minimal amount of weight to merely drag the foot across the top of the ground.


Make sure the shoes you’re wearing have large enough soles to drag along the ground. You want to avoid any and all sort of foot injuries or wardrobe malfunctions. This technique could easily result in burned or scraped skin or ruined footwear.
 As you drag your foot, slowly apply pressure toward the ground and begin shifting your weight slowly from the front to the back. Remember, the more pressure you apply, the faster you’ll come to a stop. Use your own judgment, taking into account factors like speed, distance and the angle at which you’re traveling.


Be mindful of the type of ground you’re skating on. Friction changes depending on the type of ground you’re traveling on, be it asphalt or concrete. For example, asphalt has a higher skid resistance than concrete, but concrete roads are more durable.