 Clothes are one of the ways people judge us when they look at us. What we wear can influence people's opinion of us. If you are trying to look older, stop dressing like a teenager. Start shopping in a different section of the store. Bypass the junior department for the adult clothes. The junior department tends to carry clothes with cheap, thin, semi-transparent fabric that makes you look young. Instead of these cheaper fabrics, look for better-made clothing.Girls should avoid girly trends, like mary janes and Peter Pan collars. Avoid items with lots of lace and ruffled tops, gathered skirts and anything too 'cute'.
Avoid sporty styles. Sweatpants, basketball shorts, baseball hats, and gym shorts can make you look lazy and messy. These are also common styles for young people.;
, Swap your baggy clothes for form-flattering clothes. You don't want clothes that swallow you whole and hang off your frame. This can look unflattering and messy. Alternately, do not wear skin tight clothes. Skin-tight can make you look young and immature.


For guys, choose your shirts by measuring the shoulders. If the hemline of the shoulder extends past the end of your actual shoulder, the shirt is too big and won't be a good fit.
For girls, choose clothes that accentuate (not reveal) your shape. If you have narrow hips, wear an A-line skirt to draw the eye outward, giving the illusion of hips. Choose scooped necklines and V-necks. Buy jackets and sweaters that fit your silhouette., One sign that you are young is wearing a t-shirt with a logo or funny saying. This includes band t-shirts, brand names, and logos. If you want people to think you are older, skip the t-shirts altogether.


For guys, try plain colored shirts or stripes. Go for fun colors, like light pinks, yellows, and oranges. Dressing maturely doesn't mean boring colors. Henleys and polos are good styles of shirts for men to wear instead of t-shirts.
For girls, go for embellished tees or tanks. Try plain blouses in bright colors or in prints.However, stay away from fluorescent and neon.
 Jeans are a staple in anyone's wardrobe no matter what age. However, think about the jeans you wear if you want to look older. Buy high quality jeans in good, flattering cuts. Make sure they are not low-rise or high-waisted.


For guys, buy straight cut jeans. For girls, go for boot cut, wide leg, or skinny jeans. If you wear skinny jeans, make sure they are not too tight.
Trade faded or ripped jeans for jeans in darker washes. Don't get jeans with rhinestones or other accents.
 Finish off dressing maturely by wearing the right shoes. Don't wear sneakers or canvas shoes. Don't wear overly flashy shoes. If you are a girl, don't wear heels that are too high or too stylish. No matter what gender, don't wear flip-flops. Instead, wear sensible, conservative shoes.


For guys, wear boots. Black boots look good with just about everything. Brown leather lace up boots are also great for outfits. Loafers and boat shoes may also work if you don't want to wear boots. Polished leather shoes are a mature look.
For girls, wear pumps. Make sure the heels aren't too high. If you don't want to wear heels, wear sensible flats. Sandals look good in the summer.
 Another way to look mature is to dress nicely. Present yourself as a well-groomed, professional individual. This helps people see you as older instead of a child.For guys, wear khakis or dress slacks. Pair them with a tucked in polo or button up shirt. Wear a nice leather belt and dress shoes. A tie isn't necessary, but will help make you look more mature.For girls, wear dresses that fall to your knees with necklines that do not show too much cleavage. You can also try wearing a nice skirt and blouse. Pair the dress or blouse with a cardigan or a blazer. Wear sensible shoes.
 When you are going out, don't carry a backpack. This will make you look young. For guys, carry a messenger bag or a leather briefcase. For girls, carry a simple clutch or a cute hobo purse.