 To succeed in this defense, you typically must prove the employee would seriously threaten the health and safety of others.


This defense typically is used in cases where the employee's disability is related to an illness or chronic medical condition such as HIV.
Keep in mind that you cannot ask a potential employee to complete a medical examination before he or she is hired. You can offer a job that is contingent upon passing a medical examination, but only if the exam is job-related, consistent with your business needs, and required for all employees in that job category.The law recognizes that you have a legitimate concern to maintain a safe workplace both for the sake of your employees and for members of the general public., Whatever risk of harm the employee's disability would cause must be likely to happen – not based on speculation or generalizations.Medical or occupational studies interpreted by a medical professional testifying on your behalf are one way to prove this probability.
The probability must be imminent as well. You cannot discriminate against an employee based on a fear – no matter how well established – that a harm will occur sometime in the distant future., You must have expert opinion regarding the existence of the threat.


Your decision must be based on proven facts and an independent medical assessment of the employee and the work he or she is expected to perform.
Any medical assessment must be based on the employee's present condition and abilities, not what might happen later.For example, if you refuse to hire an employee because he or she is HIV-positive, that refusal can't be based on the risk that would occur if that employee developed full-blown AIDS.
 You must be able to prove that even if reasonable accommodation were provided, the threat would still exist to virtually the same degree.


The law requires you to provide reasonable accommodations if they would eliminate the risk or reduce it to an acceptable level.If accommodations are available, but they would be unreasonable for you to provide due to the difficulty or expense they would involve, you must prove this as well.