 If the periodontitis is severe, your cat may require surgery or another procedure. There are many different procedures used to treat cats, based on how the disease has progressed.



Root planing: In this procedure, tartar and diseased tissues are removed from the tooth. The vet may smooth over the root surface.

Subgingival curettage: This will remove diseased connective tissue from the tooth.

Gingivectomy: The vet will remove excess gum tissue to prevent bacteria from growing in the pockets between the gums and the teeth.Gingival Flap Surgery: The vet may open a flap of the gum over the root of the tooth to reach the deeper pockets so that they can be cleaned.Tooth extraction: A tooth is removed. This is done when the tooth cannot be saved or if other procedures do not work.
 The vet may prescribe your cat antibiotics to prevent or treat any infections. Follow the directions of the antibiotic carefully to make sure that your cat is getting the correct dosage., Once your cat has been treated by a vet, you will need to maintain daily dental care. Brushing your cat's teeth will help prevent future tartar build up and bone loss. Your cat may not respond well to brushing at first. Introduce brushing to your cat over a period of about four weeks.


Find a pet toothpaste in a flavor that your cat enjoys, such as fish or chicken flavor. Do not use human toothpaste, as it contains ingredients, such as fluoride, that may be harmful to cats. For a week or two, put a little toothpaste on your finger, and let the cat lick it off.
Once the cat is used to the taste of the toothpaste, rub a little bit on the cat’s front teeth. If the cat resists, stop, and try again the next day.
After a week or two, the cat may stop resisting when you touch their teeth. At this point, you can start using a brush. Start with the cat's front teeth and work your way around their mouth., Once a day, put a small amount of veterinary toothpaste or dentifrice on a brush, and brush the cat’s teeth with it. Move the brush along the outside of their teeth. Go quickly so that your cat does not wriggle away. You do not need to brush the insides of your cat's teeth.You can buy cat-specific toothbrushes from your vet or pet store. Do not use a human toothbrush as your cat may swallow the bristles.
If a feline toothbrush does not work, try a finger brush instead. Finger brushes are available at most pet stores. These will slide over your finger. This is a more comfortable method for some cats., If your cat had surgery or another medical procedure, you may need to feed them only soft foods for the first week or so after bringing them home. After that, your vet may recommend a special type of dry food that will reduce the risk of further tartar build-up. Talk to your vet to understand what dietary changes may be necessary for your cat.Some cat foods are marketed as dental diets. They contain special anti-tartar ingredients.Ask your vet if one of these is right for your cat.
 Once your cat has been treated, they may need to return to the vet every so often to have their teeth checked again.Talk to your vet to see how often they recommend you visit.After your cat has been treated, you may need to return to your vet after four to six weeks. After this first visit, depending on the severity of their condition, you may need to bring the cat in between two and four times a year.

