 This can be done in person, by email, text, phone, or in combination. Whatever method you choose, be sure the other person will receive the message in an efficient manner.


Despite guilt being a somewhat negative emotion, you don't want to add more negativity by being rude in your messages.
Get your point across while being firm and polite.
 For text-based communications including e-mail, you can't translate emotion as well, so rely more on memory in the scripting..


For example, if you guilt trip someone over standing you up on a date you might try something to the effect of, "I was waiting all night at location X for you, but you can make it up to me by doing Y" where X is the common memory you have of a meeting place and Y is the changed behavior you wish to get out of the other person.
Another sample of this might be an e-mail to a boss that you need to get more time for an assignment on. You could remind them of a time you did another job for them by saying something such as, "Remember when I got your taxes done just at the deadline? I need another week on this project."

, For personal or phone communication where body language or emotion can be better transmitted, you can use similar phrasing as the steps above, but the degree to which you are upset over the memory may be conveyed through your expressions and affect how much guilt you draw out of the other person.An example of a personal contact may be you having the person over for a drink and guilt tripping them over leaving you with a large bar bill on another occasion when you also had to pay your rent that week. So, you could say something to the effect of, "Do you remember the last time we had a drink together?"--and then discuss repayment.
Another type of this contact over the phone might be asking a relative to take you with them on a trip to a place that meant a lot to you as a child. It might go something like, "Uncle Joe, you recall how much I loved seeing the mountains with Aunt Jane, can I go with you on this trip?" Your desire to go would be audible.

