 The ability to truly see things from different points of view is essential. This means really listening to what people say and trying to understand them before jumping to decide what is right or wrong.


Applying the golden rule is a good rule of thumb. In any situation you can quickly ask yourself: "How would I feel if I were in their situation right now?"
It is important to also realise that their life experience may have been very different to yours. How you would feel in this situation and how they feel might not be the same. Go beyond thinking how you would feel and honestly try to put yourself in their shoes. Ask yourself: “What are they feeling? Why do they feel that way?”

, Once you have read about how to communicate more effectively it will guide you in your everyday interactions with people.


Try to actively listen - really try to hear them, not just wait for your turn to speak.
Don't judge them. Try and understand the feelings behind their words even if you don’t agree with the views they are expressing it is always possible to understand why they think that way. Show them you have listened to what they have said.
 It is easy to stay in the same, safe routine and think you know what is right and wrong, but you miss the opportunity to learn from other possibilities.


Be curious about other people. Get to know people you would normally not stop and talk to. Ask questions about their lives. Speaking to people from different cultures can bring surprising changes in your own beliefs about life.
Speak to older people who have a lifetime of experience. Have meaningful conversations and ask for their advice on life and how to live it. This will bring unexpected information that can be of great value to you in the future.
 Trying places or activities outside your comfort zone will challenge and sharpen your ideas. Different does not mean wrong, it just means different.


Visiting different countries exposes you to all new ways of thinking. It will help you to empathize with different people in different situations.
If you can’t afford to travel, you can experience different cultures at home. Most cities have a variety of ethnic communities and restaurants that you can visit and learn about other cultures. Even watching foreign language films or reading about other cultures can go a long way to opening up your ideas.
 Are you truly treating others as you would like to be treated? Tell the truth to yourself and others, even when it is hard.


Recognize when you've done something right and be proud of it. This will have two benefits, you will see the positive effect it had on others and it will increase your belief and confidence that you are a person who does the right thing.
Recognize when you have done something wrong and learn from it. Reflect on what you did wrong, and work out how you can do better next time. This will help you get back on track.
If you have made a mistake or done something wrong, admit it. You will gain respect for being honest.

