 Once a coach has identified potential recruits, they begin reviewing these athletes more closely. They will verify your highlight reel and your statistics with your club and high school coaches. They will also verify your high school transcript with your school.


At this stage it is important to have all of your information organized. Coaches want to see that potential recruits are taking this process seriously and are able to follow up with them with the information that they request.
 This is the stage where coaches or the recruiters they work with will come to watch you play. They may invite you on official or unofficial visits of the university and contact your family members. Coaches want to see that you are an upstanding young person who is responsible, a team player, committed to soccer, and interested in their university.
During this time, you will need to spend time visiting the schools and meeting other players on the team. Continue to build your relationship with the college coach and emphasize that you are very interested in playing for them.
 Coaches that are interested in offering you a scholarship at this stage will extend verbal or formal written commitments. Depending on the school, you may receive this offer through your high school or club coach. You may have room to negotiate the terms of the offer but you should review them carefully.


Read over each offer very carefully with your parents and coaches. There may be terms for the offer, like maintaining a certain grade point average or participating in a training camp before school starts, that you have to understand and follow.
 Unless you are a top recruit at one of the best Division I schools, you will probably be unable to negotiate any offer you receive. If there are some specific terms that you can negotiate, proceed cautiously. Teams have been known to pull offers from athletes that they believe to be too pushy or disrespectful.


If you receive multiple offers, you may be able to leverage one offer against another. Keep in mind that some schools will offer a scholarship for a specific amount, like $20,000 each year, or a percentage, like 50% of tuition. A coach that offers you the highest amount, even if it is not a full ride, is unlikely to up their offer when they hear that schools are offering you less money., Congratulations! You’ve received a soccer scholarship from a team that you’re interested in. At this point, you will sign with the university and accept their soccer scholarship. This is essentially a contract between you and the college agreeing that you will play on their soccer team when you enroll in the school.

