 You should definitely have a lawyer if your spouse has one. You will be at a disadvantage if you don’t, as a lawyer knows the “ins” and “outs” of the law, which you cannot pick up on your own.


If you are interested in legal help, then you can contact the lawyer who helped you draft the prenuptial agreement. Ask the lawyer if he or she will represent you in the divorce.
Your lawyer can draft your Motion to Enforce the Prenuptial Agreement for you.;
, To draft a Motion to Enforce on your own, you should open a blank word processing document. Set the font to a comfortable size and style. Often, Times New Roman 12 point works best.


Whatever you use, don’t use a font that is too off-beat. Instead, try to use the same font style and size as your spouse has in court documents.
 The caption includes the name of the court, the names of you and your spouse, the case number, and the name of the judge.Take out a motion filed in your case. These documents should have the same caption information. Simply copy it into your own document.
 You should title the motion “Motion to Enforce Prenuptial Agreement.” Put the title directly below the header, in all caps. Make the title bold.


You also should center this title midway between the left and right margins.
 In your motion, you should request that the judge enforce the prenuptial agreement. You should also explain to the judge why the prenuptial agreement is valid. In particular, you should point out that it was properly executed.


The particular form the argument should take will depend on the court. You should consult with an attorney to make sure that you have properly drafted the Motion to Enforce.
 You must sign any motion that you submit to the court. Add a line for your signature and the date. Underneath this line, you should insert your name, address, phone number, and email address.You may need to have motions notarized. Check with your court clerk before signing the motion.
 You should make a copy of your prenuptial agreement and attach it to the motion.


You can label it “Exhibit 1” or “Attachment A.” However you label it, make sure that you refer to it in the same way in the body of your motion.
 Take the original motion and your copies to the court clerk and ask to file.The clerk should stamp your copies with the date.


Keep one copy for your records and the other copy for your spouse.
 You must schedule a date and time for the judge to hear the motion and rule on it. You must also send your spouse notice of the hearing as well.You will need to pick up a blank Notice of Hearing form and fill it out. Hand it to the clerk at the same time that you file your motion.
Courts have different ways of scheduling hearings. In some courts, you may be given a date and time right away. In this situation, you must write the hearing date on the Notice of Hearing and make a copy to send to your spouse.
In other courts, the clerk will notify all parties at a later date when the hearing is scheduled. Ask the court clerk for how hearings are scheduled in your court.
 You must send your spouse a copy of the motion. If he or she has a lawyer, then send the copy to the lawyer instead.


Ask the court clerk for acceptable methods of service. Typically, you can mail a copy of the motion. If not, you can generally have someone 18 or older who is not a party to the lawsuit make hand-delivery service.
Whoever serves the motion will probably need to fill out a Proof of Service or Affidavit of Service form.You can get this from your court clerk.
 If your spouse challenges your motion to enforce, then he or she will file a Motion to Object to the Enforcement.You should read this document and then meet with your attorney to discuss strategy.


Your lawyer also likely witnessed the signing of the prenuptial agreement. He or she can then testify as to your spouse’s state of mind when he or she signed the prenuptial agreement.
 Your spouse can challenge the prenuptial agreement by claiming that it is unenforceable. You should take out your copy of the agreement and go over it with your lawyer to see that it doesn’t contain any unenforceable provisions, like the following:


Child support provisions.You can’t agree to relieve one parent of providing child support. If you attempted to do this in the prenuptial agreement, then the entire agreement can be revoked.
Maintenance and support. In some states, you can’t include a provision that prohibits a spouse from getting spousal maintenance (also called “alimony”).However, other states will allow you to waive alimony.If you see this provision in your prenuptial agreement, ask your lawyer if it is legal.
Inaccurate disclosure about your finances. For your prenuptial agreement to be valid, you should have accurately disclosed your assets and liabilities to your spouse. Alternately, there should have been a full waiver of any disclosures.If you hid assets and did not disclose them in the prenuptial agreement, then a judge might void the agreement entirely.


Provisions that promote divorce. You can’t include provisions that create an incentive for your spouse to divorce you. One example would be a provision that awards a large lump sum of money (e.g., $25,000) for each year that you have been married.This provision could promote divorce because at some point the spouse will qualify for a lump sum which is sufficiently large to encourage divorce.
Frivolous provisions. You can’t include requirements that your spouse dress a certain way or look a certain way.If your prenuptial agreement contained frivolous provisions like these, then your spouse might be able to get the entire agreement set aside.
 Ideally, you followed standard procedures for drafting and signing a prenuptial agreement. These procedures were meant to protect you in case your spouse wants to turn around and claim that the prenuptial agreement is invalid. Proper procedures include:


Your spouse had legal counsel. Each spouse should have had their own lawyer when you were drafting and reviewing the prenuptial agreement. If your spouse didn’t, then he or she could claim not to have understood the agreement. In fact, in some states a prenuptial agreement will not be valid unless your spouse had a lawyer.You gave your spouse sufficient time to read the prenuptial agreement. Ideally, you gave your spouse a couple of months to review the prenuptial agreement and consider whether to sign it.If you sprung it on him or her the morning of the wedding, then your spouse could argue that he or she was coerced into signing.
The prenuptial agreement was properly signed and witnessed. If not, then it will be invalid., Because your spouse is challenging the prenuptial agreement, then you should identify witnesses who have relevant information. You should look for the following people and contact them:


Witnesses to the signing. Take out your copy of the prenuptial agreement and read who witnessed the signing. You might want them to testify about your spouse’s state of mind when he or she signed the agreement. For example, they can testify that your spouse didn’t seem pressured into signing.
The notary. The notary is another potential witness who can testify about your spouse the day the prenuptial agreement was executed.
Your spouse’s friends or family. Any who talked to your spouse in the weeks leading up to the execution of the prenuptial agreement can testify about whether your spouse felt pressured into signing the agreement.
 In most court hearings, you cannot have witnesses testify.However, this might differ by court. In some courts, the judge might let you have witnesses testify.


If the judge does not, then you will need to have witnesses present evidence by creating an affidavit.
An affidavit is a sworn statement from a witness. For example, your witnesses may tell the judge their impressions of your spouse during the execution of the prenuptial agreement.
For more information on creating affidavits, see Write an Affidavit.
 If you file a Motion to Enforce, then your spouse will likely file an objection. You will then want to reply to the arguments your spouse made in his or her motion. You should check if your judge will allow you to file a reply. If so, draft a motion in which you rebut the allegations made by your spouse.


For example, your spouse might claim to have been pressured into signing the prenuptial agreement. You can argue against this and point to evidence in your affidavits.

You could argue, “Although Wife claims that she signed the prenuptial agreement only under duress, the witnesses to the execution disagree. Specifically, Mrs. Smith testified that Wife was laughing and joking and generally in good spirits. Mr. Walker, the notary public, has stated that Wife said she was ‘happy’ to be signing the prenuptial agreement. As noted in their affidavits, Wife seemed comfortable and confident throughout the entire execution ceremony.”



, If you are representing yourself without a lawyer, then you should go to family court and sit in on a hearing. Courtrooms are generally open to the public, and you can observe most hearings and trials.


Pay attention to where the parties stand or sit and how they talk to the judge. You will want to present yourself in a similar manner.
 If you don’t know what to wear to court, then take some time to pull together a respectable wardrobe. Court is a very conservative place. The judge will expect you to look like you have just come from a job interview.


For men, this generally means a suit or dress pants and a shirt with a collar.For women, you should wear a dress suit or skirt suit. You could also wear a conservative dress. Women should make sure that their clothing is not too tight.For more tips, see Dress for a Court Hearing.
 You should give yourself sufficient time to get to court so that you can find parking.You will also need to pass through courthouse security.


Try to get to the courtroom at least 15 minutes early. When you arrive, you should check in with the clerk.
Don’t bring food or beverages into court. Also remember to shut off your cell phone and any other electronic equipment. You do not want it to beep or ring while you are in court.
You also should not bring children to court.Some courts might have a day care onsite, but if not, then you need to make other arrangements.
 When the clerk or judge calls your name, go to the front of the courtroom. You will either stand at a table or stand directly in front of the judge’s bench.You should explain to the judge why the motion should be enforced. For example, “Your Honor, we have a valid prenuptial agreement which was entered into voluntarily.”
You should mention specific pieces of evidence, such as information contained in affidavits.
 Your spouse will argue why the prenuptial agreement should be set aside. Do not interrupt your spouse. You will probably get a chance to respond to the arguments.

Typically, he or she will argue one of the following:You did not fully disclose all of your assets. Your spouse will have to prove that you have assets that you hid. Also, the failure to disclose must be substantial. Forgetting to mention a handful of savings bonds is not a reason to set aside a prenuptial agreement.
You pressured him or her into signing the agreement. This argument is frequently raised but rarely successful. In short, your spouse will argue that they were under duress because you didn’t give them enough time to read the agreement and they had no independent legal representation.
The agreement is unfair. In addition to claiming you withheld information about assets, your spouse could argue that the agreement itself is so unfair as to be unconscionable. This argument is rarely successful but often raised.
 The judge will probably deliver a ruling from the bench.Alternately, the judge could take the issue under advisement and announce a ruling at a later date.


You may need to prepare an order, which states the judge’s ruling. Ask the court clerk.

