 While outside forces often trigger emotions, the emotions themselves come from within you. That means you have control over them. Therefore, when emotions start to take over, let yourself feel them for a minute and accept responsibility. Then, try to look at the situation with a clear head.For example, maybe someone says something that you find mean, and you start to get angry. Take a moment to feel it. That's your response, but it doesn't have to be. Now think about the situation. Was the comment justified? Can you learn from it? You may find that your emotional response isn't appropriate to the situation when you focus on what was actually said.
Trying to identify where the emotion came from can also help you remain calm. For instance, maybe a comment makes you disproportionately angry. Before reacting, you might ask yourself, "Why is this making me so angry?" You might realize that the comment makes you feel like you're being ignored or dismissed. Think about if there are other situations in your life in which you feel ignored or dismissed, and if your anger really has little to do with what the person actually said. Maybe they're not ignoring you, but simply misunderstood what you said.
 Sometimes, the best way to move the focus from your feelings to the facts is to take a break. You may need a few minutes — or even a day or more — to process what's going on, and that's okay. Take a walk and try to look at the situation with an open mind. Alternatively, try a few minutes of deep breathing to clear your head. Both can help clear out the emotion, making way for you to see the facts.To deep-breathe, try closing your eyes. Breathe in while counting to four in your head. Hold it for four counts, then breathe out for four counts. Try to breathe deeply, from your diaphragm. You can also take longer breaths if it helps. Keep using this technique until you feel yourself calm down.
The length of your break may be dictated by the severity of your emotional reaction. If you are having a particularly strong reaction, you may need to sleep on it before you can approach the person from a calm, emotion-free place.
 If you feel yourself getting heated in an argument, you'll likely turn to feelings instead of facts. When you start getting hot under the collar, try taking a deep breath to calm yourself down before responding. In fact, counting to ten in your head can give you the moment you need.If you feel yourself getting really heated, ask to take a break, if possible.
 Defensiveness is a natural emotion when you're in an emotional discussion with someone you care about. However, giving into defensiveness is not sticking to the facts, and it is not productive. When you get defensive, you're not able to see the other person's side, and often, you start throwing emotional attacks into the argument.Take what the other person says to heart. If they say something is a problem, take a minute to consider if they're right instead of instantly getting defensive.
Think about the purpose of the discussion. Are you trying to find a compromise with the other person or find a solution to a problem? Let this be your focus instead of defending yourself.

