 This technique is a tool that builds upon ideas. One idea generates another idea, which then generates another idea, and so on until a list of random ideas is compiled in a creative, unstructured manner. When brainstorming in a group atmosphere, allow everyone to think more freely. Don't pursue a practical solution. Instead, gather ideas that have the slightest relevance to the problem itself.


No idea is criticized, and all ideas are recorded.
After a long list of ideas is generated, one can go back and review the ideas to critique their value or merit.
 Using a journal enables you to capture and record the spontaneous ideas that people can have during unusual times and places. One member of the brainstorming team can be assigned to write down those ideas. Then later on, that journal can become a source book of ideas that can be developed and organized.
 Focus on one specific topic and continue to write about it for a short period of time. Write down everything that comes to mind as long as it is about the topic. Don't worry about punctuation or grammar. Just write. You can organize, correct, and revise your content later. The purpose is to take a topic and then come up with several different thoughts about it within a short period time., Put the brainstorming ideas in the form of a visual map or picture. Make sure the visuals show the relationships among the ideas. For instance, your topic may be how to start a business.


Write "Start a Business" in the middle of a piece of paper and draw a circle around it.
Let's say you have come up with four subtopics that include products/services, funding, market, and employees.
Therefore, draw four lines, one for each subtopic, from the circle that contains your main topic. Your drawing will now look like a child's drawing of the sun.
At the end of each of those four lines, draw a circle. Write one of the four subtopics (products/services, funding, market, and employees) in each of those smaller circles.
Next, let's say that within each of those subtopics, you have generated two sub-subtopics. For instance, with "products/services," you thought of "dresses" and "shoes," and with "funding," you came up with "loan" and "savings."
So draw two lines from each of the subtopic circles, creating what looks like mini suns with two rays.
At the end of each line (or "ray"), draw a smaller circle and write those sub-subtopics in each. For example, from the "products/services" subtopic, write "dresses" in one sub-sub topic circles and "shoes" in the other. From the "funding" subtopic, write "loan" in one sub-subtopic circle and "savings" in the other circle.
Once completed, this map can be used to further develop the topic. This includes both divergent and convergent thinking.
 To acquire the best results, you will need to apply both divergent thinking and convergent thinking. They both play an important role in the process. Divergent thinking will supply the creativity while convergent thinking will analyze and evaluate those creative ideas and narrow them down.

