 Not all bed linens are classified as antique or vintage. Focus on those that were made before 1960 for the best results.


Find any damage on the linens. If they are damaged, they will not fetch the same price as if they are in excellent condition. Go over each set of linens with a careful eye. Decide what quality they are in, such as poor, fair, good or very good. Set poor quality linens aside to be used for crafts rather than resale.
Save any novelty linens from the 1970s and 1980s. Some novelty sheets can be sold online to collectors, especially if they are in good quality.
Try to decipher their age. If there is a tag, look that up online to try to find collections. If there isn't, try to take notes about what you know of the fabric and date of purchase. Ask older relatives in your family about the origins of these items.;
, You can improve the look and increase the value of some linens if you remove stains before using or selling them. The following methods can work on many types of vintage linen:


Spot treat the stain with gentle methods before laundering. Sprinkle salt and squeeze fresh lemon juice on the stain. Allow it to soak through for a few minutes. Then, pour hot boiling water over the linen. Be very careful when working with boiling water.
Hand wash all delicate linens. It is preferable to use soap flakes, rather than modern detergents, in order to maintain the integrity of the fabric. Never wring your linens dry, as it can damage the fabric.
Mix a solution of stain fighter in a bucket or sink, if this doesn't work and let sit overnight. Mix 1 scoop of enzyme bleach, such as Biz, with 1 scoop oxygen bleach, such as OxyClean and add 3/4 cup of ammonia and 1 gallon (3.8 L) of hot water. Agitate and rinse the stain fighter out several times.
Dry all items on a line or on the grass to avoid damaging them with heat. If you don't have a line, lay the linen on white towels on the grass in the sun. Sunlight can help to further bleach out stains.
 Visit estate sales, antique shops or online antique linen stores, such as vintagelinens.com and emsheart.com. It helps to have some contact with the linens to find out what valuable linens look and feel like.

