 At some point, you will feel able to return to your daily life. Things won’t go back to normal, but you can cope with the adjustment by creating a schedule. Having structure can almost feel like a warm blanket when the world has otherwise spun out of our control. So, develop a routine that works for you and stick to it.Think about the things you typically do in a day and write them down in a planner. Allot enough time for different events and activities, like eating lunch or commuting to work or school. Try to keep a stable sleep schedule by waking and lying down at the same times each day.
 The time after a death often leads people to think about the meaning of life. Your friend’s death may have made you more aware of things within yourself you’d like to change. Take some time to decide what kind of person you want to be moving forward.For instance, maybe you didn’t feel like you spent enough time with family. If so, start making that a priority. Or, perhaps your friend’s life was cut short and you are more inspired to live your own life more fully.
 In the weeks and months after your friend’s death, it pays to surround yourself with positive and supportive people. This might be another close friend, a sibling, a parent, a teacher, or a spiritual advisor. You might talk about your grief or simply ask the person to support you in some way.For example, you might say, “I was preparing to apply to college when Jenny died. Can you help me get back on track with my applications?”

, If you can’t seem to resume your place in the world after your friend’s death, you may need professional help. Some people experience complicated grief. You may blame yourself for the death, stop going to school or work, neglect your appearance, and even have thoughts of suicide.


A grief counselor can help you come to terms with the death and learn how to better cope with your emotions. Also, if you are depressed, they may refer you to a psychiatrist who can prescribe antidepressant medications.