 Watch his:



Fame. Most scammers have negative fame. But this isn't a really accurate way of predicting. Sometimes players buy defames, get mass defamed from a smear campaign, or just really don't care. Just be wary if someone with -20 fame invites you to the Kerning City equipment store for "free" Angelic Blessings.







Level. Would you rather have your level 5 character banned or your level 111 character banned? Most players would choose the first option because they have common sense. Just be careful if a level 10 invites you do a drop game.







Appearance. Most scammers wear the default clothes (the ones that you choose in the new character section) or class specific clothes that are low. Just be suspicious if a person in default or low leveled clothes ask you to be his "friend". This is also not accurate because some scammers wear high leveled clothing or NX items.







Name. A scammer would use complicated names such as "dfsshrtie1" or "MageGIIlllrlll1111". This is because before, you have to type in their name to report them, and if their name is complicated, they can get away easily. Nexon had made it harder by replacing it with a drop-down list with all the players in the map and the last people you talked to.





;
, This is most common with NX scams and boss runs. If your paying for a Zakum run, ask them if you can pay them after the run, and pay full price.
 You can get NX Credit from buying NX online or doing an offer, prepaid from buying NX gift cards, and Maple Points from Cashback days and from events. Sometimes Nexon gives NX during rollbacks, and if they do refund you, they may give you the wrong type of NX.
 Most of them happens in the Kerning City hospital (which has no mini-map), where the scammer is above you and steals your items. If you want to scam the scammer, make some work gloves with the Smithing profession or buy them from people. After the scammer drops something good, drop the work gloves and claim that it has "10 attack". Pick up the items and change channels before you can receive a defame from the scammer.
 They don't copy, but they close the game.
 You know those smegas (super megaphones) advertising NX selling? These are risky, as you may not get your NX or even worse, lose your account.

