 A cipher uses an algorithm, which is like a process or transformation that is applied to a message consistently. This means that anyone who knows the cipher can translate it.Complex ciphers can puzzle even trained cryptanalysts. Sometimes the math behind complex ciphers can prove a suitable defense for hiding everyday messages.
Many cryptographers add a key, like the date, to strengthen ciphers. This key adjusts the output values by the corresponding number of the day of the month (on the first, all output values would be changed by one)., One of the simplest ciphers you can apply is the ROT1 Cipher (sometimes called Caesar Cipher). This name simply means you should rotate a single letter forward in the alphabet for each letter of your message.ROT1 Message: Hello

ROT1 Enciphered: i ; f ; m ; m ; p
Caesar Ciphers can be modified to rotate forward a number of different letters of the alphabet. In concept, ROT1 and ROT13 are essentially the same.
Ciphers can be incredibly complex. Some require the use of coordinates, times, and other values as well. Some cipher process may require the use of a computer.
 Use your algorithm to encrypt your messages. As you learn the enciphering process, your speed should increase. Add to your algorithm to make it more complex. For example,


Include a rotating condition to your cipher, like the day of the week. For each day of the week, assign a value. Adjust your cipher by this value when encrypting a message on that day.
Include a page number with your enciphered message. Each corresponding letter of that page will serve as a key for the message, as in,


1st Deciphered Message: 7 ; 2 ; 3 ; 6 ; 3

Book Key: A_girl (spaces aren't counted)
/H/ is 7 letters away from /A/
/e/ is 2 letters away from /g/
/l/ is 3 spaces away from /i/And so on...


Key Adjusted Message: Hello, When you become experienced reading your cipher it should become second nature, or at least easier. As the application of these processes (algorithms) is consistent, habit will help you notice trends and gain intuition when working with this kind of cryptographic system.


Amateur cryptography clubs are popular online. Many of these are free and offer primers in the basics of modern ciphering.