 If you are having a bridal shower that has a theme based around a color, such as the bride’s favorite color, have favors that match this theme. For example, if the theme of the shower is pink, you may create pink shower favors like a pink candy bag or a pink candle set. Having the favors match the theme of the shower can make it feel cohesive and well put together.You may try setting a budget around the favor and then looking for items in a certain color for the bridal shower favor. For example, you may have a budget of $10 for each favor and go from there.;
, If you are having a bridal shower that is all about pampering and relaxing for your guests, have beauty themed favors as well. Go for a manicure set for each guest as a favor or a basket of face masks as favors. Put calming candles in gift bags as favors.You could also have the guests take home the nail polish they used on their manicures or pedicures during the shower as favors.
 If you are having a holiday themed bridal shower, holiday themed favors may be the way to go. Perhaps you give everyone a Christmas ornament as a favor for a Christmas themed bridal shower. Or maybe you give everyone a decorated Easter egg as a favor for an Easter themed bridal shower.You can make the holiday themed favors more personal by writing the names of each guest on them or by writing the names of the bride and groom.
 If you are hosting a bridal shower that is focused on the bride’s favorite drink, such as wine or cocktails, give out alcohol themed favors. Perhaps you have small bottles of wine as favors for the guests or a cocktail making kit for the guests.If there are guests who are not drinking, you may create separate favors for them that are virgin so they can still enjoy their favors with everyone else.
 If the wedding has a clear theme, match the bridal shower to that theme so it feels more unified. You may then create shower favors based on a unified wedding and bridal shower theme.


For example, the wedding theme may be “spring.” You could then use this as the theme for the bridal shower and get favors that conjure up “spring,” such as small fresh flower displays or soaps that smell like spring.
If you are not sure how to match the bridal shower theme to the wedding theme, you may ask friends and family for advice. Talk to friends who have gone to showers in the past or planned a bridal shower. Ask them, "How did you find bridal shower favors to go with the wedding theme?

