 When you are first training your dog to follow you, make sure that you do it in an enclosed area, such as a fenced in yard. Also, make sure to do what you can to reduce distractions for your dog. Train him during a quiet time of day to ensure that his full attention will be on you.

If you don’t have an enclosed backyard, then make sure your dog is on a leash. You can also use a leash in your backyard to help keep your dog’s attention on you.;
, One way you may be able to get your dog to follow you is by using food or treats. Start with a handful of kibble or small treats. Make sure your dog knows that you have food in your hand. Let them smell the food in your hand. Then, walk away from them.


If they don't follow you, use the food to lure them to you. Stop every few feet and hold out some kibble or treats to entice them to come closer and follow you.
Make sure to give your dog lots of positive reinforcement by praising them for following your instructions.
 You can get your dog to follow you by training them to obey the “follow” command. Start by standing near your dog. Command your dog using the keyword, and then immediately walk away. Don’t wait for them to follow you or you will confuse the dog.Choose a word or phrase to use, such as “follow” or “come along.”
Use a treat to reward the dog for responding to the command. If they follow you after hearing the command word, give them a reward. This will reinforce the behavior.
 Make sure to reinforce the “follow” command by keeping your dog in a position to follow you. You should remain in front of the dog at all times. Never let the dog get ahead of you, stop, or go off to the side.For example, if the dog slows down or stops, move ahead more quickly to encourage your dog to be near you.
If your dog gets ahead of you, stop and turn to walk in the opposite direction. Call your dog again.
If your dog goes to the right, you should go left and call your dog to follow you.
 Training your dog to follow you takes time. Your dog won’t learn it immediately. Depending on the dog, it may take weeks or months to fully train to follow you, especially if the dog is new to you. Don’t get discouraged if they don’t learn automatically. Keep reinforcing the behavior.Continue using treats to get your dog to follow you and to call them to you. Eventually, the behavior will be learned and your dog will follow you.
Remember to offer your dog lots of over the top praise to make training sessions a positive experience for them.

