 Most people who get antibiotics from doctors present with upper respiratory infections that cause symptoms such as coughing, runny nose, sore throat and mild fever. The problem is, most upper respiratory symptoms are caused by viruses (such as influenza or the common cold) which do not respond to antibiotics.Most upper respiratory infections (both bacterial and viral) run their course within a few weeks without serious symptoms, so taking a wait and see approach is a good strategy for doctors too.
Sending patients home without medicine is not always popular with patients, but it's helpful for cutting down on unnecessary antibiotic use.
If symptoms persist for longer than two weeks and/or get significantly worse, then taking blood/saliva samples is recommended for diagnosis purposes.
 Antibiotics are only effective against strains of bacteria and don't kill or significantly impact other pathogenic microorganisms such as viruses, fungi or parasites; however, infections caused by these other "germs" can cause symptoms nearly identical to bacterial infections. As such, it's crucial that doctors determine the real cause of the infection and not just guess based on symptomatology.To properly diagnose an infection, body fluids must be taken and examined by a medical lab (observed under a microscope, usually) to see what pathogens are infecting the patient.
For upper respiratory infections, a swab should be taken of the back of the patient's throat (which collects mucus) and sent to the lab.
The mucus is then "cultured" in a petri dish to see if disease-causing bacteria grow, which confirms a diagnosis of a bacterial infection.
 Patients often go to their doctors with the expectation of getting medications that can combat their infections, or at least make the symptoms better and less severe.With the advent of direct-to-consumer advertising, drug marketing increases patient demand; however, patients usually don't know which drugs are most appropriate for which conditions/symptoms/infections, so doctors should not be influenced by patient demands of antibiotics.


Explain to patients what antibiotics are for and what they don't treat. If the patient doesn't have a bacterial infection (substantiated by a medical lab) then they shouldn't be given antibiotics under any circumstances.
Other over-the-counter and prescription medications (such as anti-inflammatories and painkillers) are often appropriate and effective for non-bacterial infections and should be recommended instead of antibiotics. This allows patients to control their symptoms while their body fights the infections naturally.
Approximately 47 million unnecessary antibiotic prescriptions are issued in outpatient facilities in the U.S. every year., Another source of pressure that doctors must face is from the drug companies, specifically from the "drug reps" or pharmaceutical representatives who are the doctor's liaisons.Drug reps monitor their doctor's prescription habits and typically offer bonuses (trips or cruises, for example) for certain levels that are met.


Ignore the pressures and incentives from drug reps and prescribe in a responsible and ethical fashion.
Reduce the temptation to become more social with your drug reps — keep it on a strictly professional (in office) level.
Associate with drugs reps from more than one pharmaceutical company and use a variety of medicines based on safety, availability and affordability.
 Research has found that doctors who display posters in their offices stating their commitment to avoiding inappropriate prescription of antibiotics are much less likely to do so.The posters are cost effective and remind the doctors and patients of the serious issue concerning unnecessary antibiotic use.


Poster usage leads to an average of almost 20% less inappropriate antibiotic use in medical offices that participate.
However, even with a 20% reduction in unnecessary prescriptions, nearly 33% of patients still receive antibiotics without a substantiating diagnosis, so poster usage is only a partial solution.

