 The most popular way for people to maintain ketosis is to limit their carb consumption to between 20-50 grams per day. The total amount, though, depends on your gender, weight, and age. Avoid:High carb vegetables like peas and squash. Instead, focus on spinach and Brussel sprouts.
Bread
Starchy food like corn and potatoes
Grains like wheat, rice, and oats;
, Healthy fats are perhaps the most important element of a ketosis diet. Without consuming enough healthy fats, you won’t be able to maintain ketosis. As a result, you’ll need to eat enough fats and bring healthy fatty foods with you to places you can’t get them. Focus on:


Meat like beef, chicken, seafood, and even bacon
High fat vegetables like avocados
Dairy products like cheese and butter
Eggs
Nuts and legumes
Products that contain coconut oil, While the foods you eat will help you stay in ketosis, you also need to exercise regularly. This is because you want your body to be active so you can burn any carbs you consume.


Do light exercise, like walking or running, if you consume more than 5 or 10 grams of carbs.
Exercise at least 3 times a week for half an hour or more. For example, set aside time on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday to exercise.
It is best if you do at least some sort of moderate exercise every day. Running or powerwalking for half an hour a day will do a lot to help you stay in ketosis.
Exercise is important because it will help you burn off any carbs you consume, thus helping your body stay in ketosis., If you wind up eating extra carbs on a given day (more than 5 or 10 grams), you’ll need to exercise more than normal extra to burn them off. This way, you'll burn off any carbs that could prevent your body from entering or staying in ketosis.


Consider only eating carb heavy meals before a workout., A ketogenic diet has been linked to several possible health problems. These problems include dehydration, blood flow problems, nausea, headache, and blood chemical imbalances. As a result, you should know common risk factors before committing to a ketogenic diet., You may need to kick your ketosis off with a long-term fast. Fasting will help purge your body of carbs. Your initial fast could be anywhere from half a day to a day or even more. The length of the fast depends on your preference and health.


Consult your doctor before fasting. Avoid fasting if you have metabolic disorders or conditions like diabetes., By fasting every day, you’ll give your body a chance to process any carbs you may consume and to begin to break down stored fat. As a result, you should make sure to incorporate a fast into your daily schedule.


Skip a meal or stretch times between your meals. For example, skip breakfast every day.
Try to fit all your eating into 8 hours of the day., A fat fast is when you eat only a small number of high fat calories on a given day. Ultimately, you’ll lower caloric intake but maintain a high fat diet, spurring ketosis, and forcing your body to break down stored fat to meet your energy needs.


Consider eating about 1,000 calories per day of which 90% come from fat. An example of this would be eating several cuts of beef in one today paired with green beans, spinach, broccoli.
Your total number of calories may vary based on age, gender, and weight., Because ketosis is a result of your body’s ability to process and use glycogen, you should consult your doctor before beginning a regimen intended to keep you in ketosis. This is important, as your doctor might have insight into the safety of a ketosis diet for you.


Inform your doctor about any outstanding medical issues you have
Your doctor may warn you about the side effects of ketosis, such as nausea, headache, fatigue, dehydration and associated vascular damage., Whether your physician recommends it or not, you should probably have your blood tested for certain levels if you are committed to staying in ketosis. By testing your blood, you’ll make sure that you are healthy, your liver and kidneys are functioning well, and that there are no serious side effects to ketosis. Test your:


Ketone levels – this includes acetone, beta hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate
Blood sugar
Protein levels, Since exercise is an important part of your body’s ability to reach and maintain ketosis, a weight trainer will be able to provide you with a plan that will help you meet your fitness goals and stay safely in ketosis.


A fitness trainer may recommend a cardio routine that includes running or swimming.
Depending on your goals, your weight trainer may suggest a light weight training routine that will help you turn the extra protein you consume into muscle.
 A dietitian or nutritionist will be able to consider your age, weight, height, and other factors. They’ll use this information to create a nutritional plan geared toward helping you stay in ketosis. They’ll take vital statistics such as your weight, age, and health conditions.