 Making new friends can make your high school experience better, especially in the beginning. Your new friends can help you navigate the school, and they’ll ensure that you have someone to talk to in each class and during lunch.To make friends, smile and talk to your classmates. When you get to your class, say something like, “I really wish this school had a Starbucks,” “Man, I was hoping not to do any real work on the first day,” or “Hey, that’s a cool backpack.”
Try to make friends with upperclassmen because they can help you fit into your new school and give you advice. Say, "Hey, I'm Jenna. I'm new here," or "You seem to know a lot about the school. Which clubs would you recommend?"

, Clubs are one of the best parts of high school. There are a ton of options, and it’s easy to start your own if you have a cool idea. Clubs will help you make friends and be part of the school culture. You’ll feel at home in your new school in no time.Look on your school’s website for clubs that seem interesting. You may even be able to contact the sponsor.
Keep an eye out for flyers since a lot of clubs will be advertising for membership in the early weeks of school.
Ask your friends which clubs they might join. Tag along to see if it’s a fit for you.
 Sports games, dances, pep rallies, and other school events offer you a chance to hang out with your classmates, which could help you make more friends. It also shows everyone that you’re making the most of your high school experience.Try football or volleyball games early in the year, as these are usually the first sports of the season.
See if your school has a back to school dance. Attend the homecoming dance and any fall/winter formals.
Find out if your school has a fall carnival or a related event.
Go to school plays, band concerts, and art exhibits.
 Since high school is a new experience, you can learn from what others have gone through. Listen to the advice of your older friends, and take lessons from what happens to you and your friends., High school classes are harder for many students, so you may find yourself struggling. You also want to remember that your freshman grades will count toward graduation and potential scholarships, so talk to your teacher if you need help.Most schools offer after school tutoring, so ask your teacher when to come. Say, “I had trouble following today’s lesson. When can I come to tutoring?”
You can also email your teacher to ask about tutoring times.
 You’ll have a lot of resources for help if you need it. You can talk to teachers, your counselor, the assistant principal, the librarian, and often peer advisors. Don’t hesitate to reach out if you’re confused about something, feel lost, or are having trouble adjusting to high school.Make an appointment with your counselor.
Ask one of your teachers for help, or ask them where you can find peer support.
 High school is a lot more demanding than middle school, so you’ll need to keep a tighter schedule. While it might seem like too much at times, it’s preparing you for life. Stay organized so that you can keep up in your classes and still have fun.Try using a planner to track your assignments, tests, and club events.
Budget out your time so that you have enough time to get big assignments finished.
Don’t commit to too many clubs and sports.
Make sure that you also have some down time to rest.