


D.C. has a number of diverse neighborhoods that all have their advantages and disadvantages. One of the main things to keep in mind is that the city has one of the longest commute times in the entire country, so you'll want to choose a neighborhood that is close to your place of work, internship or study, or one that offers an easy and fast commute.
D.C. has an extensive and reliable public transportation system, so you might want to consider using that to get around rather than driving and losing precious hours in traffic.
The area around Capitol Hill is called Capitol Hill, and includes the Supreme Court building and the Library of Congress, as well as the Union Market, the Folger Shakespeare Library, and Eastern Market. Because it offers a good connection to other areas by means of the metro or bus, it's a great area for staffers and interns on Capitol Hill.
Dupont Circle, where the states of Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Connecticut come together, is a lively neighborhood that is both walkable and has a great connection to other parts of the city thanks to its metro station. Condos, apartments, and homes are available to rent on your own or to share in this part of town.
Adams-Morgan is an exciting and culturally diverse area. It's tiny and trendy and known for its nightlife, restaurants and boutiques, and there are 2 metro stations within 1 mile (1.6 km).
Cleveland Park/Woodley Park, about 20 minutes from downtown D.C., features magnificent old homes with large porches on beautiful streets. It is also next door to Rock Creek Park, the third oldest US National Park where locals hike and horseback on 32 mile long trails. Cleveland Park and Woodley Park are easily accessible by public transportation and the former has a metro stop.
Georgetown, where Georgetown University is located, offers a vibrant pub and nightlife scene. Colonial row houses, upscale boutiques and restaurants, and picturesque gardens make this a pleasant place to live.
Glover Park, just north of Georgetown, is mainly residential. Due to its proximity to Georgetown University and American Universities, it's home to many students.
Foggy Bottom lies along the border with Virginia and can be reached with the Blue and Orange metro lines. Due to the proximity to George Washington University, there are numerous apartment and condo rentals.
The following 2 neighborhoods, Downtown and The Mall, aren't specifically places to look for apartments, but if you come across one, it might offer a good location. Downtown is all about hotels, museums, federal buildings, and lobbying firms, but it also holds Chinatown and the Penn Quarter with the Verizon Center. The Mall town attracts thousands of tourists as it stretches 2.5 miles (4 km) from the Capitol to the Lincoln Memorial. Most of the monuments, including the Smithsonian museums, are located here.;
,


Be prepared for steep rent prices. If you can only afford under $1000, you're probably best off looking to live with 1 or more roommates. Between $1000 and $2000 you can get a studio in most locations, and sometimes even a 1 bedroom.
Determine for how long you need to rent. Most rentals are long-term, meaning you'll have to sign a lease for at least 12 months. You can find shorter leases such as month to month, but you could look for sublets, instead.
The suburbs offer cheaper rents, but you're looking at a longer commute and higher transportation costs.
 However, you need to react quickly as apartments go fast.
Other publications mainly feature the same listings as those on Craigslist.
If you know anybody in D.C., ask them to help you out. Word of mouth is the best way to find a safe and affordable place.
Ask if your place of work or study offers any help in your relocation. If you're a student, there are dorms available, and many of the companies and institutions provide housing for employees by working with local estate agents.
Sign a lease.
Always review the lease carefully so you know and understand exactly what you're agreeing to.
If you're going to live with a roommate, sign a roommate agreement that clearly states each party's rights and obligations.

