 Make a slip knot on the hooked end of the crochet hook using one end of the yarn.


The "tail end" or unattached end of the yarn will be ignored for the remainder of the pattern. The "working end," or the end still attached to the skein, will be the side you draw from as you complete the hat.
 Work two chain stitches from the loop on your hook.
 Chain two, then make nine half double crochets into the second chain from the hook to complete your first round.


To make a half double crochet:






Wrap the yarn over the hook once.
Insert the hook into the stitch.
Yarn over the hook again.
Pull the yarn and the hook back through to the front of the stitch.
Yarn over the hook once more.
Pull the yarn through all three loops on your hook.


Note that the second chain from the hook is also the first chain you completed.
The two chain stitches made at the beginning of this round count as your first half double crochet. This is true for this round and in all the following rounds.
 Chain two. Make one half double crochet into the same stitch you worked the chain from. For the rest of round two, make two half double crochets into each stitch of the previous round until you reach the end. Join the last and first stitches together with a slip stitch.


You should have 20 stitches in this round.
 Chain two and make one half double crochet into the same stitch. Half double crochet once into the next stitch, then twice into the stitch after that. Repeat this alternating pattern until you reach the end of your round.


Join the last and first stitches with a slip stitch.
You should have 30 stitches at the end of this round.
 Chain twice and half double crochet once into the same stitch. Half double crochet once in each of the next two stitches. For the rest of the round, alternate your stitch count: complete two half double crochets in the next stitch, followed by one half double crochet in each of the next two stitches.


Join the end and beginning of the round with a slip stitch.
This finished round will have 40 stitches.
 Chain two. For the rest of round five, half double crochet once into each of the next 37 stitches.


You should have 38 stitches in this round.
 Turn the hat around. Chain two, then half double crochet once into each of the next 37 stitches to complete round six.


This round will also have 38 stitches.
 Repeat the same pattern used in the previous round for rows 7 through 13.


Chain two, then half double crochet once into each of the next 37 stitches.
Each round should have 38 stitches in it.
 Turn the hat and chain one. Single crochet once into the same stitch, then single crochet once across the remaining stitches of the row.


Work in one decrease in the center of the round by single crocheting two stitches together.
The round should have 37 stitches.
 A scalloped edge will need a series of single crochets and double crochets. You will make a total of six scallops when done.


Turn the hat.
Chain once, then single crochet once into the same stitch. Skip two stitches. Make five double crochets into the next stitch, skip another two, then single crochet once into the next stitch.
Skip two stitches and double crochet five times into the next stitch. Skip another two stitches, then single crochet once into the stitch that follows. Repeat this substep until you work your way across the previous round.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 2-inch (5-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook and tighten to form a knot.


Weave the ends into the stitches of your hat to hide them.
 To complete the bonnet look, you need make two ribbon ties on the corners of the bonnet.


Cut two lengths of ribbon, each measuring 20 inches (50 cm).
Double one ribbon over and loop it through one of the front corners of the bonnet. Repeat with the other ribbon.
The baby bonnet is now complete. Use these ties to secure the hat on your baby's head as needed.

