 A blood clot can happen without any underlying cause. However, pregnancy increases your risk of getting blood clots, you are predisposed until 6 weeks after delivery. There are three major reasons for this increased risk:


Increased clotting. During pregnancy, your blood is more likely to clot. this is a survival mechanism that prevents your body from losing too much blood during labor and birth.
Slower blood flow. The blood flow in your veins becomes slower which leads to higher probability of blood clotting. This is caused by the hormones in your pregnancy.
Vein damage. During delivery, the baby presses on the veins in the pelvis, minor damage can occur in these veins leading to an increased risk of having a clot for up to six weeks after delivery.;
, The likelihood of developing clots during gestation or pregnancy can be further elevated by certain risk factors. Knowing these risk factors can ensure that you stay on guard. The following preexisting conditions can greatly increase your chances of clotting. If you suffer from one or more of the following, discuss specific preventative measures with your doctor:


Hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases, or vascular diseases. A damaged heart cannot pump blood as effectively as normal one, increasing the chance that blood pools and clots.
Thrombophilia. Some people are born with a tendency higher risk of blood clots.
Cesarean delivery. This doubles the risk of clots in comparison to vaginal delivery.
A personal or family history of clots. If you've had blood clots before, you're more likely to have blood clots in pregnancy. This risk also increases if you have had an immediate family member with an elevated blood clot risk
Previous use of oral contraceptives. Oral contraceptives increases your blood’s ability to clot. These characteristics can continue after oral contraceptive use has ended.
Multiple births. Being pregnant with twins (or more) puts more pressure on your pelvis and legs, increasing the risk of DVTs.
Dehydration. Dehydration increases the viscosity of the blood, which can contribute to the formation of blood clots.
Age. Pregnant women over the age of 35 are at increased risk of blood clots.
 Obesity is one of the major risk factors for DVTs during pregnancy or after delivery, which means that it is important that you maintain optimal weight. If you are planning to have a baby, you should try to reduce you weight so that your BMI is below 30.


Minimize the amount of salt in your diet. Salt leads to retention of fluids in your body which cause swelling.
Eat a healthy, balanced diet. This is especially important if you are overweight, as it will help ensure that you do not take on any more unhealthy weight during the pregnancy.
Drink plenty of water. This will help you avoid dehydration.
 Immobility is another factor that increases your likelihood of getting DVTS. You should motivate yourself to do light exercise, such as walking and swimming. Most normal pregnancies allow for moderate exercise such as walking and swimming until full term. However, you should consult your doctor before you plan daily exercise, just to be sure.
 Smoking has been linked to DVTs, especially during pregnancy. Therefore, once you find out you are pregnant, you should quit smoking.
 Compression stockings are must-have for all women who are at risk of getting blood clots during and after their pregnancy. They are specifically effective for those who are faced with immobility for reasons such as travel or bed rest.
 If you have a history of blood clots or have a genetic predisposition to blood clots, inform your obstetrician or midwife. Your obstetrician may prescribe you injectable anticoagulants, a drug that prevents your blood from clotting.

