 It doesn't have to be completely traction-less, bu you need to be able to spin 360 degrees in them without taking an extra step. If you are unable to do this yet or you're not a dancer, just go with the safest bet and find the smoothest sole possible. HOWEVER, it is equally important that the entire bottom of your shoe is not smooth. Try to find something with a little traction on the heel. Otherwise, you are going to slip and go flying.;
, Otherwise, your feet will be killing you the morning after a long night of dancing, trust me. Gel in insoles are cool if you feel like going that direction. Also very important: don't buy flats that could potentially slip off of your feet. A good way to test this (other than dancing, obviously) is to stand on your tip-toes and see if they feel loose. If they do, chances are they will come off, and that won't be fun. A way to troubleshoot an adorable pair of flats that don't look like they will stay on while dancing is to attach a piece of elastic on the top part of the shoe. This usually works, just make sure that it is firmly attached on both sides: I usually just staple it to the inside of the shoe, if they're not a pair of flats I care about. If you're more awesome than I am you can sew them on yourself, how's that for snazzy.
 Swing is often fast and involves some stylistic kicking, so if you're not careful you could remove your partners kneecaps. If this is not a deterrent for you though, wear low heels, with a thick, sturdy base. Lightweight though, this is important. It will hinder your dancing if you feel off balance and like your feet are abnormally heavy. As I mentioned above, make sure they are not going to fly off your feet (otherwise you run the risk of removing someone's eyeballs as well).
 These are where it's at. You don't have to worry about weight generally, or having them fly off of your feet. I highly recommend Keds brand, they are what I usually wear. Most trainers don't have super-smooth soles right when you buy them, but if you dance enough the traction beneath the balls of your feet should wear down pretty quickly. Plain white is awesome (and looks very professional), but there are a whole rainbow of colors just waiting for you.

