 Wash and dry the watermelon before cutting it. After cutting it into pieces that can be stored more readily, cut away the rind and remove any seeds you see.


Wash your hands with hot soap and water first to prevent any bacteria on your hands from contaminating the fruit.
 If necessary, use a clean vegetable brush to scrub away any dirt.


Pat dry with clean paper towels.
Cut the watermelon in lengthwise halves, then into quarters. From there, you can choose to cut the fruit into wedges, slices, cubes, or balls. Cubes and balls are the easiest to freeze.
If you did not do so as you were cutting the watermelon into pieces, cut off the rind and fish out any seeds with your fingers.
 Pack the watermelon pieces into the container, leaving 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace at the top.


You should also label the container with the current date so that you'll know, in the future, how long the watermelon has been in your freezer.
The headspace is vital because it provides the watermelon with ample room to expand as it freezes. Without the headspace, the container may break or open.
The container you use must be resistant to both moisture and vapor, and the material must be thick enough to protect the watermelon against other odors or flavors. Glass is not recommended since it is prone to breaking in extreme cold.
 Pour pineapple juice, orange juice, or ginger ale over the pieces, covering them completely.


Juice or liquid with both acid and a high sugar content are recommended over options that are less acidic, like apple juice, or liquids that lack sweetness, like vinegar.
 Lay a piece of wax paper over the watermelon, keeping the pieces submerged under the surface of the juice.
 The watermelon can be stored for 8 to 12 months, on average, as long as the temperature remains at a maximum of 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius).


When you are ready to use the watermelon, let it thaw in the refrigerator before adding to dishes or otherwise consuming it. Thawed watermelon should be used within four days.

