 Although most people tend to stick with a simple black eyeliner, if you have hazel eyes, you can try experimenting with different colors to see what makes your eyes stand out.


For example, if you want to bring out the blue in your eyes, try using a deep purple, which will bring out any blue tones you have in your eyes.If you want to bring out the green in your eyes, try using colors such as taupe, brown, green, or gold.;
, As with eyeliner, if you have hazel eyes, you aren’t stuck with black. Try other shades, too! Some mascara comes with flecks of gold, which is a good option for hazel eyes, you can also try lighter browns, or even mascara that has a purple tint., This can be tricky for people with hazel eyes. Most of the colors that will accentuate you hazel eyes tend to be bolder colors that can end up looking clownish, if you’re not careful. Try sticking to colors in the purple, blue, green, and gold family.Apply moderately! If you’re using a green shade, don’t apply it to the entire lid. Especially if you’re applying your makeup for work or some other professional endeavour. For example, start with a neutral color, such as taupe, and then apply your eyeshadow to the crease only so it will be more subtle. You can always experiment with using more when you are going out in the evening.
Avoid using too much blue. A bit of blue can accentuate your eyes if they have more blue tones than brown. However, especially if your hazel eyes tend to be more of a greenish-brown, too much blue can clash., Eye makeup isn’t the only method of bringing out the color in your eyes. Choosing a lip color, whether it be lipstick, lip stain, or a gloss, can also help your eyes pop.While you don’t want to overpower your eyes with a very bold lipstick, you can still accentuate them.For example, try choosing colors that are complementary to your eyeshadow. Generally, berry colors (such as coral, pink, or red) offer good, but subtle choices.One example of a bad color pairing would be to choose a very dark berry color for your lips, and then pairing it with a green eyeshadow.
 Most bronzers are made to give you a golden glow, and gold is great for making hazel eyes pop. However, apply in moderation as you don’t want to give yourself a fake looking orange tint. Simply sweep the bronzer gently over your t-zone. This area includes the skin just above your eyebrows, your nose, and the skin just under your nose, and below your lips., Hair color plays a big role in accentuating or down-playing our eyes. If you already dye your hair, or are up for trying it, you can try warmer tones, such as red or auburn, or even a more golden shade.If you have a more blue tone to your hazel eyes, you might also be able to work with cooler shades such as a lighter gold tone.If you are nervous about dying your hair, try using a semi-permanent color that doesn't last as long as permanent color, or you could even try on a wig in the color you are thinking of to get an idea of how it will react with your skin and eye color.

