 Even if you utilize every dispute prevention process, you will not be able to avoid every problem. However, if you catch problems early, you can minimize the costs associated with fixing them.In order to catch problems as they occur, keep an eye on your project and visit the site on a regular basis.


If you cannot visit your project site in-person, agree ahead of time that the contractor will contact you with updates at specific intervals.;
, If you find a problem, bring it to the contractor's attention immediately. Doing so will allow both parties to resolve the issue before it compounds and gets worse. When you talk with the contractor, be honest and straightforward.
 When you talk with the contractor, have an honest conversation about how the problem can be fixed, and whether it is a problem at all. As someone who does not necessarily understand the construction process, you might think something is an issue that may in fact be part of the process.


When you discuss solutions, be open to suggestions and make sure you listen to the contractor. They are the party that understands the construction process best.
When you talk with the other party, discuss how the problem can be solved and when it needs to be solved by. If you can come to an agreement, you can diagnose the problem and solve it before it turns into a full-blown dispute.
 If you get to the point of invoking the dispute resolution clause in your contract, you should start by negotiating directly with the contractor. You may even agree to "step negotiation." In step negotiation, if you and the contractor cannot reach an agreement after a set amount of time, you will push the negotiations up the chain. In some cases, this may mean letting attorneys talk. In other situations, it may mean you push it to other employees or upper management.


If an agreement cannot be reached, try bringing in a convener who will conduct informal meetings with both parties. During these meetings, the convener will attempt to find common ground and find solutions in a timely and effective manner.Convenors are neutral third parties and can be hired locally by many law firms or legal organizations. In addition, the American Arbitration Association (AAA) offers "neutrals" who you can hire to act as conveners in your dispute.
 Mediation is a more formal process to discuss the scope of the dispute, explore the interests of the parties, and lay out the strengths and weaknesses of each party's case. A mediator (i.e., a trained third party who counsels the parties and works toward a solution) will attend every session and help you come to a solution.


During mediation sessions, do not make formal presentations or utilize legal authorities. Instead, work with everyone in the room to discuss how a solution can be reached. Be honest and open. Tell the other party if you need more information to help you understand what is going on.
If informal mediation fails, you can ask the mediator to take a more evaluative approach. In this scenario, the mediator may provide an advisory opinion, which will set forth the strengths and weaknesses of everyone's case. Once you and the contractor read the opinion, discuss it with the mediator and try to reach an agreement.Mediators can be found at a lot of local law firms or alternative dispute resolution organizations. Most notably, the AAA offers mediation services for a fee.
 If your dispute hasn't been resolved yet, you may need to take part in binding arbitration. This process can be a great alternative to litigation. Arbitration will cost less, be less formal, and may not require the use of a lawyer. To commence arbitration:


File and initiate a case by submitting a demand for arbitration. In most cases, you will do this through the AAA, which is a reputable arbitration service. If you use AAA, you will be required to pay a filing fee, which will depend on the type of arbitration you are taking part in.
Choose an arbitrator or arbitrators. If you use the AAA, they will have a list of qualified and independent arbitrators for you to choose from. If you and the contractor can agree, the arbitrator will be appointed.
Exchange information. Once arbitration begins, you and the other party will exchange various documents and information. The purpose of this stage is to get to a point where the arguments can be presented.
Conduct hearings. You and the other party will present evidence to the arbitrator, who will act like a judge.
Await an award. After the hearings, the arbitrator will review all of the information they received and will write an opinion. Within their opinion will be an award, which will be binding on both parties.
 Administrative complaints are formal actions brought to government agencies. In every state and in the federal government, there is at least one agency that will hear complaints from consumers about construction related matters. To find these agencies, you will need to search online for various keywords.


For example, California takes complaints through their Department of Consumer Affairs, Contractors State Licensing Board.Maryland accepts complaints through their Department of Labor, Licensing, and Regulation, Home Improvement Commission.Arizona uses the Registrar of Contractors.
The federal government also has a forum that accepts complaints. It is through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).Each state will name their agencies different names. Do an internet search for your state followed by "construction or contractor complaints."
There is no particular time at which you need to file an agency complaint. In most cases, they should be filed before you go to court but after you attempt alternative dispute resolution. You may be barred from bringing an administrative action if you have already received a valid court order.
You do not have to file with a state agency before filing with HUD, and vice versa. Where you file will depend on the type of dispute you have. As you will see, HUD can only hear certain types of cases. State agencies, on the other hand, can often hear more types of disputes.
 Once you find the agency that handles complaints, you will file a formal letter with them to start the process. For example, in California, you can file a complaint online. They will ask you for your personal information as well as information about the contractor. You can usually file complaints for poor workmanship, abandonment of a project, or for building code violations.Once you file your complaint, it will be prioritized by its level of severity. The agency will usually reach out to the contractor in order to foster an agreement between the parties.
If mediation doesn't work, they may ask you to go through arbitration.
Finally, if any violations are found, most agencies will have the authority to levy citations and further charges., HUD will accept complaints concerning specific actions and transactions. In particular, HUD will hear complaints about manufactured housing, which might include how it was built, and for deceptive contractors, which involves contractors hired using Title 1 loans.


Title 1 loans are HUD insured and offered to certain people to help them get work done on their homes. However, some deceptive contractors will overcharge for work and do poor work. If you believe this has happened to you, you can the government's toll free number to report it.If you have a manufactured home and you believe it was built poorly or the purchase contract was not honored, you can send a complaint to HUD. The complaint will need to contain your personal information, the manufacturer's information, the serial and model number of your home, the label number, the date you purchased the home, and the sales company that sold it to you. Send this information to HUD and they will look into your claims., If all other avenues fail, you will usually have the ability to sue the contractor in court. If you plan on doing so, you should hire a qualified attorney if possible. There are attorneys out there who specialize in construction law and will be able to help you successfully navigate the legal system.


If you do not personally know an attorney who can help, use your state bar's lawyer referral service. For example, in Nevada, you can submit an online referral request or call the state bar. In return, Nevada will analyze your situation and get you in contact with qualified attorneys in your area., When you sue a contractor, you must have a valid reason for doing so. Most cases are brought for uncompleted jobs, breach of contract, or when inferior or negligent work is not repaired., Most states will not have prepared forms for construction related lawsuits. Therefore, you will be responsible for drafting a complaint from scratch. A complaint is a formal document submitted to a court that starts a lawsuit. Your complaint will need to describe what you want (i.e., money), why you want it (i.e., the facts of the case and the applicable law you are suing under), and who you want it from (i.e., who is the defendant).If you have an attorney, they will ask you various questions in order to understand your situation and they will draft the complaint. The complaint needs to conform to certain court rules so you should always leave this process up to the attorney when you can.
If you are filing the lawsuit on your own, you will need to get a copy of your court's local rules. Within those rules will be directions on how to draft a valid complaint.
 Once your complaint is drafted, you will need to file it with an appropriate court. You will need to find a court that has jurisdiction over the defendant. Usually you will be able to file suit where the contractor's office is located or where the work is being, or was, done.


When you file your complaint, you will have to pay a filing fee. The fee will vary from state to state but is usually a couple of hundred dollars. If you cannot afford the fee, you may be able to get a fee waiver. However, you will have to prove to the court that you are unable to pay.
Once you file your complaint, the court will issue a summons, which is a piece of paper notifying the defendant of the case against them and telling them they need to come to court., After filing, you will have some third party serve the defendant with the complaint and summons. Usually this will be the local sheriff's department. If you have them serve the defendant, they will charge a small fee for the service.


A lot of states also allow you to serve the defendant through the mail. If you do this, you will have to use certified mail, return receipt requested. You will need to provide proof of receipt with the court in order to have the service verified.
 Once the defendant receives the complaint and summons, they will have a short period of time to respond to your complaint. Usually, this will occur within three weeks to one month. The defendant's response will be in the form of an answer and potentially counterclaims. Here, the defendant will have an opportunity to admit or deny the claims you made, and will have an opportunity to make claims of their own.
 Once the lawsuit is under way, you will take part in discovery, which will give you the opportunity to request documents from the defendant. Within certain guidelines, the defendant will be required to give you any document relevant to the case. In addition, you may be able to interview witnesses and other relevant parties to the case.


This is a time to figure out how strong the defendant's case is and what they plan on saying in court. Use the information you get to decide whether going to trial is smart. If you feel as though you have a strong case, you should consider moving to trial.
However, if it looks like the defendant is in a good position, you may consider going back to negotiations and trying to settle.
 If your case makes it to trial, you will have the opportunity to present your case to a judge or jury. At trial, you will present evidence in accordance with court rules and you will present witness testimony as well. Each side will have an opportunity to present their own witnesses and evidence, and you both will also have an opportunity to question the other side.


After trial, a judge or jury will award one party with damages. If you win, the contractor will be required to pay you the amount decided on in court.
 Many disputes come about when contractors have to do more work than they planned for, have to spend more than they thought they would, and when they have to bring more people in to complete the project. To alleviate these problems, create a detailed project plan before work ever starts. Sit down with your contractor and talk through as many scenarios as possible. This will help you determine the scope of the project and exactly what will need to be done to complete it.


The goal of this process is to avoid as many changes to your initial plan as possible.
In addition, the better a plan is thought out, the more effective the contractor will be at completing the project., Ask contractors to spell out scenarios that would cause them to increase prices. Tell the contractor to attach a dollar amount for each one of these risks. When you get this sort of bid, you will be able to decide what risks to keep and what risks to pay the contractor to accept. This will allow you and the contractor to allocate risk as each party sees fit.For example, assume that a contractor determines that there is a risk that they may not be able to transport a certain material to the work site without special permitting, but they will not know until they are in the middle of the project. The contractor feels like this risk is worth $1,000.
If you keep this risk, you may or may not dispute who has to pay for the permitting costs and how much should be paid. On the other hand, you could pay the contractor $1,000 and agree that regardless of what happens, the contractor will cover the costs.
If the contractor does not need a permit, they keep the $1,000. If the contractor needs to get a permit, they can use that $1,000 to pay for part of the permitting cost.
 Before you and a contractor agree and sign a contract, agree to take part in partnering. Under this approach, you and the contractor will attend workshops where facilitators will help both of you work through possible project risks and obstacles. Together, you will lay out mutual goals and objectives.


Some organizations, for example the American Arbitration Association (AAA), offer partnering programs and facilitators.
 Your contract should contain a dispute resolution process that is acceptable to both parties. You should make it flexible so you can choose what processes will work best in a given scenario. In general, your dispute resolution clause should allow for internal negotiations first, followed by mediation, and then a choice between binding arbitration and court.


Consider including "triggering" events that would allow you to move through the process. For example, you may state that if internal negotiations do not lead to progress after five days of trying, you can move into the mediation stage.
You may also include dollar amounts that would lead to specific processes. For example, you might state that if the amount in controversy is more than $10,000, you will not use binding arbitration and will instead use the court system.