 This particular recipe involves placing your braised lettuce on a toasted piece of bread. This means that a larger kind of leaf, like those found in romaine lettuce, the fuller the topping for the bread. You can also substitute similar kinds of lettuce to romaine, like iceberg or butterhead lettuce.Including lettuce, you'll also need:


Black pepper (cracked)
Bread knife (optional)
Chicken stock (or vegetable broth)
Ciabatta bread (or peasant style bread)
Frying pan (large preferred)
Olive oil
Romaine lettuce (one head)
Sea salt (coarse)

, Your lettuce will likely have excess water on it after you wash it. Take a clean dishrag or paper towel and pat the lettuce dry. From your lettuce, choose a several leaves that are firm and green. Depending on the size of your bread and leaves of lettuce, you may want to halve your leaves.Each leaf of romaine that you braise will top your ciabatta or peasant bread. Leaves that are too large might not fit easily atop your bread.
 You may have bought your ciabatta or peasant bread pre-toasted, in which case you won't need to slice or toast it. Otherwise, you'll need to cut the bread with a kitchen knife and toast it either in a toaster or toaster oven., Put your pan on the cook top and set the temperature to medium-high. Coat the bottom of the pan in olive oil by tilting the pan back and forth after the oil has heated.Your oil may not spread easily to some parts of your pan. In this case, you can use a spatula or spoon to spread the oil.
 Add your lettuce to the pan. Use a kitchen utensil, like a spatula or spoon, to apply pressure to the stalks in the center of the leaves. The more contact between the leaves and your pan, the better the braising will be.


Braise lettuce leaves at 1 - 2 minute intervals and flip the leaves with a spatula after each interval.
After your first flip is the ideal time to season your leaves. Have your salt and pepper on hand so you're ready to season., But first, use your spatula or a spoon to remove the lettuce from your pan and set it on a spare plate. Add ¼ cup of chicken stock or vegetable broth to the pan, and bring it to a boil.


To make a richer braising mixture, you could also add to it: ¼ cup white wine, ¼ teaspoon of garlic powder, ¼ teaspoon of red pepper flakes, ¼ teaspoon of dried oregano, and ¼ teaspoon of pepper., Lower heat until the chicken stock/broth is at a simmer. Add your lettuce to the pan, cover it with a lid, and allow it to cook for about 7 minutes. After that, remove the lid and flip each with a spatula or spoon. Return the lid to the pan, and cook it for another 3 minutes.


If your lettuce leaves have turned a dark green color, your braised lettuce is ready! Remove it from a pan with your spatula or spoon.
You can turn leftover stock/broth into a sauce for your lettuce. Simply boil it for a few minutes until it thickens, then add it over top the lettuce after the dish is served., When the lettuce is done, transfer it to some paper towel to cool and absorb excess oil. Spread your cheese over the top of your toasted pieces of bread. Then fold each leaf in half and top each piece of bread with a leaf. Your braised lettuce is ready to eat.