 You may be planning on using skewers to pierce the pieces of your squash in shish-kabob style. However, if you plan to use bamboo skewers, you'll want to soak these in water beforehand for a half hour to prevent the wood from charring.You can also use metal skewers for your squash. You won't have to worry about soaking these, as the metal will not burn.
When using metal skewers, you should be careful not to burn yourself. The metal will become very hot quickly when upon the grill.
If you don't have skewers, you can simply lay the squash upon the grill and use a spatula to turn it when it is ready.
 Make sure that flammable materials are a safe distance away from your grill while grilling. If you are using a propane grill, check the hoses to make sure they are fastened securely to the grill and there are no leaks or breaks in the line.If you are using a charcoal grill, you may also want to use a long lighter to prevent getting burned when using an accelerant, like lighter fluid.
You could also use matches to light lighter fluid. A wooden/cardboard match can be lit and then tossed into the grill to set the fluid on fire., Charred bits of food from previous grilling can build up on your grill and rub off on your squash when you are grilling. This can give your squash an unpleasant charred flavor. Use a scraper to knock free and remove built up char.


A wire brush can also come in handy when cleaning your grill. This can help break up buildup in the nooks, crannies, and corners of your grill., It can take time for your grill to heat up, so doing this in advance can help you get your food served faster. For summer squash, you'll want to use medium heat. For winter squash, you should use high heat., To prevent your squash from sticking to the grill, you'll need to brush a thin layer of melted butter or olive oil onto your squash. You'll also likely want some kind of seasoning on hand so you can apply it to your squash after coating it in butter or oil.


A simple seasoning of salt and pepper works well for grilled squash.
Steak seasoning also works well with the solid, meaty texture of summer squash.Winter squash has a slightly sweet taste that pairs well with a honey glaze.The sweeter taste of winter squash may pair well with lemon pepper.
