 To keep your hair from darkening, mix equal parts pure lemon juice and water or olive oil and spray it into your hair.Diluting the juice with water or olive oil will help keep hair from drying out, though it may also cause the juice to take longer to work.


Sit outside in the sun for about an hour and the lemon will help lighten your hair naturally.
Follow the lemon with a conditioning treatment, as lemon juice can be drying to your hair.Repeat several times a week until your hair reaches the desired shade.
 Like lemon juice, hydrogen peroxide can help lighten hair, particularly when exposed to the sun.


Fill a spray bottle with hydrogen peroxide.
Spray the peroxide through your hair.
Go outside and let your hair dry in the sun.
Apply a conditioning treatment afterward, as hydrogen peroxide can be drying to hair.
Repeat weekly until you reach your desired shade.
 Camomile tea--the same stuff you drink--will give a warm golden glow to your hair when you use it as a rinse.Boil about 16 ounces of water and add about 5 camomile tea bags.
Steep the tea bags for 15-20 minutes.
Allow the tea to cool.
After shampooing and conditioning your hair, pour the tea through your hair, or, alternatively, fill a spray bottle with the tea and spray through your hair.
Leave the tea rinse in and let your hair air dry.
Repeat each day until your hair is the desired shade.
 If you prefer a slightly more intensive treatment, you can use a camomile mask on your hair rather than a rinse.Boil about 1 cup of water and add about 4 camomile tea bags.
Steep the tea bags for 15-20 minutes.
Allow the tea to cool.
Mix about 2 tablespoons of plain natural yogurt into the tea (2 tablespoons is best for medium-length hair; if your hair is shorter, use less; if your hair is longer, use more).
Apply the mask and cover your hair with a shower cap, saran wrap, or, if you have neither of those, a towel.
Leave the mask on for an hour, then shampoo and condition as usual.
Repeat once or twice a week until your hair reaches the desired shade.
 Cinnamon can naturally lighten your hair without any damaging effects.Grind up 3 tablespoons of cinnamon. Freshly ground cinnamon is optimal to use, but if you can’t grind your own, you can use commercially ground cinnamon.
Mix the cinnamon with a few tablespoons of conditioner. Mix in the cinnamon thoroughly.
Spread the mix throughout your hair. Cover your hair with a shower cap, saran wrap, or, if you have neither of those, a towel. Leave on for four hours (or overnight).
Shampoo and condition the following day like normal.
Repeat several times a week until you achieve the desired shade.
 Honey can naturally lighten your hair without damaging it, and, as a bonus, honey’s beneficial to both your hair and scalp. Honey, however, lightens hair more slowly than many other methods.Combine 1/3 cup honey with 1/4 cup conditioner. Mix well.
Apply the mixture through your hair. Cover your hair with a shower cap, saran wrap, of, if you have neither, a towel. Leave on for four hours or overnight.
Shampoo and condition the following day like normal.
Repeat to achieve desired shade.

