 Generally, you have to file a “petition” with the court to request a paternity test. You should file in the county where the child lives.If you live in the same county as the child, then file in your county’s court.


Some counties have separate “family law” courts which handle paternity issues. You should visit the court’s website to check.
 Many courts have printed forms you can use to request a paternity test. You will probably need a “petition” to open the case and then a separate “motion” to request a genetic test. You can ask the court clerk for the forms.If no forms are available from the court, then check the following places:


Local legal aid organizations. Legal aid provides free legal help to the public, particularly those with low incomes. They often create printed, “fill in the blank” forms for family law cases, such as paternity disputes. You should look in the phone book for nearby legal aid organizations.
Your local Child Support Division. Each state has offices which help establish and collect child support. The agency where your child lives will probably help you establish paternity. To find this office, contact your Attorney General’s office.
 Print neatly using black ink, or use a typewriter. You want the judge to be able to read your information. Each form is different, but they generally will ask for similar information, such as the following:your name
your ex’s name
a request that the court order you, the child, and your ex to undergo genetic testing
why you think you are the father, such as the fact that you had sexual intercourse around the time the child was conceived
your signature under penalty of perjury

, You need to file the petition and motion with the court clerk. Make several copies and take the copies, along with the original, to the court clerk. Ask to file. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date.You will have to send your ex a copy of the papers you filed. You may also have to send other documents, such as a summons, which you can get from the court clerk.
Generally, you can hire a process server to hand deliver the papers to your ex. You can find process servers in your phone book or online. In some counties, you may also be able to arrange for the sheriff or constable to make hand delivery for a small fee.
Alternately, you could have someone 18 or older make hand delivery, provided they are not a part of the lawsuit. For example, a neighbor might make delivery for free.
You may have to pay a filing fee. Call the court ahead of time to check the amount and acceptable methods of payment.
 You may have to pay ahead of time, otherwise the court will not schedule the genetic test.You should find out the cost and acceptable methods of payment. Ask the court clerk or the local child support agency.


If you can’t afford the test, then you might be able to file a fee waiver form. It goes by different names, such as an “Affidavit of Indigency” or something else.You can typically get the fee waiver form from the same place you obtained your petition form.
 There are generally two types of genetic tests used to determine paternity. You may have to take one or the other. The two tests are:Blood tests. You will have blood drawn, usually from your arm.
Buccal swab. With this test, a nurse rubs a cotton swab against the inside of your cheek.
 Your ex and the child will also have genetic tests taken. The lab will then compare the results and prepare a report for the judge to read. The judge will read the report at court and tell you the results at a hearing.


After determining paternity, the court can then move on and determine other issues, such as child support, child custody, and the provision of health insurance.