 This list can be assisted by doing such things as:


Carrying an organizer with you. This can be done the old fashioned way with pen and paper or through the use of apps on mobile devices such as: Day by Day Organizer (Android); Organizer for iPhone (iOS devices).
Keeping a list of daily activities that need to be done either on paper or mobile devices. Helpful lists include: Any.do Task List & To-do List (Android); Wunderlist (iOS devices); and Pocket Lists (iOS devices).
Prioritize items on the list into important/not important and urgent/not urgent.
Update your list daily and mark off completed tasks.;
, Make sure to have a contingency plan in case you need an alternate way to achieve your goal.
 Cut out all distractions such as: TV, the internet, phone and video games. Give yourself enough time to complete the task by starting on it when you first get it. Don’t make a task seem too difficult because you’re more likely to procrastinate. Instead, break it down into smaller portions to make it more manageable.


Take a 10-minute break if you become unfocused.
Don’t strive for perfection because that puts off completing the task.
 Break them into smaller steps so that you can accomplish the goals at a slower rate and feel like you have completed more.
 Figure out points in your life that you spend wasting time and try to reduce them. An easy way to reduce wasted time is to keep track of your activity and log how much time you spend on each activity. Develop a regular routine that you can stick to that increases your efficiency.
 With more education comes more knowledge. Always be open minded to learning new things. Pay attention and learn as much information as you can out of a class/teacher. Use your knowledge to your benefit.
 A good education is needed for a good job. The unemployment rates for college graduates are lower than high school graduates. The annual income of college graduates is $17,500 greater than those with a high school degree.Since many companies prefer people to have a high education, finishing school will increase the chances of you getting a good job.
 Education gives you knowledge to understand the world that we live in. A good education helps you make better decisions. At school you need to learn essential skills that are need to get by in everyday life such as English, math and science skills.
 When going to school, try to learn from the experience of your peers and allows you to learn from them.
 Since many schools and colleges require group work, you will develop more social skills. You will learn to work together as a team which is a good skill to acquire for the adult world

, Always keep up on your studies. Be organized and do not miss your due dates. Set aside time to study. Try your hardest and accomplish your goals.
 Keep up your work and earn the good grades. If you do not understand something, then ask questions.
 For one month, keep a record of all your expenses. Don’t limit yourself because at this point we are just trying to establish a baseline. Save all of your receipts, make notes of how much you spend in cash versus credit cards and calculate how much money you have left over at the end of the month.
 After the first month, categorize your expenses (what you have spent in the first month). Don't write down what you wished you had spent; write down what you actually spent. Categorize your purchases in a way that makes sense to you. A simple list of your monthly expenses might look something like this:


Monthly income: $2,000
Expenses:

Household bills (utilities/electric/cable): $150
Groceries: $300
Dining out: $50
Gas: $100
Savings: $600
Rent/mortgage: $800



, Now, write down your actual budget. Based on the month of actual expenses and your own knowledge of your spending history budget out how much of your income you want to allocate to each category every month. If desired, use an online budgeting platform, such as Mint.com, to help you manage your budget.
 In many cases after people establish their budget, they don’t follow through with the planning and tracking. In other cases people will just estimate their spending. It's your money — there's really no sense in lying to yourself about how much you're going to spend when making a budget. The only person you hurt when doing this is yourself. On the other hand, if you have no idea how you spend your money, your budget may take a few months to solidify. In the meantime, don't put down any hard numbers until you can get realistic with yourself.


For example, if you have $600 towards your savings every month, but you know that it'll consistently be a stretch in order to meet that goal, don't put it down. Put down a number that's realistic. Then, go back to your budget and see if you can change numbers around to loosen up cash somewhere else, and then funnel it into your savings.
 Setting a budget will open your eyes to how much money you spend, if they haven't been opened already. Many people, after setting a budget, realize that they spend money on pretty petty things. This knowledge allows you to adjust your spending habits and put the money towards more meaningful areas.
 Setting a budget will also teach you that you never know when you'll have to pay for something unexpected — but that the unexpected will come to be expected. You obviously don't plan on your car breaking down, or your child needing medical attention, but it pays to expect these contingencies to happen, and to be prepared for them financially when they come.
 Volunteering allows you work on the social skills that are necessary for success in the work environment.
 Be eager and open to learning new things. Do not make judgments. However, be cautious not to be too overzealous as this can be a turn off to employers and coworkers.
 Always offer to help and assist when you think you can provide insight or new ideas. Look for areas where your personal skills may help to strengthen an area that may be weak in your groups performance at work

, Be sure to make sure your tasks are complete on time. Always pay attention to the policies of the assignment or in the office.


Abide by the deadlines as much as possible; try not to ask for extensions.
Volunteer to help others with their work when you are available. In turn, they may offer assistance when you need it as well.
 Connect with your co-workers. Take the time to get to know them.


Be assertive in your communication.
Be open to communication and feedback. Be able to take a compliment, but also be open to constructive criticism.
 Establishing a relationship with someone who has more seniority than you can be beneficial. They can offer insight and advice to help you be successful in your position.

