 A nesting box should be large enough for the puppies to turn around in with sides high enough that they do not fall or climb out.You can use a cardboard box, which is easy to replace if soiled, or you can build a wooden nesting box.


If you bred the orphan puppies, you may already have a whelping box from when they were born. This can also double as their nesting box.
Keep this box in a dry, secluded area. Do not place it in the way of air conditioning drafts or too close to cold windows.Some decide to build smaller, separate boxes for each puppy. The benefit of this is that it allows you to care for each puppy individually, and it helps make sure that you do not forget a puppy.That said, by keeping the puppies in one box together, it may be easier to keep them warm and to socialize them. Decide which system works best for you.
 The puppies will not be housetrained, and they will soil the nesting box. Line it with newspapers so that you do not have to repeatedly clean the bottom of the box. You might also line it with a blanket that you can remove and wash. You will need to change the newspaper or blanket lining on a daily basis; you may need to change it more often if the puppies soil it.


Make sure there are no loose threads or holes in the blanket, which could trap the puppy. Do not use more than one blanket, for the same reason.
 Newborn puppies cannot regulate their own temperature. You will need to keep the nesting box and room warm so that their temperature does not drop. Keep the room around 90 °F (32 °C) until the puppies are one week old. Lower it to 85 °F (29 °C) for the second week, then drop to around 75 °F (24 °C) after that.


Instead of heating the entire room, hang a heat lamp over the nesting box. This will keep the puppies sufficiently warm.to prevent overheating, keep the heat restricted to one part of the nesting box, and make sure the puppy cannot touch the heat source directly.
If the puppies are scattered around the box, it may be too warm. If they are huddled in a heap, it may be too cold., To prevent dehydration, puppies will need an environmental room humidity of about 55-65% (more if they’re sickly or weak). You can place a humidifier in the room with the puppies to increase the humidity. You can also stick a damp towel in one side of the nesting box.