 Exercise will help you fall asleep, but you want to do it at least six hours before bedtime. Since exercise raises your body’s temperature for 5-6 hours, it can keep you awake. Your body’s temperature needs to drop so that you can sleep.The exercise will help to make you more exhausted, thus helping you fall asleep.
Try jogging.
Weight training can also help.
 Try to read for thirty minutes to an hour before you go to bed. Avoid reading an exciting book as this could stimulate you and keep you awake. Read under a dim light so that your mind relaxes.Avoid reading from a back-lit device. If you are reading an electronic book, try to read it on a device that requires additional lighting.
If you find yourself falling asleep, let yourself.
 Make sure the music has a slow tempo and is an instrumental. Avoid listening to anything loud, as it will wake you up. Listen to the music in a different room so that you don’t have to worry about getting up to turn it off. This works like a lullaby.Try using “nature sounds”. Buy or download a CD or MP3 which has several hours of rainstorms, ocean sounds, rushing wind or birds.
What you consider relaxing may vary. Some people find death metal relaxing and are very annoyed by smooth jazz or whale calls. Make sure to choose something right for you.
 Plan to set aside fifteen minutes before you go to bed to let your mind go through everything that happened during the day. Make sure you do this before you go to bed to avoid tossing and turning over these thoughts as you’re trying to fall asleep. If you still have things on your mind at the end of this time, write them down.If you have trouble sleeping because your mind is going over the big event or something stressful, write down what you need to do. Keep a paper pad beside your bed, and when you wake up, write down what needs to be done. This will help set your mind at ease.Sometimes this can be done in the form of a prayer. Talk through your day in the manner of your regular religious conveyance. Prayer varies widely between religions. If you are unsure how to pray in your religion, talk to your community leaders.
 This will help your muscles relax, which will help you sleep faster. You only need to do a few basic stretches for it to have an optimal effect. Stretching will also prevent muscle cramping, which can wake you up in the middle of the night.


Try doing some yoga-like stretches. Look up poses online.
Stretch like a cat. This means randomly stretching parts of your body that feel tight. Think about how cats stretch when you are trying.
 Taking a long bath will help relax muscles and relieve pain. Avoid showers as they wake you up instead of helping you sleep.Part of this may be due to the fact that many people associate showering with getting up in the morning. Adding a few drops of essential oils, such as lavender, can help relax you.
 Monitor your breathing and watch your abdomen move up and down as you breathe. As you breathe in, tense a part of your body such as your leg muscles. When you breathe out, relax that part of your body. Do this from your head to your toes.


Take a meditation class, so that you can learn esoteric breathing techniques.
Talk to your doctor or therapist to learn exercises for breathing.
 Your body’s internal clock responds to natural light. As soon as you wake up, seek out sunlight. You can open your curtains or take a short walk outside. Throughout the day, take a break and find some sun. This will help your body start a routine to wind down when it’s dark outside. If sunlight is a limited resource, think of getting a sun lamp. These are available online, and they can help to supplement natural sunlight.
Leave your bedroom blinds open when you go to sleep. This can help you to wake up from light exposure.

