 In Arizona, if you want to change your name and gender assignment on legal documents, you will need a letter from a doctor stating that you have undergone sexual reassignment surgery or that the chromosomal count that establishes your sex is different than that on your birth certificate.This letter should confirm the date of your medical procedure and be signed, dated, and notarized.
 Follow the steps above in the method "Petitioning to Change Your Name for Other Reasons." You will need a copy of the court order approving your name change in order to get your name and gender changed on your birth certificate and your driver's license.


The court order needs to explicitly state that the "name may be changed on the Arizona birth certificate.", You will need to complete an Application for a Social Security Card and include with it proof of your legal name change (the court order of change of name), proof of your identity, and proof of U.S. citizenship (government issued documents like a passport, birth certificate, and driver's license can establish this).On the Application for a Social Security Card you will need to specify that you want a "corrected" social security card under "type of card."
Gender details do not appear on social security cards, but to change your gender filed with the Social Security Administration, you can show a state-issued amended birth certificate, a physician’s letter certifying clinical treatment, or a ten-year U.S. passport showing the appropriate gender marker., Take your name change documents, your new social security card, and your current driver's license to the MVD. If you have the correct documentation, they will issue you a new driver's license with your new name and your correct gender assignment.


There is a $12 fee for a replacement license with your new name.Arizona law requires you to request a new license within 10 days of changing your name. Wait two days after you have changed your name with the Social Security Administration so that the information can be verified by the MVD.You may want to bring all associated documents with you when you go to the MVD, in case you are asked for more verification.
It is likely that the person processing your application will have to contact a supervisor. Don't panic. You have the right to change your name and gender marker, as per 3.1.1 of the MVD Policy.You can print out a copy of this policy here.
 Contact the Arizona Office of Vital Records once you have the court-ordered name change. You will need to provide the letter from the court and the letter from your doctor. The state of Arizona will then issue a new birth certificate, rather than amend your old one.If you were born in a different state, you will need to contact the Bureau of Vital Records in that state in order to change your name on your birth certificate, as there may be different requirements.
 Some accounts you will need to change include (but are not limited to): bank and credit card accounts, mortgages, car titles, voter registration, passport, and doctor's offices. Contact the relevant offices or agencies for instructions on changing your name in their records.


If you are changing your name and gender identification on your US passport, please see the State Department's website for information. You are usually eligible for a two-year passport if you are still transitioning, and for a full ten-year passport if your transition is complete.