 Singapore Math was only introduced in the United States in the 1990s. Anyone who went to elementary school before the 1990s would not have had Singapore Math in their curriculum. Instead you likely needed to do a lot of memorization and drilling (like the times tables). Singapore Math teaches children the actual mathematic concepts in such a way that they can apply those concepts to any problem., While you watch a child do math homework, you probably won’t recognize the methods they’re using. But do not let this discourage you, or them. Support the child’s math skills development by learning the concept of the Singapore method yourself.You may be really tempted to have a child learn some of the drills you learned, but try to steer yourself away from this. It may only end up confusing the child at school.
 In previous math curriculum the correct answer to any math problem was the goal — regardless of how you got there. In Singapore Math the child needs to be able to explain their thought process from start to end, and explain how they got the answer they did.You may find that a child’s final answer is incorrect, but that they used all the correct concepts to develop that answer. It might be that there was a simple summation error in the process that created the wrong final answer, but the child actually understands what they’re doing.
 Regardless of whether a child is learning Singapore Math in school, they can still learn it at home. There are many Singapore Math materials available (like textbooks and workbooks) that you can use to help a child understand and learn math.If you find the process successful at home, you may even want to encourage your school board to consider changing curriculum (if they haven’t already).
 One of the best ways to teach a child math is to play games with them that include math concepts. You can do this regardless of what type of teaching method is used in school.Example — ask a child to identify shapes of various objects you pass while you're in the car.
Example — ask a child to help you calculate the amount of ingredients needed in a recipe that you want to cut in half, or double.
Example — ask a child to calculate how fast the car is travelling using facts other than the speedometer.

