 Most kids are too rowdy when it is daytime because of jet lag and time differences in different time zones. Before you leave, consider the time zone in the country you are traveling to and the time when you will be traveling. The most easiest time to travel is during nighttime when the kids are exhausted from waiting in the airport and want a nap for an hour or two, and can prevent jet lag. It's not fun to have jet lag and your kids are more likely to be rowdy and upset.;
, Also make sure, they are not carrying their luggage at their sides, otherwise they may bump into someone's seat or hit them with their bag, which most people do not like.
 Or let them play with a toy or read a book, or just let them snooze off in their seat.
 If they are old enough, teach them how to fasten their seat belts and unfasten them by themselves.
 This will be alarming for kids, especially toddlers and those who are first traveling by air. Pack some sweets or chewing gum for them to suck on, or if they are old enough, teach them to pinch their nose and blow without any air coming out from the mouth or nose.
 This is disturbing and rude to some passengers. Instead have an older sibling or parent to escort them or have them copy what the flight attendants do. Get them to grab luggage compartments above them, if they are tall enough.
 Once the plane has taken off, encourage the child to sleep. Pack the cuddly teddy bear she sleeps with or her "sleepy blanket" to help her sleep. If your child has a history of sleeping problems (insomnia, night terrors etc.) consult your child's doctor for a medication to take before sleeping or if she is known to bed wet pack an extra pair of clothes and a blanket.
 Pack in your child's backpack, a new toy, a couple of games, her Nintendo, a couple of books, some color pencils and paper, her journal, a personal DVD player and a couple of movies or, even better, her laptop. The more things she has to get occupied with, the least likely she is going to act up.

