 Columbia has 17 graduate schools, providing masters, doctorates, and other advanced degrees in a wide variety of fields. Each school has different processes and requirements for application, so you will need to review them carefully.
 You will want to work with faculty who are accomplished in your chosen field, and will likely stay on for the duration of your time in the program. If possible, visit the campus and schedule an in-person meeting with your potential instructors. Some schools will provide information sessions, or help arrange these meetings.
 Columbia's graduate programs are some of the best in the country, and will need to see strong collegiate performance for admittance. Pay close attention to see if your chosen program has required courses, and make sure to focus your academic energies on earning high marks in those classes. Each program will likely provide a range of GPAs accepted each year. If this information is not easily accessible through the school's website, contact the program directly to see what information they can provide.
 Each graduate program has its own test requirements, and acceptable ranges for admission. Contact the program directly if that information is not readily available. Make sure to take all required exams, and arrange for proper submission of scores.
 Make sure you can clearly articulate why you wish to study at Columbia, and how the program will help you achieve your professional goals. Ask others, particularly trusted professors, to review your essay before submission to comment on its clarity and effectiveness.


If you are finishing an undergraduate degree, your current school may offer additional help through a career services office.
 You will want letters from college instructors who are closely familiar with your work ethic, communication skills, character, and capabilities. Instructors who have ties to Columbia, either having attended the school or knowing Columbia faculty personally, can also provide good information, if not good letters. If they are willing, take the opportunity to talk with your letter writers about why you wish to attend Columbia, which can help provide a more personalized letter that really emphasizes your strengths as an applicant.
 Make sure you have all required materials ready when you submit the application, and provide as many supplementary materials as the program suggests.

