 Do not expect your children to read your mind. When you set rules, explain them to the entire household. You can even post certain rules on the fridge. This will help your children understand how to act in the house and why you are disciplining them when they get in trouble. Children should realize that they are in trouble because of their choices, not because you are mad. Some good rules to set include:



Rules about safety: Hold an adult’s hand while you cross the street. Don’t go near the stove while someone is cooking.

Rules about manners: Always say please and thank you. Wait your turn in line.

Rules about interacting with others: Share your toys. Don’t push other kids. Don't call other people names.

Rules about house routines: Put away toys when you are done with them. Don’t touch the thermostat. Clean your dishes when you are done with them.

Rules about going out: Be home by curfew. Call if you will be late. Get permission if you are going to a friend’s house after school. No drinking alcohol.;
, Everybody in the household should contribute in some way. You can do this by setting up a chore wheel in the kitchen or by giving everybody a certain responsibility in the house. In addition to cleaning their own rooms, children should help with the house chores. Even toddlers can do age-appropriate chores, such as picking up toys and clothes from the floor. It is up to you whether or not you pay your children an allowance for their chores. Chores include:


Washing the dishes after a meal
Feeding pets
Vacuuming the carpet
Washing the windows
Putting away groceries
Mowing the lawn

, When your children break a rule, they should be disciplined. Do not let them off the hook once but punish them another time. This will make your rules seem flexible or negotiable. For minor rule breaks, a firm talking may solve the issue, but you should still remind them that the rules are in place for a reason.While consistency is good, you might change the discipline if your child has been honest with you about breaking a rule. Explain to them that you appreciate them coming to you. This is especially important with teenagers, so that they are willing to come to you when they are in trouble.
 If you are raising your children with a partner, be sure that they agree with your rules. They should also enforce these same rules. If children realize that one parent is more lenient than another, they will start to find loopholes in the house rules. If your partner establishes a certain rule, you should enforce it as well.


If you are divorced or if your child’s other parent has a separate household, you should both agree on some common rules. Establish what rules are the most important. This will give your children some consistency.If you cannot agree on rules, you should ask a counselor to mediate for you.
 As your children grow up, they need different rules and responsibilities. You may even decide to trust them with more liberties than they had when they were younger. Periodically, examine your household rules and whether they are working or not. Adjust them as needed.

Make sure to explain rule changes to children. You might say, "Now that you are older, I expect that you will help take care of the dog more" or "Since you can drive now, I want you to know that you have a new curfew of 9 o clock."

