 There are four muscle groups in your thighs, and you'll want to work out all of them. These are the quadriceps, hamstrings, adductors and abductors.In order to strengthen these muscles, you'll need to pick activities that especially target them.


There are many exercises that target these muscles, more than there is space to be listed. If you ever hear anyone talking about an exercise that targets any of these muscles and you want to try it, you should.;
, This exercise works out your glutes, quads, inner thighs, and hamstrings all at once. It derives its name from the way you hold a dumbbell in both hands like a goblet. Spread your feet out wider than shoulder width with your toes turned outward. Holding onto the dumbbell, squat down until you reach a 90 degree angle, and then rise out of the squat., This move mostly works the front of the thigh and the buttocks, but also the backs of the thighs. First stand with your feet hip-width apart and your hands held in front of your chest. A single repetition focuses on one leg: first lunge it forward to a 90 degree angle, then to its side (lunge left for your left leg, right for your right leg) again at a 90 degree angle, and then backward., This move mostly targets the thighs, buttocks and calves. To do this exercise, lift one leg off the ground and crook it to an angle so that you will not be tempted to use it. On your remaining balancing leg, begin hopping back and forth from left to right and back again in small motions, gradually moving yourself in the direction of the leg you're standing on. A hop to the side and a hop to the other side counts as a single repetition.Make sure the foot you are hopping on is not twisting outward or inward and remains perpendicular to the direction you're moving., This exercise targets the backs of the thighs and legs. Using a reasonably weighted barbell, form a shoulder-width stance with your feet behind the bar and grip the bar with both hands. Sit into a squat as deep as you can go and make sure your back is in a straight line between your butt and your head. Lift with your legs through your heels and bring the barbell to your knees, then rise to standing., This exercise targets the outside of your thighs and your obliques in the side of your torso. Begin on your side with one forearm propping you up and both legs bent behind you. Your legs should form a 90 degree angle at the knees. Keep your other arm extended vertically into the air. Lift your leg, still bent, up into the air, using your hips. Be sure not to move your arms., The bridge targets your buttocks and the back of your thighs. Lie down on the floor, face up, with your arms at your sides and palms down. Bend your knees up but keep your feet flat against the floor. Using your abs and glutes, raise your hips to form a straight line between your shoulders and knees, and hold this position for 25 seconds before slowly releasing. Repeat this 3 times only.