 Teacup puppies should be fed a diet rich in fiber. Look for canned or dry foods that contain ingredients like eggs, chicken, fruits, veggies, and omega 3 fatty acids. Also, make sure the dog food you choose contains Karo syrup. Teacup puppies are prone to low blood sugar and this ingredient can help counteract that.Talk to your vet about what kinds of puppy chow to purchase. They may have suggestions based on your puppy's specific breed.
The label of your chosen food should have feeding instructions that let you know how much a puppy should get each day.;
, Teacup puppies tend to play hard. They tend to feel very tired after activity, especially strenuous play. If your puppy is falling asleep, it is important you give it time to rest.Provide a comfortable bed for teacup puppies. After playing with your puppy, place it in its bed. Leave the puppy alone and let it rest for a few hours.
Teacup puppies need about 14 hours of sleep a day. Limit playtime to hour long sessions to keep your puppy rested.
 Teacup puppies are like any other dog in that they need fresh water out all the time. Make sure to provide a water bowl that your puppy can easily reach. Refill the water bowl each time you notice the water is murky or running low.


As teacup puppies are small, watch the size of the water bowl. Make sure it's short enough that your puppy can drink from it.
 You should start training a puppy right away so it learns good behavior. Many owners ignore negative behaviors from very small animals, as small dogs cannot cause as much damage. However, you want your puppy to be well behaved so make sure to discipline it for doing things chewing household objects, unwanted barking, going to the bathroom inside, and being aggressive towards people or other animals.If a teacup puppy engages in bad behavior, simply say "No" firmly and then ignore the behavior until it stops. If you are consistent, your teacup puppy will eventually learn which behaviors are inappropriate.
You should not scold, yell at, or isolate a teacup puppy as punishment. This is ineffective and will only create stress.
 How often you need to groom your puppy depends on its age. Shorthaired teacup breeds, like some chihuahuas, will not need grooming as often as longhaired breeds like Yorkshire terriers and toy poodles.Longhaired puppies should be brushed as their hair becomes tangled with a slick brush. You should also clip out any mated fur during the brushing process.
Short haired puppies only need a light brushing on occasion.

