;
, This is the button at the top-right corner of your screen (in the blue banner) showing a feather inside a box. A box will expand on your screen in which you would normally write a Tweet.
 This button is displayed below the tweet box as one vertical line being intersected by three horizontal lines of different lengths (symbolizing votes on different options). When you tap this button, you'll see two blank poll options appear.
 In the box where you would have written a standard tweet, write the question that you would like to pose to your followers (and, if your tweets are public, to the Twitter community).
 In order for people to have something to vote on, you need to have at least two possible responses to the polling question. In the two boxes that appear below the main tweet box, enter these options.


You can use up to 25 characters to define each option.
 If the question you're posing in your poll has more than two possible responses, tap the "Add a choice" button just below Option 2 to add more options to the poll.
 You can choose when to stop accepting responses to your poll, allowing you to view its "final" results. To do this, tap on the "1 day" dialogue next to the words "Poll Length" and set a time span that corresponds to how long you would like to collect answers from your followers.


The minimum time that a poll can last is 5 minutes, and the maximum time it can last is 7 days.
 If you add relevant hashtags to the tweet that contains the poll, your poll will become more searchable and likely receive more votes from people outside of your network. If you are interested in collecting as much information is possible, putting hashtags in your tweets is a good way to do so.
 When you are content with the poll you've written, tap the "Tweet" button at the bottom-right corner of the window to send the tweet to your followers. It will appear as a tweet in your timeline.
 Navigate to your profile by tapping the "Me" button at the bottom-right of the screen. You'll be brought to a list of your Tweets, which now contains your poll. By tapping on the poll and looking at the bottom of the window it's in, you can see both how many votes it has received as well as the amount of time remaining for users to vote on the poll.

