 Although bettas can breed in smaller tanks, use a 5–10 gallon (18.9–37.9 L) tank for breeding. This can provide needed space for the female and help optimize the mating process., Maintaining water quality is essential to keeping your fish happy and healthy. It may also help provide the best environment for your bettas to mate.You can buy a fish tank water testing kit at most pet stores.These tests can help you identify any problems with the water, such as high ammonia.Test the temperature to make sure it is between 50 and 78 degrees Fahrenheit.Test the water for acidity. Most fish thrive at a neutral pH level of approximately 7.If the water is too acidic, you can buy a chemical neutralizer at most pet stores.Test for oxygenation to help ensure that the saturation exceeds 70%., Fish create a lot of waste and an important component of maintaining water quality for a protective environment is filtering it. This can not only help keep your bettas healthy, but may also aid the mating process and help the eggs and fry survive.Make sure the filter is gentle. Too much movement of the water can disturb bettas and their fry because their natural habitat has still water.Clean or replace the charcoal filter once a month., Female bettas need places to hide to relieve stress and avoid injury.Plants can also help protect the bubble nest of eggs. Arrange a selection of floating plants in your tank to help ensure an optimal and protected place for your bettas to breed.You can use either live or artificial plants in the tank.Purchase plants at pet stores or retailers that specifically deal with fish.
 You want to select the healthiest bettas to mate. Choosing the right pair can help ensure their health and continuation of quality breeding stock.The male and female should be roughly the same size to avoid one of them being injured.Healthy bettas are well-fed and don’t have any obvious diseases such as fin rot or anchor worms., It’s important to make sure your bettas are well fed before they start breeding. This will help optimize the breeding process and may help ensure the vitality of the eggs and fry.Feed bettas a mixture of live brine shrimp and flake food.Don’t overfeed your bettas. They only need feeding once per day and any excess food will fall to the bottom of the tank and can spoil the water., If your fish is showing signs of illness and you’re not sure what the cause is, use a commercial fish medication to treat any illness. This may help heal your fish from any diseases or parasites and could aid breeding.You can get commercial fish medication at most pet stores and even some larger retail stores.
Be aware that commercial fish medications are not regulated by government agencies, which means the treatments may be useless or could harm your fish. The best treatment is always being sure of the disease for which you’re treating., Once you are sure each betta is healthy and well fed, you can introduce the pair. It can take a few days for the bettas to get used to one another in separate tanks, but this may help prevent injuries and poor quality eggs.Start introducing the pair by placing their tanks close to one another for a couple of days., After you introduce your bettas in separate tanks, place the male in the breeding tank. Don’t allow him to see the female for a while to help prepare him to breed.Give the male a few hours to get used to the water in the breeding tank.Watch for signs of distress in the male. Symptoms of stress in bettas include swimming near the surface or banging up against the sides of the tank.
 Contain the female in a separate container and add her to the breeding tank. This can help her get used to the tank and may keep the male from getting at her immediately.You can use a hurricane glass or cut a Styrofoam cup in half as a container for the female.Place the female's container so that the male can see her, which will hopefully stimulate him to build a bubble nest for the eggs., Watch the bettas for a few days to see if you notice whether they’ve taken an interest in one another. This can help you know if you should find another mate or should watch for the female to release eggs.Flaring, or fanning the fins, is a good sign of interest of interest between bettas., It may take 4-5 days, but if there is interest between your bettas, you may notice that the male releases a bubble nest. This can help you to release the female from the hurricane glass or Styrofoam cup in time to mate.The male may make a bubble nest on the hurricane glass or Styrofoam cup.A female may release eggs before she is released. This is normal and you shouldn’t worry., If the male builds a bubble nest, he may also try and attract the female. Placing the female on top of the bubble nest will help her place the eggs in the protective bubbles.The bettas may try and attract each other with flaring.A female is ready to release eggs when she has vertical stripes visible on her sides.Even if the female has released some eggs in her container, place it on or near the bubble nest so she can continue to lay eggs., Once the male and female show interest within their protective environments, they are usually ready to mate. Learning the basics of this process can help you successfully breed bettas and help their spawn survive.After the male blows his bubble nest, he will mate with the female by wrapping himself around her several times. Thereafter, the female will lay her eggs.
It’s normal for the two fish to engage in some nipping and chasing, and it’s usually not to the death.
 Once the eggs are laid, take the female out of the tank. The male is a very devoted father and may cause her injury if she stays.A female may lie still for a few moments after laying her eggs.A male bettas may chase the female away from the bubble nest after she’s finished laying the eggs.You can replace the female in her old tank or let her rest in a holding or hospital tank for a few days., It’s not unusual for bettas to have torn fins after they mate. Injuries make bettas more susceptible to disease, so you may want to treat the water to help ensure that your bettas stay healthy.A commercial water treatment such as MarOxy or Bettamax can help to ward off disease in recently mated bettas.You can purchase water treatments at most pet stores and specialty fish suppliers.
Both the male and female may suffer stress from the mating. Make sure to watch for signs of this and take appropriate action, such as separating the fish in separate tanks from other bettas.
 Watch for the eggs to hatch after about 36 hours. The fry, which look like little black dots, will also have little tails hanging down. Recognizing the development of the baby fish can help you remove the male fish and ensure the safety and health of the fry.You can put the male back in his original tank.Feed the fry once they're free swimming. Do not feed them when they're still hanging from the bubbles or on the bottom of the tank.To make fry food, put a lightly boiled potato in a jar of aquarium water for 2 days to culture microscopic creatures collectively called "infusoria."Put some of the water bearing infusoria in the tank water 2 times a day.
You can keep the fry together for approximately 7 months, at which point they may start fighting and flaring with one another.