 This will tell you the basic what to do and what not to do's of TTT, as well as some help for whenever you play and you have no idea what you're doing.
 This requires SOME basic knowledge of Counter-Strike: Source weapons, but familiarize yourself with the guns that lie around that you can pick up to help you in your traitor (or innocent) vanquishing quest. Don't pick up a shotgun if you're a sniper, and don't pick up a rifle if you're "godly" with a Mac10. I personally recommend getting used to at least two guns in case you don't get a desired weapon at the beginning of the round, you can still be good with another one.
 Buddy up with some guy on the server if you feel the need to, just make sure you make it known you're buddying with them, because it's often considered suspicious to follow somebody around a map on TTT, and, in a lot of servers, traitorous. Also be careful with who you pick. They might seem nice and wait until you walk into a room completely obscured from the other players to kill you, then walk away for your body to... well, be found. The only time you don't have to doubt this is if you're a traitor, because, of course, traitors only have to worry about innocent bodies being found!

, The difference between suspicion versus innocence is a pretty thin line. People will suspect you if you're...


Shooting the air, since nobody can tell if you're shooting somebody or just a wall.
Walking away from (or by) an unidentified body. Like the last tip, nobody can tell if you killed them or not except for detectives who have DNA scanners.
Being the last person a corpse saw. This can lead to a lot of innocent deaths, since traitors can sometimes wait until somebody's looking at another person, then kill them somehow.
Shooting explosive barrels near players. This is very borderline traitorous, as explosive barrels obviously harm players.
Having the murder weapon after finding a corpse, because most people can assume you killed them.
Calling out somebody who turns out to be innocent. This is also borderline traitorous seeing as traitors will yell that out sometimes on their microphone and stop talking to make it seem as if they're dead.
Shooting NEAR other players. This is pretty obvious as to why it's suspicious.
 Some maps have traitor traps which can (bodily) harm innocents if they trigger it. An example is on ttt_minecraft_b4, where a minecart filled with TNT will head down a set track on the ground. Anybody standing in front of or by it when it comes towards them will be killed by an explosion.



"RDM" means Random DeathMatch. This is when a player randomly kills somebody without evidence they are an enemy.
"KoS" means Kill on Sight. This means that person is probably a traitor, and is often used by dying victims with microphones. "Oh no, KOS Johnman843!"
"Suspect " means to mark them as Suspicious by pushing TAB (or your scoreboard bind), clicking that person's name, and then clicking "Suspicious". The next time you see them in your crosshairs, their name will show "Suspicious" under it.
"ID that body!" means to identify any nearby bodies. This often isn't used in a polite fashion so usually it's more of a suspect callout, due to the fact that they may have ran by a body and forgot to ID it.
 Traitors don't have to ID bodies; that's the only way you know if your friend is dead or not.
 These aren't always necessarily bad things, but it's still a good idea to see which ones don't and do have certain addons.
 If you use the mic as innocent, use it as traitor, etcetera;;
, Don't expect to get far by running in with an M16 and shooting anything that moves. If you see an innocent by himself, go for him instead of the group (unless you have C4.)

, You can kill more innocents as a group.
 If the map is small, don't pick buy a sniper, as it will be a waste of credits. Likewise, if it is huge, C4 isn't your best friend.
 There are usually 3 types of grenades on most servers. There are Incendiary, Smoke, and Discombobulators. Use incendiary grenades to hurt a group of people that are bunched up. This will give you and your T-buddies a HUGE advantage. Alternatively, use them to block people off from an area. If people are in a room with a C4 in it, block off the most commonly used exit. Next, use smoke grenades to hide yourself or to escape from a dangerous situation. You can also use it on a group of people to obscure their sight, then kill them off. Finally, use discombobulators to push people away from each other. They WILL be scattered and separated or, if you're lucky, they will fall off of a tall cliff and either die or survive with a little amount of health.

