 Protein is one of the most important dietary elements for a recovering addict. The amino acids found in proteins can assist in healing your body’s tissues and organs. Protein may also boost positive chemicals in the brain, such as dopamine, providing a barrier against depression.Aim to eat around 10 – 15 grams of protein during each meal or snack session. This will keep you from feeling hungry and will also be easier on your digestive system. Nuts, lean red meats, turkey, and eggs are all good sources of protein., If your addiction led to problems with your digestive system, fiber just might be the answer for you. It will soothe your intestines and get them back on a ‘regular’ schedule. Remove all white flour from your diet and replace it with unrefined and unprocessed whole grains.


Whole grain pasta and brown rice are quick and easy fiber options. You can also get fiber from vegetables, such as beans, artichokes, and lentils.If you need an extra fiber boost consider taking a fiber supplement. These come in both caplet and stir-in forms., Not all fats are bad for you. Eating certain fats can actually assist in addiction recovery by boosting fatty acids. This, in turn, helps elevate your mood, turning it away from depression. Healthy fats can also assist in the absorption of vital nutrients from other foods.Olive, coconut, and flaxseed oils all contain healthy fats. Whole foods such as avocado and fish are also good sources., It is likely that your addiction period left you with a serious nutritional deficiency — malnourishment is a common problem among recovering addicts. Eating a balanced diet can counter some of this, but adding a multivitamin will fill in any gaps. You can also take supplements in order to get those good fatty acids in your diet as well. It is important to make your healthcare provider aware of any supplements you are taking, as they can interact with some medications.


B vitamins are particularly helpful when recovering from addiction. They elevate brain function and fight against signs of mental fatigue. Vitamin B5, for example, has been shown to help detox the body of harmful chemicals and is often used by recovering alcoholics.Most adults need about 2.4 micrograms of vitamin B daily.Remember that multivitamins are not a “cure all.” You still need to follow a careful diet as part of your recovery process., Try to drink at least eight 8-oz glasses (1.9 liters) of water each day; even more is better. Water will help flush your body of toxins and will hydrate your intestinal tract, which often suffers damage from addiction. Drinking a full glass of water before most meals is one way to reach your goal.


If you are struggling with nausea, pour yourself a glass of ice cold water. Take your time drinking it and that alone will help to calm your system.If unflavored water is too bland for you, try adding a lemon slice (or a slice of any other fruit) to each glass. You can also freeze fruit into ice cubes and add them in.Stomach upset can sometimes be a problem during recovery and coconut water has been shown to calm your digestive system. It also contains natural sugar for an energy boost and electrolytes to increase overall hydration.