 There are several ways to locate a rescue organization in your area. If you have a cat or another pet already, you could ask your vet for a recommendation. You might also ask friends or family members who have successfully adopted a cat via a rescue organization. Finally, you could search for a rescue organization online by typing a word string like “rescue organization ” into your preferred search engine., There are a few ways to identify whether a given rescue organization has a cat you might be interested in adopting. You could check the organization’s website for profiles of the animals up for adoption. Alternately, you could schedule a visit with the rescue organization.Finally, you could visit the rescue organization during an adoption event – a sort of open-house where all the cats up for adoption are on display.To schedule a private visit with the rescue organization you’re thinking of adopting a cat from, call or send them an email.
Some adoption events are designed for particular target audiences – for instance, families with young children. Check with the rescue organization in question before deciding to attend an adoption event.
During some adoption events, you might be able to both see and interact with cats you wish to adopt.
 Most rescue organizations will have an application you need to fill out before you can obtain a cat. The application will ask basic information like your name, date of birth, and contact information. It will also ask lifestyle and personality questions such as, “Why do you want to adopt a cat?” and “How long would you leave your cat alone during the day?”, If the staff of the rescue organization believes you’d be a good cat parent, they will contact you regarding the possibility of adopting. At this interview, they will ask you more questions about your background and motivations for adopting a cat. For instance, you might be asked:Have you had pets before?
What is your average annual income?
Under what circumstances would you return or give up your adopted cat?

, Once you’ve been approved to adopt, you’ll have the opportunity to meet and interact with the cat. Depending on the rescue organization you’re working with, you might travel to a central facility, or you might travel to a foster home hosting the cat. In either case, you’ll receive more information about how to meet the cat or cats you might wish to adopt after talking with a representative of the rescue organization.It’s possible that you’ve already met the cat during an adoption event. If so, that’s okay. There’s no right or wrong time to meet the cat you want to adopt. The opportunity to meet a cat varies based on the adoption route you choose.

