 If over-the-counter means and lifestyle changes are not reducing your acne redness, you should talk to a skin doctor or dermatologist.There might be some prescription medications and treatments available. Your dermatologist will also be able to diagnose what kind of acne you have and how severe it is.


Other signs that you should talk to a doctor are if you experience unwanted facial hair along with your acne, if you notice scarring, or if lesions and nodules develop under your skin., There are a number of topical treatments (or treatments you apply directly to the skin) that an acne patient might receive. Common ingredients of this treatments include: antibiotics, retinoids, salicylic acid, and benzoyl peroxide.In addition, azelaic acid is found in some creams used for acne and rosacea. It can help reduce redness as well as breakouts.


Retinoids help treat acne redness by preventing follicles from clogging up.They can be very effective for treating and preventing acne breakouts and redness. There is actually now an over-the-counter retinoid you can try, called Differin gel (adapalene gel). Start slowly and follow the instructions on the box.
Antibiotics help treat acne redness by reducing inflammation and killing harmful bacteria on the skin.Benzoyl peroxide helps treat acne redness by reducing the chances that you will have bacteria that resist antibiotics.It also reduces plugging of the pores.
Salicylic acid helps treat acne redness by reducing the number of skin cells you shed and unclogging pores., The amount and frequency that you apply the topical treatment depends on the cause and severity of your acne. Talk to your doctor about her recommendations for using prescription topical treatments. Be sure to listen to your doctor's warnings about side effects, adverse reactions, and drug interactions.Tell your doctor about any other medications you are taking. Also tell your doctor if you are or plan to become pregnant. This might affect her decision about the best treatment for you.
 Beginning a topical skin treatment might take up to four to eight weeks before you see improvements.Sometimes your acne redness will get worse before it gets better.Remember to be patient and that your skin might need time before it begins to heal.
 Prescription oral medications can be used in addition to or instead of topical treatments. Drugs such as antibiotics, hormonal birth control, and anti-androgen agents can help reduce acne redness as well as prevent future outbreaks. Note that some of these drugs have serious side effects. Only take these medications under the direction of a licensed physician. Always inform your doctor of all drugs you are currently taking.


Oral antibiotics work like topical antibiotics. They help fight redness and inflammation by killing unwanted bacteria.These drugs can cause stomach upset and might interact poorly with hormonal birth control, so talk with your doctor before taking them.Hormonal birth control helps relieve the symptoms of acne by reducing testosterone from the bloodstream. This is good for acne-prone skin.This treatment is only effective for girls and women. Birth control might even be more effective over the long-term than antibiotics.Negative side effects include weight gain, breast pain, and possible dangerous blood clots.Antiandrogen agents are a possible treatment for girls and women, but not for men.These medicines work by helping to control the production of oil by the sebaceous glands.
 These injections are used primarily to diminish large bumps and deep-seated lesions caused by acne. They are not useful in the management of widespread acne or acne that is mostly on the surface of the skin.If you notice large bumps, nodules, or lesions deep beneath the skin, a steroid shot might help get rid of them and reduce the likelihood of scarring.


Cortisone shots can cause certain side effects. These include pale spots on the skin, visible blood vessels, and thinner skin. These shots can also cause momentary pain.
 Redness and inflammation associated with acne is caused by the bacteria p. acnes. This bacteria can be killed or curtailed with the application of certain light frequencies — most typically blue light.This treatment can be done in the doctor's office, but sometimes it can be done at home as well.Types of red light can also help reduce oil production and inflammation of the skin. In addition, certain laser treatments can be helpful in reducing acne breakouts and scarring, along with redness and inflammation.


The doctor may apply a medicine to the affected area before light exposure. This medicine will amplify your skin's sensitivity to light.
Multiple sessions of light therapy are often necessary.
You may experience side effects such as sensitivity to light, dry skin, and temporary redness.This treatment can be costlier than other acne treatments. Consider your finances and talk to your doctor carefully before deciding on this option.

