 All newborn babies typically need to nurse at least every two to three hours and may sleep 5 hours in a row once every 24 hours. Awaken the baby during the day at first every few hours so the long sleep period will be at night. Babies vary in the amount of time they take to nurse at each feeding. Let the baby decide he is finished with the first side. Note that the breast has natural anti-bacterial properties, so it is not necessary to wash your hands and breasts before each nursing. The breast has Montgomery glands that keep the nipple bacteria free.


When you first give birth, prepare to breastfeed between 0 and 2 hours of your baby's birth. You'll want him to get used to breastfeeding as soon as possible.
 The best place for your baby to nurse is in your own arms, lifted up across your body, tummy to tummy. Your goal is to be sitting straight up and leaning back a bit, so that you feel relaxed and comfortable. If you are hunching or leaning over, it will be painful for you and difficult for the baby to latch. Although you should not use a pillow to support baby, you can use one in your lap to support your arms.


Support your back with a pillow to make it easier for you to hold your baby.
 There are many effective ways to hold a baby and nurse, including the cradle hold, cross cradle hold, and football hold. Whatever position you choose, look for a straight line, from ear to shoulder to hip. Hold the baby close so that his chest is close to yours and he is looking straight ahead or up a little.


Cradling your baby close to you should do the trick to keep you from needing to hunch over.
 Do this when your baby opens his or her mouth widely so that the nipple basically lays down on baby's tongue. If it doesn't open wide naturally, encourage your baby to open his mouth by gently touching his lips and mouth. Pull your baby towards you with pressure on the back, not by pushing on the head. When baby latches, it should feel like pulling, not pinching.


Keep one hand supporting your baby's back and one hand on your breast.
 Some babies are more "efficient" than others, some like to nurse longer. Depending on how much milk a mother makes, a baby may not take the second side. Just make sure to switch between breasts when you start a new feeding. Listen for rhythmic, regular sucking that will let you know the baby has latched properly.


When your baby feeds from your breast, it should feel like a gentle pull, not a pinch or a bite.
When your baby is done feeding on a breast, you shouldn't pull or even yank him away. Instead, insert your finger in his mouth so that his mouth releases your breast.
 This isn't always necessary. Depending on how much air the baby takes in through the nose while it is nursing, you may or may not need to burp baby. If your baby is arching his back, squirming around, and looking uncomfortable, then he may be ready to get burped. Try to burp him in one of these ways:Lift your baby toward your shoulder, with your hand on his head and neck for support. He should be facing the area behind you. Rub your baby's back with a firm and open hand to release the trapped air.
Sit your baby on your lap and lean him forward, supporting his chest with the base of your hand and his chin and neck with your fingers. Massage his stomach with your front hand and gently pat his back with the hand on his back.
Lie your baby on your lap with his head raised higher than his stomach. Gently pat his back until he burps.
 A newborn baby will mostly nurse and sleep. You know when the baby is "getting enough" when there are 8-10 wet and or dirty diapers. Though this routine will be repetitive and you won't have as much time to play with your baby, it'll give you time to get some of that much-needed rest you must be missing so badly.

