 One simple way to eat less is to begin measuring portion sizes. Sticking to a limited portion can help you eat less.


Consider buying a food scale or measuring cups. Use these daily to measure all meals and snacks or to use during food prep.
Typical portion sizes for the five food groups are: 3 – 4 ounces of protein,1/2 cup of chopped fruit,1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of leafy greens,1/2 cup of grains,and 1 cup of milk and yogurt or 2 oz of cheese.Serve yourself one portion of protein, 1 – 2 fruits or vegetables and 1 serving of grains at most meals.;
, When you're measuring your portions, it might seem like there is a lot less food on your plate. This might make you feel deprived when you first move to measuring portions.


Using a smaller plate can help you trick your brain into thinking there is a larger volume of food. The same portion will take up more space on a smaller plate.Use salad plates, appetizer plates or even saucers to help cut down on the available space on your plate.
Consider purchasing blue plates. Studies have shown that people are more likely to leave food on their plates if their plates were a blue color.Buy smaller tupperware or take-away containers to pack meals. If you typically pack a meal, make sure to use smaller tupperware as well.
 When you're eating, try to remove extra temptations from the table. This can help you focus on your meal only and decrease the chance you'll eat more than you should.


Don't bring bowls or platters of food to the table when you're able. This may tempt you to serve yourself seconds.Try to put all the food in the appropriate containers after serving yourself one portion. Package up leftovers and store in the refrigerator for leftovers.
It may also be helpful to only leave out healthier, low-calorie items if you feel you need more food. Keep out vegetables or fruit for a possible second serving.
 Try to leave some food on your plate, no matter how small, every time you have a meal.


Many of us are brought up not to waste food and habitually finish a meal even when full. Forcing yourself to leave something on your plate every meal breaks us out of that habit.
Start with leaving just a bite or two. It may be difficult to leave more initially.
Clear your plate immediately after you've decided you're done eating and leaving the extra food on your plate.
If you do not want to throw away or waste food, package leftovers and bring for lunch the next day or save for another dinner time meal.
 Restaurants are notorious for serving portions that are way too large. Take care when eating out to make sure you stay on track with portions.


It's hard to determine how much food you should eat when you're out (especially if you don't have a handy food scale around). Guesstimate as best you can. For example: 1 cup is about the size of a woman's fist, 3 – 4 oz is about the size of a deck of cards and 1/2 cup is about the size of a computer mouse.Try ordering a side dish or appetizer for a smaller portion of food.Try to visualize how much you should eat and push away the extra food. Ask for a box to take home the leftovers.Like at home, always leave food on your plate when you go out to eat.
You can also have the server box half of your meal up before it arrives.

