 Keep a small notebook with you for about a week or two to figure out how many calories you eat in a day. Average it out and cut that amount by about 500. While your consuming fewer calories a day your body will have no choice but to start burning fat. If you don't see a difference after the first few weeks try cutting back another 250 calories a day.;
,, Sodas are the worst for extra calories and carbs; try having a glass of water instead. Remember, that one or 2 sodas can be a whole 10 or 20 mins of working out! Chicken, fish, and beans are very good for you with low fat and high protein.
 If you find that the foods they serve are not meeting your needs then omit the items you don't need (i.e. the fries, pizza, tacos, burgers) and stick to the basics (salads, fruit, veggies). A multivitamin might also be beneficial. http://www.nutritiondata.com is a good place to find out what is in the food your eating.
 Sometimes pizza is the only option but you don't have to eat the whole thing. Also be careful with strict vegan diets; while they will keep you lean and regular, unless you are sure to balance your diet you will miss out on a lot of important vitamins and nutrients.
 Sponge off your bacon with a napkin before you eat it. NEVER skip breakfast. It will slow down you metabolism and you will not lose fat as fast, also skipping breakfast is known to increase the risks of stroke! Avoid eating the egg yolk during breakfast as it is high in saturated fat and cholesterol. Skip anything deep fried.
 Aim for 45 minutes of a cardio activity 4 times a week. Go jogging, bike riding, or powerwalk through your mall. Take the stairs instead of the elevator, park farther away at work, get an exercise video and make the most of what you have (Zumba is excellent!).
 Designed to meet the nutrition specifications of Chris and Heidi Powell, the Bod•e Program is a one-of-a-kind, nutrient-dense system that features the perfect balance of protein, carbohydrates and healthy fats to achieve a healthy weight. Vemma Bod•e is a healthy weight loss solution or muscle gain program featuring results-oriented products to help you achieve your weight management goal, without sacrificing wellness. Join the Challenge! http://OrangeElite.com/bode/34366
