 Be thoughtful with those who are sad. Romance your marriage -- and your work; be sure to be a real friend.;
, It all starts with your finding a strong dream, just as small business owners (1) begin with a dream and (2) propel themselves forward with passion, long hours, tirelessly growing a successful opportunity for jobs and careers, in America especially. That works for all ages preschool and onward to mature living -- results.



Learn everyday at your age, 1, 2, 3 to 123 years: put learning and studying in your lifelong education.
 Use your smart work and appearance to influence others to do as well:


Dress for your dream/success: Look the part of a maker/doer/leader; yes, lead and also teach by example. Others can ride your coattails and generations stand upon your shoulders.
 Take/start responsibility: Do not wait for others when you can do the right thing for leading others in dreams and for your own life.
 If you have a grudge -- or know that someone has something against you -- go make it right. Show charm and real chivalry in your personal life, dating and marriage.
 Refine your language to not curse, but to bless. It's better to not make an oath than to swear how you will do something -- for sure -- and then disappoint everyone, if you break your word (over and over).


Drive friendly: Be courteous in your travels.
 Eat at a table, often. Share stories and life experiences. Do your part on the home front: if any of these things that you could do to create hope and change are lacking in your area of influence, then put them out front in your daily life and your very existence.
 Teach the Golden Rule: do it as an example for others.
 Live patriotism to what is good and right. Say: "Thank you!" to those who have served others, fought in wars to preserve freedom and liberty for all. Remember those who were injured or died for you and yours.


Show the meaning of patriotism by service, helping others that need and want it: Show the symbols of freedom, the flag, and such, in your own public life.
 Be prudent and thrifty: Moderate your spending. Seek to help put faith back in each other: have it in your area, home, school and government -- at least by example, encouraging such conduct.

