 Most good luck charms and symbols are derived from objects in nature. Give the actual object itself when possible, or look for a visual representation of that charm when you are unable to use the charm itself.


Four leaf clovers are rarer than their three-leaf cousins and therefore lucky. The first leaf symbolizes “faith,” the second symbolizes “hope,” the third symbolizes “love,” and the fourth symbolizes “luck.”Acorns represent good luck, youthfulness, prosperity, and spiritual growth. The Norse once placed acorns on their windowsills to protect a house against lightning.
Rainbows are considered lucky for several reasons. Many cultures see them as bridges or paths used by spirits. In the Judeo-Christian tradition, God created the rainbow as a promise to never again destroy the world with a flood.
Some people believe that amber – that is, fossilized tree sap, brings good luck, balances emotions, and eliminates fear.Stars are often used to symbolize luck because many ancient cultures believed that one’s fortunes could be predicted and controlled by stars. Shooting stars are especially lucky.
Small bamboo plants known as “lucky bamboo” are often kept for the sake of longevity and strength. Bamboo is fast-growing and resilient, which is why it is a symbol of strength in Chinese culture., There are a few animals specifically tied to the idea of luck or various applications of luck. Try using one of these to express your wishes to a person. Additionally, there are certain parts of various animals that are considered lucky.


The rabbit’s foot is a popular choice, for example. Rabbits were considered lucky since they were associated with spring, the season of new life. Since the back feet touch the ground ahead of the front feet, they are considered especially lucky.Some people think that wishbones from a turkey or chicken grant wishes when broken in two. The person who gets the bigger half is the one who can make a wish – just don’t tell anyone! The wish won’t come true if you share it.
Goldfish are symbols of prosperity, wealth, wisdom, power, longevity, and peace. They are also one of the eight symbols of Buddha, and are thus symbolic of fertility and harmony.
Dolphins are symbols of luck and protection, as well. This comes from the belief of ancient sailors, who would see dolphins around their ships when they neared land.
The “maneki-neko” or “beckoning cat” is a specific cat figure in Japan believed to usher in good fortune and wealth., Not every good luck charm comes entirely from the natural world. There are also some that are made by human hands. Many of these charms are easier to give than nature-based charms, so consider one when you want to express your hopes of good luck.


For example. horseshoes are sometimes hung inside homes to protect the household and usher in good fortune. Originally these were made by blacksmiths, which was considered a lucky trade.Coins, for instance, are considered lucky in many cultures. The exact coin you need for luck can vary, however. In the United States it is usually the “lucky penny,” particularly those that you find facing heads up. In Britain, it was the sixpence coin.Three keys kept together symbolize the keys of health, wealth, and love.
 Some religions have symbols related to good luck. While these symbols may have greater significance than mere charms, they are sometimes used to express sentiments dealing with well wishes. If you or the individual you are wishing luck has a tie to one of these traditions, a religious symbol might be a good idea.


For example, dream catchers figure in some Native American spiritual beliefs and are supposed to keep evil from entering dreams while you sleep.
The “Laughing Buddha” or Pu-Tai is used in Chinese culture to symbolize happiness, health, abundance, and contentment.While a cross primarily serves as a symbol of faith for Christians, it served in ancient times as a token of good luck and protection. Some Christians today also use medals, statues, and similar representations of saints to express an earnest desire for protection or guidance in a certain area of life (usually the one under the saint’s patronage).Remember to be careful about giving a religious symbol. People often feel strongly about faith, and could take offense if given one in the wrong spirit. For example, a Christian might gladly accept a cross with wishes that “God bless you.” But they might be offended if told that the cross is for “good luck.”

, Some religious traditions believe that spells and incantations can grant good fortune. For example, there are a number of appropriate magical spells in Wicca, which draws on ancient European pagan beliefs. If you are comfortable with the idea – and your recipient is, as well – you might try one of these spells.The Wiccan good luck spell involves oil and a black candle. With a drop of oil on its tip, move your finger up and down the candle while visualizing the person’s fortune and good luck and chanting, “Black candle, turn X’s luck around / Let prosperity and joy abound.”
Another spell can be said before bed. With a candle and pen and paper, write your wish clearly on the paper and then put the paper underneath the candle. Then clear your mind. Light the candle and concentrate on what you want to come true – good luck for your friend – and visualize it.
 There are even a few foods that can be used to express good luck. Give one of these foods to the person in question or cook them a meal using one or more of these foods.Long noodles are eaten in various Asian countries to bring a long life, but know that you can’t break the noodles before they reach your mouth.
Black-eyed peas are eaten in the southern Unities States, where, traditionally, they are the first food eaten in the New Year for good luck.Cabbage is connected to luck, especially of a monetary nature, since the green resembles paper money. This is especially true in Germany, Ireland, and parts of the United States.Lentils look similar to coins and are thus eaten for good fortune in parts of Italy.
Pomegranates are connected to abundance and fertility in Mediterranean countries, like Turkey.
Fish is considered lucky in parts of North America, Asia, and Europe since fish "swim forward" toward new goals. They also swim in large schools, so they represent abundance.