 If this is your first time making a body sugaring paste, don’t use your nicest saucepan. This process can be a bit tricky, and it’s not uncommon to burn the paste, which is a nightmare to get off the pan.For safe measure, use a pan that you could stand to lose.


As you heat your mixture it will boil and bubble up, so make sure your saucepan is big enough that it doesn’t overflow.;
, This is the simple white sugar that you probably have around the house, or can find at any grocery store. It’s important to use white sugar for this recipe. Color changes are the main indicator used to determine if your paste is finished, so white sugar should be the base of your paste.If you want to make a smaller recipe, simply halve all of the ingredients. However, body sugaring paste can easily be put into a container and saved, so don’t worry if you create way more than you need for one session.
 You can squeeze the juice from fresh lemons or buy lemon juice from the store, as long as you get a full fourth of a cup. Pour it into the cane sugar, and then add a quarter cup of water. Using a spatula or large spoon, mix the three ingredients together until thoroughly blended., It is important that your mixture gets to a boil, but try to raise the temperature slowly and carefully so that the paste doesn’t burn. Don’t step away from the stove, especially if this is your first time making body sugaring paste. It can be tricky to get it hot enough without it burning, so you need to be vigilant.It will be obvious if it starts burning, because it will turn a very dark, almost black color.
 Don’t turn the heat on and leave your pot unattended. Keep stirring it over and over again, making sure that it never sticks to the pot.As your mixture reaches a boil, it will begin to thin out. When you see it start to bubble it’s almost there, but make sure you allow it to get to a full-fledged boil.If you own a candy thermometer, use it here. Your mixture should reach 250 degrees Fahrenheit, which is the "hardball" candy stage., You can use a plate, a napkin, a piece of paper, or anything. This will allow you to examine the color. Your finished product should be a golden color. When your mixture has reached a boil and is that color, turn your heat off. Make sure you’re still stirring.
 Instead of the ingredients outlined previously, you will be using one cup of sugar, 1/4 a cup of honey, and juice from half of a lemon (about two tablespoons). Combine these ingredients in a microwave-safe bowl and stir until everything is blended. Then, heat your mixture in the microwave for two minutes.Don't go anywhere as it heats. You need to stir your mixture every 20 to 30 seconds.
After two minutes are up, let it cool off a bit to use or store.
 This is especially important if you are going to use some of it right now for hair removal. You want it to be warm, but not hot, or else you can seriously burn yourself.You can learn how to use your finished body sugaring paste here. Even if you aren’t going to use it immediately, let it cool off before you transfer it into a container.
 It’s important that the container can be heated, because you will want to give your paste a quick reheat before using it in the future. Store your body sugaring paste at room temperature. This will keep it from thickening, and make reheating an easier process.If you don’t have a microwave to use, you can always run your container under hot water to heat the paste.
 If it thickens up a bit, add a few drops of water before placing it in the microwave. Heat your paste so that it’s warm, not hot. Again, it is easy to burn yourself with this so take extra precautions. When you reheat the paste, it will thicken a bit.