 You can play Minecraft PE with other people by connecting to Minecraft PE servers. To find these servers, you'll need to use your web browser app. These servers run all kinds of different game types and modes, making for a unique experience every time. There are several websites that list a bunch of popular servers, including:


Minecraftpocket-servers.com
MCPEstats.com
MCPEhub.com/servers
MCPEuniverse.com/pocketmine/

, Most server listing sites will show details about each server, including the game modes that are available, the number of users connected, server location, and more. Use this information to find a server that meets your needs.


Make note of the game version that the server is running. Minecraft Pocket Edition does not allow you to change to different versions of the game, so you can only connect to servers that run the same version that you have installed. Most servers will update to the latest release within 24 hours of it coming out.
 The server address is groups of letters and/or numbers separated by periods. The port number is separated from the address by a colon (:).
 This will open a list of your worlds.
 This can be found in the upper-right corner.
 This will allow you to enter the server's information.
 You'll need to fill out the boxes and then tap "Add Server" to add it to your list.


Server Name - You can type anything here. Type the server's name to help you easily identify it later.
Address - Enter in the IP address into this box.
Port - Enter the port number into this box. The port number is the number that appears after the : in the server address.
 The game will attempt to connect to the server. Once you are connected, you will be spawned in the server's Welcome area.


If you can't connect, there are a few different factors that may be causing the problem. You won't be able to connect if the server is full, and you won't receive a message informing you. If the server is offline, you won't be able to connect. You also won't be able to connect if you have the same name as another player that is already connected.
You can change you in-game name from the Settings menu on the main Minecraft PE menu.
 Some servers ask that you register before you can begin playing or earning benefits in the game. Follow the prompts to register your email address with the server. You'll need to open the verification message that's sent to your email address.

