 This is the perfect chance to tell people your ideas, to make new friends, and to be recognised with honour.;
, Do something nice with your hair. Denise always wears a fancy updo/bun while working at the paradise. Wear a dress or a skirt to look more feminine, or if you are at school or work, wear your uniform with class. Don't wear a baggy jumper that hangs off of you. Look tidy. Also, maintain good hygiene, this includes: having a bath/shower regularly, brushing your teeth, wearing deodorant, washing your hair, and smelling nice.
 This might seem hard, but you can tackle it. First of all, think about things that may be associated with what you are trying to come up with. If you are trying to think of an idea for a book, think of other books you have read, or past experiences that have occurred to you. If you are trying to come up with business ideas, think of things that you like, e.g technology, then open a centre dedicated to technology, where people can share their opinions with you, about devices they have used and you haven't.


Read as much as you can; the more you read, the more fascinating ideas you will come up with. Ask someone who is older than you, that way someone else can express a completely different vision from your own. Learn from others around you. In one of the most recent episodes of the paradise, Denise is given the opportunity to go to Paris in order to observe the latest french fashions. You don't have to go to another country, but even advice from other people can make a difference.
 Denise marvels at the thought of leadership. If she wants something, then she will go for it. Stage a debate with your peers. Denise would love to do this as it gives everybody a chance to speak their own opinion. If you are torn between two, then have a vote; make sure everyone is included and everyone is given a chance.
 Never forget to be kind to others, whether they are somewhat below you, or are poor. Denise is always nice to everyone, whether she likes them or not. Don't get caught up in rumours; they are a waste of time. Make sure you keep your morals, though, and aren't vulnerable or naive.
 If you are having a bad time, then think of the times to come. The future can always change, and life can be made to suite your better needs. Never forget that better times will come. Denise has to remember that Moray will reclaim the paradise, and that she will no longer be tormented by Katherine Western.

