 Most special occasion dresses are made of chiffon, georgette, silk or man-made silk, organza, or crepe. You could visit a few local bridal shops to get an idea of the different types of fabrics, their quality, and texture. Women with curves can be flatter by softer fabrics, whereas petite sizes look great in tight fitting silks.;
, Hopefully, by now, you will know what “fuchsia” or “magenta” is. Most online stores will have color swatches posted online. However, please be aware those colors are not color true (looking at a color in natural light and close-up), as you are looking into a computer screen. See whether the internet store will send you color swatches in the mail or at least, send you another picture with a close indication of the color you are looking for.
 Do not use your regular size to order your dress as every manufacturer cuts their dresses according to their 'own' size charts. Measure yourself first with a tape measure, your bust, waist, and hips, over your undergarments. Compare these numbers to the manufacturer’s size chart provided to find your best size. If you are between sizes, select the next size up as the rule is “easier to take in than to let out”.
 By recalling previous buying experiences, you can make a sound decision based on what worked and what didn't. If you have large hips, an A-line skirt is flattering. If you have flabby arms, a long sleeve jacket is the way to go. A longer blouse or jacket hides a problem stomach area. Also, try to figure out which colors look good with your skin tone that match what the rest of the bridal party will be wearing. If you're going on a shopping trip, take a friend for some helpful and constructive advice.
 Their prices are on the most part, reasonable. Don't forget to check out matching accessories such as purse and hat. Check on the return policy as every store sets their own. Remember that you are shopping for a “special occasion” outfit and the return policy is usually more strict than for regular everyday clothing.
 Online shopping could definitely be the best option for you from now on and not only for your mother of the bride dress!

