 There are two types of strokes. The most common, which comprise over 90% of strokes, are ischemic strokes. These are due to a lack of blood flow to the brain, most commonly caused when plaque in the carotid arteries break off and flow downstream. It moves along until it obstructs a blood vessel and blood flow to parts of the brain. Depending on what the affected part of the brain is responsible for, such as speech, walking, or moving one half of the body, that will give the specific constellation of symptoms experienced when having a stroke.


The other, much less common, type of stroke is from a bleeding in the brain, a hemorrhagic stroke. This results from a blood vessel or collection of vessels called an aneurysm, which cause a stroke when they grow in size and about to burst. These strokes, though rare, cause the worst headache you have every experienced.
It is important to differentiate because the vast majority of stroke victims you may encounter are in no pain. This lack of pain can cause delay in recognition and treatment which in turn can cause devastating, long-term neurologic damage or death.;
, It is important to recognize the symptoms of a stroke early to insure a positive outcome. The medical profession uses the acronym FAST to remember what to look for in a stroke and how quickly to respond. F stands for face, which means you need to look for facial drooping. Notice if one side of the face is drooped or hanging. Ask the victim to smile. The affected side will not be able to turn up like the other.


You can also ask them to raise their eyebrows and the affected side will not respond., The A in FAST stands for arms, which means you need to check for arm weakness. Ask the person to raise his arms out in front of him, bringing to them to shoulder level. Push gently down on his arms and ask him to push back against the resistance. He might be able to move his arms even if he is having a stroke, but the affected arm should fall down when you push against is due to weakness.


If he can't raise his other arm, or if his arm is dropping below where he is trying to keep it, he is suffering from arm weakness., The S stands for speech, which means you need to listen for slurred speech. Notice if he is having trouble speaking, if his words are slurred, or if he is having trouble getting his words out. Ask him to repeat a word or say his name. If it is slurred, this is called dysarthria and he is likely having a stroke.If he can say his name but you are still worried, have him try to repeat a simple sentence, such as "Roses are red." See if he can repeat it and listen for slurring., The T stands for time, which means you need to respond in a timely manner when the symptoms appear. Time is of the essence with a stroke because the longer you wait, the more damage is done to his vital organs. Respond as quickly as possible to make sure he gets treated quickly enough to lower the chances of damage., Although FAST is a great way to check for a stroke, there are a few other symptoms you can look for when assessing the patient. The victim may be confused or have trouble understanding you. He may also have trouble seeing in one or both eyes, may have trouble walking, be dizzy, or have loss of balance or coordination., A TIA, or a "mini stroke," only differs from a stroke in that the clot is "transient" — the blockage will pass and there is usually no permanent damage.TIA symptoms occur rapidly and last about a minute. If you experience a TIA, you should consider this a very serious warning sign about your risk for a permanent stroke. Roughly 1/3 of people who experience TIA have a stroke within a year.The signs of TIA are the same as a permanent stroke, but they pass in less than five minutes.Never wait to see if the signs of a stroke will pass. Even if it might be TIA, you should call 911 as soon as you notice any indication of a stroke.If you do experience TIA, talk to your doctor to figure out what changes you need to make to ensure you don't experience a permanent stroke down the road.
 As soon as you determine the person is having a stroke (or if you even think the person is having a stroke), you need to call 911 immediately. Let them know that you have a stroke victim, which will allow them to get the necessary equipment and know what to expect when they arrive. Do not hesitate for fear of overreacting or being incorrect. Every minute the brain goes without oxygen increases the chances that the neurological deficit will be permanent.


If the area of the stroke is expanding or affects areas of the brain that control breathing, the stroke could be lethal if you wait too long.
The goal is for the patient to receive tPA , which is the life-saving clot busting medication, within 60 minutes or less from the time the patient is picked up until the medication is delivered. This leaves no time for hesitation. Stroke victims who were able to receive tPA within 60 minutes or less had the highest percentage of being discharged home as opposed to a long term care facility due to severe neurological damage or death while in the hospital., While you are on the phone with 911, you need to ask the patient when he first started having symptoms. You need to gather information about when the symptoms started. Relate this information to 911 dispatcher. The dispatcher will likely stay on the line with you while you gather information about symptoms and time frames.


Also ask him if he has a severe headache and let the responder know. This is a symptom of a different kind of stroke.
 You need to ask the victim a series of questions about his medical history. Ask him if he has had a stroke in the past. Also ask if he has had heart problems in the past, such as heart attacks, high blood pressure, or artery disease. Check to see if he has diabetes, bleeding disorders, any recent surgeries, or liver disease.


Do this as well as you can if they are suffering from slurred speech. You just need to collect as much information for emergency services as possible., While you wait for emergency services to arrive, you need to make sure you know what medications the victim in on. Ask the victim if he takes aspirin, anticoagulants, and anti-platelet agents. Also check to see if he takes insulin, anti-hypertensives, or any other prescription medication for chronic conditions.


You can also ask if he takes any illegal street drugs and how much alcohol he consumes.
If you can, try to grab medicine bottles from his possession. These will give the providers and treating physicians important information about any contraindication between medications that might arise when giving clot busting medication.
Keep him talking and focused on you until the paramedics arrive.