 If you have decided that you want to give up cable TV at your house, you’ll first need to contact your cable provider. Let them know when your services are to be shut off and ask them what the procedure is for canceling.It’s likely that you signed a contract for a specific length of time when you initially began your cable services. Be sure to ask if there is a cancelation fee.;
, If you plan on replacing your cable television service with some kind of streaming device, you’ll need to make sure that you keep your internet service. It’s possible that your internet and cable services are bundled together on the same bill. Make sure you only cancel the cable, but keep the internet.

Check with your cable provider about exactly what products you want to cancel before they disconnect the service.
 You most likely have some equipment that belongs to the cable company – various cable boxes – that you’ll need to return. When you call to cancel your services, ask the customer care agent what you need to do about the cable equipment you have. Follow their instructions for returning the equipment. Usually you can either drop it off at the cable office in person or mail it back to them with a prepaid shipping label.If you don’t return this equipment, the cable company may stick you with a hefty bill to cover the price of the boxes.
 Be sure to watch the mail for your final cable bill. It should come a month or two after you canceled your services. Read the bill carefully to make sure that they didn’t inadvertently charge you for the equipment you already returned.If you don’t pay your final bill, the cable company may send it to a collection agency, which could negatively impact your credit score.
 If you want to watch television programs on your TV without paying for cable, you’ll need to purchase a streaming device that connects your television to the internet (either wirelessly via wifi, or by connecting a hard-wired cable). These devices allow you to access streaming content and watch it on your television.Some of the most popular streaming devices include Roku, Google Chromecast, Amazon Fire TV, and Apple TV.
Many smart TVs come pre-programmed with, or have the capability to download, the streaming apps directly to the TV. In this case, you won’t need an additional streaming device.
 If you already have a gaming device, check to see if it has the capability to stream online content (in addition to games). If you don’t have a gaming console, consider purchasing one for the multifunctional use of streaming and gaming.The two most popular gaming consoles that offer streaming capabilities are the Sony PlayStation 4 and Microsoft’s Xbox One.
 Once you have your streaming device, you need to get some streaming services. Most of these services charge a monthly or yearly fee (usually still cheaper than your cable TV bill), but there are also some free services available.Some of the most popular streaming services include Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video, and HBO Now., There are quite a few options for finding online content through various websites or apps. YouTube is a great place to find many of your favorite TV shows online. They may be broken up into segments, but you can still access them online for free.Additionally, many cable networks offer episodes of their programs on their official websites.
 Television can often distract us from dedicating time to reading books, despite the fact that reading usually feels more productive and satisfying than watching TV. Choose some books you’ve been meaning to read, or find some newly released books and start reading a little bit each day. Devote some of the time you used to spend watching television to reading.Try checking out books from the library. Or get a Kindle device that can store a large amount of books in its internal memory.
Reading is actually good for you – it increases brain connectivity and memory abilities. But watching television has been shown to decrease verbal reasoning skills.
 If you want to ditch the cable, try shifting the focus of your free time to more outdoor activities. This will get you out of the house, away from the television, and will help you miss the cable programs less. If you sit around at home as you normally would while watching the TV, you will feel its absence much more distinctly.Try taking your dog for a walk or riding your bike to a friend’s house. Consider playing with your children at a nearby park or driving to the beach to spend a day in the sun.
 Instead of watching television programs at home, try reaching out to your friends and family more often. This is a great way to fill up the time you used to spend watching television.Invite your friends over for dinner or take a weekend holiday away with your family. Buy concert tickets for a night out with your best friends, or have a board game night with your neighbors.
 With all of this extra time on your hands, you could invest some in learning a new skill or hobby. These kinds of things will enrich your life and make you miss the television less.Take a painting class or learn how to play an instrument. Start jogging or join a group sports team.

