 He will be incredibly loyal, but it comes with time. It takes a longer time than the average guy for a Taurus to warm up to you. Don’t lose your patience and give up. Once you gain his trust, you’ll have it forever.


He may have a hard time talking about his emotions. Instead, he’ll likely act on his feelings. This can include ignoring you altogether if he’s not enjoying the relationship.Don’t get discouraged if your guy doesn’t seem receptive at first. You’ll know if he likes you because Taurus men make overt gestures like buying chocolate or flowers.;
, Taurus men are career driven and love to complete projects. Talk about your passion and past victories, and he will relate to you and see you as a kindred spirit.


Taurus men also love money. Knowledge about finance or the world economy will make you more attractive to him.Be careful when you talk about your own success. Taurus men like being the breadwinner in the family, so being overly independent may turn him off.
 Taurus men love being in control, and they also like imparting their knowledge onto other people and being involved in decisions, even if it doesn’t concern them.

You may have to be more vulnerable with a him, even if it makes you feel uncomfortable. This includes asking for help, or telling him about a vulnerable situation you are in.
 While some Taurus guys are risk-takers, most of them are more traditional than other men.Rather than a trip skydiving, your guy will probably enjoy doing something a little more conventional, like dinner and a movie, or hanging out inside for the night.Taurus guys are usually not as brash and forward as men born under other zodiac signs. This means that you may have to push the issue even if you're not used to it.
The more you spend time and get to talk to your guy, the more he will desire your company.
He may not be a good talker, but Taurus are great listeners., He likes the finer things in life, and will not be afraid of showing his lavish lifestyle. While he’ll most likely be receptive to a sexy physical appearance, you don’t want to come off cheap because it will repel him.Taurus men are looking for a lasting relationship, not a short fling.
Minimize the use of slang and try to come off intellectual.

