 Silica gel, which can be purchased at most craft stores, can easily be used to preserve rose petals. You'll need a large package of silica gel and an airtight, sealable container.


Place an inch of silica gel at the bottom of an airtight container. Then, add the rose petals.Add about another half inch of silica gel, completely covering the flowers. Place the lid on the container and set aside in a safe place away from pets or children.It can take anywhere from two to seven days for flowers to dry completely. At this point, they can be removed and used in crafts. Wetter, larger petals will take longer to dry than smaller, dryer ones.;
, Borax and sand can also be used to preserve rose petals. As silica gel can be a hazard to pets and children, you may feel safer with this method. You'll need to buy fine sand and borax powder at a local craft store. Once again, you'll also need a container. However, you'll be leaving the container uncovered so it does not need to be sealable or airtight.


Sift the borax first, making sure to remove all the lumps. Then, mix the borax and sand. You should use a mixture of 2 parts borax, 1 part fine sand.Line one inch of the borax/sand mixture on the bottom of your container. Add the rose petals. Then, cover them completely with borax and sand. You'll need about half an inch.This method takes slightly longer to work than the silica gel method. You'll have to set your open container aside for 14 to 17 days before the petals dry completely., A plain, dust-free cat litter can also help preserve rose petals. You would use the same layering process as you used with silica gel. Line the bottom of an airtight, sealable container with an inch of cat litter. Then, add the rose petals. Then, add another half inch of cat litter. Seal the container and set aside for two to seven days.If you have cats, make sure to place the container out of their reach. If they see a container full of litter, they may assume it's for them and try to get into it.
 Borax can also be mixed with white corn meal to preserve flowers. Mix the borax and corn meal with a 50/50 ratio. Then, line an inch of the mixture on the bottom of a container. Add the rose petals. Cover with another half inch. Set the container aside, uncovered, for 14 to 17 days.