 To make the bunny cake, you need to make two layer cakes and your frosting. To start, preheat your oven to 350ºF (177ºC). You'll also need a few extra supplies and tools, including:

Sharp knife
Small saucepan and medium glass or metal bowl
Whisk
Two medium bowls, one small bowl, and one large bowl
Sifter
Electric beaters or stand mixer
Wooden spoon or rubber spatula
Two round 9-inch cake pans, greased
Wiring cooling racks
Frosting knife
Cake plate
Piping bag with round tip;
, Cut the chocolate into small pieces and place the pieces into a glass bowl. Fill the bottom of the small saucepan with about an inch (2.5 cm) of water. Place the bowl on top of the saucepan and heat it over medium heat.

Whisk the chocolate regularly as it melts, and continue heating it until the chocolate is fully melted.
When the chocolate is melted, leave the saucepan and bowl where they are and turn off the heat.
 Sift together the flour, cocoa, 1 cup (225 g) of sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt into a medium bowl. This will remove lumps, make the batter easier to combine, and make the cake light and fluffy.If you don’t have a sifter, combine the ingredients in the bowl and whisk them together.
 In a second medium bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat together the eggs, brown sugar, and remaining tablespoon (14 g) of sugar on medium high-speed.

Beat everything for about five minutes, until the eggs and sugar are fully combined and starting to thicken., Reduce the speed of the mixer or beaters to medium and slowly pour in half the oil. Beat for two to three minutes, giving the oil time to incorporate fully. Slowly add the melted chocolate, followed by the remaining oil.

Reduce the speed to low and slowly pour in the buttermilk and vanilla. Beat for one to two minutes, until everything is fully combined., Pour the dry ingredients into the wet ingredients. With the rubber spatula or wooden spoon, gently mix the batter until all the ingredients are completely incorporated and the batter is smooth.

Stop when the ingredients are combined, as overmixing can develop the gluten in the flour and make the cake too dense and heavy.
 Divide the batter evenly between the two greased cake pans. Bake the cakes for about 25 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean, or with a few fudgy crumbs.Remove the cakes from the oven when they're done and set them aside to cool for 20 minutes.
 After 20 minutes, the cakes will have cooled enough to constrict and pull away from the cake pans. Turn the cakes out onto the cooling racks and allow them to cool to room temperature.

The cakes will likely need about 1.5 hours to cool completely.
 Combine the butter and vanilla in the large mixing bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer. With electric beaters or the stand mixer’s whisk attachment, cream the butter and vanilla on medium speed until the butter is smooth and light yellow.

With the beaters at the same speed, add the powdered sugar one cup (125 g) at a time until it’s all fully incorporated and creamy.
Add the marshmallow crème (an entire 13-ounce jar) and continue beating until the ingredients come together as a smooth, fluffy, and slightly sticky frosting., Remove about ¼ cup of frosting and place it into a small bowl. Add one or two drops of red food coloring, and whisk the frosting to incorporate the color.

This will be pink frosting to decorate the inside of the bunny’s ears. If the frosting is too pale, whisk in another one to two drops of red.
 The body, face, and legs of the bunny will all be formed with the two cakes, and you have to cut the cakes to make these pieces. Cover the top of one of the cakes with a generous layer of frosting, using a frosting or butter knife to spread the frosting evenly. Place the second cake on top of the frosted cake.With your eye, make an imaginary line down the center of the layered cake. Then move over by an inch (2.5 cm) and cut the cake into two pieces, with one side larger than the other.
 Take the larger half of the cake and stand it upright (cut side down and rounded side up) on a cake plate or serving platter. This will form the body of the bunny.With the remaining section of cake, cut the piece in half down the middle to form two wedges., To make the bunny’s head, take one of the wedges and cut off two inches (5 cm) from the triangular tip. Place the extra cake from the tip into a scrap bowl and set it aside. Place the wedge in front of the body, and butt the trimmed tip against the body so that the rounded edge of the cake is farthest from the body.

Use a knife to round off the pointed edges of the cake to create the head.
When you round off the edges, place the scrap pieces of cake into the scrap bowl.
 With the second wedge of cake, peel apart the two layers and redistribute the frosting so there's an even layer on each piece of the wedge. Place one wedge on either side of the bunny’s body. Attach the first wedge to the right side by pressing the frosted side against the body, lining up the rounded edge of the wedge with the rounded back of the bunny’s body.Repeat with the other wedge on the left side.
Use the knife to round off the sharp edges of the legs, and place the scraps in the scrap bowl.
 Take the cake scraps and use a fork to mash them together in the bowl. Add a dollop of frosting to keep the cake together, and form the cake into a ball with your hands.

Dip the ball into the white frosting and press it onto the back of the bunny’s body to create the tail.
 Use the frosting knife to cover the entire bunny, including the head, body, legs, and tail with a layer of white frosting. Transfer the cake to the fridge and let it set for 20 to 30 minutes.The crumb coat will help to make the final layer of frosting even, smooth, and easier to apply.
 After letting it set for at least 20 minutes, remove the cake from the fridge. Spread a second layer of frosting over the entire cake, smoothing and evening it out with the knife., Sprinkle the coconut evenly over the entire bunny. Go over the entire cake and gently press the coconut into the frosting to create a furry appearance., Cover the top of each piece of biscotti with a layer of white frosting. Transfer the pink frosting into the piping bag and fit it with the round tip. Pipe a straight line of pink frosting down the center of each frosted biscotti top.

Position the ears on the cake by placing the biscotti side by side, and propping the ends up against the head of the bunny. Rest the length of the cookies along the curved body.
 To create the face of the bunny, you'll use black jellybeans for the eyes, a dot of pink frosting for the nose, marshmallow for the cheeks, and black licorice for the whiskers.To make the eyes, place a black jellybean on either side of the bunny’s head. Position the jellybeans at the front of the head, halfway between the top and bottom of the cake. Press the jelly beans gently into the frosting to secure them in place.
For the nose, pipe a jellybean-sized dot of pink frosting onto the front center of the head, on the rounded edge of the cake that’s facing outward and away from the body.
To create the cheeks, cut the marshmallow in half. Position each half of the marshmallow side by side and directly below the nose. Gently press the halves into the frosting to secure them.
For the whiskers, cut four strips of licorice that are each 1.5 inches (3.75 cm) long. Peel each strip apart three-quarters of the way, leaving the two halves attached at one end. Position two pairs of licorice whiskers on either side of the marshmallow cheeks.

