 You will need to write a letter disputing the chargeback and send it, along with documents that support your position, to your bank. The bank will forward it to the issuing bank. Address your letter "To Whom It May Concern" and state that you dispute the chargeback.Then describe the transaction and the records that support your contention that the charge was not an accident, mistake, or fraud.


When you describe the transaction, give the name of the customer, what the customer paid for, and the date and time of the transaction.Describe what your documentary evidence shows. For example, you may have a receipt signed by the customer, which would establish that the purchase was not an unauthorized charge on the customer's credit card.
You can find a sample chargeback dispute letter at https://chargebacks911.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/chargeback-rebuttal-letter-examples.pdf.
 Make legible copies of your documentary evidence for inclusion with your letter. Your evidence might include receipts, proof of delivery, emails from the customer, documents showing that shipments have been accepted at that address before, etc., After you send your letter and supporting evidence to your bank, the bank will review your documents and present them to the issuing bank.If the issuing bank is satisfied that you have refuted the customer's claim, the issuing bank will re-post the charge to the customer's statement. If the issuing bank is not persuaded that the customer's claim is invalid, the chargeback will stand.The charge will be refunded to the consumer, and you will be liable for chargeback fees of approximately $50 to $75.In addition, the more chargebacks you have on your record, the greater the chargeback fees will be., If you lose the chargeback dispute, you may still be able to arbitrate the dispute before a neutral third party. Contact the issuing bank and ask how to submit your dispute to arbitration. The arbitrator will review all of each party's documentary evidence and make a decision. Each credit card has its own arbitration rules and fees. For example, MasterCard requires a $150 filing fee, a $250 administrative fee, a $150 withdrawal fee, and a $100 technical fee. Those fees are imposed upon the party who loses, withdraws , or violates the dispute processing rules., If all else fails, you can still sue the customer in civil or small claims court. Due to the expense of litigation, it may not make sense to pursue your dispute in court, as you may spend more than you could possibly recover from the customer. If you are interested in pursuing your case in court, consult an attorney.

