 An alphabetical filing system works well when you need to retrieve names of people, customers, authors, names of movies, books, or etc. Provided you use terms that are easy to retrieve, an alphabetical filing system is often the easiest system to use.The best way to file and retrieve files is by labeling each file. Manila folders have an extra tab designed to label files that will make your retrieval process easier.
If you are handling clients, it is more efficient to alphabetize by last name.
If you have a lot of files, consider making letter sections to help you organize. Section dividers are large and simply contain one letter. You can also divide the letters in pairs like “A-D” or “F-K.”

, When you work or study in a variety of subject areas, a subject or topic order can be a very useful way to retrieve information. For example, if you study law, you could have subject headings of contract, constitutional law, torts, administrative law, international law etc.


The best way to organize topical information is through section dividers. Label your section dividers based off the contents, like “Admin Law.”
This system works best if you have several different topics. If you not, you’ll be left with one or two dividers and not much of an organized system.
 This type of filing system is ideal for files that contain dates or numbers. For example, if you have invoices, receipts, dated events etc., the numerical system can make an easy system to locate again. You can also consider month and year labeling for this option. For those working in an environment that uses numbering for papers such as medical files, legislative documents, court cases, etc., numbering is a useful retrieval method.


Only use this system if you are comfortable viewing several numbers and can retrieve information from these numbers.
Mark on the filing tabs the numbers or dates and organize based off the numbered value. Start with “1” and have the following numbers increase value.
If you are filing with months, start with January and move, in order, through December. You’ll benefit with section dividers for each month.
 This is great for creative filing and is especially effective for those with good visual recall. It can help to cross-reference different subjects based off color coding. You can color code any of the aforementioned techniques for filing.You can also use a combination of organizing systems by pairing color codes with another system.


One of easiest ways to add color to your established filling method is by using highlighters. You can purchase a variety pack of highlighters from any office supplies store.
Another way to implement color coding is by using a variety of colored folders.
 This works well for items that you use all the time, but shouldn’t be a standalone system. It needs to feed off another system, for example the alphabetical system. Add the frequently used information to a grouped space in your filing area so that it can be retrieved quickly, such as at the very front of a filing cabinet drawer.You’ll need to be careful you don’t get unorganized using this system. Keeping the project you’re currently working on in the front, won’t always guarantee an efficient organization.

