 One good HIIT exercise you can include is a bodyweight squat.To perform a squat, stand with your feet hip-width apart. Tighten your core and hold up your chest as you lower yourself down. As you lower down, make sure to push your hips back while keeping your chest up, like you are sitting in a chair. Stand back up as you squeeze your glutes.


Try to lower yourself at least until your legs are parallel. However, your flexibility may limit how far you can go down while keeping good form. While pregnant, you should never sink down too far towards the floor.
Your knees should stay over or behind your toes. Never let your knees extend beyond your toes.
 Sit on a reclined bench so you are at an angle. The dumbbells should be on your thighs to begin with, palms facing each other. Lift the weight one at a time. Hold them in front of your body, shoulder-width apart. In a slow controlled movement, lower the weight down to your chest, keeping the weights at shoulder width. Your elbow should be at a 90 degree angle.Exhale as you push the dumbbells up using your chest muscles. Move until your arms are straight again.
Slowly lower the weights again.
For a variation, you can use one arm at a time.
 You can do inverted rows with a bar or rings. The bar or rings should be around waist height. If you have access to any bar, you can do an inverted row on it even if you can’t adjust the height. Start by placing your hands wide on the bar, wider than your shoulders. You should be leaning at an angle under the bar with your feet firmly on the floor. Make sure your body and your arms are straight.Pull yourself towards the bar by bending at the elbow and pressing your shoulder blades together. Make sure your body stays as straight as possible. The bar should touch around your chest.
Pause before lowering yourself down in a controlled manner.
 Use a kettlebell or a dumbbell for this workout. Place it on ground. Stand with your feet in a wide stance. Your feet should be wider than your hips. Bend your knees as you push your hips back until you are about parallel. Your back should be straight and your chest and head should be up. Grab the kettlebell or hold the dumbbells between your feet.Raise up as your straighten your legs, straighten your back, and squeeze your glutes. The kettlebell or dumbbell should still be hanging in front of you.
Return back to the starting position, keeping your hips back, back straight, and chest up.
 Planks are safe exercises to add to your HIIT routine. Move onto all fours and place your wrists under your shoulders. You can stay on your knees, or you can push yourself onto your hands and toes. Tighten your abdominals so that your back doesn’t arch or dip down. Your body position should be a straight line.You can do the same workout on your side. Turn onto one arm and hold yourself on your elbow and arm or your hand. You can be on your knees or be on your toes. Hold yourself in this position, then switch to the other side.
Choose a duration that works for your workout. You may want to try 10, 15, or 30 seconds.
 Plank rows combine core and arm exercises. Use hand weights to make it more difficult. Move into a plank. Position your hands on the ground under your shoulders while holding on to the hand weights on the ground. Pull up with one arm as you point your elbow towards the ceiling. Pull the hand weight to your chest. Lower the weight back to start. Repeat with the other arm.Your arms should be the only thing moving.
If you want to add an extra step, add a pushup after you do a row with each arm., Lunges can be added as one of the exercises in a set. You can do front lunges or reverse lunges. To do a lunge, take a step forward. Lower yourself until your knees are at 90 degree angles. Make sure your knee is in line with your foot, not extending beyond it. Push off with your leg to go back to your original standing position. Do the same with the other leg.


To do a reverse lunge, step backwards, doing the exact same exercise.

