 Add some scented bubble bath, or oil for your type of skin, and mix in.


Peppermint oil is good for reviving feet, while lavender oil is good for soothing them.
Almond and milk soak is a good choice if you want soft feet. Make sure your feet are very clean in order to benefit more from this great treatment. Add one cup of powdered milk (dairy or soy) and one tablespoon of almond oil. Mix through. Soak your feet for at least ten minutes. Do not rinse.
If your feet are swollen, add one handful of Epsom salts or baking powder to the bowl.;
, If using the almond and milk soak (or any other luxurious foot soaking product), soak for fifteen minutes to get the softer feel.
 Remove any dirt under your toenails, and clip your toenails to a suitable length. If wished, slightly push back the cuticles, as the cuticles will be soft., Use a rich balm or cream, or exfoliate. You can make your own as follows: 1 spoon each each of unscented body oil, aloe vera gel, kosher salts and whole oats. Use this to exfoliate each foot.


If your feet do not quite feel smooth on the bottom or sides, use a hand held foot rubber with a rough surface.
As you massage your feet, take this opportunity to notice how they are; are there any bumps, warts, growths, cracks, peeling areas, etc. that need special attention? If you have hard calluses, corns or growths, you might need to seek medical advice; don't let them go on unheeded or pain could result.
 Rinse the rest off in the bowl of water used for soaking in.
 This step will leave your feet sweet smelling and soft.


If you're going to be painting your toenails, wipe off lotion from the toenail area with polish remover before starting. Otherwise, the lotion will interfere with the application of the nail polish.
 Apply your usual favorite polish and if you're really luxuriating, use this as an opportunity to apply longer-drying polishes which have a glossier finish. This can allow you to languish in the foot spa a little longer!


Finish with a quick drying top coat.
It's recommended that you wait at least 45 minutes before wearing any closed toe shoes after polish application. Also, make sure that your feet are dry before doing any nail work or pedicure to your feet!

