 Read How to test soil pH for the details. You can also purchase pH soil testing kits and follow their instructions.


The pH scale is 1-14. One is extremely acidic, 14 is extremely alkaline.






Most plants are fine with a neutral soil, around pH 7.






Some plants love acidic soil (around 4.5-6.5), and include Australian natives, citrus, pro-teas, camellias, rhododendrons, azaleas, and herbs.






Some plants love alkaline soil (around 7-8), and include lavender, iris, lilac, and peas.






Soil alkalinity or acidity can be slightly adjusted with the addition of dolomite (for acidic soil) or organic matter and sulphur (for alkaline soil) but this can take a long time to change.





;
, Take a handful of soil and squeeze it into a rolled shape.


Sandy soil: This soil won't form a roll. It will crumble and appears grainy. It's common for coastal zones. Add manure and compost to improve it.






Clay loam: This will form a roll. It is the perfect garden soil, being an even mix of sand and clay.







Clay soil: This will form a sticky, firm roll. If you can sculpt with it, it's heavy clay soil. Light clay soil can be improved by the addition of organic matter; heavy clay soil is almost impossible to work with and you'll need to stick with plants that grow in it naturally or completely replace it by bringing in good soil, digging out the clay and pouring in the good new soil.
 You will often read that a soil needs to be "well-draining" when learning how to grow a plant. It's therefore very helpful to know whether the soil drains well or not.


Dig some holes in the garden.






Fill the holes with water.






Watch for the reaction:






If the water drains away quickly, this could indicate sandy soil and a problem for fast water loss. Add mulch and water crystals.






If the water just sits there for ages and shows no signs of budging, then it's poor draining soil. You'll need to create drainage in the garden and use a lot of organic matter.








If it drains through at a medium pace, it's good well-draining soil.







