 Private companies, non-profit organizations, state and local governments, and even universities themselves also offer college grants. Seek out grant funds that apply to you. Read over eligibility to requirements to make sure that you qualify before applying. Begin looking for grants to up one year before the school year you hope to fund.


Visit The College Grant Database at http://www.collegegrant.net/.
Inquire about grants through your school by contacting your financial aid office or visiting your school's website.
Look for local or state-level grants by visiting the websites for your city, township, county, or state.
 Different grants will require different documents in order to apply. Carefully read over the instructions for a specific grant, and then gather or create everything that you need.Always ask a parent, teacher, or friend to read over your documents before you submit. Some common documents include:


A general application with your information.
A personal essay explaining who you are and why you qualify for this grant.
Documents that demonstrate financial need (such as tax forms for you and/or your parents).
Resume or Curriculum vitae.
Previous high school or college transcripts.
 Some grants will ask you to submit forms online, while others may ask that you submit your documents through the mail. Follow the instructions provided for your specific grant and submit your application (and any accompanying documents) before the due date., For the most part, private, non-profit, state and local-level, and in-house university grants are going to be in lower dollar amounts (anywhere from a few hundred to a few thousand dollars). As such, it can be helpful to find many that you qualify for, and apply for them all. These grants (and scholarships) often seek out specific types of candidates, based on either a specific field of study, or a specific identity category (often minority). Some examples of these categories include:


Women
Students of color
First-generation college students
Students of art, music, or theatre
Students of education
Students of criminal justice

