 Those who believe in psychic powers feel those who have them can sense things before they occur. You may be prone to very strong "gut feelings" one way or another about a situation. Try to tune in to your gut feeling over the course of a few days and see how accurate it is.You may get gut feelings about a situation that prove to be true. This does not have to be something major. It can be a small gut feeling. For example, you feel drawn into a clothing store to find the perfect outfit.;
, Not all predictions are major. While some people claim to have predicted natural disasters or other major events, many people who think they have psychic powers can make predictions on a small scale. Pay attention to whether tiny flashes of intuition prove true.For example, you may know who's calling the second your phone rings, predict the general timeframe a package will arrive to your house, or know what song will play on the radio next.
Some of these small predictions may be a coincidence or based on knowledge you already have. If your mom always calls at a certain time, for example, it's not unusual to assume she's calling when your phone rings. However, if such predictions occur frequently, they could be a sign of psychic powers.
 Those who believe in psychics feel they're more intuitive about other people's emotions. When you're around other people, gauge your level of empathy. Think about whether you know someone's feeling without having to be told.If you know someone well, it's not uncommon to sense what they're feeling. People often give off unconscious tells about their feelings, which most people who know them well pick up on. Psychics, however, can allegedly read energy even from strangers.
If you have physic powers, you may feel a deep connection to a stranger's energy. You may, for example, pass someone in the grocery store and get a sense of sadness or happiness from them.
A psychic's capacity for empathy is allegedly very strong. You will not just be able to sense people's emotions but you may feel them as if they're your own.
 Psychics can supposedly get a sense of another person's past and history just from being around them Think about how you feel when first meeting people. Have you ever gotten a strong sense of a person's past without being told? If so, you may have psychic powers.For example, you meet a stranger at party and get images in your mind's eye of palm trees and beaches. Later, you find out this person grew up in California.
You may also get a sense of experiences from someone's past. For example, you may meet someone and feel a sense of abandonment or deep loss. Later, you may find out something about the person's past that points to this. Maybe one of their parents died young, for example, or left the family.
 Those who feel they have psychic powers feel they can sense danger. Think about times when you've had a sense of foreboding. Did this ever prove true? If so, you may be psychically gifted.For example, you may feel a strong sense you should not enter a building or attend a social event. Later, you may find out something dangerous happened there. For example, maybe there was a fire at a department store you felt wary about entering.

