 If you can see any visible sag in your drive belt, it is far too loose, but tension issues are not always visible. Pinch the belt between your thumb and index fingers and try to wiggle it from top to bottom. If the belt moves more than a half of an inch or so, it is too loose and needs to be tightened or replaced.You can purchase belt tensioner tools that will measure the tension of the drive belt and let you know if it is too loose at most auto parts stores.
If the belt seems loose, it likely requires tightening or replacing.
 A loose drive belt cannot power the accessories as well as it is supposed to. The alternator in your vehicle is powered by the drive belt, so if you notice dimming interior lights or your voltage gauge fluctuating, there may be an issue with the drive belt.Dimming interior lights and issues with your electrical gauge can both also mean an issue with your alternator.
If the lights get brighter when you accelerate, the problem may be the alternator rather than the belt.
 Another common issue caused by a loose drive belt is overheating. The drive belt powers the water pump in your vehicle that runs coolant throughout the engine. If the belt is too loose, it may not be able to sufficiently power the pump, resulting in higher operating temperatures and even overheating.Engine heat issues may also be caused by bad coolant, a leak in your coolant system, or a faulty water pump.
Be careful driving a vehicle with coolant issues, as overheating an engine can cause significant internal damage.
 If your vehicle does not come equipped with a voltage gauge, you can check the voltage reaching the battery using a voltmeter. Voltmeters can be purchased at most auto parts or large retail stores and can tell you how many volts are traveling through an electrical system. Touch the black sensor coming from the voltmeter to the negative terminal on the battery and the other to the positive, then check to see how many volts are flowing through the system. If the alternator is generating enough voltage, it should read between 13.8 and 15.3 volts.The black lead from the voltmeter connects to the negative terminal on the battery. You can find the negative terminal by looking for the letters “NEG” or the negative symbol that looks like (-).
The red lead from the voltmeter connects to the positive terminal, which can be identified by the letters “POS” or the positive symbol that looks like (+).
 Even if you haven’t had electrical or coolant issues, your drive belt may still need to be replaced if there are signs of extensive wear or damage anywhere on the belt. Look for cracks that develop along the ribs of the belt, chunks missing, or frayed fabric on the top back of the belt.Even under optimal conditions, drive belts will eventually wear out and begin to stretch.
Look for any indications that something has been rubbing on the drive belt and make sure to address it before installing a new one.
 Many modern vehicles come equipped with a tensioner pulley that places tension on the belt. Use your vehicle’s service manual to locate the tensioner pulley and try to move it around with your hand. The tensioner is designed to withstand more force that you should be able to easily place on it with your bare hands, so if it moves, it has likely gone bad.If you can see the tensioner pulley with the motor running, start it and watch for any movement in the pulley.
The tensioner pulley should not move under the pressure of the belt when in motion.

