 Order an omelette with one slice of cheese and at least two kinds of vegetables. On the side, choose the fruit salad instead of the hash browns or French fries.This meal has protein, selenium and vitamin D from the eggs, as well as fiber and vitamins from the vegetables.


If you want an omelette but are trying to reduce your cholesterol, you should order an egg white omelette.;
, Ask for one or two poached eggs. If you order one egg, you will get 75 calories including 7 grams of protein, 5 grams of fat, and 1.6 grams of saturated fat, alongside iron, vitamins, and minerals. Eggs also contain carotenoids, which may reduce the risk of age-related macular degeneration, the leading cause of blindness in older adults.Two poached eggs will add up to 150 calories.


Order your poached eggs with a piece of dry brown toast and a sliced plum tomato.From the plum tomato, you should get about 11 calories, including 2 grams of carbohydrates, 1 gram of protein, ten percent of your vitamin A requirement and thirteen percent of your vitamin C requirement.From the toast, you will get about 65 calories, including 2.5 grams of protein, 13.6 grams of carbohydrates, and half a gram of fat.If you order poached eggs, brown toast and a plum tomato, you will be consuming 150-225 calories, depending on whether you order one or two eggs.
By asking for poached eggs instead of fried eggs, you will reduce your intake of saturated fats. Scrambled or fried eggs require butter or oil, which contains saturated fat.
 A typical eggs benedict meal can up to approximately 1,050 calories, including 57 grams of fat. It is packed with fat and is very hard to digest. If you spring for it, you may feel bloated and tired for the rest of the day.Order eggs benedict without the sauce. The eggs will offer the creaminess and you can cut down on the calories in this meal.Order eggs Florentine without the sauce. You will get spinach, which has tons of vitamin A, calcium, iron and vitamin C.Order eggs benedict without the hash browns. If you cut the hash browns, you can cut down on the calories in this heavy meal.
 If you get a good quality, center cut bacon, you can reduce the amount of fat by about twenty grams compared to regular bacon. You will have to ask what kind of bacon they use and decide accordingly., Ask them to make your oatmeal with steel cut oats and water, as opposed to cream. On the top, you should request fresh fruit as opposed to dry fruit which has excessive sugar.Oatmeal is a smart choice for breakfast because it lowers LDL cholesterol, and decreases your risk for heart disease. The fiber will make you feel full, and can ease constipation., If you are craving something sweet, choose fruit salad instead of waffles or pancakes. A serving of fruit salad with a honey and yoghurt dressing adds up to approximately 135 calories.In comparison, one piece of freshly prepared French toast adds up to about 148 calories and one pancake adds up to about 164 calories.Fruit salad is a nutritionally superior option to other menu items. Whereas fruit salad has plenty of fiber and vitamins, French toast and pancakes are full of simple carbohydrates that will give you a sugar high and eventually result in exhaustion., The bread basket of most brunch restaurants is full of scones, muffins, white bread, and other baked goods that are high in refined carbohydrates and sugar, as well as low in fiber. If you eat too many of these items, you will basically be eating two meals by the time brunch is over. You may also experience a sugar crash due to the high volume of refined carbohydrates., Although potatoes have plenty of nutritional benefits, they need to be prepared appropriately. Eating potatoes at brunch typically means potatoes that have been fried in some manner such as hash browns or latkes. These foods have a lot of saturated fats from all of the oil that is used to make them. Choose to eat baked potatoes at lunch or dinner instead of fried potatoes at brunch., Biscuits are made with processed, white flour and is not the most healthful option because it packs a lot of calories and not enough fiber. One biscuit with gravy may add up to 680 calories and 32 grams of fat.Order a whole grain English muffin instead, which will have more fiber and vitamin B than the biscuits., Waffles are both incredibly high in calories and served in excessively large portions. A seven-inch waffle has about 218 calories, including 11 grams of fat, 25 grams of carbohydrates, and 6 grams of protein. Typically, restaurants will give you at least three or four waffles, if not more. In addition, waffles are often eaten with syrup, jam, and other high sugar toppings. This meal may give you a sugar high and then make you tired for the rest of the day.If you do order waffles or pancakes, you can order whole wheat or buckwheat varieties and ask for fruit on the top instead of syrup.
 One bagel has about 430 calories, including 1 gram of fat, 92 carbohydrates, and 15 grams of protein.Once you add the jam or peanut butter or cream cheese, you are looking at a lot of calories.


Choose a piece of toasted whole wheat bread instead, which should have around sixty five calories.