 The praline process is delicate and time sensitive. You need to make sure that you have a spooning area ready before you begin to cook. This will make sure you don't let your pralines cool too much later on. Place a few sheets of parchment paper near you. Place a spoon by the paper in case you need it to help get the mixture off the spoon. You will also need a candy thermometer.


You can also use aluminum foil instead of parchment paper. Do not use wax paper. The heat of the pralines will melt the wax off the paper.
You can also put the parchment paper on a flat baking if you want to be able to move them after your make them.;
, Butter the sides of a 2 quart saucepan. Pour in the sugars, salt, corn syrup, milk, and butter in the saucepan. Stir them together and cook over medium heat. Stir the mixture constantly until the sugar dissolves and the mixture comes to a boil. Continue to cook until it reaches 236 degrees on the candy thermometer. Remove it from heat and allow it to cool for 10 minutes.


You can use the soft ball test if you don't have a candy thermometer. When you think your mixture is thick enough, drizzle a drop of the candy mixture into a glass of cold water. Take the ball that forms out of the water. If it squishes flat between your fingers but stays together, it is ready to come off the heat.
 Once the mixture has cooled, put the nuts and the vanilla into the mixture. Beat the mixture by hand with a spoon for about 2 minutes. The candy should start to thicken and lose its glossy sheen.
 Once it it no longer glossy, take your spoon and start to measure out your pralines. Each spoonful should be dropped on the parchment paper you prepared earlier. If the mixture gets stuck on the spoon, use the spoon you set aside earlier to help get the mixture off. Continue this until all of the pralines are formed. Let them cool to room temperature before you eat them.


Pour a teaspoon or two of hot water in the pralines if the mixture starts to harden before you are done spooning them out.You can make a few variations of this recipe if you want. For chocolate pralines, add a 1/2 cup chocolate to the ingredients in the saucepan. If you want peanut butter pralines, add a 1/3 peanut butter in the 30 seconds before your mixture is done boiling. If you are allergic to nuts, add in 1 1/2 cups of puffed rice cereal instead of pecans.