 Just because you can drink now doesn't mean you have to. Celebrate with your family or some close friends, have a good meal, and a quiet night at home with your pets. That's what Taylor Swift did for her 21st.


Sometimes the pressure of having a big "blowout" can be a little much. It's not for everyone. It can be a whole lot more enjoyable and relaxing to stay in, rent a movie, and be with the people you love. Treat it like any other old birthday.
 If you're not going to drink, splurge in some other way. Make 21 cupcakes from an amazing recipe you found on Pinterest and eat more of them than you're willing to admit online. Make your most favorite rich meal and enjoy it with your family.


Splurge for your birthday. Instead of wasting money on drinks, buy a new dress or a new suit and get a table at a fancy restaurant you've always wanted to try. Have a romantic dinner with your partner. Have an extra piece of cake.
Do 21 shots of something else. Do a mock version of the unfortunately common drink challenge. Pour yourself 21 shots of root beer, OJ, or protein shake, and play a drinking game. It'll be tougher than you think.
 Turning 21 is about more than turning the legal drinking age. It's about becoming an adult. Being an adult for you might mean taking on new challenges, projects, or crossing something off your bucket list. Maybe accomplishing a semi-complicaged cooking project might be a fun way to spend your 21st. Eat a cake that you baked from scratch, or try the perfectly cooked steak. Here are some helpful links to common cooking projects, that'll be easier than you think they are:


Make Pie Crust
Make cupcakes
Make lasagna
Make gnocchi
Make sushi

, A great way to spend your birthday is scoring tickets to a big show you've always wanted to see. Get front row seats to your favorite band, or go check out a play or a musical, if you're more interested in the stage. Pick something that you'll enjoy and head out with a few close friends for a night you'll be sure to enjoy.
 Milk bars, oxygen bars, oyster bars, cereal bars, even chocolate bars can all simulate the bar experience without having to worry about negotiating the alcohol. If you know about a hip place that caters to a singular item, check it out and enjoy sampling the fancy items like adults.

