 To keep split ends under control and to keep your hair feeling silky, it's a good idea to get it cut regularly. Even little trims help to keep your hair strong, and help it grow more evenly. It's also a good idea to consult with a hair care specialist who can diagnose your issues, recommend products and further techniques if you want to keep your hair feeling silky year round.
/images/thumb/9/9b/Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-10-Version-2.jpg/v4-550px-Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-10-Version-2.jpg
/images/thumb/9/9b/Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-10-Version-2.jpg/v4-300px-Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-10-Version-2.jpg








, Extremely short hair is hard to make feel silky in any way, while longer hair comes with a host of care and cleanliness issues. If you want to have silky hair, growing it out to somewhere between one and three inches will give you enough length to be able to run your fingers through it and style in a multitude of ways, but it won't be so long as to be unwieldy.
/images/thumb/1/11/Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-11-Version-2.jpg/v4-550px-Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-11-Version-2.jpg
/images/thumb/1/11/Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-11-Version-2.jpg/v4-300px-Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-11-Version-2.jpg








, Coloring gray hair is one of the quickest ways to fry it out and burn it. Using coloring treatments destroys the natural oils in the hair and makes it very difficult for it to stay strong and healthy. The health of a head of hair is much more important to all around looks anyway, than the color, so embrace the suave sophistication of those gray hairs and roll with it.
 Sunlight will bleach your hair, dry it out, and leave it feeling coarse. If you want silky hair, you want hair that's well cared for and not left out to fry in the sun. Take care to avoid excess exposure and to treat your hair well with natural oils after being out for too long.


Wear a hat with a wide brim if you know you're going to be out in the sun for very long. Protect yourself from harmful UV rays by keeping your hair tucked up in a hat and away form the sun.
 It's important that you have essential nutrients and vitamins as a part of your healthy diet to keep all parts of your body, hair included, healthy. Vitamin E, Vitamin C, Biotin, Iron, and Zinc are all directly related to the texture and health of your hair. Eat foods rich in vitamins and minerals, and take supplementary vitamins if necessary.


Foods like almonds, carrots, bananas, dark chocolate, pumpkin seeds, and bean sprouts are all excellent foods to integrate into a hair-health diet, rich in right right combinations of vitamins and essential nutrients.
Eating 100 grams or so of red meat can help enhance the production of Keratin, a protein which keeps your hair and nails healthy and shiny. Fish is rich in Omega 3 fatty acids, which help to keep hair lustrous.

