 When you’re considering a big decision, make sure it doesn’t clash with your principles. It’s hard to stick with a choice that makes you uncomfortable or goes against your beliefs.For example, if you have been being a couch potato all week long, ask yourself if your behavior is matching what you value (which may be health). If not, then you need to make new decisions and change your behavior. For instance, do exercises while watching TV or get outside for a walk in the fresh air.
 Some decisions, like the socks you pick out in the morning, just don’t matter in the big picture. Save your mental energy for the choices that do matter, and don’t second-guess yourself over unimportant things.Take the pressure off by telling yourself something like, “There’s no wrong decision here.”

, If you’re deciding between several things, figure out what your most important criteria are. When you find an option that satisfies those criteria, choose it. If you try to analyze every single option, you could end up feeling overwhelmed.

For instance, if you’re shopping for a pair of brown walking shoes, it’s probably best to buy the first pair you like that fits. You’re actually more likely to be unhappy with your choice if you compare it with every other pair of shoes at the store., If your intuition is telling you not to do something, trust it. Press pause on decisions you feel weird about, and look for more information in the meantime. Try to reconcile your mind and your intuition before you commit to something., It’s important to be informed, but don’t overdo it. Too much information can distract you from important issues and leave you feeling confused. Learn enough to make an intelligent choice, but don’t get bogged down in the details.For instance, if you’re hunting for apartments, you should take cost and location into account. The exact square footage of each apartment probably doesn’t matter so much, though.
 If you realize you’ve made a mistake, you’ll probably be able to fix it. People move to different places, change careers, and alter their habits all the time. Commit to your decisions with the knowledge that few things are completely permanent.