 One way to look for friendships that are healthy and will aid your recovery is to first focus on yourself. Eating disorders are tied closely with negative issues of the self, which makes it hard to have and maintain healthy friendships. If you are dealing with or recovering from an eating disorder, you should spend time first building a sense of self.For example, you should work on thinking positive thoughts about yourself instead of negative thoughts. Think about what your good traits are outside of your weight. Try to develop reasons why you matter that aren't connected to your physical body, but instead are based on who you are, not how you look.
If you have not built self-esteem or started on the road to liking yourself, you may find yourself engaging in unhealthy behaviors when you start socializing. You may also be triggered and turn to destructive behavior.
Another complication that might arise is a dependence on new people and relationships for the same fulfillment you got from the eating disorder. Before you start building friendships you need to build a friendship with yourself.
Ensure that you are continuing good self-care and being compliant with treatment recommendations! Don't lose sight of your progress plan because you become more socially active.
 Your self-esteem may be low if you suffer from or are recovering from an eating disorder. This can make pursuing and maintaining friendships difficult. You need to like yourself and understand that you are worthy of having friends. As part of your recovery, work with your therapist to improve your self-esteem.Remind yourself how great you are when you start feeling self-conscious. Write down a list of your good features and keep it with you to read when you need to. Repeat to yourself, “I am a wonderful person with many good qualities. I am beautiful inside and out.”
Find solo hobbies or activities to help foster your self-esteem. Identify something you're passionate about and get involved. This could be volunteering at an animal shelter, painting, ceramics, writing, gardening, making music, etc.
Try to work on basing your self-esteem and self-worth on your physical self. You are worth more than what is on the outside.
 One thing that may hold you back from pursuing friendships when you have an eating disorder is your self-esteem. You may feel like you are inferior, not good enough, or not worthy of friendship. This is not true. One major step in making friends and maintaining friendships with an eating disorder is overcoming insecurities so you can interact with people.You will not be able to erase or forget your insecurities; however, you do not have to let them control you, just as you don’t let your eating disorder control you. Instead, acknowledge them, and then tell yourself, “I am a good, fun, interesting person worthy of friendship.”
Try identifying any possible sources of your insecurities. It could be an experience from your past or perhaps an insecurity placed on you by your parents. Do the therapeutic work needed to move forward.

