 Rub cuticle oil into the skin around your nails. Do not wipe away the excess.


Cuticle oil is a product designed to soften and moisturize your cuticles, and it can be found at any major drugstore. Applying it to your cuticles before removing the shellac nail polish will provide your skin with a protective layer against the harsh, drying acetone needed for this process.;
, Pure acetone will have the strongest effect, but acetone nail polish removers will also work as long as the concentration of acetone is around 60 percent or more.


Acetone-free nail polish removers or those that contain very little acetone will not be effective for removing shellac nail polish.You can use pure acetone, which is available at most drugstores, but pure acetone will cause your nails and skin to become extremely dry. As a result, it is best if you do not use it frequently.
The dish you pour the acetone in should have a mouth that is wide enough for you to fit your balled-up hand in. You only need to pour enough acetone into the dish to fill up about 1/2-inch (1.25-cm).
 Partially ball up your hand so that all five nails are exposed. Hold your hand in this position and dip it into the acetone. Keep it there for 10 minutes.


It is important that you expose as little skin as possible to the acetone since it can severely dehydrate your skin. By holding your hand in this position, you end up dipping your nails and cuticles into the acetone instead of your entire fingertip or hand.
Keep your nails submerged in the acetone for the full 10 minutes, even if you see the shellac nail polish flaking off before the full amount of time passes.
 After 10 minutes, remove your nails from the acetone and scrape the flaking shellac off with an orange stick or manicure stick.


To scrape the shellac polish off, place the flat edge of the orange stick at the bottom of the nail and gently push it along the length of the nail, beneath the shellac. Repeat this gesture until all the polish has been scraped off each nail.
You could also begin scraping the shellac nail polish off after 8 minutes with your hand still submerged in the acetone. This will allow the acetone to continue working on more stubborn spots while you begin stripping away spots that are already ready to come off., Use warm water and soap to gently remove the acetone and shellac residue from your hands.


After removing the shellac nail polish, you may see a chalky white residue on your nails and fingers. This is residue left behind by the acetone and will wash away with soap and water.
 Rub a generous amount of hand lotion over both hands when finished. Also rub additional cuticle oil around your fingernails.


No matter how careful you are, the acetone will dry out at least some of your skin. Lotion and cuticle oil will help restore some of this lost moisture, and applying them immediately after washing your hands will produce the strongest effect.

