 Bring all of your supporting documentation. A number of counties also offer online applications that you can fill out online instead of going to the clerk's office.
 Michigan residents pay a $20 fee.Out-of-state wedding applicants pay $30. Most offices accept cash, credit cards, and money orders. Note that if you pay online, you must pay with a credit card.If you are applying in person, it is a good idea to plan to bring cash. Some offices will only accept cash payments.A probate court can waive the fee in cases where there is undue hardship. Check with your local county clerk if this is an option for you.
 After applying in person or online, you can pick up your marriage license on the third day following the date of application (provided that you meet all of the requirements above). You must pick up your license at the office where you filed the application.In some counties, you can apply for a waiver of the three-day waiting period for a $10 fee. Check in advance with your county clerk's office to confirm whether this is an option for you.One or both parties must appear to apply for the marriage license, or if you applied online, you must pick the license up in person. If only one applicant is present, you must have all items listed above for both parties (a photocopy, front and back, of your partner's driver's license or state ID will be accepted).Your license will come with an original copy and a duplicate. The original goes back to the clerk's office after the marriage is pronounced, and you get the other one for your own records.
 The license is valid for 33 days. If your ceremony is more than 34 days from the date of application, your license will not be valid and you will need to reapply.Prior to the wedding ceremony, hand the application to the person solemnizing the wedding vows.
A marriage can be solemnized by a district court judge in Michigan, a district court magistrate in Michigan, a municipal judge in Michigan, a judge of probate in Michigan, a federal judge, a mayor in the county, a county clerk, or a minister of the gospel or cleric or religious practitioner in Michigan. Non-resident ministers of the gospel and clerics and religious practitioners can also solemnize marriages in Michigan as long as he or she is authorized to solemnize marriages according to his or her state's laws.After the ceremony, have the authorized official who performed the marriage ceremony sign the marriage license, along with the bride and the groom and two witnesses (who must be at least 18 years of age). The part marked "duplicate" is given to the newlyweds, and the original must be submitted to the county clerk that issued it within 10 days.The marriage license can be used as proof of marriage if one party wishes to change her name after the marriage.

