 Each well gets one ice cream cone. If you cannot fit all of your ice cream cones into the muffin tin, set them aside; you can bake them in a separate batch.


Some bakers recommend cutting holes into the bottom of a aluminum foil baking tin, turning the tin upside down, and sticking the cones into the holes.
Use ice cream cones that have a flat bottom as opposed to the ones that are cone-shaped; they will stand up better.;
, Pour the flour into a large mixing bowl, then add the baking powder and salt. Stir everything together to combine, then set aside.
 Cut the butter into small cubes first, then put it into a separate bowl. Beat the butter until it turns smooth using an electric mixer on low speed. This will take about 2 minutes.You can use an electric stand mixer, a handheld better, or even a food processor to do this.
 Keep beating until the mixture is light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Be sure to scrape down the sides of the bowl often to ensure that everything mixes in together evenly., Beat in the vanilla extract first. Next, add just one egg, and beat until combined. Add your second egg, and beat again. Make sure that there are no streaks of egg yolk left.
 Add one-fourth of the flour mixture into the creamed butter, and stir well. Pour in one-fourth of the milk, and stir again. Keep doing this until you have no more milk or flour left.You can do this step with a rubber spatula or using the medium-low speed setting on your beater.
, If you have any leftover cones and batter, fill them up with batter, and bake them for another 18 minutes or so.
 This is very important. If you frost them too soon, the frosting will melt.
 Cut the butter into small cubes first, then place it into a mixing bowl. Beat the butter on medium speed using an electric mixer until it turns light and fluffy, about 6 minutes.
 Beat everything together on low speed first to combine, and then on medium speed for 6 to 7 minutes, or until the frosting is light and fluffy.
 Press down on the scoop slightly to seal the frosting against the cupcake. This will make the cupcakes look even more like ice cream!Alternatively, you could fit a piping bag fitted with a star-shaped decorator's tip with the frosting, and pipe the frosting onto the cupcake. Start the from the outer edge, and squeeze the bag harder as you reach the center., To keep them from tipping over, place them all back into the muffin pan. Once the frosting has set, you can start preparing the chocolate ganache topping.
 Pour the heavy cream into a small saucepan, then place the saucepan on the stove. Set the heat to medium, and wait until the heavy cream comes just short of boiling.
 Place the chocolate chips into a heat-safe bowl, then pour the hot, heavy cream over them. You can use milk chocolate or semi-sweet chocolate chips for this.
 If you don't have any foil on hand, you can use a plate instead.
 Lift the foil away, and briskly whisk the two together until everything is smooth. Be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often.
 If you piped the frosting on instead, you can skip this step and more on to the next; you'd want to use the ganache before it starts to thicken.
 If you piped the frosting on, pour the ganache on instead so that you don't ruin the piped texture.
 You can also use crushed nuts instead of sprinkles.
 This will allow the ganache to set up. Once the time is up, you can serve the cupcakes!

,