 Before you even start trying to self-publish your book, have a finished and polished collection of poetry. If you start worrying about the publication details before you finish writing your book, you won't be able to fully focus on either task. Here's how to finish your book of poetry:


Write and revise each poem in the collection multiple times.
Find the best way to arrange the poems in the book. The arrangement will work best if it creates a mood or develop a theme. You don't have to arrange the poems in the order that they were written.
Ask for feedback from a few reliable sources. Make sure that you're not the only one who feels that your work is truly done.
Proofread your work. Check that the punctuation, line breaks, and grammar are all perfectly executed.;
, If know you want to publish your book yourself, but you're worried about working out the other details on your own, ask for professional help before taking the book to a vendor. Here are some people who can help you to work out the details:


Consider hiring an editor. A reputable professional editor can give you valuable feedback on the quality of your writing.
Consider hiring an illustrator or designer for your book cover. If you're nervous about creating the cover yourself, hiring a professional to do it for you can help make your book look more appealing.
 Once your book and its cover are done, look into different self-publishing methods to choose which one will likely work best for you. The best method can be determined by how much you want to spend, how many readers you expect to have, and how easy you want the publication process to be. Here are three popular methods of self-publishing:


The e-book. Self-publishing your book as an e-book is cheap, easy, and will create a digital copy of your book online for readers to download through different reading devices.
A print-on-demand (POD) service. Using a POD service is a way to create a visually appealing physical copy of your book and to sell it in an online marketplace.
Publishing through a website or a blog. Creating a website or a blog for publishing your poetry is a quick and easy way to reach a lot of readers without having to deal with a vendor.
 Self-publishing is a great way to take control of the publication process and to make your work accessible to more readers. However, it is not a reliable route to getting rich quick, especially not in the poetry business. Though you have undoubtedly heard a few success stories of self-published books that have become best-sellers, this rarely happens with self-published books.


Prepare to be excited to share a copy of your work with more people, but don't be disappointed if you don't have as many readers as you expected.

