 On the taskbar at the bottom of the screen, click the icon that looks like a folder. This folder is known as the “File Explorer”. File Explorer is a folder that shows your most frequently visited folders and most recent files. After clicking File Explorer, a new window will open on your screen. In the left sidebar, there is a list of destinations available on your computer.;
, This PC is designed to easily access user related folders (such as My Documents), currently connected devices, and your computer's hard drive.
 Located under Devices and drives, this drive allows access to your computer's data and system folders.



Scroll down to the bottom.
Double-click the folder named “Windows”.
 System32 is a folder that contains important data to keep Windows and all programs running.
 The drivers folder delves deeper into your computer's hard drive, allowing access to data to various programs.
 The etc folder keeps your system's configuration files in one neat spot. Double-click this folder to open it.
 In order to create your blacklist, you will need to edit the hosts file with the URLs of the sites you want blocked.


Right click “hosts”.
In the menu that opens, click “Open With…” (or “Open with another program”).
A new menu called “How do you want to open this file?” will open.
Select “Notepad”.
 At the bottom of the file, you’ll have space to type in.


If there isn't any space to type by default, click at the end your document and hit your Enter button two or three times to create space.
 127.0.0.1 refers to your computer's local IP address. Any website that tries to connect to your computer will access partially through this localhost.


Alternatively, you can type a single space instead of pressing Tab.
 For example, if you want to block Yahoo!, type www.yahoo.com.


Entering variants of the websites will help ensure that they're blocked, like yahoo.com or m.yahoo.com

, Saving your file will allow the new blockings to take effect. To save your file:


Click “File”.
In the dropdown menu, click “Save”.
 You'll want to make sure the URLs you entered are actually blocked.


Open a browser of your choice.
In the URL box, type the website that you've blocked in your hosts file. Type them exactly as you've entered them in the original file.
 If your website is successfully blocked, you'll see an Unable to Connect page.


If you're still able to access the website, either copy from the browser and paste it into your hosts file.
Be sure to save the hosts file after making any changes.

