 Before you can freeze your cake for later consumption, you must let it cool. So if you've just baked a cake, put it aside for about three hours. Lightly place your hand on it to make sure it's cool to the touch.


If you're freezing a store-bought cake, or a cake that has already cooled, skip this first step.;
, Most cakes will freeze well due to the high fat content in them. If your cake doesn't have fat (like fat-free cakes), it won't freeze well and you should avoid putting it in the freezer.
 Your cake has to be protected from freezer condensation, so using a moisture-proof wrapping is key to preserve your cake's flavor and texture. You have a few options:


Plastic wrap: this wrapping material is always well suited, but might require multiple layers as moisture might get in. Plastic wrap is easy to wrap and fairly durable.
Aluminum foil: this wrapping foil is probably one of the best barrier films as it's impervious to light, moisture and bacteria. One major disadvantage is that it tears very easily.
Place the wrapped cake into a metallic tin, if desired. This protects the cakes from being knocked by other items, makes it very easy to find and provides added protection from moisture and freezer odors, such as seafood.
 Then, take the pan with your cake in it, and flip it upside down. Your cake should come out of the pan without much work on your end.


If the cake doesn't come out right away, get a knife and slide along the edges of your pan (between the pan and the actual cake).
If you previously removed your cake from its baking pan, skip this step.
 Now, simply use your wrapping to envelop the cake. Make sure you're wrapping your cake tightly, without much room for air between the cake and the wrapping.
 You're now ready to freeze your cake for storage. Make sure you have enough space, and try not to position your cake next to foods with strong flavors and odors (like seafood). Your cake could well absorb some odors, and even flavors, so you should ideally have a spot where your cake won't be around other food items.


You might even consider cleaning your freezer before placing your cake in it. This will greatly improve your cake's flavor and odor retention.
 A cake will generally freeze well for a few months, but not more than that. Whilst freezing initially retains the moisture of a pre-baked cake, cakes will tend to dry out after two months of freezing and you can expect the flavor to change at around four months.


Once you're ready to frost your cake, simply take it out of the freezer and let it thaw for about 40 minutes. Then, frost it to your liking.

