 If you are parking at night, be sure to park in a well-lit area that is as close to your destination as possible. Look around for any dangerous looking people nearby. If you feel unsafe, don't park there. Just keep on driving and consider coming back another day during daylight hours.You could also look for a different parking lot or a parking garage that has better lighting. Or you can go to a well-lit store, like Walmart, that has lots of lighting and built-in security.;
, If you park your car off the beaten path, it will be more of a target. Choose a place where there will be people walking around. Look for an area where other cars are parked as well., Make sure the place you wish to park is a designated parking area. Look for any signs that might indicate otherwise, such as a No Parking sign. Look for printed lines on the pavement that indicate that a spot is for parking.Never park in a handicap spot unless your car has a handicap symbol on its license plate or rearview mirror.
Never park on a sidewalk or in front of a fire hydrant.
Never block a driveway or park too close to an intersection
Never park where you will block the flow of traffic.
 This will help to prevent crime. Many parking lots and garages have security cameras. Make sure your car is clearly seen from several angles. Avoid parking next to a large truck or in between two vehicles that block the line of sight to your car., Your car will be more likely to be hit by cars driving by if it is at the very end of the row. Especially avoid parking after the end of the row in a crowded area. For example, if the lot is full, cars will sometimes make their own space next to the last designated parking spot. But this is ill-advised because your car will be more likely to get hit, get ticketed, or even get towed because it isn’t a legal spot.Avoid parking next to a cart storage area at a grocery store. Your car might get a dent from a cart.
 Some parking garages or city streets require payment to park there. Take note of this as you are choosing a spot and be sure you have the money to pay. Sometimes you will need to pay ahead of time, like with a parking meter, and other times you will pay when you leave, like when leaving a parking garage. It’s never fun to pay for parking, but it’s much less fun to get a ticket or get your car towed!


Sometimes you can pay by credit card, but other times it requires cash or coins. Be sure you have the appropriate payment method available.

