 Infants and children are more prone to developing eczema than adults. The condition may clear up by the time a child reaches adolescence or it may only flare up now and then.However, it is good to remember that a person of any age can develop this skin condition, it just happens to be more prevalent in younger children.One study found that about 70% of eczema cases resolve by adolescence., You may be able to reduce the severity of your eczema by knowing what triggers it and taking steps to prevent flare ups whenever possible. While triggers will be different for everyone, some of the most common triggers of eczema include strong soaps or detergents, synthetic clothing, and perfume. Extreme temperatures, like very hot or very cold days, can also cause eczema.Food can also trigger eczema, particularly in children. Common foods that children are allergic to and may cause eczema include eggs, peanuts, soy, milk, wheat, and fish.
 Individuals are also more likely to develop this condition if they live in urban areas with high level of pollutants. Some allergens when inhaled such as molds, dusts, pollen, pet dander or cigarette smoke can aggravate the condition. Do your best to avoid exposure to cigarette smoke and other environmental irritants.Here are some factors that might also exacerbate eczema in individuals:


Wool or synthetic clothing
Specific soaps, detergents, antiperspirants, and chemicals
Preservatives in topically applied products
Perfumed products
Latex
Dust mites
Tree and grass pollen
A microbial infection or colonization
Temperature extremes
Humidity
Hard water
Cooking with gas
Proximity to road traffic, Stress may compromise the immune system. It is believed that immunosuppressed individuals are prone and may easily get diseases due to overworking or lack of rest. One of these diseases is eczema. Try your best to manage stress and reduce your risk of having stress-related flare-ups.Some good ways to reduce stress include:


doing deep breathing exercises
practicing yoga, meditation, or tai chi
regular exercise, such as walking, swimming, or biking
engaging in hobbies, such as knitting, reading, or cooking

