 While paperbag waist pants are extremely comfortable, they aren’t always the best option depending on what part of your body that you wish to emphasize or de-emphasize. In particular, they work best on shapes with a defined waist, such as an hourglass or pear.You may want to avoid paperbag waist pants if you carry most of your weight in your midsection or lack a defined waist. For example, apple and rectangle body shapes may find the style less flattering.;
, If you are on the short side, paperbag waist pants can sometimes overwhelm your frame because of their extra volume. To ensure that they flatter your figure, choose a cropped pair that hits no further down than your ankle.Capri pants with a paperbag waist can be very flattering if you are petite.
For the most flattering look, choose paperbag waist cropped pants or capris that feature a tapered leg so they follow the natural line of the leg.
If you are short and aren’t a fan of cropped pants, you may prefer to wear shorts or a skirt with a paperbag waist rather than a pair of pants. That can create a more flattering silhouette for your figure.
 If you’re plus size or worried about the paperbag waist making your midsection appear larger, opt for a wide-legged pair of pants. The extra volume in the legs helps balance your frame so the added material at your waist doesn’t stand out.When you’re wearing wide-legged paperbag waist pants, it’s especially important to wear shoes with heels to help elongate your frame.
If you are petite, wide-legged paperbag waist pants aren’t the best option. A straight leg option is usually more flattering.
 Because paperbag waist pants tend to be baggier and add more volume to your figure, it’s best to wear them with a fitted top. That will help balance the proportions in your outfit for the most flattering look.For a casual look, a fitted tee shirt or tank top work best with your paperbag waist pants.
For a dressed up look, wear the pants with a fitted button-down blouse for an office-appropriate outfit.
A fitted sweater can work for a casual or an office look depending on the style of the pants.
 Even if your top is fitted, it can have an unflattering look if it sits over the paperbag waist of your pants. That’s why it’s best to tuck your top into the pants so the waist detail is highlighted and you don’t add any more bulk to your midsection.If you aren’t a fan of tucking in tops, consider pairing the paperbag waist pants with a bodysuit that naturally rests beneath the waistline.
 Cropped tops are another option when you’re wearing paperbag waist pants. Because they typically end above the waistline, they allow you to show off the paperbag waist and don’t add any bulk to the area.You can opt for a looser fitting top if you’re wearing a cropped style because the extra fabric won’t compete with the pants’ waistband given the higher hemline.
 You can wear jackets, cardigans, and blazers with paperbag waist pants, but choose slim styles that won’t add too much bulk to your look. Avoid boyfriend style blazers or cardigans, which are too loose to work with the pants.Consider the length of the your layering pieces too. It’s best to choose either a cropped style or a longer piece that hits at mid-thigh, so it doesn’t hit right at the waist where it will compete with the pants’ waistband.
 Some paperbag waist pants feature a built-in belt. If yours don’t, you can add a belt to help give some definition to your waist. However, it’s best to use a thin style so the waist detail still stands out.Aim for a belt that’s approximately 1- to 1.5-inches (2.5- to 4-cm) wide.
A rope, ribbon, or chain style belt is a good option with paperbag waist pants.
 The extra volume that paperbag waist pants add to your figure can sometimes make you appear shorter. It’s best to wear the pants with shoes that have a heel or add height to elongate the line of your legs.Pumps, heeled boots, and wedges all work well to add height to your figure when you’re wearing paperbag waist pants.
If you are tall, you can usually get away with pairing the pants with flats.
 The paperbag waist pants will draw attention to your waist. To help bring attention up to your face, it helps to accessorize with a pair of statement earrings that will pull the eye upward.A large pair of dangling, drop, or hoop earrings can make a large statement. Choose styles with colorful beads, stones, or other materials.
If you don’t wear earrings, a bold statement necklace, such as a fringe, bib, or layered style, can create a similar effect.

