 Every state sets a minimum age for people who wish to get married or enter into civil unions. If one of the members was too young to enter into a civil union, you can later seek an annulment. Eligibility will be based on the law of the state where the union took place, regardless of where you are seeking the annulment.For example, if a couple enters into a civil union in New Jersey, where the minimum age is 16 (without parental consent), but one of the members is only 15 at the time, this would be grounds for an annulment later.;
, The legal term for being too closely related is "consanguinity," and a union between related people is a "consanguinous union" or "consanguineous marriage." Most jurisdictions establish limits of consanguinity that are allowed or disallowed. If two people were were two closely related are nevertheless able to enter into a union, they will later be able to use that information as grounds for an annulment.For example, in Canada, a national statute defines a consanguineous relationship as that between "grandparent, parent, child, grandchild" or between siblings. Thus, in Canada, if a brother and sister (or two brothers or two sisters) entered into a civil union, they would have grounds to annul the union.Australia has a similar consanguinity law, prohibiting unions between grandparent, parent, child, grandchild, or siblings. Thus, any such union would be grounds for annulment. First cousins may marry or enter into a civil union in Australia.
In the United States, each state sets its own consanguinity laws. As one example, New Jersey prohibits unions or marriages between parent or child, siblings, niece or nephew, or aunt or uncle. Any of these relationships in a civil union would be grounds for an annulment., In most places, a civil union or marriage will not be allowed if one of the members was already legally married at the time. If this is the case, you will have grounds to have the union annulled later., A civil union must be a voluntary decision on the part of each individual in the union. If either party was forced or compelled to enter into the union, that would be grounds for an annulment later.To prove duress, threat or force, you will have to demonstrate to the court that you would not have otherwise entered into the union. You will have to show some specific acts on the part of the other member of the union that forced the union to occur. In legal terminology, "it is crucial that the force or threats overtake the judgment and coerce the will of the threatened spouse. Generally, the threats must be of such a nature as to inspire a real fear of bodily harm."A concern of embarrassment or disgrace is generally not sufficient to constitute duress. Thus, getting married or entering a union because of a pregnancy is not enough to later get an annulment.

