 Don’t fill the pot more than that or the water will spill over the top when you add the bottle. You will heat the pot later, so do this on the stove.This method is for glass bottles only. Plastic bottles will melt when heated.
 Be generous with the vinegar; a couple of glugs from the bottle should work well. White vinegar is best for this process. Swirl or agitate the solution to ensure it is fully mixed., You should fill the bottles with water first. This ensures that they will sink, rather than float, when you add them to the vinegar and water solution., Don’t let it boil! You just want a nice, low heat to help the vinegar clean the bottles. You can keep the heat on for up to a couple hours, but be sure to turn it off after that., Leave the bottles in the pot, on the stove, overnight, with the heat off. This helps the vinegar remove any stains or sticky residue from the bottles. It also allows the bottles and vinegar solution to cool down., Remove the bottles from the pot and empty them out. Don’t worry about drying the bottles, as you will add water to them., A coarse salt will work best for this step. You don’t need much, the salt is used to scrub the inside of the bottle and remove any residue., Cool or lukewarm water is best. You don’t want enough water to dissolve the salt, only enough to make a saltwater slurry., Be sure to cover the bottle opening with your finger to ensure the mixture doesn’t escape. Shake in every direction; back and forth as well as up and down., Empty the solution and rinse the bottle with warm, running water. Rinse the inside as well as the outside, paying special attention to the mouth of the bottle and any threads.Clean with an antibacterial soap, or use one or two drops of bleach, and rinse well before refilling if you plan to drink from the bottle.
 Set the bottle upside down on a dish rack or towel. You may need to prop it up to ensure it doesn’t fall over. After a few hours, turn the bottle right-side-up and allow it to dry completely.

