 Instead of isolated, unit- or lesson-specific assignments, consider having gifted students work on an integrated project throughout an entire term. It can be crafted based on your subject of specialization or tailored to the student’s specific interests. Having a go-to independent project will also reduce a gifted student's need for further instruction or direction, allowing you to keep them engaged while concentrating efforts on the rest of the class.For example, your gifted history student can work on an in-depth analysis of an empire or particular historical figure. If your term’s content deals with a specific historical period, like Medieval history, they can choose a relevant figure or geographical area and complete assignments that require more detailed study to supplement the course’s survey approach.
Giving them clear, written guidelines ahead of time will help them stay organized without verbal instruction. For example, week one can direct them to find out a historical figure's date and place of birth, information about their families and upbringing, and other early information. Week two can focus on researching information about an early formative event. Successive weeks could direct them in a similar chronological or categorical manner.
 Try reaching out to teachers in other grade levels and subject areas to create a school-wide collaborative program. Early finishers can work on ongoing projects, like a school newspaper or literary magazine, alongside students from other grades. Provided the task is age-appropriate, they can independently manage work like editing submissions for the school newspaper or composing their short story for the magazine.You can also work with other teachers to create additional competitive challenges, like spelling or geography bees, science fairs, and debate contests. Students can independently prepare for an upcoming bee or debate during their extra time.
 Rather than assigning additional subject-specific educational content, you could try a service or community-oriented project. For example, consider having early finishers work on independently organizing a school-wide food or clothing drive.Ambitious projects might require more time away from helping the rest of your class, so be sure to stay focused on the core curriculum when planning special projects.
Try thinking about a project that might have a connection to your specialty subject and the school’s particular needs. For instance, if you’re teaching an earth science class and your school doesn’t recycle, have your students contact your city’s local government to acquire recycling bins. They can draft a letter to the school principal and do research about how to acquire bins independently while you assist other students. Then you can continue to work with them on the project outside of class.

