 This command is often the most complicated one to teach.However, most dogs can learn it if you are consistent with your training. Teaching your canine companion to heel will save your back, your shoulders, your dog's neck, and dignity for both of you (although, dignity may be low on the priority list for your dog).


Your dog will probably naturally want to jog at a canter and sniff and veer off in many directions. You need to show him or her that there is a time for exploring and a time not to.
 Using the regular walking lead, put your dog in a "sit" position beside your left leg, facing the same direction as you. This is known as the "place" position.Always use the left side to avoid confusing the dog.
 Say ", heel!" while stepping forward with your left foot. Starting with the left foot will become a signal that it is time to move forward. Your dog may either resist or hurry past you. In either case give a gentle pull and repeat the command "heel."

, If he or she strays too far off to the side, pat your leg and say "Keep with me!" or "Over here!" or another short phrase. Always say the same phrase to mean that particular thing.
 If the dog moves out ahead, say "No, , heel" in a calm voice. If necessary, tug on the lead. When you stop, always stop on the left foot and say ", sit." If your dog moves ahead again, gently pull or physically place him or her beside your left leg using the "sit" command.If things get a little to out of control, stop and place the dog in a sit position at your side once again, praise him or her, and start over. You should always adjust the dog to your position, not adjust your position to his. (if you adjust your position to his, he will eventually have his human well trained to obey him)
You should get your dog used to not feeling any tension on the lead unless you are making a correction, or the dog will get into the habit of pulling constantly. Make your corrections by voice and gesture and only use the lead if it isn't listening.
 You may gently praise your dog while he or she is heeling well, but keep it toned down so as not to distract it. Once it is obeying the spoken commands consistently, remain silent and only use the spoken commands for correction.


The length of time to learn is individual so don't be in a hurry to move things along.
 When you are ready to stop, you should stop on your left foot and say ",sit." After a few repetitions you should no longer need to use the sit command. Your dog will come to know that stopping on the left foot is the signal for him or her to stop and sit.
 When your dog is consistently obeying the "heel" command properly, start unexpectedly starting of with the left foot and stopping without verbal commands or hand signals. Also, when your dog is in the "place" position, occasionally step off with the right. Your dog will want to start with you, so you use the "stay" command and walk around him back to the "place" position.


Alternate stepping off with the left and using the heel command and then stepping off with the right and using the stay command. After a while you can advance to randomly stepping of with either foot and reinforcing the appropriate "heel" or "stay" behavior. When you and your dog has learned this well, you will be able to function smoothly as a team no matter where you are.

