 Several types of bacteria cause respiratory infections in rabbits, including Pasteurella, Bordatella, and Staphylococcus. If your rabbit has a bacterial respiratory infection, your vet will prescribe an antibiotic. To choose the appropriate antibiotic, your vet will perform a diagnostic test using a fluid sample from your rabbit. This test will identify the bacterial ‘culprit’ and determine which antibiotic will work best against that bacteria.Whichever antibiotic your vet prescribes, it will very important for you to follow the treatment instructions carefully. Proper treatment will give your rabbit the best chance of getting better.
An upper respiratory infection (URI) is called ‘snuffles.’ It is most commonly caused by Pasteurella or Bordatella and causes runny eyes, a runny nose, and sneezing.Pneumonia affects the lower respiratory tract.;
, A tiny sneeze in a rabbit can progress to a major respiratory problem and possibly cause other health issues.If your rabbit has a URI, early and aggressive treatment will be needed to prevent the infection from spreading to the lungs and other parts of the body.


A URI caused by Pasteurella can be very difficult to treat, since the antibiotic may not kill all of the bacteria. Treatment may take as long as 6‒8 weeks.Pneumonia in rabbits can be fatal if left untreated.Prompt treatment for pneumonia is also recommended.
 Pneumonia can make a rabbit very sick. If your rabbit has severe pneumonia, your vet will want to hospitalize it for intensive treatment. In addition to medication, this treatment would include fluid therapy, oxygen therapy, and assisted feeding (if your rabbit is too weak to feed itself). Your vet may use a nebulizer to administer the oxygen and medication.A nebulizer is a device used to administer medicine directly into the lungs. It can also be used to clear the airways of excess mucus.You will be able to take your rabbit home once it is strong enough for at-home care.
 This is very important! Give your rabbit all of the antibiotic your vet prescribes, even when your rabbit starts getting better. If you stop the antibiotic treatment too early, not all of the bacteria will be killed. The remaining bacteria can build up antibiotic resistance, making it more difficult to kill them.Your vet will prescribe enough antibiotic for you to administer beyond the resolution of symptoms.
In addition to oral antibiotics, your vet may prescribe antibiotic nasal drops.Ask your vet to demonstrate how to give your rabbit the antibiotics.
 Pasteurella is a very contagious bacteria.If your rabbit’s respiratory infection is caused by Pasteurella, keep that rabbit away from your healthy rabbits until the infection has cleared. Place the sick rabbit in a cage that is clean, comfortable, and away from drafts and loud noises.