 Make sure to read the instructions that came with your saw for proper use and installation of the saw. Although most table saws are similar, there are differences among brands. Reading the manual will let you know where each part of the saw is, what it does, and the proper safety precautions that you should take when using your specific model., Wear safety goggles or a hardhat with a visor when cutting boards on your table saw. This will prevent sawdust and wood debris from flying into your face or eyes. Also, proper ear protection should be used because saw blades can be incredibly loud and hurt your eardrums. You can either purchase cheap, disposable earplugs or more sturdy earmuffs to protect your hearing., When cutting narrow, short boards, there may not be much clearance for your hands between the blade and the side fence. For this reason, you should use a push stick or a notched sled to help guide your wood as it gets cut. You can purchase these table saw pushing devices at hardware stores, online, or you can create them yourself.Some push devices will have adjustable parts for different sizes of wood.
 If you are ripping really thin boards, you'll want to use an insert to protect your fingers from being close to the blade. An insert is a piece of wood that fits between the side fence and your saw blade and allows a buffer zone when cutting especially thin pieces of wood.In addition to using a clearance insert, you should also use a pushing device when cutting very thin boards.
 Blade guards prevent debris from kicking back and keep your fingers away from the blade. If blade guard is no longer installed, purchase one from your table saw manufacturer, or re-install the one that came with the table saw originally. Many modern blade guards can be reattached to your blade by simply fitting it on top of the blade and tightening screws or plastic clamps., Warped or bent boards will make rough cuts and will cause wood to kick back. Do not use any boards that have been water damaged or warped., Most table saws will come with a large button or paddle for an emergency turn off. If there is an accident or a board is kicking back you may need to turn off your machine quickly. Many times this button can be hit with your leg if your hands are occupied., Avoid wearing things that can get caught in the saw like loose sleeves or a tie. Other baggy or loose fitting clothing could get trapped in the saw and pull you towards it. If you have long hair, tie it up before using your table saw.