 This is an obvious step because every business solution offered to a client is of course based on the type of trade he is engaged into! Likewise, communicate with the client in a way that assists in analyzing every single aspect of the business. The same knowledge will help in designing a perfect solution for the client because every business has it's own pros and cons that needs to be considered. Understanding a client's business involves: Studying the bigger picture of client's business, studying corporate structure and analyzing the risk involved.


Bigger Picture: For extracting each and every valuable info about the client, imagine bigger picture which will include dynamic points like business type. Find out whether if it is a private or a public firm? Out of which, the latter is much easier in terms of business details. Asking a client directly whether he is managing a large business or a small one would be one of the worst things to do, however, ask him questions about number of employees, internal product and marketing strategies to make things easy for yourself. The key to perfection will rest on the fact how fast client's decision making process is grasped.
Client's Business Structure: While advising a client on any particular website design or suggest any website tool then, understand the business structure by going through the entire business plan that the client has in his mind. For instance, if a client wishes to introduce another range of products in the near future then you can suggest services accordingly that fits his needs. In this way the decision making process becomes much easier.
Analyzing the Risk Involved: Business is all about taking calculated risks of different kinds, this are not only unessential but also unavoidable part of running a business. Analyzing risk of clients will help in suggesting varied options with respect to the technology that will power his website. Besides that effective strategies are always based on the risk involved!;
, The primary motive of business is 'profit', which is also the main reason why we are willing to invest a massive amount and undertake risk. For every service rendered by a firm there is a target customer, which needs to be identified in order to design a business strategy accordingly. If you wish to offer a comprehensive solution to your client then the best way to do that would be to identify the target audience which the firm wishes to target. One to one interaction with the client will assist you in identifying the type of services he will be offering and prospective clients s/he will be targeting. For example, a client dealing in infant products will obviously be targeting couples. Similarly, we have feminine websites that cater services especially to females. Target audience can vary in terms of age group, gender and even class.
 Which technology should be used for powering the website depends on the client's wishes and future goals. A good web developer/designer will always listen to his clients needs and demands before making any suggestion from his side. Some of the popular technologies include names like PHP, .NET and open sources content management systems like WordPress, Joomla, Drupal etc. Popular websites today are powered by framework PHP and customized CMS (content management system) that suit the need of the client in the best possible way.
 Conceptualizing the web pages is the bridge that separates you from your goals, which is why after planning it's high time you prepare a rough sketch or an idea of what you are about to present in front of the world. This rough idea will assist you in keeping the process of web development and designing transparent enough in front of the client. Not only this, but conceptualization makes designing things a bit easier as you already have a rough sketch in your mind and finally, things would fall in their respective places gradually. Without conceptualization, the process of development/designing is like walking in a dark tunnel without any idea as of where you're headed to!

, A website is considered to be an internet representation of businesses, which is why it should be the best in terms of technology deployment and design as well. With time, the field of web development has advanced at an unimaginable rate, which is why options available for a business owners to power their website are plenty today. PHP, one of the most powerful platforms available at present is also one of the most preferred scripting language used to power the website. Designing the website is all about crafting the look n' feel of the website and the person involved in the process is called a 'Designer'. A web designer uses tools like Adobe Photo shop to create graphics/images of the website and presents the same in a manner that appeals to the mass audience.
 'Testing' phase is considered to be the final touch when it comes to software as they are often prone to anomalies such as bugs and loopholes that can ultimately hamper the quality of your end product. When it comes to web needs we all need to make sure that we have to present a dynamic web solution to our client that fits his or her needs in any given situation and testing ensures the same. Testing is often considered to be a time consuming exercise for web designers and developer but at the end it compliments a successful presentation.

