 You also need between 20 and 40 minutes of aerobic exercise three times each week. Aerobic exercise is any kind of continuous movement that keeps your heart rate up, like running, aerobics classes, swimming, cycling, and skipping. Strength training using light weights should be performed three to four times per week.


In general, dancers don’t need to add any bulk, so avoid lifting any heavy weights.
Training with light weights will increase the strength and endurance of your muscles without adding bulk to your body.
 Unrested, a muscle can become strained much more easily. After particularly hard rehearsals, give your muscles a day or so of recovery time. Along with taking days off occasionally, be sure to sleep 7 to 8 hours each night.


Try to keep your sleep habits as consistent as possible.
Fatigue and the likelihood of injury both decrease when you get enough rest.
 Ignoring aches and injuries will only serve to prolong them. It can also result in permanent damage, which will affect your dancing perpetually. Always take time to recover after you’ve hurt yourself.Get advice from your trainer or a doctor about how to address each injury during recovery and follow it.
You risk further injury if you give yourself no recovery time.
 As a dancer, you’ll need to consume more fluids than a less active person to stay healthy. The adequate intake of fluids for men is about 13 cups (3 liters) daily. For women, about 9 cups (2.2 liters) of fluids are needed each day. On a typical training day, you’ll probably need to take in an additional 1.5 to 2.5 cups (400 to 600 milliliters) of water to replace what you lost through sweat.


On days of intense training, you should consume sports drinks containing sodium on top of the additional water.
Drink water and sports drinks during your training, and continue to hydrate well afterward., To perform your best, you need to consume nutrient-rich food. Make sure that your daily diet includes a range of foods from the major food groups – fruits, vegetables, whole grains, low-fat dairy products, and lean protein including beans and other legumes, nuts and seeds, and other healthy fats.