 Wash and condition you hair. Section it off into 1 to 2-inch (2.54 to 5,08-centimeter) square-shaped sections using the handle of a rat-tail comb. Mist each section with water, then apply a moisturizing hair cream to it. Braid each section of hair.A simple mixture of castor oil and coconut or oil will work just fine for this. You can also use your favorite braiding cream instead.
 Buy some braiding hair that has a water wave texture. Select a thin strand, find the middle, then hold it behind your first braid, about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) above the root., You should have three strands: a left synthetic strand, your natural braid, then a right synthetic strand. Braid these strands together until you reach the end of your natural braid., Split the synthetic hair into three sections, then braid them together for about 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters). You can also simply twist the two strands into a rope braid instead., Buy a package of pre-made faux locs. Slide a crochet hook or a latch hook through the base of your braid, close to the root. Catch the top of the faux loc, then pull it back through the braid to form a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) long loop.Pre-made faux locs are strands of synthetic hair coiled into a tube.
Choose faux locs that match the color of your braiding hair.
 Give the loop a slight twist first, then slide the hook under the braid. Use the hook to catch the rest of the faux loc. Hold the loop with your fingers, then slide the faux loc through the loop. Gently tug on the loc to tighten the knot., Unravel the top of the faux loc a little. Wrap it around the braid, letting it coil back into its natural shape. Do this for 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters), then stop., Find the bottom of your faux loc. Slid the tip of the crochet or latch hook up through the loc until it comes out the top. Scrunch the loc down the hook as needed to get it all to fit., Do not catch the braided part that includes your natural hair. Instead, catch the part that only contains the synthetic braiding hair., Gently tug down on the hook, pulling the braiding hair and the braid down through the faux look. Slip the hook off of the hair. If there are any loops of braiding hair sticking out the side of your loc, tug downward on the braiding hair. Slide the faux loc up and down the braiding hair as needed to adjust the look.The faux loc won't cover all of the braiding hair, but blend into it.
 Since your hair is already all braided, all you have to do is add faux locs to it. It would be easier, however, if you start from the bottom of your head, and work your way upwards.