 Not all occasions are created equally. A six month relationship milestone isn't nearly as impossible as a one year, for example. Generally speaking, you should have a good understanding how important a gift-giving occasion will be to your boyfriend. The size and value of your gift should roughly correlate with that.


Keep in mind that you don't need an occasion to make it worth giving a gift. Gifts are always welcome, and never mean anything less if you give them spontaneously.
 There are different sorts of gift you could give to a boyfriend. they will have different effects and suit different occasions. Romantic gifts are a primarily symbolic gesture of your love, whereas practical gifts are something with real value and use. Whether you choose one over the other should depend on the occasion, the relationship and the boyfriend's tastes.Romantic gifts include roses, heartfelt letters and wine. They're good for romantic occasions like an anniversary of Valentine's Day.
Practical gifts are things that have real use. These range from socks to entertainment like video games. They're not romantic gifts in the traditional sense, but the gifts are arguably more appreciated in the long run than something purely romantic. Practical gifts don't require a specific occasion, but they are well suited to birthdays and Christmas.
 Novelty gifts are a fun thing to give at parties, but the effect is very short-lasted. These are usually best-suited for friendship relationships. Novelty gifts (like an intentionally ugly sweater) will make the two of you laugh, but it won't feel romantic, and the use won't extend far past the time you give it.
 If you're trying to purchase a gift for someone, you should first attend to that person's main interests. Maybe your boyfriend loves sports or music the most. Maybe he's a reading sort, or obsessed with the outdoors. It is most likely you already have an in-depth knowledge of what your boyfriend is interested in. Take advantage of that knowledge, and let it guide you towards a gift.


For instance, if your boyfriend is into sports, you can buy a signed collector's jersey from his favourite team.
As another example, if your boyfriend loves orthodox black metal, you might consider ordering a Deathspell Omega vinyl or some merch from Europe.
 Over the course of your usual conversations, he'll probably off-handedly remark about some things he wants or needs in the near future. Keeping your ears peeled and buying something he says he wants is a sneaky way of getting your boyfriend to do the decision work himself. What's more, the fact that you'll have listened so intently to what he says will make you seem like an even sweeter girlfriend.
 If your boyfriend has close friends, they might have a fresh perspective on the things he's most interested in at the moment. Talking to them about it when your boyfriend's not around could offer some insight into what you'll ultimately be getting him. Even if they haven't heard anything from him directly, they may be able to offer suggestions as to suitable gifts. Brainstorming with other people who know your boyfriend can be very helpful if you're having trouble thinking of a gift.


Although his friends should be onboard with you if you're intending this to be a surprise gift, you should nonetheless steer clear of friends you think might spoil the surprise in advance.
 One of the factors of a great gift is the element of surprise. If your boyfriend knows exactly what you're going to get for him in advance, it won't feel as special.With that in mind, try striking a balance between unpredictability and desirability. At the end of the day, it's more important that your boyfriend actually likes what you get him, but the surprise factor will make the gift-giving that much more enjoyable for the both of you.
 If you're buying a gift, you're trying to show someone that you care about them. If you know generally what you want to get, aim for a higher-quality item. This often (but not always) lines up with the price of the item. In the age of the internet, it's pretty easy to look up a gift and see how much someone spent on it compared to other products.


Check online reviews to get a good idea of the product's quality.
 Instead of a storebought item, for example, you could buy your boyfriend a ticket to his favourite progressive rock band performing live.


Get yourself a ticket as well to turn the gift into the opportunity for a shared experience., As a couple, it's likely that you'll have many inside jokes and concepts that are only known to the two of you. Some of the most significant gifts you can give to someone in a romantic pairing are gifts that somehow symbolize your history together. This can take some creativity to properly work out, but if you're simply browsing gifts, you might find one that reminds you of your relationship somehow.


For example, if the two of you first met at the zoo in the African Safari section, a plush Lion would represent much more than a cushioned toy. It would be an acknowledgement of your origins as a couple.
 Though you shouldn't be afraid to spend the extra dollar on a truly memorable gift, it's important to remember that there are more important things at stake than the item you're picking up for him. The connection the two of you share is priceless. The gift is meant to be a reflection of that.
 Gifts don't necessarily need to be purchased. In some cases, it can feel even more thoughtful if you make something yourself. If you have a talent like art or music, you can use it to your advantage. Write a song for your boyfriend and present it to him. Draw him a portrait.These gifts are usually the cheapest, but they're also some of the most heartfelt and meaningful.

