 Your body needs plenty of protein while you are sick to keep up your energy. Try fish or skinless, boneless chicken in a sandwich, wrap, or with vegetables.


You can eat eggs as well. Eggs have zinc in them, which also helps boost your immune system.If you are a vegetarian, try some hummus to get a boost of protein.;
, Complex carbohydrates are nutrient rich carbs that help boost your energy and immune system. These include whole grains, which can be found in brown rice, whole wheat breads, quinoa, cereals, granola, and whole wheat pastas.


Oats, like those in oatmeal, are particularly helpful because they contain glucans, which help support your immune system.Avoid simple carbs, such as white breads, pastas, and sugary pastries.
 The active cultures of bacteria in yogurt can help boost your immune system. While you are sick, buy some low fat yogurt with healthy probiotics. Consider getting Greek yogurt as well. It has numerous great probiotics that will help you get better.


You can also try kefir, which is a drink made from fermented milk helps replenish the germ fighting bacteria in your system.
You can also drink more almond milk, which contain immune boosting vitamins such as vitamin C and E as well as zinc., Eat foods rich in vitamin C, such as red peppers, oranges, berries, papayas, and leafy green vegetables. Try to incorporate these into each meal so you get a boost all day long., Foods rich in vitamin A and beta-carotenes, which are the building blocks of vitamin A, help boost your immune system. To get more of these while you are sick, eat foods that are rich in vitamin A, such as carrots, sweet potatoes, and squashes.
 Garlic has antibacterial and antiviral properties that boost your immune system, which helps shorten the length of colds as well as prevent them from occurring. Try a garlic supplement or use garlic in your daily recipes.


For example, add a clove or two of garlic in a marinade for your meat or put it into your chicken soup. , Ginger is a warming herb that has antiviral properties, which can help fight colds. Add fresh or ground ginger to your food recipes or make it into a tea.You can also get lozenges that have ginger in them that may also help calm an irritated throat.
 The goal of dietary treatment is to support the immune system while it fights off the cold. To keep your energy up while you're sick, you need to eat small meals throughout the day. This will keep putting nutrients back into your body so your immune system has a constant source of energy., The best way to fight off a cold with food is to combine all the nutrient rich foods together throughout the day. For example, start with a small breakfast frittata with mushrooms and a pinch of cayenne pepper. The eggs have zinc and protein and the mushrooms have glucans that will help boost your immune system. The cayenne pepper will help break up your nasal congestion.


For snacks between meals, have a yogurt with a piece of fruit and an apple with peanut butter.
For lunch, eat a bowl of chicken soup, which is proven to help fight colds.For dinner, have a broiled piece of salmon with a spinach salad, steamed green beans, and sweet potatoes.

