 The fact of the matter is that chocolate is not the same. Melting chocolate is your best bet and will yield the most consistent results, but any chocolate will probably be delicious, even if it doesn't cooperate like you want it to. Cocoa mass pistols and tempered chocolate buttons are good choices, too.


Milk chocolate and white chocolate don't handle as easily, but clearly taste is more important than anything.However, do know that chocolate for eating should have around 70-75% cocoa content -- more and it'll taste bitter. Bittersweet chocolate comes in at around 65% and is great for most recipes. Chocolate that's 85% and over is good for baking.But in white chocolate's defense? You can add oil-based food coloring to it for pretty colors!;
, If the chocolate is just one giant mass, it will not melt evenly. It'll start scorching on the sides and be cold as day in the center. So break your bar into bite-size chunks unless you want a goopy, chocolate mess on your hands.
 Put it on half power for 1 minute, stirring right after. It won't be melted, so don't expect it to be. Keep repeating this process until it's melted. You'll know when it's done when it drips from your spoon in a stream, like a syrup.


This cannot be overstressed: do not overcook your chocolate. This 1 minute on half power thing is for a reason. If you check it at periodic intervals, stirring each time, never going overboard, you'll never go beyond the point of no return. So be patient!
Though this shouldn't be an issue, make sure you don't get any water into the chocolate -- not a single drop. If it gets into contact with water, it'll become grainy and gross.
Using white chocolate and food coloring? Add a few drops in now!

, You now have the chocolate world at your fingertips. What's in your kitchen? You can use cookie cutters, chocolate molds, or even make your own stencils with poster board and a sharp knife.


When it comes to cookie cutters, try to stick to ones that are more rounded. The more points they have, the more likely the chocolate will break off.
Whatever you're using, make sure it'll stand up to the heat -- or switch up your methodology. No one way is better than the other.
 This will largely depend on your tools, but here's the breakdown:


Using molds? Simply pour your melted chocolate directly into clean, ungreased molds. Tap the molds on a hard surface to remove the air bubbles and pop 'em into the freezer. When the molds become misty, take them out and remove the chocolates by tapping.







Using plastic cookie cutters? You'll want to let the chocolate cool ever so slightly (so, so slightly) before pouring it into the cutters. Place them on a baking sheet lined with wax paper, pour, and then pop them into the freezer or fridge until hard.







Using metal cookie cutters? You have two options:







Option 1: Pour the chocolate directly into the cutters on a lined baking sheet. Tap to remove bubbles, freeze, and tap to remove from cutters.

Option 2: Pour the chocolate onto a baking pan lined with wax paper, shaking a bit to even out the layer of chocolate. Chill or leave on the counter to harden. Then heat up your cutters over your stove and start making shapes!



Using your own stencil? Follow option two above, substituting the cutter for your stencil (but don't heat the stencil up). Just place the stencil over your pan of chocolate, cutting around it with a sharp knife.
 In just about every method, you'll need to chill your chocolate and tap against a hard surface to remove from the mold. That's it! Then just clean your molds with warm, soapy water.

