 Leave the drumsticks and thighs attached. Season the chicken with the kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper.









Make sure to wash the chicken thoroughly in cold water before using.
Use a very sharp knife to make cutting the chicken easier.
 Preheat the oven to 325 °F (163 °C).
 In a 12-inch skillet, heat 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) of peanut oil over a medium heat. Cook the chicken in batches, so each piece has plenty of room in the skillet. Place each piece into the skillet skin side down, then turn it halfway through cooking. It should only take about five minutes for the skin to become golden brown.









Searing the chicken before baking renders off some fat, which gives the chicken more flavor. It also helps the skin to crisp up in the oven.
There may be a little smoke when searing your chicken, but don't worry, this is normal.
 Separate the breast pieces from the leg pieces and place each in a separate baking dish, preferably glass. Make sure the skin side is facing upwards. Pour two tablespoons of water over each baking dish.
 Split one cup of the reserved BBQ sauce between the two baking dishes, ensuring each piece of chicken is covered in a layer of sauce. Place a sheet of parchment paper over each dish, as this will help the chicken to stay nice and moist. Then wrap each dish in aluminum foil.









You can use a basting brush to work the sauce into the skin of the chicken before baking, if you like.
 Place the baking dishes in a preheated oven. The leg pieces will take about an hour and ten minutes to cook, whereas the chicken breasts will only need 30 to 40 minutes.
 Take the chicken out of the oven and raise the temperature to 40 °F (4 °C). Remove both the aluminum and the parchment paper and spoon the remaining 1/2 cup of reserved BBQ sauce over the chicken. Return the chicken to the oven for another 10 to 15 minutes.
 When the chicken is ready, it should be nicely glazed in the BBQ sauce and extremely tender. Reheat the BBQ sauce that you set aside in the refrigerator earlier and pour into a bowl or sauce boat. Transfer the baked BBQ chicken onto a serving dish and sprinkle with chopped cilantro.








