 You may feel more confident about the surgery if you understand what is being done and why it is needed. Once you understand this better, try to explain the procedure to friends and family; talking about it and explaining what is going to happen to others can be a valuable way of boosting your confidence and helping you to feel more assured about what is going to be happening.;
, Once you understand what the surgery entails and you are sure you’re getting the surgery, you can start to prepare for the effects.


How will the surgery effect your life afterwards?
How long will it take you to recover from the surgery?
What can you and can’t you do before and after your surgery? For how long?


These are the sorts of questions you should be sure that you have the answers to before you start anything else, as these will help you to properly prepare, and being prepared will make you feel more confident and comfortable with the surgery in general.
 Once you have the answers to your questions you can pack – think about how long you’re going to be in the hospital and what sorts of things you’re going to want. You may want clean clothes, books, spectacles (if you require them) and so on. Take anything you think you might miss or want to use during your stay, but try to limit it to just one bag. If you need something else, your family and friends are often more than happy to take your dirty clothing and bring you clean, or exchange your books and games when you’re finished with one.


If you’re religious, you may choose to take an item that is significant to your religion; if not, many people choose to take a family photo or album to encourage themselves.
 If you‘re going to be out of work for a period of time post-surgery, take the appropriate steps to ensure that you and your family are provided for financially during this time. This may be something you have to discuss with your health insurance or national health service (it will vary depending on where you live). Regardless of what you need to do in order to manage it, be sure that you’re not going to end up in a tight spot financially as a result of your surgery. Sorting this out in advance will prevent you from stressing about financial matters during your recovery.
 Regardless of whether it’s asking your doctor questions or talking about your fears with your partner, be open about your feelings during this time, as keeping them to yourself could increase your stress. The more relaxed you are, the better – some studies have shown that there are fewer complications in procedures where the patient feels confident and relaxed, particularly in women.Thus, it is certainly worth trying to relax yourself and have confidence in your surgeon and the procedure as much as possible.


You might feel like keeping it to yourself when you’re expecting surgery, but it can be much more beneficial to share the information with the people you care about and who care about you. You may also find that there are people willing to help out with your household maintenance, meals, etc., during your recovery but if they don't know, they can't offer such help.
 It doesn’t have to be a deity or spirit that you choose to have faith in. Have faith that your doctor will do everything that is needed to let you continue living a happy and healthy life, have faith that your body will heal. Have faith that your family are waiting for you, encouraging you. Have faith in yourself and everyone that loves you; faith is a simple concept that gives you purpose during a time when you desperately need it, which can help to reduce your stress levels and thus make you more relaxed and confident.
 In the run up to your surgery, try to exercise as much as your condition safely allows, eat healthy, stay hydrated and get plenty of rest. Being in tip-top condition during the surgery can improve your mood, which helps you to stay in a more positive frame of mind, as well as helping to reduce the risk of complications, so that you can be even more confident when going into the surgery.