 If your dermatologist and allergist determine that your skin irritation is from a food allergy, then you'll likely have to avoid that type of food.No need to eat poison ivy or poison oak to get a reaction — merely rubbing up against them and then touching your face is enough to cause moderate to severe irritation. Avoid any chemicals, fragrances, or materials that have caused reactions in the past.


You may have to become more diligent at restaurants in terms of understanding their ingredients and methods of food preparation.
 The bites and venom from various insects can cause a severe skin reaction, especially bees, wasps, spiders, scorpions, fire ants and mosquitoes. Also consider if your bed or pillow is infested with bed bugs or mites.
 If your severe facial irritation developed overnight, then maybe your pillow is the culprit. Rewash your pillow, bedding and clothing with detergents that don't contain any known irritants.Washing bedding and clothes in baking soda powder is a safe, inexpensive alternative and won't irritate your skin.
Irritating chemicals are also found in cosmetics (sodium lauryl sulfate and parabens, for examples), shampoos and hair dyes.
 If your rash is due to an allergic reaction, you could opt for over-the-counter hydrocortisone creams (they reduce inflammation and pain) or more natural ones that contain calamine, vitamin E and/or oatmeal (they relieve itching and irritation).If your hives are caused by something other than allergies, you should talk to your doctor about the best and safest way to get relief.


One of the easiest, quickest and most economical ways to soothe a rash caused by hives, poison ivy or insect bites is to use a cold compress or wrap some ice in a towel.Taking oral antihistamines are available over-the-counter and will help reduce the inflammation and puffiness in your face if an allergic reaction is the culprit. Look for low- or non-sedating antihistamines and consult your doctor before use.If you have a severe rash, your doctor may prescribe prednisone, a corticosteroid that can be used for short-term treatment.

