 These pills are designed to lengthen the time inbetween each period with continuous hormone use. This method requires women to take pills with hormones for several months at a time followed up with seven days of hormone-free pills. The week of hormone-free pills will allow women to get a regular period.


Seasonale and Seasonique are the two most popular brands on the market that offer the extended-cycle birth control option. While they vary in hormone strength and have different pill instructions, they both offer about three months of a missed menstrual cycle., This method requires you to take hormone pills everyday with no down time for one year. At the end of the year, you will take a week's worth of pills with either no hormones, or very little, to allow your body to produce a regular period.


One popular brand that helps you miss your period for one year is called Lybrel. It requires you to take hormone pills for 365 days with no breaks for placebo pills.
 Birth control pills come in monthly packs and have three weeks of effective pills, and one week of placebo pills. To skip your period, don't take the placebo pills in your pack. Instead, when you get to the first placebo pill, start the next month's pack of pills.


There are mixed reviews from doctors on the level of safety this method has. Some doctors say it is safe, while others do not advise doing this. Ask your doctor if it is safe for you.
 The NuvaRing is a contraceptive ring that you insert into your vagina for three weeks at a time. It releases hormones into your body to stop pregnancy for those three weeks, and then it requires you to take it out for one week so you can get your normal period. If you are looking to skip your period for a special event, take your NuvaRing out, but instead of leaving it out for one week, immediately replace it with a new one.Do not leave the same NuvaRing in for more than three weeks. You will need to replace it with a new one in order to stay safe and stop your period.