 What you use the tracking system for will help you decide what features you'll want. Is this system to monitor teens using the family car? Do you want your tracking system for theft protection? Would you like to keep close tabs on the company car? Certain tracking systems will help you more than others, depending on your needs.

Be ethical with your car tracking usage. Using a car tracker without the driver's consent can be an invasion of privacy.Let others know your intentions.
If you're a delivery company, you can use car trackers so your customers can see the exact location of their item. Some car tracking systems will have software better equipped for this than others.;
, Knowing how tracking devices work will help you consider the pros and cons. Car tracking devices usually use a wireless transmitter, cellular technology, and/or a network of satellites orbiting around the world. By receiving information from these sources, the system can monitor its relative position.Using certain systems can have downsides. If you use a GPS tracker, your tracker will need a clear view of the sky to work, meaning that it can't calculate your car when below ground level.Cellular trackers will also have dead spots where they cannot send signals depending on which carrier you use.
 Car trackers will vary in price based on special features and brands. Set a budget for yourself before you shop so you avoid spending more than you can afford. You may feel lured into buying a more expensive tracker than you need if you don't research beforehand.

Some GPS trackers will require monthly fees or subscriptions, depending on the company you buy the tracker from. Factor this cost into your overall budget, and consider how much you'd be willing to spend long-term.
 Tracking devices vary in how and where they track your car. Some will provide real-time updates every minute, while others will provide updates every few hours. Inexpensive trackers only work once you notify the tracking company that your car has been stolen. Depending on your circumstances, one tracker might work better than another.

Accuracy and speed of your tracking system will greatly change the cost of a tracking system.
Consider how complex you want the tracking software to be. Expensive models will have more features but might be confusing to use.
 Cellular tracking systems are the most economical. The tracker uses cellular data to transmit location information to the device company or on the internet using supporting software. Usually, cellular systems are not real-time: instead, they update every thirty minutes to an hour.

You are also required to pay a monthly fee to avail service. Know that while Cellular systems are cheaper at first, the cost may add up over time.
 Wireless tracking systems generally require you to pay a one-time purchase and installation fee. The main disadvantage is that you can only access tracking information once the vehicle is stopped so you can upload the data.

If you want a tracker in case of emergencies, wireless systems are not useful. Install a cellular or satellite-based system if you want theft protection.
 Satellite-based GPS systems are costly and require monthly service fees. The benefit is accuracy: with satellites, you can have real-time updates where cellular companies won't cover.

Some trackers use a mix of satellite, wireless, and/or cellular systems. Consider a system that combines the benefits of several systems.
 Passive tracking systems store location, speed, and other information while on the road. Once the vehicle returns to a predetermined point (like your house), you can remove the device and download the information on your computer. Active tracking systems collect the same information but will transfer the information online in real-time.Many vehicles combine active and passive abilities: you might view its location in real-time and have an option to download speed, stops, and specific details after the vehicle has stopped.
 Covert tracking devices are often used for shipping companies, employers, or parents so their child or employee cannot remove the tracker. If you choose a more visible tracker, it will often be more affordable.

If you choose a less visible model, make sure you choose one with an extended battery life so you remove and reinstall it less often.
 Certain car trackers come with special features. You may want a model that can double as a car navigation system, especially if you choose a GPS device. Other car trackers double as alarms and will alert the tracking company if it is stolen. The more benefits a tracking system has, the pricier it will be., If you're buying a tracker with monthly fees or theft alert systems, call or email different tracking companies. Ask them what deals they have and what monthly costs you will have to pay., Visit a local electronics store or auto shop and chat with the employees about different models. Even if you don't buy your device there, they can help you find the ideal model based on your needs.

Visit a local retailer even if you want to buy online to try out a few different models.
Ask about the store's return policies. You may realize a certain tracker doesn't work for you after a few days.
 Visit websites or auction sites, which often have deals on electronics. Research the website before you buy to make sure the site is reputable. Some websites might offer an item for a low price but offer low-quality items or scam buyers out of their money.

If you want to buy your tracker used, look at local classifieds online. Ask the seller lots of questions about its condition and how the tracker works. Always meet the seller in-person to avoid getting scammed., Most device manufacturers will offer a warranty for their car trackers. If your tracker accidentally breaks, you'll want the reassurance a warranty gives. If you buy your tracker used, know that you most likely will not receive warranty coverage.Some stores may offer additional warranty coverage for an extra price. Ask retailer employees about warranty options and decide what works best for you.
 If you're looking for a new car, consider buying a car with a built-in tracking system. Visit car dealerships and ask salesmen about models that offer tracking systems and the benefits of different models.

Ask the employees if you can try the model out before you buy it. Some retailers will let you drive around and see how the tracker works.

