 It's a blue app that contains a white "A" inside a white circle.
 It's a magnifying glass icon at the bottom-right of the screen., It's at the top of the screen.,, It will appear below the search field as you type., It's to the right of "Pandora.", It appears where "GET" had been.

If prompted, enter your Apple ID and/or password.
 It's a white app with a large, blue P in the center., It's a blue button near the bottom of the screen.

If you already have a Pandora account, tap Log In at the bottom of the screen.
 Type your email address, a password, your birth year, and zip code in the labeled fields, then tap your gender., It's beneath the text fields on the screen., Tap Allow if you'd like to receive notifications from Pandora. Tap Don't Allow if you would not.

You have now created a free Pandora account. You will be able to choose music that you like and create stations, but you will also hear advertisements.
To upgrade to a paid, ad-free account with more customization options, tap ≡ in the upper-left corner of the screen, then tap Upgrade, and Start Free Trial. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete your upgrade.
 This allows you to choose artists, genres, and composers that you like and include their music in a custom station that you build., The text field is at the top of the screen., If you see a song or artist you like, tap it., It's at the top of the screen. Do this to see the stations you've added to your "favorites.", It's at the top of the screen. Do this to see existing Pandora stations and add them to the "My Stations" list.

Scroll down to see suggested stations.
 It's at the bottom of the screen. Doing this makes the artist or song more likely to be included in your listening rotation., It's at the bottom-left of the screen. Doing this makes the artist or song less likely to be included in your listening rotation., It's at the bottom-right of the screen., It's at the bottom-right of the screen., It's in the bottom-right corner of the screen., It's near the bottom of the page.

Information may include song lyrics, artist information, or features of the particular track.
Tap ➕to create a station based on the artist or song.
Tap the "Bookmark" icon to the right of the ➕ to bookmark the song.

