 A longer skirt that you don’t wear anymore, but that still fits at whatever part of your waist you want to wear it, is ideal. Then you will need a measuring tape and washable marker, a pair of sharp scissors, a needle, thread, and pins.


Note that different materials are harder to cut and sew. Denim or corduroy skirts might be more difficult, requiring sharper scissors and/or thicker needles.
Find thread that matches the most prominent color in your skirt so that it blends into the fabric.
 A common school guideline and a generally good rule is to have the skirt end at least where your longest finger reaches when you have your arms straight down by your sides. Or, grab another mini skirt you like and measure the length. Use the tape measure to find these measurements and mark them on the skirt with your marker.


Add another half an inch to your measurement. This accounts for the hemming that you will complete later.
When in doubt, cut less. You can't get fabric back once you’ve cut it, so cut off less than you think and then try it on. You can hem it up to exactly the right length afterwards.
 Cut slowly along the marks you’ve made, keeping the edge as even as possible.


To help you cut straight, make several measurement marks as you did in the previous step all the way around the skirt to ensure that it will be the same length everywhere.
 When you are done cutting, there might be loose strings hanging, depending on the fabric. Carefully trim these off if they occur.
 Try on your skirt after you cut it. If it’s at about the right length, fold approximately a half inch of fabric back against the inside of the skirt and pin it all the way around. This is your hem.


If you want the skirt to be slightly shorter than where you cut it, your hem can be larger—an inch or more. Fold the amount you want it to be shorter underneath and then pin it in place.
 Using your needle and thread, stitch the folded section to the main fabric of the skirt, removing the pins as you go. You can use a hem stitch, but really any stitch will work as long as it secures the fabric.


To do a hem stitch, insert the needle into the hem and then through a tiny section in the main skirt, just above the hem (this shows just a tiny dot of thread on the outside of the skirt). Pull the thread through, firmly but gently. Then, insert the needle into the underside of the folded hem and pull it through to the top. Repeat this stitch all the way around the hem, with even spacing between each “dot.”