 Before your visit, study the rules of the park. Do they allow picnics in the park? Is alcohol allowed? Do babies have to wear swim diapers? When you visit, you should know the rules as if you are an employee at the water park, and follow them. The rules are there for a reason, and many of them are to regulate park safety.;
, This means nothing revealing, no logos that you would not want young kids to see, and nothing that violates park rules. And avoid wearing white swimsuits - when they get wet, you'll basically be exposed, and you'll be asked to leave the park.


Make sure your clothing is secure. If you're wearing a swimsuit, you'll want to make sure that it's not loose on you, and that anything that needs to be tied is tied. Nobody wants to get kicked out of a water park after losing their swimsuit and getting humiliated in front of everyone.
 Being rude, annoying, stubborn, or violent will get you thrown out. If somebody asks you for directions, give them politely if you know, or if you don't know, tell them, "I'm sorry, I don't know where that is. I'm sure somebody else would, though."


Don't fight with people, even if you're just play-fighting with your friend. Most, if not all, areas of water parks are quite wet and slippery. If you push someone, even as a joke, you may end up regretting it if they end up slipping and hitting their head.
Avoid pulling out something that may be perceived as a weapon. Things like toy guns, for example, are a definite no-no, especially if you point it at someone.
 Never go anywhere alone, because some parks don't let people wander around with no buddy if the person is in a group. If you're under the age of thirteen, stay with an adult or with your friends at all times. It's smarter, and if you're with your friends, more fun!

, They deserve lots of credit for their service. Use your manners; say "please" and "thank you", and if the employee makes a mistake, bring it up politely.


Some people may think it's funny to taunt snack stand workers or try to extort money from them. If you see this happening, speak up! Say something like, "Hey, that's mean! Stop that!" or "Stop trying to get free food! People have to make money too, you know!" The employee will definitely appreciate it.
 Snowballs thrown at people are fine, but rocks can hurt people and smash car windows. Dirt can distract a driver and make other visitors get cheesed off when they get covered in soil. Never throw a snowball at a car for the same reason you shouldn't throw dirt. And remember how the receiving end feels - it hurts to get sand in your eyes!


In some parks, throwing things - even dirt - can be considered misconduct and get you removed from the park.
 Do not swear, use racist terms, make rude jokes, or threaten people. If you wouldn't want your grandmother to hear it, chances are, you shouldn't use it in front of a little kid.


If you do end up accidentally offending somebody with bad language (for example, you slip and instinctively swear), apologize immediately and try not to use bad language again.
 Obviously, the area around the pools, which is usually concrete, is typically wet. You could slip or ram into somebody. If a lifeguard keeps having to tell you to walk, you may be removed from the park.
 It is rude, and it's risky. At best, somebody will stand there angrily at you; at worst, they'll cause a fight and get the both of you thrown out of the park. Additionally, if an employee catches you cutting in line, you'll be sent to the back of the line or prevented from going on the ride entirely.
 You could drop or ruin your device, and it is usually against the rules. If you really, really want to record, though, try asking the ride employee for permission, but be prepared to be told that you can't.
 Be an all-around cheerful person. You didn't come to a water park to be grumpy - you came here to have fun, so let that reflect in your mood. And make sure you have fun, yourself!

