 Once you understand why your family so values your visit — or why your partner so values the two of you visiting their family — you can either reiterate your own reasons for not wanting to visit family on your vacation or decide to agree that visiting family is a good use of your vacation time. Ideally, you’ll be able to solve the conflict by compromising with your family or partner. For instance, instead of visiting family for four days on your vacation, you only visit them for two.If you compromise and they still complain and continuously try to make you feel guilty — for instance, that two days wasn't nearly enough time — kindly and gently express to them that a short visit is better than no visit. You might say something like, "Yeah, the two days did go by pretty fast. I'm just glad our schedule allowed us to visit — for a while it didn't seem like we would be able to see you at all."
You may need to have a couple conversations with all interested parties about the decision to visit or not visit family during your vacation. If the other party is very upset and even obsessing over the situation, tell them you will continue the conversation later and give them some space to calm down. This will also afford you the opportunity to gather yourself and recommit yourself to your decision.
 Instead of visiting family on your vacation — either yours or partner’s — invite them to tag along. If you have a partner, check with them to see if such a situation would be amenable. For instance, if your family is going to Cape May but your partner wants to visit their family during vacation, ask them if they’d like to invite their family to Cape May., Your family might say they’re disappointed or upset that you won’t be visiting. If this occurs, remember that you cannot always make everyone happy. Your family will get over it, given enough time.If you know that you won’t be spending your vacation with your family, don’t suggest that you will think about it or that there is a possibility that you will.
Remember, your family will still love you even if you don’t visit them during your vacation.
 If you have a significant other, make a decision with them before talking to your family. Then, let your parents or other relevant family members know your decision. If your parents, for instance, ask if it was your partner’s decision to go on vacation without visiting them, simply say, “We made the decision together.” This will avoid giving your parents a reason to dislike your partner., Forgiveness means letting go of pain or frustration. When your family caused a conflict about how you went on vacation without visiting them, you might be quite irritated. But holding onto your pain and frustration about the conflict will prevent you from ever actually getting over it.Decide if you want to tell your family member that you’ve forgiven them. If the conflict over your decision not to visit your family on vacation caused a significant rift between you, you might want to call them or talk to them directly to let them know that you forgive them. You might say, for instance, “I forgive you for your part in the conflict that ensued over the fact that I did not visit you on vacation.”If you believe you also had a role in causing the conflict about not visiting family on vacation, you might add, “I hope that you can forgive me, too.”

, When you were in conflict with your family over the fact that you didn’t visit them on vacation, you probably learned something that could help you avoid conflict or understand yourself better. For instance, perhaps this was the first time you ever did something your family disapproved of. This might make you realize that you are a strong person.Whatever your case may be, reflect on what you learned about yourself and your family through the conflict.
 Whether you were in a conflict with your partner, parents, or another family member, remind yourself that they are only human. You could do this by saying to yourself, “They are only human, and therefore flawed, as am I.” 