 It is important to remove any old nail polish before you apply your nail wraps. Use some nail polish remover to take off your old nail polish. Even if you do not have any nail polish on, you might want to swipe each of your nails with a little nail polish remover to ensure that they are totally clean.You can also wash your hands and nails to ensure that they are free of grease and dirt.;
, Next, you will need to trim your nails to your desired length. If they are already at the length that you’d like them to be, then just take a minute to even them out by shaping them with a nail file. Buff the tops of your nails with a nail buffer as well to ensure that they are smooth and even.








It is important to get the surface of your nails really smooth or they may not look right.If you have dry, brittle nails, then you might also want to apply a layer or two of strengthening top coat before you apply the wraps. Otherwise, the adhesive might damage your nails.
 Hold the strips up next to your nails to determine where the best placement for each strip would be. Try to select a strip for each nail that will fully cover the nail and line up with the cuticle. It may not be possible to find a perfect fit for every nail, but do the best you can.








Don’t worry about choosing the strip that is meant for a specific finger. Just go with the one that fits your finger best., Some nail wraps are heat activated, so you will need to heat them up using a hair dryer. Turn on your hair dryer and set it to warm. Then, pick up one of your nail wraps and aim the hair dryer at it. Heat the nail wrap for about three to five seconds.








Not all nail wraps require heat to work. You might be able to just apply the wrap directly to your nail and smooth it out. Check the package instructions to be sure.
 Use a cuticle pusher to apply the nail wrap and smooth it out on your nail. Make sure that there are no bumps and that the nail strip goes all the way to the edges of your nails. They should be lined up with your cuticles on all sides.








Try not to touch the adhesive layer with your fingertips as you apply it or some if it may come off.

