 This phrase is pronounced "teh-twah." Use a short e sound (as in "bed") for "tais" and a short o sound (as in "rock") for "toi." The approximate meaning is "shush" or "hush."


This phrase, as well as the other ones in this section, can be considered rude depending on how they're used. "Tais-toi" isn't too offensive, but it's not very polite. It can be outright insulting if you use it angrily or you use it for an authority figure like a parent, teacher, or boss.;
, This phrase is pronounced "tehzay-voo." Use a short e sound (as in "bed") for "tais", an a-like sound for "sez", and a long u sound (as in "stool") for "vous." The approximate meaning is "be quiet."


This is another moderately rude way to say "shut up" in French. Again, in some contexts it may be used in a friendly way. However, if you say it with a hostile feeling or you use it for someone you should be respectful towards, it will come across as rude.
Because this phrase uses the "vous" pronoun, you can use it when you're talking to groups of people as well as single individuals.
 This phrase is pronounced "fairm tah boosh." Use a long a sound (as in "ray") for "ferme." Don't pronounce the final e in "ferme." Use a short o sound (as in "rock") for "ta" and use a long u sound (as in "stool") for "bouche." The meaning of this phrase is "shut your mouth."


This phrase is almost always considered rude. The only situations when it might be laughed off is when you are using it jokingly with friends or family.
 If you're not worried about being offensive, you might try using this crude (but effective) phrase to get someone to shut up. This phrased is pronounced "tah gool." Use a short o sound (as in "rock") for "ta" and a long u sound (as in "stool"). Don't pronounce the final e in "gueule."



Be careful with this phrase. This is basically the most insulting way you can tell someone to shut up in French. You may hear good friends use it with each other, but it is not something you will want to use in "polite" company.