 Add 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of olive oil, 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of vegetable oil, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of red wine vinegar, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of white wine vinegar, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of ground fennel seeds, ½ teaspoon (1 g) of English mustard powder, ¼ teaspoon (¾ g) of dried basil, and ¼ teaspoon (¼ g) of dried oregano to a small jar with a lid. Place the lid on the jar, and shake well to mix all of the ingredients.The vinaigrette can be made up to a week ahead of game day. Keep it covered, and store it in the refrigerator.
 After you’ve mixed the vinaigrette, remove the lid to taste it. Add kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to season the dressing to your liking.If you’d like your vinaigrette to have some heat, you can also mix in some crushed red pepper to taste.
 Add ¾ cup (188 g) of fresh ricotta and 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil to a small bowl. Use a whisk to blend the ingredients together until they are smooth and whipped. Set the mixture aside for a moment.After you mix the ricotta and olive oil together, you can season it with kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper for an extra layer of flavor if you like.
 Add 1 cup (75 g) of shredded romaine lettuce, 1 cup (25 g) of fresh basil leaves, 2 tablespoons (2 g) of fresh oregano leaves, and 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the vinaigrette to a medium bowl. Toss all of the ingredients together until they’re fully combined.You can substitute iceberg lettuce for the romaine if you prefer.
 For the sandwiches, you’ll need 3 to 4 large heirloom tomatoes that have been thinly sliced. Place the tomato slices on a large plate, and sprinkle them with kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.You can substitute beefsteak tomatoes for the heirlooms if you prefer.
 To assemble the sandwiches, you’ll need 4 soft sandwich rolls that have been lightly toasted. Split the rolls open, and use a spatula or butter knife to spread the ricotta mixture over the roll bottoms., After you’ve spread the ricotta mixture over the rolls, divide the mixed greens and tomato slices between the four sandwiches and place them over the ricotta. Add bread-and-butter pickles and thinly sliced red onions to each sandwich as well.You add or substitute sun dried tomatoes, roasted red peppers, marinated artichoke hearts, or sliced olives as toppings for the sandwich.
If you want to add meat to the sandwiches, consider layering a slice or two of proscuitto, salami, or pepperoni over the tomatoes.
 After you’ve placed all of the fillings on the sandwich, add some of the remaining vinaigrette to each. Place the roll tops on each sandwich, and press gently to close them. Set the sandwiches on a platter to serve.Consider serving the tomato hoagies alongside homemade potato chips.

