 Search for pictures that show BMO’s body from all sides and angles. Accuracy is the key.;
, Find a large, rectangular cardboard box that gives you enough room inside to move around. Refer to your reference pictures to estimate the dimensions of your ideal box and adjust the measurements to your body so the box will fit comfortably. Find your box at local grocery stores, furniture stores, or in your own basement.
 Close all flaps with hot glue. For further stabilization, apply duct tape inside the box at its weakest folds.



Grab a circular item such as duct tape or masking tape with an inner or outer circle large enough for your upper forearm.
Use a scrap piece of cardboard and test the size of the hole to determine comfort.
Trace the circle onto your box and cut it out with a utility knife.



Wear the box, look straight ahead, and mark where you are looking.
Use wax paper to sketch a mouth from the reference images.
Trace onto the box and cut out the black/dark part while leaving the teeth and tongue intact.
 Use gesso or a primer spray paint such as flat gray to cover any words or slight blemishes.



Sketch the arrow pad, floppy disk slot, buttons and controller ports onto wax paper and cut out each separate piece.
Trace each part onto craft foam and cut out with scissors.
Use a toiler paper roll and trace the outer circle onto craft foam twice for the eyes

,


Print "BMO" twice in large, bold black letters
Use a toilet paper roll and trace the outer circle onto craft foam 14 times. Cut out each hole.



Measure and cut out a large square to make the battery cover.
Sketch a single vent onto wax paper, trace onto craft foam 5 times and cut them out.
 You may need multiple coats to achieve a glossy coat.
 Use spray paint in a ventilated area in clothes that you don't mind ruining. Let the box dry completely before bringing the box indoors.
 Apply the glue directly to the cardboard then attach the craft foam. Applying hot glue directly to foam may burn/warp your craft foam pieces.
,, Cut and stretch the stockings across the inside of the mouth and hot glue into place. Make sure you can see out of the mouth.
 All clothes that you buy should be the color of BMO's body. You will need a long-sleeve shirt for your arms, gloves for your hands, and pants for your legs. Buy white canvas shoes and paint them the same color that you chose for BMO's body.
 Observe BMO's mannerisms and catchphrases.
 Memorize your favorite lines and practice them constantly.
