 Whisk the buttermilk together with the Italian seasoning, paprika, garlic powder, and cayenne pepper in a small dish until well combined.

If you do not have an Italian seasoning blend, you could substitute 1/2 cup mixed and chopped fresh herbs. Use herbs like oregano, thyme, and parsley.
 Place the rabbit pieces in the spiced buttermilk and turn to coat all sides. Cover and refrigerate 8 hours to overnight.

A longer marinating time means a stronger flavor and more tender meat.
 Bring the oil to temperature over medium-high heat. Ideally, the oil should be heated to a temperature around 325 degrees Fahrenheit (160 degrees Celsius).

Check the temperature of the oil using a candy thermometer. Note that you may need to continually check the temperature of the oil during the cooking process to make sure that it does not get too cool or too hot. Do not let the oil smoke at any point during the cooking process.
If you do not have a candy thermometer, test the oil by quickly sprinkling flour into it. The flour should sizzle upon contact.
A large cast iron frying pan is the ideal type of pan to use.
Keep in mind that once you add the rabbit pieces, the oil should reach roughly the halfway point up along the side of the pieces.
 Place the rabbit pieces in a colander and let the buttermilk drain from it naturally for a couple of minutes.

Do not shake the buttermilk off or try to wipe the excess away. Simply allow the excess to drip off via the assistance of gravity.
 Mix the flour and salt in a large plastic bag, shaking until well combined. Place a few pieces into the bag and shake well to coat all sides., Fry for 12 to 15 minutes at a steady sizzle. Turn using tongs and fry for another 10 to 15 minutes.

The rabbit should fry at a gentle sizzle. It should not be violent, but it should do more than merely sit in the oil.
Remove all the pieces separately as they turn crispy and golden brown. The belly flap pieces and forelegs will finish up first. The loin will be next, and the hind legs will be last.
If you need to fry the rabbit pieces in batches, let them drain in the colander as they wait. Only flour the rabbit pieces immediately before you intend to fry them.
 Transfer the rabbit pieces to layers of clean paper towels or brown paper bags. Let drain for a few minutes before serving, and serve the pieces hot or at room temperature.