 Decongestants will not reduce the duration of your cold, but they may make it easier to tolerate the symptoms. These drugs are available in pill, chewable, and liquid form; you may also consider using steroidal nasal sprays. Decongestants are generally safe to take, provided that you follow the dosage instructions listed on the package. You can find nonprescription decongestants in the aisles of most pharmacies, drugstores, and grocery stores.


The active ingredient in most commercial decongestants is either pseudoephedrine or phenylephrine. Decongestants work by narrowing blood vessels in the lining of the nose. This reduces how much blood flows through the area so that swollen tissue inside the nose shrinks and air can pass through more easily.
Do not use decongestant medications for more than 3 days, lest your body becomes dependent on them. If you become dependent on these medicines, your nose may feel even more stuffed up when you quit using them. This is known as the “rebound effect.”, You can find over-the-counter cough syrup in most pharmacies and grocery stores, and you can find soothing cough drops--medicated and non-medicated--in the same places. Some cough syrups are designed to facilitate your function in everyday life, while some (such as Nyquil and Z-Quil, and any medicine ending in "PM") will help you sleep when your coughing keeps you awake.Dextromethorphan is the primary active ingredient in most cough medicines. It is safe to ingest in moderation, but do not drink more than the recommended dose--especially if the bottle contains the expectorant guaifenesin--and avoid taking it if you are on antidepressants.
Consider carrying cough drops around with you throughout the day. Cough syrup lasts much longer than cough drops, but cough drops tend to be herbal, non-medicated relievers that will not make you drowsy.
 Pain medications will not shorten the duration of your cold, but they may make some of the symptoms more bearable. You should only use these drugs to temporarily relieve severe pain; do not use them habitually, and be careful not to develop a dependence.


The active ingredient in most over-the-counter pain medications is either acetaminophen or any of several nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Although these products are effective at relieving pain, not everyone responds to them the same way--so if one drug doesn't work for you, another might.Make sure to follow the dosages listed on the packaging. Never take more than the suggested dose, and never take pain relievers for longer than recommended. "Nonprescription" does not mean "nontoxic". An overdose of acetaminophen, for instance, can cause liver failure that can lead to liver transplant or death.

