 Mix 1-1/2 ounces of plain vodka with 6 ounces of orange juice for the best drink.Add a few cubes of ice and stir with a spoon.









For a more sophisticated drink, make a Mimosa Screwdriver. Mix 1 ounce of orange flavored vodka with 4 ounces of freshly squeezed orange juice. Add a dash of orange bitters and a splash of extra dry champagne.Screwdrivers are best enjoyed in the morning and go great with brunch., All you need is plain vodka, cranberry juice, Cointreau (orange-flavored liqueur), and lime juice.









Add 2 ounces of vodka and 1 ounce of each of the other ingredients. Shake well with cracked ice.Frosting the rim with sugar and adding a lime peel gives your drink a sexy look.
You may also add a dash of orange bitters to enhance the taste.
 This thick, savory cocktail focuses more on zest and spice to please your tastebuds.









Mix an ounce of plain vodka with 3 ounces of tomato juice, 1/2 ounce of lemon juice, a dash of Worcestershire sauce, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a splash of hot sauce. Add some ice and stir gently.
For a nice garnish, add a single celery stalk.
 The drink! This cocktail is infused with many fruity flavors to help mask the strong flavor of plain vodka.









Mix 1-1/2 ounce of vodka with 2 ounces of orange juice, 2 ounces of cranberry juice, and 1/2 ounce of Peach Schnapps.
Fill the glass with ice, stir, and garnish the rim with an orange slice.
 As refreshing tasting as its name, a Sea Breeze is simple to make and even simpler to enjoy.









Mix 1-1/2 ounce of plain vodka with 1-1/2 ounce of cranberry juice and 4 ounces of grapefruit juice.
Add as many ice cubes as the glass can hold. Stir, and garnish with a lime wedge.
 The Martini is a classic choice and the official drink of James Bond 007, shaken, not stirred.


Simply mix 2-3 ounces of plain vodka with 1 of dry vermouth. Fill a cocktail shaker halfway with ice cubes. Shake well and pour the solution into a martini glass. Garnish with 3 olives on a stick. For added flavor, put a twisted lemon peel on the rim of the glass.

