 Thread a standard sewing needle with thread that roughly matches the color of your hair.


You should only need a tail of thread approximately 6 inches (15 cm) long.
Tie a fairly large knot at the end of the tail. This knot will need to prevent the thread from slipping through the dreadlock later on.
 You should choose a dreadlock based on the quality of the lock, the thickness of the lock in comparison to the size of the shell, and the placement of the dread.


Choose a dreadlock that is visible from the front. The exact location will be a matter of personal preference.
The lock should be thick enough to support the weight of the shell but thin enough to fit through the shell's opening.
For best results, use a dreadlock with a tight end and stay away from locks with loose, partially unraveled ends.
 Place the end of the dread on top of the front opening of the cowrie shell, then push it through that opening using your fingernail. Grab onto the dread from the back of the shell and pull it through until at least 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) sticks out from the back.


You might be able to do this using only your fingernail, but if you find it difficult, you can press the dread into the hole of the shell using a long toothpick, pen, bobby pin, or bent paperclip.
 Tie the end of the dread into a loose, simple knot over the portion of dreadlock sticking out just above the top of the cowrie.


The knot doesn't need to be anything fancy. Just tie a simple overhand knot over the main body of the lock, directly above the top of the shell.
 Weave the thread into both portions of dreadlock (the tip and the main body), looping it around several times to stitch the hair securely in place.


Insert the needle into the front of the double layer dread and out through the back.
Wrap the needle and thread around one side of the dread before inserting it back into the dread at the same point as before. This completes a full stitch.
Repeat this action several times until the stitching feels secure.
 Once the cowrie shell and dreadlock end are secured, knot the thread. Cut the thread tail just above this knot to separate the thread in your hair from the sewing needle.


As before, a simple overhand knot should suffice.
Trim the thread tail as close to the knot as possible to prevent any excess from showing.
 One cowrie shell has successfully been placed on one dread. You can use this same process to place shells on other dreadlocks, too.


You can only put one cowrie shell on each dreadlock.
This method is the most involved, but the results tend to last longer than those produced from simpler methods.

