 Scrapbooking classes are often held in craft stores, at rec centers and by scrapbooking "coaches." You can also purchase idea books and DVDs. If you have some extra time and money to invest, you can also participate in weekend workshops, camp sessions or retreats.
 One of the best ways to grow as a scrapbook artist is to learn from and share ideas with other scrapbook lovers. Visit scrapbooking blogs, social network pages devoted to the craft, Pinterest boards or join organizations such as the Scrapbooking and Paper Crafting Society.


If you take a class or simply spend some time hanging out in the paper aisle of your local craft or art supply store, you're likely to run into other scrapbook hobbyists. See if they're part of a club you can join or consider starting your own scrapbook club.
 There are several scrapbook conventions that are held annually and offer attendees workshops, lectures and vendors displaying the latest supplies. Look into the Creating Keepsakes (CK) Scrapbook Conventions, Scrapbook Expo and Great American Scrapbook Conventions.
 If you enjoy scrapbooking and want to share your skills with others, think about stepping up and offering your services as an scrapbooking professional.


Become a teacher. Teaching someone how to make a scrapbook means you're not only good at what you do but are able to explain and demonstrate scrapbooking tools, approaches and designs. You'll also need patience in working with beginners and a positive and encouraging demeanor. Finally, you'll have to keep up with all the latest trends and materials so that you can share those with your students.

Check with your local craft or art supply store to see if they have a need for a scrapbook instructor. Otherwise, consider securing your own space and offering a one-day or weekend workshop. Advertise online and in local establishments.
 Not everyone has the patience, creativity and skill to make a scrapbook, and they're willing to pay someone who can in order to preserve their memories. Advertise your services online or set up a booth at a local street fair or craft fair. Bring the very best examples of your work along with plenty of business cards.


You can create a website your your business. Post photos of your best scrapbook layouts or create digital pages so potential clients can see examples of your work.
Work as a scrapbook writer. If you're good with words, consider becoming a freelance writer. Websites devoted to scrapbooking need writers to contribute content, or you could write and sell your own ebook. There are a number of specialty magazines devoted to scrapbooking, so you may also be able to sell your articles to magazines or journals.

To come up with article ideas, go to scrapbooking discussion board to see what kinds of questions people have and what the hot topics are. Attend conventions and talk to product reps to see if there is a need in their company for someone to write product-related articles.


Become an event planner. If you have strong organizational skills and a keen sense of what scrapbookers want to know and see, you may be able to find a position coordinating a scrapbooking expo or retreat. You could offer your services as an independent contractor or try to secure a job with a company that plans these kinds of events.

