 One factor that may make children more fidgety is a lack of exercise.Children should get at least 60 minutes or more of physical activity a day. Any physical activity that accelerates your child’s heart rate will help them burn off excess energy, allowing them to focus.Consider having kids play games and sports that encourage a lot of physical activity, like tag or soccer. You might also encourage them to jump rope, practice animal walks, do some wall pushups, or simply run around in the park.;
, In some children, fidgeting and an inability to concentrate may be the result of a poor diet. Sugary foods, such as soft drinks and sweets, cause a spike in activity followed by a quick crash in energy. In order to help children stay focused, try to promote a diet that is high in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean meats. This will ensure that your children are eating foods that will supply them with a steady source of energy throughout the day.You should also try to encourage your children to eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner at the same time each day and discourage them from frequently snacking between meals., Anxiety is another factor that can cause children to be fidgety. To help your children feel less anxious, teach them mindfulness practices, such as meditation and controlled breathing. This will help them manage their anxiety and concentrate on their tasks.Mindfulness practices are a great way to teach a kid to handle distractions and hone their concentration.
If your child is particularly anxious, you should talk with them about their anxiety. You may also want to consult a mental health professional if the anxiety appears severe.
 Fidgetiness can be the result of external distractions. For example, music, a playing television, or noises from outside may distract your child from their task. If you want your child to concentrate and not fidget, be sure to remove anything that may distract them. Turn off any loud appliances and try to create an environment that is peaceful and relatively quiet.


If outside noises are a distraction, you might consider using a white noise machine or playing ambient music.
For fidgety children who do not have ADHD, fidget toys and other activities designed to help children with ADHD can be distracting.

