 Make sure that you know what you have, when you have it, and where you have it. Most colleges offer maps to students who need to know their way around. Alternatively, never be afraid to ask anyone for directions to your classroom. if you are new to that campus take a tour you might be amazed at what you find.;
, One of the more embarrassing things that can happen to you during college is winding up at your lesson without the appropriate equipment. When checking your timetable, make sure you have all the things you need for that lesson (for example, if you have photography, make sure you have packed your camera, photo paper, etc). it is always a good idea to try to have all your textbook for each class with you on the first day of school, however most professors are nice enough the first 2 weeks and will give you the necessary book.
 Being late is usually more or less expected and accepted during the first week of college, but it's best to try your hardest at punctuality to avoid further problems. Check out your route to college an hour or so before you leave the house, and make sure you have allowed yourself enough time for travel. Check bus or train times online, to make sure that there are no cancellations or delays, and always have an alternative route in the event of a problem.
 If you don't know many, or any people at your college, take a book along with you for breaks in between lessons. It gives you something to do, and means that you don't have to wander aimlessly waiting for your lesson to start.
 Most colleges allow a level of communication between students in the classroom. Try to start a conversation with the person next to you. You could comment on the piece of work they are doing, or ask for help or advice. If you recognize anyone in one class from another of your classes, ask them for the room or time of your next lesson. (e.x. "Excuse me, we have photography together don't we? What room are we in for the lesson at 2.40?) who knows you might miss a class and need someone to borrow their notes.
 If you have any problems whatsoever, there are plenty of people at college to help you. Never be afraid to ask for help.
 On your breaks, wander around the college, and take a look at your map in regards to where you are. Make a mental note of where things are, and consult your map or ask for directions if you get lost. Do this a few times and you should become reasonably familiar with the environment.
 These people are the ones you are going to be seeing the most.
 Be respectful to other students and to members of staff. Be polite, punctual, and friendly, and you will gain a good reputation around the college.
 Getting on-board with extra activities can really help you settle into college, as well as meet new people with a similar interest to you (for example, taking Japanese language lessons, you can meet people who share an interest in Japanese culture). It also shows that you have a keen interest in furthering yourself and your education.

