 Being a part of the global community starts in your local community. Share stories about your background, and listen to the stories of others. You can ask friends, family members, and people you encounter at school, church, or work to share stories about their backgrounds.For example, if you are talking to someone from a different culture, you could ask “What is it like celebrating your biggest holiday? What is it like for you?” To a friend or family member, you could ask for a memory from their childhood.
You can also turn to social media to listen to and share stories with a broader community of people. You can go to YouTube, Twitter, and Facebook to share and search for content.
 Search for art and music shows. Also, look for cultural fairs and exhibitions. You can go to your local theatre, venues, schools and cultural centers to ask for information about upcoming events. Spending time supporting your community both financially and with your time at events is a great way to actively be a community member., Building and nurturing relationships is a vital part of being an active global community member. Make new friends with people from your culture, as well as other cultures. Start locally, and then you can build your connections globally through social media and pen pal programs.If you are in school, ask a classmate to join you in an activity. If you work, ask a coworker if they would like to accompany you to an event.
Post and respond to the updates of others on social media. You can reach out to people in your community, or people from all over the world. Do not, however, share any personal information with strangers.
Join a pen pal program. You can sign up on safe and secure websites to exchange letters or emails with another person from anywhere in the world. This is a good way to get to know about the daily life and values of another person from a different culture firsthand. A few pen pal programs are PenPal World, Mail friends, and International Pen Friends., You don’t have to travel far to make a positive impact by volunteering. There are plenty of opportunities to volunteer within your community. You can volunteer at your local homeless shelter, senior center, or education center. Many people acting locally influences a global change.VolunteerMatch is a website that matches you with volunteer opportunities in your community. Enter your email, and you will receive a newsletter with volunteer opportunities in your community weekly.
 It’s okay if you do not have the means to donate, but if you do, donate your money wisely. Donating is a great way to support local and global causes, but there are many charities out there that do not use their funds honestly. Research any foundation before giving your money to it. A couple of trustworthy foundations are:


The Life You Can Save. This is a website that recommends trustworthy charities: https://www.thelifeyoucansave.org/

Zidisha. This foundation is focused on microlending. Microlending is giving small amounts of money to a person or company with low or no interests rates. Money typically goes to businesses or people in the developing world: https://www.zidisha.org/, Injustice to people, animals, and the land has occurred all throughout history. Unfortunately, injustice still happens in the world today. A global community member should not stand passively by, but instead, stand up against anyone or anything that has been wronged. How active you want to be is your choice.Voice your opinion on social media. There are hashtags dedicated to specific causes. A few of those causes are #BlackLivesMatter and #YesAllWomen.
Attend a peaceful protest for a cause you care about in your city.

