 If possible, don't even bother to engage with your haters. Bullies often feed upon the thrill of provoking a reaction. Indeed, much of the time, haters are trying to validate themselves by making you feel bad. This can spiral into a viciously-repeating pattern: the hater insults you, and you react, and the hater reacts to your reaction, ad nauseam. So don't react. Break the cycle., Laugh it off, drop a witty comeback, and stay positive. If you don't let your confidence slip, it won't be as fun to pick on you – and the haters might leave you alone. Let the hate bounce off you like raindrops hitting an umbrella; do not let it drench you.If someone insults your art, for example, take the high road. Try, "I'm sorry you feel that way, but art is subjective, and I'm just doing my best to improve. If you could give me some constructive tips, that would be much appreciated."If someone calls you "weird," you could say, "Maybe a little, but I like who I am. Being unique is a lot of fun!"

, This does not mean that you should hide from anyone, nor that you should let bullies rule your life. Simply try to put yourself into situations that don't require you to interact with these haters. Odds are that the haters are hating because they don't understand your interests and passions – so look for ways to pursue these passions outside the scope of their negativity.


If you are dealing with haters in one of your classes, ask if you can transfer to a different class. If you are facing haters in a club or group, consider whether you can find another group that is not so negative.
 If the haters are saying that you can't do something, the best way to shut them up might be to show them up. Do the thing that they say you can't do, and do it well. Eat their hate. Digest it and use it as fuel.


If your haters are telling you that you cannot score a goal on your soccer team, for instance, you can prove them wrong by working hard. If you truly want to score a goal, you can throw yourself into practice until you improve your skills. Consider, however, whether there are any other goals that you can pursue with less opposition – like being a great defender, or learning to play the cello.
Be aware that proving haters wrong does not always make them stop. In some cases, your success could make the haters even more jealous. This is not a reason to keep yourself from succeeding – just a consideration for afterward.

