 Demi Lovato often wears more subtle lipstick colors, which are peach, or light pink, with just a bit of gloss over them. However, she has also been seen wearing bright red lipstick. Her lips aren’t super thick, so you don’t need to go overboard with the lip liner, or even use it at all, to get her look. Just a bit of attention to your lips will do the trick if you want to look like Demi.


Keep your lip gloss and lipstick with you so you can refresh those lips as you go on with your day.;
, Demi likes to have smoky eyes with dark makeup and dark liner. She typically lines her waterline (the bottom of her eyes) with black, as well as wearing black or dark eye shadow. To get this look, you can use black or dark eyeshadow on the outer and inner corners of your eyelids, and then use a brush to blend them around your eyes. Pick a shimmery green or silver shadow to go in the middle of those lids and blend it in with the black for the full effect. You can also add some shimmery peach shadow on the inner corners of your eyes.


You can also add some flesh-toned or peach shadow between the brow bone and your eyes, to make the dark eye shadow and your eyes pop more.
Sometimes, Demi likes to go a bit more natural, and prefers to just have thicker eyeliner on the tops of her eyes, extending upward past her eyes, with a flesh-toned shadow instead of the smoky look.
Other times, she likes to keep the smoky eyes but to play around with the color of her bottom liner a bit. Once, she had a shimmery green bottom eyeliner to match her green outfit.
 Demi’s lashes are dark and beautiful. Sometimes, she just puts thick, lengthening black mascara over her top and bottom lids, while other times, she wears fake eyelashes. Her lashes also have a nice curl to them, so use an eyelash curler to give them that upward look.


If you’re not comfortable with fake lashes, just keeping them big and dark is fine for the Demi look.
 Demi tends to have pretty thick, dark brows with a nice arch, so if you want to mimic that look of hers, you should pluck your brows down to a nice medium shape of medium thickness with an arch toward each end, making sure they go past your eyes enough to frame your eyes, with about an inch and a half of space in between. Then, get a dark brown pencil to pencil them in and give them a nice, strong shape.


Sometimes, she likes her brows to be extra thick, and other times, they take on a thinner shape, so you don’t have to stick to one look.
You can also decide on a lighter color, if you think dark brows don’t look right with your light-colored hair.
Consider getting an eyebrow shaper to help keep the hairs of your brows in place.
 Demi has great skin– as evidenced by her selfie without makeup. To get her look, just put on a bit of foundation, whether it has a cream or a powder base, and put some concealer under your eyes for an added effect, as well as over any blemishes. You don’t have to have perfect skin to look like her, but you can work on applying foundation so your makeup appears more dramatic and your skin looks evenly toned.


You can also put a bit of blush along your cheeks to give yourself Demi’s healthy, sun-kissed look.
 Demi likes to keep it real. On August 13th, 2013, the day after the Teen Choice Awards, she posted a selfie of herself without any makeup at all. Her blonde curls were natural and she wore cute black eyeglasses, showing off her natural beauty and her sweet smile. Don’t be compelled to have perfect makeup all the time, either, and let yourself go natural when you feel like it, being proud of your natural look., The thing about Demi Lovato is that, even though she’s only 21, she’s already reinvented herself so many times, from the little girl on Barney and Friends to the more mature, edgy woman she is today. This includes having just about every hairstyle on the planet, from loose, blonde curls, to straight black hair with bangs, to her signature ponytail. If you want to look like Demi, then the trick is to not look the same two months in a row. Still, there are several key hairstyles you can try if you want to look like her.
 She has been known to wear her hair up in a high ponytail, wrapping it either with a thick (at least 6-inches) scrunchie, or even by wrapping her own hair around itself and securing it with a bobby pin. This look is pretty unusual, and you need a lot of confidence, as well as a big smile, to pull it off. Her ponytails are also pretty tight, as opposed to loose and messy. Make sure you’re pulling your hair up pretty securely over your scalp.You can also do the Demi bun, using the same principles, except having your hair up high in a tight bun instead of in a ponytail.
 Demi has been seen with so many different hair colors that it can be easy to forget what color her natural hair really is. She has had platinum blonde hair, blonde hair with black highlights, dark brown hair, black hair, brown hair with blonde highlights, pink hair, white-blond hair with green highlights, and just about every other hair color on the planet. If you want to rock her look, there’s no one hair color you should have, though her hair has most recently been brown.
 To get Demi’s wispy curls, make sure your hair is at least down past your shoulders, and then use a curling iron that is at least 1 ½ inches thick to get some nice, loose curls into your hair. Let them fall over your face a bit as well as over your shoulders, and add a bit of mousse or hairspray to get them to stick, but don’t worry about making your look perfect. You can even accessorize with a black, wide-brimmed hat., Demi has rocked bangs in her recent years. She has had super straight bangs with curly hair, bangs that are a bit wavy, or currently, bangs that fall over the side of her face. If you want to rock the Demi look, then you can consider adding bangs to your look — while knowing that it can take a bit of a commitment to grow them out. Let them fall just over your eyebrows, if you want to keep them straight, to rock one of Demi’s most popular looks.
 Demi’s more recent awesome hairdo involves her having shaved part of the left side of her head, while keeping the rest of her hair straight and long, letting it fall a bit over the other side of her face. If you have the guts to pull this one off, just shave one side of your hair, from about your ear to your middle part, while keeping the rest of your hair long. This is a more edgy and exciting look, and it’s part of the new Demi.


Most recently, she’s cut her hair shorter, leaving the shaved part standing.
 Demi’s hair is always changing, and part of the reason why that’s so easy for her is that she has been known to rock hair extensions. If you want to chop off your hair for a dramatic look one week and have long, flowing curls the next, then you may want to try hair extensions for fun. They can also help you make a great, thick Demi ponytail or bun. #*Her hair is pretty thick, and extensions can help make your hair both thick and versatile.
 Demi Lovato loves wearing her leather. She wears leather bomber jackets, leather pants, leather boots, and sometimes, even leather with fur around the collar. If you want to get her look, then you should add some leather into your wardrobe — or even go for the full-body leather look! She also has been seen with leather purses, too. Of course, you can go for the fake leather, not the real stuff, to get her look., She loves wearing leather jackets that are studded, dresses which have rhinestones, or which just have some kind of sparkles all over them. She doesn’t wear too many plain outfits, and always has a bit of bling on her clothes, whether you can see it on her shoes, around her wrists, along the collar of her dresses, in her ears, or even on her shoulders. Try adding a bit more metal and shininess to your outfits if you want to get the Demi look.
 Black is definitely the color that Demi wears the most. She doesn’t wear it to look dark, gloomy, or Gothic, but to show how unique, mature, and gorgeous she really is. Don’t be afraid of wearing black pants, a black shirt, and a black jacket all in one day — along with a black purse and some black boots, of course. If you’re not fond of normally wearing black, you can always bedazzle your outfit to give it some extra flair.


The black also looks great with Demi’s ever-changing hairstyles. Add some to your wardrobe today.
 Though black is the color Demi has most commonly been seen wearing, white is probably the color she wears the most often after black. Wear a plain white t-shirt, a more girlie, lacy white top, a white blazer with a white t-shirt, white leggings, or white pants, along with some white heels or some white slippers. Of course, don’t forget the chunky white jewelry and the white purse, either.
 Demi loves rocking the tight-fitting blazers along with some tight pants. This makes her look classy and professional at the same time. She’s not afraid to wear them with low-cut tank tops, either, or some metal jewelry that draws attention to her chest. Get some blazers that fit you well and that are tight and flattering, and which don’t make you look like you’re headed for a job interview. She wears black blazers, white blazers, leather blazers, and blazers that zip up on the side.
 Demi has also been known to wear flannel on occasion. Though the flannel she wears the most often is — you guessed it — black and white, she has also been seen in green and blue flannel, as well as some other colors. She wears it loose, with blue jeans and graphic tees, or tight black pants or leggings. If you want to go more casual but still want to have Demi’s awesome style, then wear some flannel when you feel like it.
 Demi doesn’t always look edgy, serious, or grungy. Sometimes she has some fun and gets a bit more girly or creative with her look. She has worn leopard-print low-cut shirts, tops with silver tassels all over them, strapless tank tops with sweet-heart cuts, and pink, shimmery skirts. She has also worn light pink dresses, shirts with floral patterns, and tank tops with white lace around the collar.


Wear all black one day and go girly the next. The fun of being Demi is that you can transform yourself every day!

, Demi’s favorite shoe color tends to be black, whether she’s wearing black stilettos, black boots with high, thin heels, black strappy sandals, or black shoes that are studded with spikes and sparkles. She also wears gold and silver high heels, with a heel that is at least 4–5 inches (10.2–12.7 cm) high. She likes strappy shoes, whether they are white, black, or shiny and silver. She wears both close-toed and open-toed shoes, and when her shoes are open, she shows off her red nail polish.Demi has rarely been seen wearing flats, though you can wear them if you need a break, as long as they aren’t too bright.
She also likes to wear heels with a high platform.
 Demi Lovato wears cute accessories that accentuate her look without taking attention away from her face and clothes. Sometimes, she wears simple studs in her ears, while other days, she wears big metal or white hoop earrings, or long black necklaces with tassels. She sometimes wears subtle thin silver necklaces with tiny pendants or thick chunky metal chokers and chunky metal rings and bracelets. She mostly sticks to metal, silver, gold, or black accessories and doesn’t go overboard with them.


If you want to accessorize like Demi, then it’s all about deciding whether to go loud or quiet, and to wear just one or two key pieces of accessories with each outfit.
She also has sometimes worn a silver stud nose ring in one nostril.

