 Find the songs that you wish to name and find artwork for. If you want to name multiple songs, click on the first one, hold down the shift key, and click on the last one while still holding down the shift key. Now, either control-click (hold down the control key while clicking) or right-click on the selected songs. From the shortcut menu that appears, click the words "Get Info". A new window will appear, with text boxes titled "Artist", "Album Artist", "Album", and so on. Click inside the "Artist" text box and type the artist's name. Then click inside the "Album" text box and type the album name. If you wish, you can type the genre into the "Genre" text box, etc.;
, Remove the paper from the CD case, then get out your digital camera. On your camera, turn the flash off and the close-up mode on. Holding the camera very steady, take a photo with the CD paper filling most of the picture. Transfer the photo to your Mac, find the photo (in your Pictures folder, most likely) and double-click on it. The picture will open up in Preview. On the photo, click at one corner of the CD paper. Then drag to the opposite corner (i.e. top left corner to bottom right corner). Let go of the mouse. The rest of the picture that is not selected will darken. If the only part of the picture not darkened is the CD paper, click on the Tools menu, find the words "Crop", and click them. The picture will shrink to only the part you selected - it is now cropped.
 Then, switch back to iTunes (which should still have the window open in which you entered the name and album of the CD. Down to the right of this window, there is a little square white box that says "Artwork". Switch back to the Finder window that has the icon for your picture. Click once on the picture and begin dragging it right onto that little "Artwork" box. When it's right over the box, you should see a green plus sign. Let go of the mouse. A second later, your picture will appear inside the white "Artwork" box. When this happens, click the "OK" button at the bottom of the window. Your songs will change; you can now change each song's name individually. (Click the title of the song; wait a second; click again, and type the new name for the song. Press the Return or Enter key, and the song's name should change.)

,