 Some telemarketing calls are made by real, live people, while others, known as robocalls, come from automated electronic services and recordings. Apps such Nomorobo can automatically sense and block robocalls. Check with your smartphone’s app store or your phone’s service provider to see what options are available to you.There may be fees for using one of these apps. Nomorobo, for instance, is free for landlines but charges a couple of dollars a month to provide the service to cell phones.
 If you do not want to remove yourself from all telemarketers' calling lists, or if there is a particular telemarketer that you want to block, you can try using your phone’s or service provider's features to stop the unwanted calling. The FCC encourages phone manufacturers and service providers to offer options to block calls.Look in your phone’s settings for an option to block calls. The exact procedure will vary from phone to phone, but usually it is as simple as entering the number you wish to block.
Contact your service provider and ask if you have other options for blocking a telemarketer.
 If there is a particular business that you want to stop calling you, try reaching out to them by phone, email, or other means. Ask them to place you on their own, internal do not call list.Generally, the FCC recommends not talking to telemarketers at all, since they will take any contact with you as an opportunity to try and push a sale.
Do not chat with the telemarketers. Simply give them a hard, clear “No” or “I’m not interested” to any questions they ask. Ask immediately to be placed on their do not call list.
This is also an option if you are receiving calls from an organization that is exempt from adhering to the National Do Not Call Registry, such as a political organization or charity.
 This is a last resort, since it isn’t really a way to block calls, only a technique to avoid actually dealing with telemarketers. With Caller ID, anytime you get a call, you will see either what the number is or other information about the caller. When you see an odd number or something like “Unknown,” “Anonymous,” or “Unavailable” instead of this information, it’s a sign the caller is a telemarketer. Simply do not answer the phone.Most cell phones now include Caller ID services.
If you have a landline, you can ask your service provider about signing up for a Caller ID service.

