 Trust is a huge factor in overcoming shyness in order to stand out and get noticed by others.Instead of jumping into a situation with strangers, try practicing getting noticed with people you already feel comfortable with.Talk to a friend about your shyness and worries about not being noticed.
Let a friend or family member know that you want to get noticed and ask her for advice on what you can do.
 Having a plan can help you to feel less shy and more confident when interacting with others. Think of possible interactions you might have in a specific situation and plan what to say or how to deal with them.


Think of an ice-breaker if you feel nervous about meeting new people or talking with people you don't know very well.For example, you could ask about a current event to open up a conversation by saying, "Did you see what happened on the news last night?" Another option is to talk about recent movies or television shows you've been watching. Chances are you'll be able to find one that you both are interested in.
Always be prepared for anything. When a teacher/someone calls on you don't hesitate and fade into the shadows, strange as it may sound people will think you're more normal if you answer confidently even if incorrect than a tentative correct.
 You can’t be noticed if you avoid interacting with others. Talking to new people you don't know is a great way to get noticed. Being friendly may give you a great chance to get noticed and overcome some of your shyness.Make eye contact, and simply say, “hello,” with a smile.Make it apparent that you like or are interested in the person.Listen to the person and nod your head or show in another way that you are listening to them.
Ask a question and say the person’s name; people love to hear their own name.Talk about something they like or something you really like and get a conversation going.
 Communicating on the internet may help to reduce shyness and help you get noticed.Facebook is a way to meet new people, but don't let Facebook do the job for you, because that might make your shyness worse. Don't rely on the internet completely for social interaction.
 Many shy people find that forcing themselves to be extroverted helps them cope with their shyness.However, this is not a quick fix.


A great way to feel confident is just to pretend you are. Act. It works, and at some point it won't be acting anymore.
 Some may use alcohol or other drugs to feel less inhibited.This may help you feel more confident in the short-term, but doesn’t do anything for your shyness or getting you to be noticed in the long-term. If you rely on alcohol or other substances to be social then it can become a crutch and even an addiction that could be difficult to quit.
 You can use a group situation as a way to practice getting noticed by others.Try finding a group at Meetup.com.
Look for exercise classes at your local gym such as yoga, Zumba, or rock-climbing.
 If your shyness is excessive or leads to high levels of social anxiety, including worries about being judged negatively by others, professional help can assist you.Contact your medical health insurance company and request a list of therapists that are covered.
If you do not have health insurance you can conduct a search for local or government organizations that provide low-cost, sliding scale, or free mental health services.

