 Bring a pan of water to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. Lower in six eggs and cook for six minutes. Starting the eggs in hot water instead of a cold pan makes them much easier to peel.Cooking this many eggs in one pan can throw off the timing. Cook them in two batches for more consistent results.Use eggs from a trusted, high-quality source. Soft-boiling does not kill salmonella, so an egg from an infected source could cause serious illness in young or elderly people.;
, Drop the eggs in an ice bath or in a bowl of cold water in the fridge to stop them cooking. Chilled eggs are usually easier to peel., The easiest option is to buy 600g (about 1⅓ lb) of sausage meat and call it a day. This can be on the greasy side, though, so some chefs prefer a 50/50 mix of sausage meat and leaner pork mince. You can either piggyback off the flavors in an herb-heavy sausage, or choose a plain sausage and mix in your own herbs and spices. (See the ingredients list above for suggestions.)


You can use raw sausages instead — just cut the casings open and drop the meat into a bowl.
Sausage meat usually has enough salt and pepper, but you may want to add some if you used minced meat.
 Tap all around the eggs with the back of a spoon, then peel off the shells.
 Arrange a line of ingredients on the counter, in separate bowls:


Soft-boiled eggs
Meat
60g (½ cup) Flour
Two additional raw eggs, beaten until smooth
120g (2 cups) panko breadcrumbs

, Divide your meat into six equal portions, and shape each one into a ball. Dip your egg into the flour to help the meat stick.Poke a hole into each ball with your thumb, insert an egg, and close the meat around it., Use your line of ingredients to add a crispy outer layer to your eggs:


Roll the meat-wrapped egg in flour
Dip it in the beaten eggs
Roll in panko breadcrumbs
Dip in the beaten egg again
Roll in the breadcrumbs again

, This is easiest in a deep fryer, but you can fill a deep frying pan ⅓ to ½ full of vegetable oil instead. Heat the oil to 170ºC (340ºF), then cook the eggs about ten minutes. If using a pan, cook the eggs two or three a a time and rotate frequently so they turn crisp and golden on all sides. Transfer the eggs to a bowl lined with paper towels to drain off excess oil.


If you don't have a cooking thermometer, drop a small piece of bread onto the oil to test the temperature. Your oil is the right temperature if the bread sizzles and browns, but does not burn.The cooking time varies depending on the amount of sausage meat on each egg, and how evenly the egg is wrapped. If you're worried about cooking the pork all the way, move the cooked egg to a preheated 190ºC (375ºF) oven for a couple minutes., You can eat Scotch eggs hot, or refrigerate them for later. For food safety reasons, don't leave Scotch eggs out of the fridge for more than two hours (one hour in hot weather). If you bring the eggs to a picnic, store them in a cooler.