 Don't think of it as "dress up." Think of it as creating new outfits that scream "you!" Play around with your clothing, trying out different items in ways you don't normally wear them. You can even put on some music and have a mini fashion show once you get some looks you like.Try some new accessories, or layer clothing you don't normally layer. Add scarves, and try tying them in creative ways. You can even tie large scarves into summer shirts!
You could also try mixing and matching clothing with a sibling or a parent. Just make sure you're not doing it without their permission. Ask them before they leave the house.;
, If you've got beads and things to make jewelry, haul it all out. No one's around to tell you you're making a mess or in the way. Use the internet to come up with some new designs or stick to making your own amazing creations.If you don't have beads already, you can make your own from magazines. Simply cut strips into long triangles, then roll them over a toothpick, gluing as you go.
Another way to make beads is to start with a round plastic bottle with no ridges. Cut off the top and bottom, and then slit it down the side. Cut 5-inch strips of plastic in horizontal lines from the top. The width you cut is the width of the bead.
Color on the strip with permanent marker in whatever design you want. Use needle-nose pliers (pliers with a skinny tip) to grab one end of the strip, and then wrap the strip around itself, creating a bead shape. Trap the other end with the needle-nose pliers, and then heat up the bead with a hair dryer on hot, turning the bead to heat the whole thing.
Be careful, the bead will be hot. You can use another pair of pliers to turn it or wait until it cools. Once the bead is sealed, it's done.Just be sure to clean up the mess before your parents get home!

, If you've got glue or tape, paper, markers, and scissors, you can create an unlimited number of crafty things. Try making a card for a friend, or creating a scrapbook page with printed out photos. You could also make bookmarks or try your hand at origami.To make a simple card, fold a piece of card stock or brightly colored paper in half. Decorate the front with drawings, or cut out shapes in other colors. Glue or tape them on to create a design.
 Science can be fun, especially when you use things you already have around your house. You can find any number of experiments on the internet to try at home, and you won't even realize you're learning something interesting about the world.


For instance, try making a hoop glider. You'll need an index card or some other type of stiff paper, as well as a straight straw and some tape. Cut the card into 3 pieces. Each piece should be an inch long by 5 inches long. Curl the first strip into a loop, overlapping the edges. Tape it together. Make a larger loop with the other two pieces, by overlapping the edges and taping them together.
Tape the small loop on one end the straw, with the straw inside the loop. Tape the other loop on the other end, once again with the straw inside the loop. Hold the straw at the bottom with the loops up, and toss it across the room like a paper airplane.To get into the experimental mood, try other configurations. Will a stir stick work as well as a straw? What about different size loops? What if you move the hoops around on the straw? What happens?

, If you've never tried your hand at writing much, now's as good a time as any to try. If you don't know where to get started, think about some of your favorite stories. What do you like about them? Maybe the story has a great main character or the plot is really interesting and action-packed. If you know what kind of stories you like, it can help you when you start writing.For poems, try a descriptive poem. Think about a really good memory. What made it good? Use all your senses to describe the day. Also, don't be afraid to use similes or metaphors.
Similes and metaphors are when you describe one thing by comparing it to something else that is seemingly different on the outside. Similes use "like" or "as," while metaphors don't. For instance, if you wanted to describe the sun, you could say, "The sun was like a giant yolk in the sky," which is a simile comparing the sun to an egg yolk. A metaphor would be "The sun was a giant yolk in the sky," since it doesn't use "like" or "as."

