 Jobs on Wall St. are more sought after than ever, and the hiring process has become more rigorous as a result. It’s not uncommon for an interview with a Wall St. firm to last for an entire day, and the interview process entails far more than the interviewer asking you a few questions about your five year plan. You’ll most likely be tested (informally or formally) on a wide variety of subjects germane to the activities of the firm you’re interviewing with. Since 98% of applicants don’t get hired, you need to make sure you know everything you can about how your firm’s sector of the industry operates.These all-day interviews are called “super days,” and you should think of them as more akin to a bar exam than a typical job interview.
 Unless you already live in New York City, your interviews with firms are going to require travel. You’ll save money and time if you schedule several interviews over a span of days rather than one at a time.You’ll also cut down on stress. Travelling is an inherently stressful experience, and the less travelling you have to do, the better off you’ll be.
 While it is possible to overdress for some job interviews, an interview at a Wall St. firm isn’t likely to be one of them. Gentlemen should wear a dark blue or gray suit, white shirt, and a conservative tie. Although ladies have a bit more freedom, they should pick something similarly formal and businesslike.
 Super days are a test of endurance as much as a test of knowledge. Employees at Wall St. firms often have to work long hours, and the employers use the interview as an opportunity to see how an applicant will hold up.Take the same kinds of steps you took before you took the SAT—get eight hours of sleep, eat a light breakfast, give yourself enough time to come to the interview alert and rested.
 Remember, if you’ve gotten to the interview stage, you’ve already made it farther than the vast majority of applicants. The firm you’re interviewing with already likes what they see. If they didn’t you wouldn’t be there. Just allow the qualities that landed you the interview to shine through during the interview.

