 A simple first step that you can take is to apologize. Apologizing shows that you understand what you did and that it broke the trust between you and your parents. Apologizing can also demonstrate that you want to make changes and do the right thing next time. Try apologizing to show your understanding of the situation, rebuild trust, and have your privileges restored.Make sure your apology is genuine.
You could try saying something like "Mom, Dad, I want to apologize for what I did. I get that it was wrong of me and I want to make things right."
Having a good understanding of what went wrong can help you build a better apology.
Try giving examples that show your understanding of the situation. For example, you might say "I see now that lying to you earlier was hurtful and makes it hard to trust what I say in the future.";
, If you've caused damage to something, you may need to either fix it or pay for it. By repairing something or replacing it, you can show that you've taken responsibility for your actions and understand how they damaged trust between you and your parents. Volunteering to fix or replace something you've damaged can be a good step in rebuilding trust and getting your things back.For example, maybe you broke something you “borrowed” without permission. Offering to either fix it or buy a replacement can demonstrate your understanding of the situation.
 Once you know what you can do to build trust again and get your stuff back, it's time to get to work. Focus on taking actions that you know are allowed by your parents, will demonstrate responsibility, and will build trust. Try to remember that this is more about your actions and choices, rather than simply getting your things back. Avoid any outbursts aimed at your parents. Try to speak respectfully, even if you disagree with something.
Be honest with your parents. Lying to your parents will only cause mistrust and may cause you to lose your things for even longer.
Always take responsibility for your actions.
Try to follow rules as closely as you can.
If you aren't sure you're allowed to do something, ask your parents first.

