 Children who are sexually abused often display mistrust with everyone and everything. This is because the person abusing them is generally someone they trusted, and their trust was betrayed. They start viewing everybody with suspicion and make it a point to double check everything in their environment to ensure that there are no perpetrators of this abuse around and that their surroundings and environment are all foolproof.Pay particular attention if the child suddenly displays fear or high anxiety. If she is startled by sudden movements, loud noises, or someone touching her, there is a possibility that she has been sexually abused.
 Children who are sexually abused may have bruises in odd places. They may also have trouble walking or sitting. In some cases, these children will also avoid any sort of physical activity. If you notice these signs, talk to someone you can trust about the problem as these are signs that the child is being abused., The child may find it difficult to form close bonds and relationships with any of his peers. This inability to form relationships is caused by the fact that someone he trusted abused his trust. To protect himself, the child may deliberately stay away from others in an attempt to avoid being exploited or taken advantage of.


If you notice a child suddenly trying to avoid a particular person, ask the child about it.
 They might lose all interest in studies and those activities which they were previously actively involved in. They might find it difficult to focus and concentrate on anything. They may seem to be constantly lost in their own thoughts.
 Often, when a child is sexually abused, she doesn’t understand what is happening to her and thinks that the pain is her fault. As a result, she will begin to blame herself and start to isolate herself from others because she is afraid they may discover her secret and blame her like she blames herself.
 Another sign of sexual abuse is a child refusing to wear just one layer of clothing. Instead, he may insist on wearing three shirts. He may also refuse to change in front of anyone--even a parent who is not abusive.You should also be concerned if a child shows a fear of going to a particular place. If you are a parent and you notice that your child seems terrified to go back to a certain daycare, you may have cause to worry. Similarly, if you are a daycare worker and you notice that a child seems scared to go with his parent, you should be concerned.

