 Realize that trauma is caused by abnormal circumstances, such as job loss, divorce, or a humiliating experience. Although the experience may make you feel like you are out of control, recognizing the symptoms of post-traumatic stress syndrome will help you recover much quicker by finding the help you need.Trauma has both physical and emotional symptoms. Physical symptoms consist of fatigue, difficulty concentrating, edginess and agitation, and muscle tension while emotional symptoms are shock, denial, guilt, sadness, irritability, and anxiety.
Symptoms can last from just a few days or a couple of months. Although you may feel better as time moves forward, you could still be troubled from time to time by agonizing memories triggered by the anniversary of the event or by an image, person, or sound that reminds of you of the experience.
Grieving is a normal emotion following trauma. The natural reaction to trauma is grief. Although grieving is painful, it allows you talk about how you feel and makes it easier to get support from others. Don’t try to withhold the grieving process, it is important for recovery.
 After a traumatic experience, it is a good idea to talk to family, friends, or colleagues about your thoughts, feelings, and reactions to what happened to you. There is no set length of time for how long you will need to talk about it. In other words, keep talking until you are ready to stop.

The people you surround yourself with are very important at this point. Try to associate with positive people in an uplifting environment. Emotions are contagious and you will need to be around people with a lot of positive energy.
Turn to family, friends, and colleagues who will stand behind and encourage you. They can provide emotional support until an opportunity comes along to help you recover.
 A feeling of safety and tranquility in your immediate environment will help you to relax your mind and calm your symptoms. Avoid getting yourself into situations that are disorganized, chaotic, or full of discord. Instead, seek out harmony and peace to help get yourself back on track.

Buy fresh flowers and place them throughout your house.
Light non-fragrant candles to give a feeling of calm and relaxation.
Open the blinds and let the natural sunshine in. Sun provides warmth and happiness.
Play soothing music and read a relaxing book.
Remove clutter because it appears distracting and feels chaotic and disordered.
 Take time to recover but do not be a recluse forever. Resume your normal activities and routines as quickly as you can. Traumatic events throw you into chaos, routines bring stability and structure brings security. Get your life back on track!People who have traumatic experiences often feel that extra time off to relax is what they need to recover. It is, however, critical to get back on your feet as soon as possible. In other words, days turn into weeks and weeks into months. This is valuable time off that could be spent getting your life back on track.
Try to participate in social activities, even if you don’t feel like it. Being around other people and doing relatively normal things will help you integrate back into society.
 Mental and emotional resilience demands the proper nutrition and exercise. Focus on taking care of yourself and do whatever it takes to feel healthy and fit. According to research, exercise builds resilience against stress. Turn negative feelings and emotions into positive ones through proper nutrition and exercise.Regular exercise will release serotonin (contributes to wellbeing and happiness), endorphins (reduces pain), and dopamine (controls rewards and pleasures in the brain). Exercise also increases self-esteem and improves sleep patterns. Try to get at least thirty minutes of exercise every day.
Eating a well-balanced diet will keep your energy levels up, minimize mood swings, and keep you mentally and physically fit. Try sticking with foods rich in omega-3 fats such as fish, walnuts, and soybeans to keep your mood positive.
As a part of your daily exercise routine, make time for relaxation techniques found in stretching, yoga, and mediation to bring your life back into balance and reduce stress.
 If you cannot stop thinking about your trauma or it begins to overtake your life or your happiness, it is time to seek out a psychotherapist. Recovery takes time, but if you are still experiencing symptoms from your traumatic experience months or years later, then you need to find a trauma expert.If you are having difficulty functioning at home or work, suffering from severe anxiety or depression, experiencing flashbacks, avoiding friends and family, or using drugs or alcohol to cope with your problems, it is time to seek out professional help.
Choose a psychotherapist that you feel comfortable with and who has experience dealing with trauma. After all, dealing with trauma is a scary and painful experience that could be relived or re-traumatizing  at any time. Make sure you feel respected and understood by your therapist.
A professional therapist will concentrate on processing your feelings, discharging negative energy, teaching how to regulate strong emotions, and building trusting relationships as part of the recovery process.
 It’s easy to relive the past and think about all the things you wished you could have changed, but there is nothing you can do to change the past. Naturally, you will think about your traumatic experience, get angry with others, wonder what went wrong. Instead, think positively about what the future holds for you.
