 In a medium-sized bowl, mix together 1 cup of all purpose flour, 1 tablespoon of granulated sugar, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, and ¼ teaspoon of salt. Stir the ingredients together using a spoon, until they are well blended.You can also add ⅛ teaspoon of freshly ground nutmeg for added flavour.;
, In a separate bowl, whisk together 1 large egg, 1 ¼ cup of milk, ¼ cup of unsalted melted butter, and 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Use a large whisk to blend together all of the ingredients.In order to melt the butter, measure out the necessary amount and place it in a small bowl. Heat the butter for 15-20 seconds in the microwave, or until fully melted.
 Once the dry and wet ingredients have been blended in separate bowls, pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredient bowl. Stir the dry and wet ingredients together until you form a fairly thick batter.Avoid over mixing. The combined batter should be slightly lumpy.
 If you do not have all of the ingredients to make pancakes from scratch, you can also try making pancakes using a pancake mix purchased from the grocery store. Read the ingredients on the back of the package before purchasing because sometimes you will be required to add eggs, milk, water, and/or vegetable oil to the mix.Follow the directions provided on the box in order to blend and create the pancake batter.
The box will provide detailed instructions and even pictures to help guide you through the cooking process.
 Before you start cooking the pancakes, preheat the pan to a medium heat. You should also grease the pan slightly with either oil or a pat of butter. This will help to ensure that the pancakes do not stick to the pan and break while being flipped.
 Once the pan is heated and the butter has melted onto the pan, you can begin to pour the pancake batter. In order to create snowman pancakes, you should pour the batter in two or three different-sized circles. Depending on the size of your pan, you will likely only be able to cook one snowman at a time.Pour one large circle (4 inches or 10 cm wide) to act as the base, a medium circle (2 inches or 5 cm wide) to act as the body, and a small circle (1 inch or 2.5 cm wide) to act as the head.
Once you have finished cooking the pancakes, arrange them into the shape of a snowman on a separate plate.
 Alternatively, you can pour the batter directly into the shape of a snowman. To do this, pour one large circle about 4 inches (10 cm) wide and then a small circle about 2 ½ inches (6 cm) wide. Make sure that you pour these two circles close together so that as the batter runs they touch forming one pancake that is shaped like a snowman., Cook the pancakes until little bubbles begin to pop on the top of the batter. Before flipping, check to make sure that the side of the pancake touching the pan is a golden brown color. This will take approximately two to three minutes.
 Using a spatula flip, the pancake so that you can cook the other side. Once flipped, continue to cook the other side for approximately one minute, or until both sides of the pancake are golden brown., Once the pancakes on the pan have finished cooking, remove them from the heat and set aside. Continue to cook the remaining batter by creating different sized circles. Make sure to reapply butter between each round of pancakes., Once you have finished cooking all of the pancakes, it is time to start decorating. If you created different sized pancakes, you will begin by stacking the pancakes to look like a snowman. For example, place a large pancake on the bottom, followed by a medium sized pancake, and then a small pancake on the top.You can make snowman using either two or three pancakes.
 In order to make the pancakes look like snowmen, you will want to cover them with white icing sugar or whipped cream. This will change them from golden brown to white in color, giving them a snowy look.Sprinkle icing sugar all over the pancakes.
Or take a butter knife and spread whipped cream across each pancake.
 You can create a scarf using a thin strip of bacon. Simply cook the bacon before or after making the pancakes. Place the bacon around the neck of the snowman pancake for a delicious salty treat!, In order to create buttons on the snowman, you can place three to four chocolate chips running down the center of the snowman’s body. You can then use small blueberries or more chocolate chips to make the snowman’s eyes., There are so many fun ways to decorate a pancake snowman. Be creative and look around your kitchen for different items that can be used in the construction of a pancake snowman.


For example, use stick pretzels to create arms.
Use different colored sprinkles for the mouth and nose.
Make a hat using a strawberry that has been cut in half. Add a dollop of whipped cream to the top of the strawberry to look like a pom pom.
Place marshmallows or whipped cream along the base of the snowman to look like snow.

