 It’s not up to you whether your spouse is transgender or not. Your spouse has taken a big step in disclosing a big secret to you, and it’s highly unlikely they can or are willing to change their mind. Instead of arguing with them or telling your opinions, respect what they say and accept it as truth. Whether you agree with their actions or not does not mean your opinion will change anything. Listen intently to what they say and resist the urge to jump in or respond right away.Your spouse wants to be heard and understood, not argued with. Do your best to listen and accept what they say.
Ask for time to digest the information, if you need it.
Also, if you are feeling anger, make sure to express that your anger is not directed toward them but rather your emotion is about the situation you now find yourself in.
Say, “This is a lot to take in, but I respect what you’re saying, even though I’m struggling to understand.”;
, Some people express being transgender as cross-dressing and others want reassignment. Ask your spouse how they want to express themselves. Having more information about their needs and desires can help you understand what they want and how they want to express themselves.


Ask your spouse, “What do you want to do as a result of being transgender? How do you wish to express yourself? How will this affect me?”

, You might feel confused and have lots of questions. Ask your spouse about your questions or do some internet research. If you’re too shocked or surprised when your spouse initially comes out, spend a few days or weeks writing a list of questions you’d like answered. If you’re unfamiliar with terms such as transgender, spend some time educating yourself and better understanding what they mean.


For example, you may wonder, “Is my spouse gay?” Learn the difference between gender identity and sexual orientation by asking your spouse or learning more about these terms. Most people who are transgender do not identify as gay.Joining an online community or doing an internet search can help to answer your specific questions.
This may also be a good time to reach out to a counselor who specializes in gender identity issues. This person can be an objective resource to answer your questions and provide guidance.
 It’s unlikely you’ll have a clear understanding of what your spouse wants and how it will affect you when they first disclose. Make a point to talk about it further, even if it’s uncomfortable. You may need to evaluate your relationship, discuss what to tell the kids, and decide how to announce things to friends and family.


Talk about these decisions together, especially because they affect both of you.
Say, “Let’s keep discussing this. I know I’ll have more questions and I want to keep our communication open.” Make sure that you discuss how you will do this. Will you have a weekly meeting? Will you ask questions as they come up? Is it more constructive to communicate in person or electronically?

, You might feel surprised, angry, hurt, disappointed, shocked, or any number of emotions when your spouse comes out as transgender. Whatever you feel, it’s okay to express that emotion. Know that each emotion you experience is a necessary part of your healing. Sit with your own feelings. You might feel mixed about feeling hurt or angry yet wanting to support your spouse. Give yourself some time to sort through your emotions.Consider writing down your feelings and thoughts in a journal. You can also paint, draw, go on a walk, or listen to music as a way to work through your feelings.
 Practice radical acceptance by acknowledging that this is part of your reality. If you find yourself saying, “Why me?” or, “It shouldn’t be this way!” take a deep breath and recognize that this is your current reality. Feeling bad for yourself or living in denial tends to increase negative feelings, but it is normal to feel this way and you will need to acknowledge these feelings to move forward.Radical acceptance doesn’t mean you’re approving or in favor of something, it means that you can acknowledge it without pretending it doesn’t exist or that it doesn’t affect you. While the experience may be painful, it doesn’t mean you have to suffer.
Say to yourself, “This is difficult to understand, but I will not run from the situation. I know I can get through the difficulty of this.”

, Your mind might race to the future and what will happen to you, to the kids, and to your spouse. It’s easy to get overwhelmed by big news and how it might affect your life. If you’re feeling overwhelmed by thoughts of the future, stay present. Keep your thoughts here and now.One way to return to the present is by using your breath. Focus on your breathing by counting your inhales and exhales, remembering that your breath connects you to the present moment.
Try using mental grounding exercises as well. For example, you can do things like saying your name, where you are, and what you are doing. Or, try making a cup of tea and feeling the warm cup in your hands., If you’re feeling confused about your own feelings and you don’t know how to respond to your spouse, be willing to embrace the possibilities. You don’t need to decide right now whether to support your spouse or separate. When your spouse comes out, take that critical time and be open to what may or may not happen without shutting any possibilities out., If you're overwhelmed with feelings of worry and stress, stop and take a moment of gratitude. You might feel like your whole world has been turned upside down, and you can only focus on your spouse coming out as transgender. Take a moment and express some gratitude. Say what you are grateful for out loud to yourself or others, write it down, and read it back to yourself. As many ways as you can make your brain process your gratitude, the better. You can appreciate the things that you value or find meaningful, whether it be your kids, sunshine, the laundry being done, or takeout.Finds things to think positively about and be grateful for to keep some sense of positivity, even if things feel like they’re crashing down on you.
 Whether you talk to friends or family members, reach out to those closest to you. You may want to talk about your spouse coming out or your reactions to the news. Even if your friends cannot change or solve anything, it can be helpful to share your thoughts and feelings in a safe environment. Talk to someone who makes you feel understood.Because this is a sensitive topic, be careful about who you decide to confide in. Choose someone who will be supportive and understanding, not someone who will judge or lecture.
Have coffee with a friend or reach out to a work colleague.
Say, “This is a difficult time for me and my family, and I’d appreciate your support.”

, It can be difficult to feel supported during this time, as many people will turn their support to your spouse. You might feel uncomfortable talking to close friends or family about your experience, so consider joining a support group. A support group can help you recognize that you are not the only one going through this and that other people are having a similar experience as you. You can ask for advice and support, hear other people’s stories, and learn from people in various stages of their spouse coming out. Join a community support group or search for a group online. Whether people are near or far, it can be comforting to know other people who have ‘been there’ or are going through what you are going through.
 If you’re having a hard time adjusting to the news and need some support, a therapist can help you cope. Therapy is a safe place to express your thoughts and feelings without judgment. Your therapist can help you learn and practice coping skills. They can also help you know how to communicate more effectively with your spouse during this time.It’s important to take care of your needs and care for yourself. If you feel like you need to understand your feelings better, a therapist can help.
 If you’re unsure of how to move forward with your spouse, consider seeing a couples’ therapist. It might be easier for you to discuss the changes and the way you feel in therapy instead of at home. Your therapist can help each of you to communicate the way you feel and your wants and needs to each other. If one or both of you is avoidant of discussing changes, therapy can help create safety around talking about things that are uncomfortable.Whatever choices you make as a couple, therapy can help facilitate those changes and help each of you to cope.

