 If you are considering herbs and supplements to help with chronic pain, make sure that you talk to a physician first. Try to find a physician who is knowledgeable about herbs and supplements. Be sure to tell your doctor about any prescription medications that you are taking as well.


Herbs and supplements can interact with prescription medications by either decreasing their actions or increasing them. Naturopaths and integrative/holistic physicians are trained to balance medications and natural products.;
, Herbal medicines that may be used as pain relievers are called anodynes. Other herbal medicines that are anti-inflammatory or can be used to relax muscles may also be used to relieve pain. If you take herbs or supplements, talk to your naturopath or integrative physician first to make certain there are no potential interactions and to determine your dosage. Do not take anodynes except under the care of an experienced professional. Examples of anodynes include:Valerian root
Jamaican dogwood
California poppy
Henbane
Jimson weed
Gelsemium
Marijuana (where medical marijuana is legal)

, You may use anti-inflammatory herbs under the supervision of an experienced professional, but you can safely include anti-inflammatory culinary herbs and spices. Use anti-inflammatory culinary herbs and spices in quantities common in foods. Don’t overdo them-- just add these herbs and spices to flavor your foods. In general, that means ½ -2 teaspoons while cooking. These include:Cloves
Cinnamon
Turmeric
Sage
Allspice
Basil
Nutmeg
Garlic and Onions
Thyme
Cayenne
Cilantro
Ginger

, Other herbs are anti-inflammatory but can be taken as supplements or teas. If you choose to take a supplement, do so only if you are following manufacturer’s instructions and you have been advised to do so by your doctor. You may also take many of these herbs as teas by drinking 2-4 cups a day, but do so only under the advice of your doctor. These herbs include:Cat’s claw
Chamomile
Devil’s claw
Feverfew (often used for migraine pain)
Ginkgo biloba
Gotu kola
Ginseng
Calendula
Peppermint
Yarrow

, There are some other supplements that may help to relieve your chronic pain. These supplements should also be taken under the advice of a healthcare professional. Ask your doctor about the following supplements:


Omega-3 essential fatty acids
Resveratrol
Vitamins C and E
Products that combine anti-inflammatory herbs and supplements and are specifically designed to reduce inflammation.

