 Time and time again realtors stress that a fresh coat of paint is the easiest way to increase the value of your home. That said, a bright purple room may be off-putting to potential buyers. Go for neutral tones like beige or muted green with simple white baseboards to appeal to a wide range of buyers.If you are on a budget then paint the most commonly used rooms first, like the kitchen, living room, and main bathroom.
Avoid both bright colors like pink or yellow and dark shades like navy or chocolate brown, as these are polarizing choices for certain buyers.;
, Wallpaper is a big turn-off for potential buyers because it is a hassle to remove if they don’t like it. Stick to neutral paint colors to get the maximum value for your house.Some wallpaper, especially in small rooms, can be effective if chosen correctly. Stick to calm, simple patterns over big and bold images.
 A 2007 HomeGain survey found that lighting was the number one thing potential buyers used to separate good homes from great ones.You can add attractive lighting in a variety of ways:


Install mood-enhancing dimmer switches.
Put in a skylight or sun tubes (glass holes in the roof that allow in sunlight) to bring light in naturally.
Remove large and stuffy curtains.
Replace old light bulbs with energy-efficient LEDs for a clean, modern look without breaking the bank.
 A new oven, washing machine, or fridge tells a buyer that the home is up-to-date. Old appliances, however, can signal that your home is in need of costly repairs or improvements, lowering value. Buy one new appliance if you can’t afford multiple. Having one shiny, high-end appliance like a dishwasher gives the impression that all of your appliances are high end.


However, a new stainless steel oven will look odd if the rest of the appliances nearby in are worn, retro styles.If you are on a budget, look up new "faces" for your appliances. Often the front plate of an oven or dishwasher can be removed and replaced with a new one if you call your manufacturer and ask for a replacement., Old carpets, scratched wood floors, and dirty tiles can all cause your house’s value to plummet when it goes on the market. Rip up the old flooring and add tile, clean wood floors, or a new carpet. Spending $1,000 on a new floor increase your home value by $2,000.Start in "high-value" rooms like the kitchen or the living room if you want new floors. These are the first rooms many buyers notice.
Get tile for small, frequently dirty floors (bathroom/kitchen), hardwood for the living or dining spaces, and carpet or wood for bedrooms.Recent trends have shied away from carpets, as most consumers now prefer hardwood floors., Even the smallest, cheapest fixes can make your home sparkle and sell for more. Switch out the shower curtain for a clean glass shower door. The more question marks you eliminate for potential buyers the more likely you are to sell your house for the right price. Some quick fixes include:


New rug for the entryway.
New lighting fixtures.
New faucets and handles.
Clean and re-grout tiles in the kitchen and bathroom., Professional realtors know trends in your area and can work with your budget to get the best return on your investment. Bring them in to help value your house and suggest ways to improve it. Planning ahead will help you get the most money back when you finally put your house on the market.

