 Cut a 14 inch circle out of a piece of cardboard. Attach a paper towel roll on it’s end to the center of the base using hot glue. Press the end of the roll firmly into the base, while making sure that the paper towel roll is perfectly perpendicular to the base.Allow this to dry into a sturdy support system while you prepare the first layer of diapers.
 Start at the top, open edge of a disposable diaper and roll toward the bottom. Wrap a rubber band around the center of the roll to hold it in place. Repeat this process with six diapers.


Cloth diapers can also be used. First fold them into a square, then roll them and secure them with rubber band.
 Place the rolled diapers on end around the base of the paper towel roll. It should take about six diapers to surround the roll. Wrap curling ribbon around the six diapers. Cut off enough ribbon to easily tie a knot and secure the six diapers to the base of the paper towel roll.Tie a double knot in the curling ribbon for extra security.
Cut away any excess curling ribbon to keep the look clean.
You can choose to remove the rubber bands at this point, once the ribbon is in place.
These rubber bands will be covered by the next layer of the first tier. If you would like for the rubber bands not to be visible, it is only necessary to remove the rubber bands from the outside layer of each tier.
 Roll 11 diapers from top edge to bottom and secure them with rubber bands. Stack these on end on the cardboard base around the outside of the six diapers which are already in place. Tie curling ribbon around this layer, tie it securely in a knot and cut away the extra ribbon., Roll 17 diapers from top edge to bottom and secure them with rubber bands. Placing the edge of the roll on the cardboard base, wrap the second layer of the bottom tier with these diapers. Tie them in place with a curling ribbon.Remove the rubber bands from this layer to avoid having them visible in the finished product.
 Roll six diapers and wrap a rubber band around them to hold them in place. Using the first tier of diapers as a base, stand these six diapers on end around the paper towel roll. Secure them in place with curling ribbon. Repeat this process with 11 more diapers to create the outer layer of the second tier.If you choose to, you can remove the rubber bands from the outer layer after securing it with curling ribbon.
 Roll six diapers and secure them with rubber bands, then stack them on the second tier around the top of the paper towel roll. Secure these diapers to the paper towel roll with curling ribbon, and remove the rubber bands., Choose some decorative ribbon in your color scheme, theme or patters to adorn the diaper cake. Wrap each layer in colorful ribbon, Cut it to fit and secure the ends together with hot glue.You may choose to use two different ribbons on each layer. Choose one thicker and one thinner ribbon. Put the thicker ribbon in place first, then wrap the thinner ribbon around the center of the thicker one. This creates a layered look and can allow for more colors or patterns.
 You can top your cake with flowers, stuffed animals, or other useful objects like baby bottles, wash clothes, or a receiving blanket.


Flowers should match your color palette and can be placed in the hole of the top of the paper towel roll.
Blankets or wash clothes can be gathered in the center and pushed into the hole at the top of the paper towel roll to look like a flower or a burst from the top of the cake.
Folded blankets or laid out washcloths can be used like icing on the top or between each layer. A stuffed animal matching your them could be placed on top of the top layer.

