 Use a magnifying glass to examine the splinter. Check how deep it is under your skin. Run the splinter under warm water in the faucet and pat it dry with a clean cloth., This works best for a splinter that is sticking out of your skin. Tear off a small piece of scotch tape or duct tape and place it on the affected area. Pull the tape off in the opposite direction of the splinter. If the splinter appears to be tilted to the right, for example, you would pull the tape off towards the left.
Make sure the area around the splinter is dry and that the tape is clean. Tape that is old and covered with debris could cause an infection.
 Apply craft glue on the splinter and the skin surrounding the splinter. Let the glue dry and harden. Once the glue is dry, peel it slowly off the skin. The splinter should stick to the glue and come out without any painful digging.

Make sure you use a very mild, non-toxic glue, like one used in classrooms, rather than super glue or wood glue. These glues can cause even more damage to your skin when you try to pull the splinter out.
 Mix baking soda with water to make a paste. Start with about 1 tablespoon of baking soda and 1/4 cup of water, or enough water to form a paste. Apply the paste to the affected area of the splinter and cover it with a band-aid. Let the band-aid and tape sit for about 24 hours. Peel off the band-aid and look for the splinter, removing it with a pair of tweezers.


The baking soda paste can make it easier for you to spot the splinter. It can also make the splinter easier to remove.
 Ichthammol ointment can be found at your local drugstore or pharmacy. It works much like the baking soda. Apply the ointment to affected area of the splinter. Let it sit for around 24 hours, covering it with a band-aid. Remove the band-aid. The splinter should then naturally come out.


When you use the ichthammol ointment, you will not need to pull the splinter out with tweezers. The ointment should encourage the splinter to come to the surface on its own.
You can also use hydrogen peroxide instead of the ichthammol ointment.
 Put epsom salt on the bandage section of a band-aid and wrap it over the splinter. The salt should slowly encourage the splinter to come out of your skin. Repeat this process every day until the splinter falls out.