 Even from the womb, babies can recognize music, and studies have shown that it has a large impact on a fetus’s mood. Start your child off on the right foot by singing or playing music for them before they are born.


Forget the myth about putting headphones on a pregnant belly—amniotic fluid is a good conductor of sound and can spread music to the baby just by playing a stereo at a normal level.
After children are born, expose them to a variety of music by singing, playing, and dancing to music. The earlier babies and young children hear music, the larger role it will play in their lives.;
, Take advantage of the impact music can have on a young baby’s mood. Lullabies are great for calming down a fussy baby, and upbeat songs can make a cranky baby happier.


Repeating the same songs to your baby over and over will help them associate those songs with the safety of their parents and will make them feel safe and happy.
 Give your baby toys that make noise, such as rattles and shakers. Using those toys as baby’s first instrument will help to instill a love of music in them early on.


Alternatively, give your child a wooden spoon and selection of pans and lids and let him play. Give him pans of different thicknesses and different materials to produce different sounds.
Also encourage your baby to make cooing noises or to "sing". You can do this by repeating an easy sound over and over again while encouraging your baby to copy you.
 Just like anything else, kids are much more likely to want to study and develop their talents in an area if they find it fun and entertaining. When children are small, introduce musical games.


An easy way to do this is to play a song and tap on their legs or arms to the beat. This helps babies recognize the cadence of the music. You can also take a baby’s hand and wave it in the air like they are conducting music during a song.
Another simple way to make music fun is to make a favorite stuffed animal sing or dance to the music. Point out music and sounds all around you, like the background music at the store or the beat the water makes as it drips from the faucet.
 Although kids are interested in baby and toddler music for a reason, exposing children to a large variety of music, from Pearl Jam to Beethoven, can have a large impact on their music appreciation.


A variety of music not only allows children to find the perfect match to their personality, it shows them the variety of styles and musical instruments available.
A child may not be interested in the piano and may have a large interest in the drums, but he wouldn’t know that if parents hadn’t exposed him to drum-heavy songs.
 As children get older, play games like “name that tune” or “finish the song”. These are simple games where a parent hums part of a song and the child guesses what song it is. In “finish the song”, you start singing a song and then pass it to your child to finish the second half of the song.


Action songs and dancing are also fun ways to get children involved as they experience music throughout their entire body. Simple action songs include “The Itsy Bitsy Spider”, “Wheels on the Bus”, and “London Bridge is Falling Down”.
These songs are particularly effective for wiggly children because it gives them a positive association with music.
 Developing a true love of music comes from more than just listening to music. To truly develop a musical appreciation in your children, show them music in a variety of forms, such as books about music or instruments, musical movies, concerts, and musical games.


Visit the local library to find suggestions of age-appropriate musicals and books that are available for checkout. Local newspapers should also have listings of community events, such as concerts and plays.
Together, these tools can be used to create a strong sensory environment that will make music a major part of their childhood.
 Introducing children to your favorite band or musical genre will also help them get interested in music, as they will feel your excitement and passion.


Set a good example by telling your child why you like a particular band or by taking a moment to explain the lyrics of your favorite song. This will help them to appreciate music on a deeper level.
It isn't until a child is around eight years old that they pick a favorite genre to listen to constantly, so expose them to plenty of different genres early on in order to expand their horizons.
 Learning combined with movement is more likely to be retained, so songs and music paired with dancing can create fun memories that will stick with your child.


It doesn't matter if you're not a great dancer yourself, the point is just to let loose and have fun and create happy musical memories with your child.
Give your children the freedom to be creative with music and movement and let them explore the many styles of music, from hip-hop to salsa, swing to rock 'n' roll.
 Once your child is old enough to truly appreciate music, get them involved in musical groups.


Younger children can start in age-appropriate music, such as Kindermusik or Gymboree, and dance classes, and older children can begin to learn an instrument on their own or in lessons.
Allowing your child to have a say in what area of music they would like to pursue will help them feel engaged and will increase the quality of their love and learning.
From private lessons to youth bands and dance classes, any class or organized group that involves music will be beneficial for your child.
 Encourage your children to give performances at home with what they learn in their music classes. Reward them for practicing with kind words or prizes and make the home a positive environment and extension of what they learn in class.


Listen carefully to your child when he is playing his instrument or singing. In this way, his self-esteem will be stronger and he will try harder. Find ways to improve his playing, but do not be overly critical or look for perfection.
Let the child compose his own music. If your child plays an instrument, encourage him to compose his own music, then praise his efforts.

