 Birds circling or making noise are often visiting a waterhole, or at least damp ground where you could dig for water. Flying insects are another promising sign, as are animal tracks heading downhill.Bees in particular often fly directly between water sources and the hive.
 In general, the greener the plant, and the wider its leaves, the more it needs a permanent water source. Digging near a promising tree or dense vegetation can sometimes lead to water.


When digging, choose a low spot where water would naturally drain. Dig about 30 cm (1 ft) deep. If you notice damp soil, make the hole wider and wait a few hours for water to seep in.
 These are dry most of the year, but water may linger underground. The best option is a canyon with the mouth facing away from the sun (north in the Northern Hemisphere, or south in the Southern). Walk upstream and dig at the base of the wall, or anywhere that feels damp.


In dry riverbeds, the force of the water may have eroded the outside bend of a river during a tight turn. The last flow of water may get trapped in an eroded depression here, so this is a good place to dig., These are sometimes difficult to identify without experience, but they're worth a try if you don't see anything else. The most promising features are slopes of hard, impenetrable rock, disappearing under the sand or soil., Water and wind can wear holes into stone, which then fill with water after a rain. Isolated rock outcrops and level surfaces are the best places to look for these.


In shady canyons or valleys, these pockets can stay full for days after a rainstorm, sometimes for weeks in a cool, sheltered area.
 Whenever possible, pour the water through a microfilter, or drop in purification tablets (such as iodine). That said, in an emergency, go ahead and drink it. Dehydration is more dangerous than waterborne disease, especially in a desert.


Boiling water is even more effective, if you have access to a fire. All pathogens should be killed by the time the water reaches a boil, so no significant amount of water will be lost to steam.