 This will reduce the swelling and inflammation.


Wrap a piece of ice in a thin cloth and hold it against the pimple until it starts to looks smaller, less red, and is less sore.
For best results, first wash with warm water to open the pore and remove any dirt, oils, dead skin cells, or bacteria. Then apply the ice to close the pore.
 Tea tree oil has antiseptic properties.Make a solution of one drop tea tree oil to 19 drops water. Use a sterile cotton ball to wipe it over the pimple. Wash it off after 15–20 minutes.
If you have sensitive skin, do not use tea tree oil because it may cause irritation. Side effects include contact dermatitis and rosacea., This will kill bacteria and help dry out your skin.


Apply a 1:3 dilution of lemon juice, lime juice, or apple cider vinegar to the pimple using a sterile cotton ball. If the pimple is open, it may sting a little.These substances are similar to the alpha hydroxyl acid that is in some acne medications and they can help unclog pores., Garlic has antiseptic properties which act against bacteria and it contains sulfur which will aid healing.


Cut a garlic clove in half or mash it to create a paste. Rub it on the pimples and allow it to work for about five minutes. Then wash it off with warm water., They will remove excess oil from your skin and help exfoliate.Make a paste of three parts baking soda to one part water. Dab it onto the pimple and let it dry. Once it dries, wash it off.
Dab a drop of toothpaste onto the pimple and let it dry. After it is dry, wash it off.
Raw egg whites may have similar effects, helping to draw out oils, unclog pores, and reduce inflammation. Apply raw egg whites to the problem areas and allow it to dry before washing it off. The proteins and vitamins will also be nourishing for your skin., Cucumber is rich in potassium and vitamins A, C, and E and will help heal your skin.


Grind up a cucumber into a wet paste. Apply it as mask and let it dry for 15 minutes. This will give the nutrients time to soak into your skin.
Wash it off with warm water.
This can also be done with fresh papaya, which is another excellent source of vitamins.

