 Push any rubbish or undesirable material toward the pile, and move other material, brush, and obstacles away from the pile to be dealt with later.;
,  You have three common choices for fence material, along with several more exotic ones, depending on your budget and needs. Here are examples:


Chain link fencing. This is a durable material that will prevent rubbish from scattering, and is effective at keep larger animals like dogs, bears, coyotes, and others out of the pile. There are also vinyl strips that can be woven into the fabric to limit the view.
Wood privacy type fencing. This is not quite as durable as chain link, and generally is more expensive and requires more labor, but it does create an attractive fence and will keep most animals out of the rubbish.
Welded wire fabric fencing. This material is made with wires, welded together in a grid, for example, 2inch by 4inch, then galvanized. It is inexpensive but not very durable, and is less effective at keeping animals out, especially smaller rodents.
Panel fencing, Rohn type fence, and even corrugated metal roof panels can also be used, each having their own advantages and disadvantages.
 Use the distance around the rubbish pile allowing for a buffer (clear area immediately inside the fence) to estimate the number of posts and the amount of fencing you will need. Since the fence run may not be straight from corner to corner ( it is very likely you may choose to circle the pile, depending on its shape), it may be difficult to get an exact length for the finished fence.
 Use a stout post here, since you may be stretching/pulling chainlink/wire mesh from it, and it will also have a gate hanging from it.  Dig your post hole to a suitable depth (30 inches is common, depending on how firm your ground is), set the post in the hole, and fill in around it, packing the dirt as you do so.
  This distance may be shorter if the pile is small and you follow the circumference of it, so adjust as needed.
 About three or four posts from your gate, you will want to measure the distance so you have fairly equal spacing and the final post hits where it should for the gate to fit. Finish installing and packing your posts, and you will be ready to install the fencing material.
 Lift sections of wire up to each post, pulling it tight and attaching it as you go, until you reach the opposite gate post. Since we haven't specified what type post you are using, you will either be nailing the wire with fence staples or tying it with wires, but either way, make sure it is securely fastened.
 Now, nail fence boards to these, standing upright, and continuing around the rubbish pile.
  Privacy fence will not require anything, but chainlink or wire fabric may require you add material, either vinyl slats or a plastic mesh fabric made for this purpose to hide the rubbish pile.
