 It's fun to surprise yourself, but it's easy to write yourself into a corner without some kind of plan. Check out the different genres out there and choose the one that interest you.;
, It can sometimes be difficult to get ideas. But really, ideas are everywhere- even in our dreams. Look around, but also look inside yourself, for inspiration. Read other well written books, and even a funny happening in life could give you an idea. Listen to music, watch a movie, or play a video game. The best way for ideas to come to you is to relax your mind and let brains come naturally to you.
 Past, present, or future? Will you be telling it, or the person in the book. (For example, you: Katie opened the large metal door, hoping to find her dreams. For example: The character: I opened the large metal door hoping to find my dreams.) Learn about the different point of views out there such as first, second, and third. Learning them and understanding them will help when you sit down to write.
 Broadening your reality will improve your ability to share an alternate reality- your story!

, Every book has to have some big words in it. Read books, newspapers and do well in English at school. It is a good idea to keep a dictionary and a thesaurus near you when you are writing. They come in handy when you want to simplify or elevate your vocabulary.
 When you know what your story is about think carefully about your main characters. Get to know them. Not just their age and clothes and hairstyle but every aspect of their personality. The more real they are to you, the easier it will be to predict their actions in the circumstances you put them in. They might even surprise you! Try to find pictures on the internet similar to what your character will look like.Or even draw him/her/it out. Use a sim program to create a more sturdy picture of human characters. Go over every detail about your character like their race, likes/ dislikes, family, personality, and much more.
 We all like happy things to happen but sometimes stories are less interesting if it's happy all the time. Tragedy is how characters grow- think about how you've handled things when you had problems, and how you could have handled them better. Give your characters a chance to grow, too.
 Leave your story for a couple of days to see if you can get new ideas, but if you don't get any, don't give up! Look to your plan, and ask yourself what the characters need to do to go from where they are to where they need to be. Ideas will come!

, For virtually every published author, there are hundreds of rejection notices that they have accrued over the years of writing. Don't give up! Keep writing, and eventually, you'll find a publisher willing to publish your story. Or you can start a website, and share your work with others that way. Having people you don't know enjoying your stories can be a great feeling! You might even meet other aspiring authors. In any case, keep your old stories for more ideas and to show you how much you've grown!

