 Use your leisure time as a period of reflection. Look back on the goals you have set, decide if you are advancing as you’d like, and determine if you need to revise or develop new goals.For instance, if you set a goal last month to “Save $250,” you might check your savings to see how well you are advancing towards this goal. If you are progressing as expected, move on to the next goal. However, if you have fallen behind, you may choose to lower the goal (to say, “$150”) or figure out a strategy to help you stay on track like getting a side job.;
, Free time outside of work, school, or family responsibilities can be spent productively when you use those chunks of time to learn new things. New skills can help you get ahead at work, or simply challenge you creatively.


Make a list of a few new skills you’d like to obtain. These may include tasks like learning a new language, enhancing your understanding of computers, or learning to ride a horse.
For a balanced life, choose some skills that relate to your personal or professional development, and some hobbies that you want to pick up purely out of curiosity.
 Your to-do list may be bogged down with extremely overwhelming tasks that you keep pushing to the next day or next week. Such tasks cause frustration and rarely get done until the last minute. Ensure that you actually complete the outstanding tasks on your to-do list by de-cluttering it.Write down your most important to-dos for the following week on a sheet of paper. Then, decide if this task requires one or several steps. Rather than writing “complete History essay,” individual action steps like “find resources for history paper,” “create outline,” and “write first draft.”
One-step to-do lists are much more likely to have check marks at the end of the day.
 If you’re in need of extra cash, you can spend your leisure time from work or school doing a side job or finding creative ways to make money. Get a second job that you can do on evenings or weekends. Monetize your passion for jewelry making by setting up an Etsy shop. Sell those old books or clothes in your attic.