


a.If you do not have a square sheet of paper, take a sheet of computer paper placed so it shorter side is facing towards you.
b.fold the top edge to the left edge resulting in a folded area that looks like a right triangle and a rectangular area at the bottom.
c. Cut out the rectangular area at the bottom so you are left with only the double layered right triangle.
d. Unfold the triangular piece – this is your square shaped piece of paper.;
,, Then unfold.
 Then unfold.
 Fold each of the corners to the center. The resulting piece of paper will look like 2 squares of paper on top of each other with the top consisting of 4 triangular shaped pieces and the bottom consisting of one square piece.
 This should result in a rectangular shape.
 This should transform your rectangular shaped piece of paper into a square.
, Then unfold.
 Then unfold.
 Take one of these and pull it out to the side. It will form a flap on the side of the first two layers of paper. It will look like the fold you just made and the fold between the corner of the square and the center make a triangle.
 The resulting mass should look like a square with triangles on top and bellow it. Alternatively, it looks like two trapezoids next to each other.
 The folded mass should look like a six sided figure with the two long sides of the square on the left and right and the four sides of the triangles on the top and bottom.
 This will fold both the square and part of the triangles.
 At this point the left and right sides should be much longer then they were before.
, By doing this, you will make the section of the paper that was these triangles into a trapezoid shape.
 By doing this, you will pull a large triangular area of paper out from inside the folds of the paper. The resulting shape of the paper looks like the structure you started with along with two large triangles at its left and right side.
 The paper should look like two identical five sided shapes.
 Take the three corners that do not face the center of the paper in each of the five sided shape and fold them to the center of the five sided shape. This center should be easy to spot as not only are there lines intersecting to the center but also there are creases where you are going to fold. The resulting shape should look like two squares side by side.
 For the right square take the rightmost side and fold it into the center.
 The resulting shape should look like a small trapezoid and rectangle in the center of the paper.
 This will give the paper its three dimensional shape and result in your paper ship.

