 This is the app that leads you to the virtual store where you can search for apps to buy and install.;
, Use the search box and type in “Twitterrific.” View the results and find the app with the exact name. Tap on it.
 Tap on Buy to purchase the app and install it on your iOS mobile device.
 Locate the app on your mobile device and tap on its icon to open it.
 Upon launching, you will be welcomed with an Accounts sub-window.


Tap on Add Account. Twitterrific will ask for your permission to access your Twitter account.
Sign in with Twitter to authorize this link.
 Repeat step 2 in adding an account, as needed, for all your Twitter accounts.
 Tap the Home icon at the top menu to view the timeline of tweets.
 Scroll through the tweets by swiping up or down. You can read them in sequence, with the latest one on the top.
 Go to the top of the timeline and swipe down to refresh the contents and retrieve the latest tweets.
 Swipe left on a tweet to view the replies.
 Swipe right on a tweet to send a reply.
 Tap the hyperlink in a tweet to load the web page or the photo embedded on that link.


If it’s a site, you can browse and navigate through it as if you’re using a standard web browser.
 Tap on a user’s Twitter handle to view details of the account.


The name, address, number of tweets, number of followers, number of people he or she is following, and his or her latest tweets are some details you can see. You can follow the user from this screen or send him or her a tweet.
 Tap the Mentions icon at the top menu to view the tweets that have tagged you.
 Scroll through the tweets by swiping up or down.
 Swipe left on a tweet to view the replies.
 Swipe right on a tweet to send a reply.
 Tap the Messages icon at the top menu to view your direct or private messages.
 Scroll through the messages by swiping up or down. You can also reply from here.
 Tap the quill pen icon at the upper right of the app.
 Use the text box to input your message.
 If you want to include a photo with your tweet, tap the camera icon.


You can either take a new photo or choose from your media library.
Skip this step if you don’t want a photo in your tweet.
 Tap on Tweet when you’re ready to post your tweet for everyone to see.