 If you have a particularly stunning or stage-stealing piece that goes with your dress, use it! The key is pick one bold statement piece as the focal point of the outfit, and smaller, less conspicuous pieces as the supporting accoutrement.


Think of earrings as an almost-mandatory element of your strapless look, as bare lobes can look out of place when hovering above bare shoulders. Even if you are donning a statement necklace, pop on some small stud earrings that will complete the look but won’t compete with it.
If you want to showcase your neck and collarbone by leaving them unadorned, opt for a pair of sparkly or dangling (or both!) earrings.
Never wear a statement necklace and statement earrings. Choose one!If you wear earrings and a necklace together, make sure that they complement each other and that at least one of them is understated.,


Flaunting a bare neck and collarbone with your strapless dress means that you can play up a different statement accessory. An eye-catching belt or shawl can make for just as effective a statement piece as jewelry.
Going understated on jewelry can also allow you more liberty with your makeup. Feel free to add a pop of drama with smoky eyes or scarlet lips.
 Your shoes are an accessory as well as a necessity. If your strapless dress is simple and you have a pair of show-stopping heels you’ve been dying to trot out, here’s your excuse!


Designer pumps always make great statement pieces, especially if they add a pop of color to your ensemble like the signature red soles of Louboutins.Can’t afford designer heels? No problem! Trendy glitter-encrusted pumps and booties are instant scene-stealers, and they can be found at a range of online and brick-and-mortar retailers.If your beachfront wedding makes heels a problem, you needn’t rule out the possibility of popping on a statement shoe. Find a pair of strappy, lace-up gladiators and prance away!, If you don’t consider makeup an “accessory,” think again! The right makeup will elevate whatever look you’re going for, be it sweet and simple or posh and sophisticated. Just be sure not to overdo it and risk looking clownish or garish.


If you want to play up your eyes, select a dark eyeliner, shadow, and mascara. Pair the dark eye with a nude or neutral lip.For daytime or more casual gatherings, polish off your easygoing ensemble with some light mascara, pink blush, and dewy lips.