 Obviously, if you want to look like a J.Crew model, it would be very helpful if you actually shopped at J.Crew. However the store can be quite expensive, and so if you don't think you can afford a whole new wardrobe from there, then try picking up a J.Crew catalogue from your local store or online, and attempt to find cheaper pieces from other brands that closely resemble what you might see in the catalogues. Some staple clothing items to have around should include:


Light sweaters or cardigans, slouchy tee shirts with subtle detailing in pastel or happy colors or artsy designs, elegant dresses for nice occasions, a beach dress, oxfords, frilly camis, V-neck tees, a pair of leather flip-flops, chino shorts in khaki as well as a bright color, brightly colored flats, a pair of heels that go with anything
A coat in a bright color.;
, Try wearing happy colors all the time and never wear black. J.Crew models also like to wear a single piece of bright clothing against several more subtle ones. (For example, a bright yellow clutch purse with pastels.) Also, before you attempt to buy anything from J.Crew, you must understand that the store is designed for women (and men) of many different ages. Therefore, some of the pieces in the store may be intended for an older women, and no model wants to look older than they're supposed to.
 J.Crew models are clean-faced and classy. They do not under any circumstances wear bright eyeshadow, dark eyeliner, caked foundation, or false eyelashes. Anything that looks fake or unnatural is completely un-preppy. Try wearing minimal makeup. Use concealer sparingly to even skin, a light pink blush for that "innocent" appearance, and mascara. (Double check to make sure that the mascara is not clumpy at all, and that the concealer is not noticeable whatsoever.) It is also OK to wear eyeliner if you really need it, but take care to make sure the line is thin and very close to your upper eyelashes only. You want people to notice your eyes, not the eyeliner itself.
 Crew look unless you ACT like J. Crew material. Always walk tall, walk slowly, with purpose and with your head up. Sit with your shoulders back and legs together. Do J. Crew models look like they've been rushing around or would be caught sitting with slouched shoulders or showing their underwear? Also, ditch the "ghetto slang" and speak like you were raised by the Queen - with good grammar, pronunciation and like you have something important to say. Be warm and kind to others, never bossy or demanding. Above all, keep your cool in all situations. A J. Crew model would never cry and stomp around or have a fit. Acting classy is the most essential element in pulling off the J. Crew look.
 Crew models, of late, are looking more like college students who are in the midst of finals, who haven't bathed, and whose hygiene is questionable. Their hair is contrived to look "messy" and their poses are surly. Shirt-tails are not tucked in, they stand pigeon-toed to affect innocence, boots that have laces are untied....the list goes on and on. In essence, J. Crew models appear as if they are trying too hard to be *cool* without being *cool.* Male models in J. Crew have been sporting five o'clock shadows, now, for some 8 or more years - sort of like the Farrah Fawcett hairdo that simply won't go away. When, oh when, are they going to feature clean-shaven men? The tired Don Johnson phase of no socks and unshaven faces has run its course.
 Crew catalog from about 8-9 years ago, and there you will find a distinct classiness that has since disappeared.

