 Remember that Romanian is a phonetic language. It can be easy to learn if you know other Latin-based languages (like Spanish, Italian or French).



Consonants


b (be) like "b" in "book"

c (ce) like "ch" in "charm"

d (de) like "d" in "dog"

f (fee/ef) like "f" in "feel"

g (ghe/gee) like "g" in "gymnasium", when followed by "e" or "i"; otherwise like "g" in "game"

h (ha/haş) like 'h' in "home" (never silent in Romanian)

j (je) like "g" in aubergine or "s" in measure. For French speakers, it sounds like "je".

k (ka) like "c" in "car"

l (le/el) like "l" in "love"

m (me/em) like "m" in "motor"

n (ne/en) like "n" in "night"

p (pe) like "p" in "spite"

q (ku) like "k" in "sky" (rarely used in Romanian)

r (re/er) like "r" in "prance" (similar to the Italian r)

s (se/es) like "s" in "snake"

ş like "sh" in "lush"

ţ similar to "tz" in "tzatziki" and "ts" in "bits"

t (te) like "t" in "stale"

v (u) like "v" in "very"

w (dublu ve) like "v" in "very" or "w" in loanwords from other languages.

x (ix) like "x" in "fox" or "ics" in "ticks". Mostly used in loanwords from other languages.

y (i grec) like "i" in "tip". Only used in loanwords from other languages.

z (zet) like "z" in "fizz"



Vowels


a (a) like "a" in "father"

e (e) like "a" in "hay" or "e" in "edit"

i (i) like "ee" in "beet", when in the middle of the word. When used at the end of a word, it is barely sounded. For example: The word "Bucuresti" is pronounced boo-koo-resht with a very short and slight "i".

o (o) like "o" in "glow"

u (u) like "oo" in "zoom"

ă (uh) like "a" in about or the sound "the" makes.

â, î (no English equivalent) Both make the same sound in Romanian. î is used at the beginning and at the end of words. â is used in all other cases. The closest American English sound is "oo" in "book", but it's a bit shifted toward a soft "i", as in "it". Similar to French 'u' in word 'rue'.

;
, Depending on your experience with learning new languages, it could be easy or hard for you to speak Romanian.


Learn a set number of Romanian words per week.
Use the English-Romanian dictionary to write down words and their pronunciations in a notebook.
Keep the notebook handy and practice the language on the go.

Record yourself correctly saying important Romanian words or phrases on your iPod and play them back while you're relaxing.
 Your interaction with these objects will familiarize you with the words and their meanings.
 Conversing in a language is the best form of practice. It will enable you to pick up new ways of learning and also gestures that are commonly used while speaking in Romania.


Meet with this person in a safe and public place.
Exchange tips and speak about your daily learning progress and experiences.
Resist speaking in English for a certain amount of time.
Share your methods of learning Romanian with your friend. This will help you highlight your strong points and weak links.

