 Now that you’re prepared to make a fake faint look real, you can now make it happen. Once you’re where you want your fake fainting spell to happen, make sure the conditions are right for it to occur the way you want it to.


Are enough or the right people present? Is the event you’re trying to avoid still happening? Is the hallway too crowded?
Once you know things seem right, move to the general area where you want your fake fainting spell to occur. A real fainting spell happens fairly quickly from the onset of symptoms.
Make sure there aren’t dangerous objects nearby that could cause serious injury if you happen to hit them when falling. And make sure you won’t hit anyone.
 When you’re ready, begin exhibiting symptoms of fainting. This should only occur for a few minutes in total. If you plan to use not as your excuse not eating breakfast, mention that you’re very hungry. If the room is crowded or stuffy, you could start complaining about feeling hot. If you’re walking, start slowing down, hold your head a little, and say you feel dizzy. You can blink or squint your eyes. Complain of nausea. Pretend to suddenly lose energy, and say you feel weak. Keep up this last symptom for 1-2 minutes.
 While exhibiting your symptoms, and without drawing attention to your movements, move into the spot where it seems safest to fall. If you plan on fainting while sitting, pretend you’re too weak to stand and take a seat. You can say that you feel kind of weird and that you think you need a glass of water or some fresh air.


Maybe ask someone to open a window. If you are windowless or have no water around, just say you think you need to sit down, or go out for fresh air. Sit for a bit and get up slowly. Then stumble a bit and fall forward. Before you do that say something such as "I just...." Make sure you don't finish your sentence, unless it's short.
 Make sure you fall safely. You don't want to hit your head and hurt yourself. If you are standing, buckle your knees and let them hit the ground before you attempt to drop your torso. Make sure you go fast enough without making it look as if a 5000 volt surge of lightning has rushed though you, or it will seem fake.


If you are sitting, relax and imagine you actually are fainting. Let yourself fall off the chair, as it is unlikely you would stay on there if you actually did faint.
Try to land on the back side of your thigh, not your hip or tailbone. Then quickly drop your torso. Just close your eyes and let all your muscles completely weaken; just relax.
Act as if you have no bones and fall to the floor in a crumpled heap. This will seem real.
 Lie on the ground. Make sure you aren't stiff, and if someone attempts to lift an arm and shake it, let it completely relax and when they drop it, just let it fall. This is a common 'fake spotter' test. Unconscious people don't have control over their limbs. Someone should come over to see if you are okay, causing a diversion for whatever occasion.


Don't stay down there too long, or someone might call the Emergency Services. Unless you want that to happen, make sure you don't stay out for more than 20 seconds.
 People who have fainted will often awaken having not remembered that they fainted. Say all you can remember is feeling hot and that it looked as though someone dimmed the lights in the room.
 After a moment, you can attempt to stand and sort of waver a bit again, so people think you might faint again and will all rush to your aid. At this moment, if people are asking you questions, you can begin to explain your fake faint away as harmless.
 Rest for about ten minutes or so to pretend to recover from your fake fainting spell. When you’re ready, excuse yourself to either go home to rest or to set an appointment to visit your doctor. Someone may offer to take you somewhere, you can either accept their generosity or explain that you can get safely to your destination on your own.

