 Keeping your body clean is a necessary part of being attractive. Walking around with dirt on your arms and greasy hair may project an image other than the hotness you are going for. In general, try to take a shower once a day, and wash yourself with a body soap that is specifically tailored for your skin type.


If you have dry or sensitive skin, use warm water rather than hot water, as hot water can irritate your skin and cause it to become even more dry.
 While it is important to wash your body regularly, you should try to limit yourself to washing your hair every other day at the most. While it is important to wash your hair frequently to prevent your hair and skin from becoming greasy, unless you have extremely oily hair, it is probably unnecessary to wash your hair every day. When you wash your hair everyday, your hair can become dried out and will feel brittle to the touch.


Use a shampoo and conditioner that are suited to your type of hair. In general, try to use a grape-sized dollop of conditioner when you wash your hair.
Some people find that rinsing their hair with cool water can help to make their hair shinier and softer.
 Keep your eyebrows looking tidy by removing any stray hairs. Having perfectly shaped brows can do wonders for your face by framing your eyes, therefore making them the center of attention, even without makeup. Well manicured eyebrows can be very striking and add definition to your features. Pluck from the bottom of the brow, close to its root, rather than trying to pull it out from the top of the hair.


If you're nervous about plucking and aren't sure which eyebrow shape would best suit your face, go to a beautician to have them plucked or waxed for the first time. Ask your beautician about maintaining your eyebrow shape at home and invest in a good pair of tweezers.
 While taking showers regularly will definitely help you to smell good, it is still important to try to vanquish body odors such as those that might develop under your armpits. Invest in a quality deodorant and consider purchasing some perfume that you can carry around with you to help your smell stay fresh and lovely.
 A white, healthy smile can work wonders for your overall appearance, so make sure you give your teeth the care and attention they deserve. Brush your teeth least twice a day, for a minimum of two minutes, using gentle circular motions. Focus on each tooth individually and don't neglect the hard to reach teeth at the back.


Try to floss daily once you have brushed your teeth. Flossing removes built-up bacteria, food particles and plaque from between the teeth, thus preventing cavities from forming.
You should also try to brush your tongue every time you brush your tooth. Once you have brushed and flossed, rinse your mouth out with mouthwash to remove any lingering bacteria and to help your breath smell great.

