 Make sure you completely understand what you are trying to find.  Wordy math problems can sometimes be confusing, so re-read carefully to make sure you were solving the right problem. Also double-check that you understood what the information in the problem meant.For example: “Fred picks 8 apples on Sunday, and 6 apples on Monday. George picks 2 more apples than Fred each day. Charlie picks 5 less apples than George on Sunday, and 1 more apple on Friday. How many apples does George pick?” Here, make sure to solve for the amount of apples George picks, not the amount Charlie picks or the amount all of them pick together. Also, make sure you understand all of the details of the problem. For example, each day, George picks 2 more than Fred’s daily total. He doesn’t pick 2 more than Fred’s 2-day total.
 Word problems are full of keywords that help you translate the words into math. Highlight these keywords in the problem. Also highlight the numbers. Then, go back to your calculations and double check that the operations and numbers in your calculations match what is presented in the problem.

Some common keywords include “combined” (addition), “decreased” (subtraction), “of” (multiplication), and “per” (division).For example: “Carlos has 15 books per book shelf. He has 120 books. How many shelves does he have?” The key word “per” should tell you this is a division problem. If you go back to your work and see that you calculated 15×120{\displaystyle 15\times 120}, you know that you did the wrong calculation.
 Think about the information in the problem and the solution you are trying to find. Decide whether your answer should be bigger than the numbers represented in the problem, or smaller. Think about whether your answer should be a whole number. If your solution has a remainder or a decimal, make sure that it makes sense in the context of the story problem.

For example: “Mr. Ripley needs to book buses for the fourth grade field trip. Each bus fits 52 people. He has 30 students. The two other fourth grade teachers have 28 students and 26 students, respectively. There will also be 3 adults chaperoning each class, plus the 3 teachers. How many buses does Mr. Ripley need to book for the field trip?” If you add up all of the people going on the field trip (96), and divide by the number of people that fit on one bus (52), you get 1.846. But Mr. Ripley can’t book eight-tenths of a bus. So, if you put down 1.846 as your answer to this problem, you know it is not a reasonable answer. You need to round up your answer to 2.


