 You probably use makeup to add flattering contours to your cheekbones and chin, but you may not know that you can also use makeup to contour your cleavage. This inexpensive, albeit temporary, method for achieving a larger look is quite easy to do with a little practice.Get fully dressed with the bra and top you want to wear. Since this solution involves a trick of the eye, your cleavage and chest area should be visible - wear something low cut.
If you're concerned about getting makeup on your shirt, you can protect it with some toilet paper or tape. That said, you probably don't want to use this method while wearing white.
Create a cleavage shadow with dark bronzer by applying it between your breasts. Load the brush and sweep it upward from the center of your chest and up and out, creating a v-shape between your breasts.
Apply a lighter colored face powder to the top half of your breasts. Use a makeup sponge to blend the edges with the bronzer for an even finish.
 Bra technology has evolved to the point where you can have beautiful, genuine-looking breasts without having to go under the knife or expend effort toward exercising. Shop around for a push-up bra that feels comfortable and makes your chest look the way you want it to. A great push-up bra won't weigh you down, shift when you move, or make your boobs look pointy or oddly shaped.


Push-up bras with extra padding can increase your breast size by several cups. Size up one cup or go for two or three sizes bigger.
Try on push-up bras under a shirt before buying them. You might be surprised at how much heft they add to your chest, and you want to make sure you look natural and comfortable.
Push-ups are made with foam, gel, and even water inserts for a natural look.
 These silicone bra inserts are worn inside your unpadded bra to provide a highly realistic simulation of a real breast. Their weight, texture and appearance is quite close to that of the real thing. You can buy them in a skin tone color or transparent.

