 You'll need streamers, balloons, pony decorations, banners (optional), party hats (preferably with the ponies cutie marks on them), party favours, and pony music (or any music, but music from the show really gets you into the spirit of things) to get started. If you can think of anything else, it just makes the party all the more interesting!

, No guest wants to be hungry, so put out a selection of goodies for them. You can bake delicious treats like cupcakes, cake, cookies, and have drinks like apple juice, apple cider, chocolate milk, fruit punch, and much more! You can find awesome recipes for these at the bottom, underneath the 'Tips' category. After choosing your recipes, you'll need to go to the store and get all the ingredients (if you don't already have them, of course).
 Some of these games are easy to make at home, if you're an arts and crafts person, or you want to save money. Fun party games or MLP games are 'Pin the Tail on the Pony', 'Bobbing for Apples', 'Bingo', 'Charades', or board games like 'Checkers', 'Connect Four', 'Headbanz', 'Life', 'Trouble' 'Balderdash', etc. Make sure everyone wants to play the game.
 They are a great way to lighten the mood of the party, as long as no one gets physically, or emotionally hurt. For example, don't give an exploding snakes/confetti present to someone who scares easily. But here are some classic party pranks from My Little Pony: Pepper and/or hot sauce hidden in one of the treats like in the show, there was pepper in the vanilla lemon drops, and then on the drink cups, use dribble cups, relighting birthday candles, and the exploding snakes/confetti present. If you have any other party pranks up your sleeve, feel free to use them, just remember, not everyone likes pranks.
;
, Take out that decor, and make it, well, fabulous!

, Get down to work, maybe grab a friend, and get baking! Set out the baked goods and snacks on a table, and don't forget the drinks. Try laying out an MLP tablecloth. But if you're tight on money or can't find one, it isn't required.
,, A fun way is to make the other snacks My Little Pony themed. Like to represent Spike, have rock candy, because he eats gems. For Applejack, get some candied or caramel apples. And maybe for Rainbow Dash, you could put out a bowl of Skittles. Those are just a few examples. You should put out some real food like cheese and crackers, fruit and nuts, in case your guests get really hungry.
