 Figure out your timeframe for moving, and what you are looking for in your next career, company, and residential location.;
, Use this job description to work on your resume so it promotes the skills and knowledge you will need to find your ideal job. Include specifics in your job description such as what you expect for salary and benefits. Remember that the costs of living vary from state to state. Determine if you will need to earn more money in your new state, or if you can live comfortably on a smaller salary.
 Make sure your resume is easy to email and post online. Use a Word document or save it as a PDF file. Include a local address in the state you are targeting, if you have one. If you do not have a local address, you can include your out-of-state address, but be sure to mention in your cover letter any concrete plans or move dates that you have scheduled.
 This should summarize your experience, as well as explain the interest and reasons you have for relocating to a new state.
 Websites such as CareerBuilder, Monster, and Hot Jobs allow you to look for jobs in any state or city. Check all of the available sites to see if there are any that have more job listings in your field.
 Online career sites enable you to submit your contact information, upload your resume and cover letter, and specify the types of jobs you are looking for. You can also sign up to receive weekly or daily updates on available jobs that you might be interested in. Receiving those updates will reduce the amount of time you need to spend searching through job openings.
 Small businesses and organizations often use the Chamber to market themselves. Check the website of the Chamber of Commerce in the area you are planning to relocate to for information on the business climate there, and any potential openings or opportunities. They can also put you in touch with networking groups and professional organizations.
 Check the websites of companies that have headquarters or branches in your desired state. Email the human resources or recruiting department your resume, and ask them to keep you in mind if any opportunities come up.



Use social sites such as Facebook and Twitter to connect with people in the state you are moving to. Ask them to share any information on job leads, and publicize your search for a job, as well as any special skills you possess. Follow blogs from targeted companies, and also read anything that recruitment and HR professionals write.
Use LinkedIn. While Facebook and Twitter have multiple purposes, LinkedIn is a professional social networking site. Set up a profile with your credentials and resume, and employers can search for you online and reach out to you directly. LinkedIn also provides you with the ability to gather recommendations from current or past colleagues, which will boost your hiring appeal.

