 Before reducing risk, you must understand how much risk you can expect from each type of investment. Consider the purpose of your investments, and the amount of risk you can afford to carry on each one.Stocks are some of the riskiest investments, but can also provide the highest return. Stocks carry no guarantee of repayment, and changing investor confidence can create market volatility, driving stock values down.
Bonds are less risky than stocks. Because they are debt instruments, repayment is guaranteed. The risk level of a bond is therefore dependent on the credit worthiness of the issuer; a company with shakier credit is more likely to default on a bond repayment. You must also take into account the interest rate risk, which affects bonds more than it affects stocks.A rising interest rate means a falling bond price.Cash-equivalent investments, such as money market accounts, savings accounts, or government bonds are the least risky. These investments are also highly liquid, but they provide low returns.
 When deciding on an overall level of risk, you need to assess how you want to use the money from your investments in the future.If you are planning a big expenditure in the near future (such as a house or tuition), or you are retiring soon, you should aim for a relatively low-risk portfolio. This will help ensure that market volatility doesn't cause your investments to lose a lot of value just before you need to draw money from them.
If you are investing for a long-term goal, more risk is appropriate. Long-term goals allow you to wait out stock price fluctuations and realize high returns over the long run.
 The first key to lowering risk is to allocate your money between different investment classes. Your portfolio should include stocks, bonds, cash equivalents, and possibly other investments such as real estate. The proportion of these allocations will depend on the level of risk you want to shoulder overall.


Allocating assets widely hedges against the risk that certain asset classes will perform well while others perform poorly.
Spreading investments between stocks and bonds will protect against the risk of either category performing poorly.
Consider using an online asset allocation calculator, such as the one available through the Iowa Public Employees Retirement System.These tools provide a good framework for understanding ways to allocate your own funds, even though your individual choices will likely vary.
 A great way to mitigate the inherent risk of investing is to hedge your investment. The idea is to protect or balance out the risk of one vulnerable asset by investing in something that, should the vulnerable asset suffer a loss, the other asset will experience a gain. It may not entirely offset the loss you experience, but it can reduce it.Hedging is not free, and the idea is not to make money from this investment, rather, it is to protect yourself. Consider, for instance, the insurance you pay on your car. If you get in an accident, your insurance may save you hundreds or even thousands of dollars in repairs. On the other hand, you may never get into an accident, but you will have made those insurance payments, just in case.
Learn more by reading How to Hedge in Investments.
 Diversifying your portfolio means buying a single type of asset from many different companies. This hedges against the risk that a single company or industry will perform poorly or go bankrupt.For example, if you buy stocks in 30 different companies, it is not likely that all 30 will perform poorly or go bankrupt at once, barring an economy-wide downturn. However, if you used the same amount of money to invest in only one company's stock, the company may perform poorly and drag your entire stock portfolio down with it.
Remember that diversification can't protect against systematic risks.
To diversify your portfolio, consider an exchange-traded fund (EFT). An EFT is like a mutual fund in that it is an index of assets (bonds, stocks, futures, etc.), but unlike a mutual fund, it can be traded like a common stock and has a higher liquidity.