 You made a bad mistake. Big deal. You don't need to get angry about it. I'm sure others made mistakes too.;
, It helps decrease your chances of making a no-no.
 Your parents tell you to shoot. Would you do it? Don't always listen to the crowd. If somebody tells you to pass at the wrong time, don't pass. You don't need to listen to bad teammates who only want the ball in their possession.
 Don't give in to them. Tell them to back off and leave you alone. You don't need insults to haunt you. Insults can be very hurtful sometimes. That is why it is best to avoid them by simply saying "ah, man," or "I should've let somebody else do that," when you mess up. These are called confessions. Confessions are a great way for your teammates to forgive you. Sometimes they even comfort you.
 Does it really matter who's dribble is that? Have you ever heard the occasional "You copied my move!," or the "Copy cat! Get your own dribble!." If so, tell them that you can do whatever you want. After all, it is a free world. Why do you think we make wiki-hows? Just for a sake of good? No. We make them to help others. Learning from others isn't just copying. See their movement of their body while playing a sport. You can look at other swimmers' strokes and learn from them. That is the way we learn. By example.
 If you aren't real good at a sport. Try to practice them before you join a team. You need patience to continue your journey of playing a sport. Joining a team to early may cause depression due to insults in sporting abuse.
 Practice with a friend so even if you mess up, nobody will yell at you. It is good to practice with family or friends because you are comfortable with them and may learn something from them too.
 We need a heart to survive. This is just like we need a heart to play a sport. Without heart of the sport, skill will never come. Play with greatness and boldness in your sport and always play with your heart.
 Have fun with the sport you are playing and never let anybody criticize you. Who knows? Maybe somebody insults you and in the next ten years your the greatest sport player in the world!

