 Discovering the urine while it is still wet is the ideal time to clean up the mess. Use paper towels to soak up any urine that might be pooled on the leather surface. Do not rub the paper towels over the urine; that will simply spread out the stain. Instead, blot or dab at the urine puddle.


This step may require use of a multiple paper towels.;
, If the urine stain was made on a leather couch cushion, remove the stuffing from the affected cushion. Usually there is a zipper on one of the back or bottom edges of the cushion from which the stuffing can be removed. Put the stuffing somewhere off to the side to clean later with an enzymatic cleanser.


It is important to remove the stuffing because even if you catch the stain soon after it was made, the urine could still soak into the cushion stuffing. If the urine soaks into the stuffing, it can cause the urine smell to linger on the couch even after cleaning the leather surface.
If your leather surface is unable to have the stuffing removed, you may have to consult a professional furniture company to see if they could assist you.
 It’s highly recommended to use specific leather cleaners to wipe down the surface of the urine stained leather. These cleaners can be found at pet stores, drug stores, or bigger retail chains. However, before you use the cleanser on the entire stained area, it’s a good idea to test it out on an inconspicuous part of your couch.


A successful urine stain cleanser is “Nature’s Miracle” which can be found in most pet stores.Consider testing the cleaner on small areas near the rear or bottom of your couch. If the cleanser reacts negatively on the leather, you will have saved yourself from ruining the entire visible area of the urine stain.
 Use a cloth lightly dampened with your chosen cleanser to wipe the stained area. Drag the dampened cloth over the area gently; you do not want to scrub the leather. Be sure to wipe the entire surface of the stained area from edge to edge, seam to seam.


This is because you yourself could leave a stain on the leather if you just clean a specific area. It’s better to dampen and clean the entire section of the leather cushion, rather than only treat the stained area.
If you want to make your own cleaning solution, mix together one quart of hydrogen peroxide, ¼ cup of baking soda, and one tablespoon of liquid dish soap. Gently combine these ingredients together in a bowl. Dip your cloth into the solution and wring it out.
 Since the stuffing may be saturated with urine, you need to use an enzymatic cleaner to remove the urine, and dispel the urine’s potent, chemical odor. Wash the stuffing as you would wash any kind of clothing by hand, in a large sink or tub. Apply the enzymatic cleanser to the stuffing, and use your hands to work the cleaning solution into the urine-saturated area. Squeeze the stuffing, and rinse it with clean running water. Do this many times to be sure you completely rinse out and neutralize the urine stain and odor.


Allow the stuffing to dry naturally outside. If the stuffing can dry outside in sunlight, that may help get rid of the urine smell even more.
 Insert the stuffing back into the leather cushion once the stuffing and cushion are both completely dry. Do your best to reposition the stuffing how it was in the cushion originally, and zip the cushion shut again.
 After the leather has fully dried, apply a leather conditioner to the leather surface.Apply a small amount of conditioner to a soft rag, and use the rag to wipe the entire surface of the leather. Be sure to coat all sides of the leather cushion.


A leather conditioner will ensure that your leather stays soft and supple, replenishing any of the natural oils that the cleaning solution may have removed from the surface.

