 Good dog owners put in the time and effort that is needed to train their dog basic commands. An obedience course can help you teach your dog some basic obedience skills such as sit, stay, and lay down. Going through an obedience course with your dog can also help you to build a better bond with your dog, which will benefit both of you.You may also consider working one-on-one with a certified professional dog trainer. This is a good option if your dog is not a big fan of other dogs and people, or if you just want more attention and help from the trainer.
 For the best results, train your dog in short sessions and repeat the sessions regularly. One way that you can train is by doing 5-15 repetitions of a behavior, such as teaching your dog to sit. Then, switch to a different behavior, and then another. Do these repetitions during one 15 minute session every day. Keeping training sessions short will help your dog pay attention. The frequency of your training sessions will help reinforce what you want your dog to learn., To teach your dog to do what you want him to do, it is important to reward his good behavior as soon as he does it. For example, if you ask you dog to sit and he does, praise and pet him right away so that he knows that he did something good. Try to reward your dog whenever he does good things so that he knows that these are the behaviors you like., Teach your dog to stop doing bad behaviors by ignoring him when he is naughty. For example, if your dog wants to go for a walk and he is jumping on you to let you know, ignore him and wait until he stops jumping. When he stops and stands still, put on his leash and take him for a walk. Repeat this process every time you walk your dog to help him understand that you do not want him to jump. He will learn that jumping up and down does not lead to a walk, but standing still does.Never hit or scream at your dog if he does something bad. Punishing your dog in this way does not solve the problem and it may even make the problem worse.
Consult an animal behaviorist or certified professional dog trainer if you are having problems with training your dog.

