 Anecdotal evidence supports using mineral oil over other types of oil, but you could try a combination and see what works best for your hair.You may be able to make your own oil solution out of olive, argon, and coconut oils.You will likely need several applications, so be sure you buy enough to cover your head several times.;
, Stand in the bathtub or outside and massage the oil from the roots to the tips and along your scalp.


After you have covered your hair completely, place more oil in your palms and massage it through your hair again to be sure it is completely saturated.
Oil should be dripping off of your hair. If it is not dripping a little, you have not oiled it enough, and you should apply more.
 You can use a plastic shower cap or just plastic wrap from the kitchen. Cover your hair with plastic to keep the oil wet and let it soak in to your hair.
 This optional step may yield better results. Use a hair dryer to apply heat to your oily hair.You could also go out into the sun if it is a warm day.
 The longer you leave the oil on your hair, the more it will help lighten the henna color. At a minimum, the oil should be left on for 2-3 hours.


Leaving the oil on overnight may be beneficial.If you leave the oil on overnight, cover your pillow with a towel so that it will not get oily if the plastic moves in your sleep.
Testing showed that a 12-hour application of oil had significantly greater impact on hair tint than 2-3 hour applications., Use a high-powered clarifying shampoo to strip the oil out of your hair.Try massaging the first application of shampoo over the oil before wetting your hair with water, then rinsing well.
Lather with shampoo and rinse several times, until your hair no longer feels oily. Depending on the oil, the shampoo, and the hardness of your water, this could take many repetitions to get the oil out.
Use water that is very hot, and be sure to rinse thoroughly.
 Multiple applications of oil are more likely to make a bigger difference over time, so repeating the process several times will give you better results.Give yourself a week between oilings to give your hair a chance to recover a little and produce its own natural moisture.
 Other products that may help fade or lighten the henna out of your hair are grape seed oil and whitening toothpaste. You can try these products with the same process as mineral oil.