 If you’re feeling bold, Flirt with your crush. There are many ways that you can flirt, both verbally and non-verbally. Flirting shows your crush that you’re interested and can help set the scene for asking him out. Flirting doesn’t have to be extreme; it can be as simple as smiling and laughing at his jokes.


You can use flirtatious body language like tilting your head to the side while smiling, and leaning your body slightly towards him while he’s talking.
If your crush says something funny, try touching his arm while you’re laughing. A little bit of physical contact goes a long way, just don’t overdo it!Remember to maintain flirty and friendly eye contact.
 If you don’t like the idea of being direct, you can indirectly ask your crush out. Bring up an event that you want to go to or a movie that you want to see. This gives your crush a window to ask if you want to go with him. You can say something like, “There’s this new science fiction movie that’s showing tomorrow. I wish I had someone to go with, none of my friends are sci-fi fans!”
Pause after you tell him about the event. This gives him time to ask you to go.
If he doesn’t take the bait and ask you to go with him, you can use a different approach to ask him out. He may not pick up on this subtle approach!

, Another way of indirectly asking out your crush is to ask for his help outside of the context of school. For instance, you could ask him to help you on a homework project or ask him if he could tutor you. This is a way of asking him to hang out without being obvious that you like him.Only ask for help if you really do need help with something. Don’t pretend to be worse at a subject than you really are just to get your crush as a private tutor; starting things off with a lie never ends well.
 If you want to be more direct about asking out your crush, invite him to come to an event with you, whether it be a house party or a group brunch with your friends. Asking him to hang out in the context of a group puts less pressure on you and makes it more of a casual date.This works especially well if you have mutual friends because then your crush is sure to feel at ease.
If you ask him to hang out in a group instead of hanging out alone, there’s the possibility that he may think you just want to be friends. This isn’t a reason not to ask him this way; you may just have to amp up your flirting when you do hang out!

, If you are feeling bold, simply ask your crush to do something with you, whether that means going to a movie together or going to your favorite restaurant.You can simply say, “I was wondering if you want to go to a movie sometime,” or, “There’s a new restaurant that just opened up in town, do you want to check it out with me?”
You don’t need to use the word “date”. Just ask him if he wants to hang out and he will realize that you are asking him out.
 You don’t always have to go the conventional route when you ask out your crush. Consider making a big gesture, especially if you're asking your crush out to an event like homecoming or prom. Making a big gesture can be nerve-wracking but it can also be extremely memorable and effective!Make your crush a cake and decorate it so it says, “Will you go out with me?” or “Will you go to Prom with me?”
Write a song asking your crush out and perform it or record it for your crush.
Carve a message for your crush in the snow!
Make a scavenger hunt for your crush that leads to a note asking him out.
It's best to make a big gesture like this if you and your crush have already been talking for a while and know each other well.

