 First, the best amount of time to vacation there is a few to several days. The best amount of time to be there is 2 to 3 full days.;
, There are a lot of historic homes and plantations in Charleston! One of the plantations is the Boone Hall plantation. It features a world famous avenue of oaks, nine original slave cabins, a butterfly garden, and even a colonial revival style mansion from 1936.
 It is a Georgian-Palladian house.
 It's a bridge that will give spectacular views to everywhere! It's visible from far distances and it looks pretty at nighttime (both the views from bridge and the bridge from somewhere else)! (If walking on the bridge in the summer, dress lightly, because it is a long walk.)

, The museum has a whole lot of naval and maritime vehicles, including the USS Yorktown, a legendary aircraft carrier.
 It was founded way back in 1676 by the Drayton family, and survived all the years and disasters in Charleston. The plantation offers a historic house tour, nature tram, and a nature boat.
 You can see a very rare American albino alligator! In the Great Ocean Tank, marvel with the sharks! Be face to face with rays at the Stingray Encounter. The aquarium has daily interactive dive shows and animal programs. It is an excellent activity to do if it is raining in Charleston.
 It has a load of interactive exhibits and is America's oldest museum! You can learn about the history of Charleston and the surrounding areas.
 It's a National Historic Landmark comprising 65 acres of America's oldest landscaped gardens. Sculpted terraces, parterres, and reflection pools inhabited by swans are the highlights of their intricate design. Rare camellias bloom in the winter. In the spring, vibrant azaleas blanket the hillside above the Rice Mill Pond.



The Charleston Water Taxi is a great way to see the Charleston harbor. It runs every hour between the Aquarium Wharf and Patriots Point Marina with some dolphin sightings in between! It runs 9:00 AM to 8:00 PM all 7 days of the week. Going sightseeing in Downtown Charleston? Take the Taxi! Want a relaxing harbor cruise? Take the Taxi! Seeing the USS Yorktown? Take the Taxi! Want to see dolphins? Take the Taxi!

Or try Thriller Charleston, it lasts about an hour and it is about 25 miles (40 km) long! See Charleston's sites along with five forts and two lighthouses while on your way to an up close view of the Morris Island Lighthouse. There also is live music and rock tunes on the awesome boat ride. Get ready to be splashed by water!



