 If you are trying to increase the word count for a novel or short story, try adding details to existing scenes. Read over the scenes you are have already written and consider if there is a detail about the setting that you can add into the scene. You can also add more of the physical movements or physical details of your characters in a scene.For example, if you have a scene where two characters are arguing in a forest, you may include more details about the forest setting. You can also elaborate on what the characters are wearing in the scene as well as how they move their bodies when they are speaking to each other.
 Backstory is the past of a character, or their history as a character. Having backstory can be valuable in a novel or a longer short story as it helps your reader get a better sense of how your character arrived in the present of the story. It can also make them feel more fully realized on the page.For example, you may try adding in section of backstory for your main character about their childhood. Or you may include a chapter that discusses the history of the relationship between two characters as a form of backstory.
 Read over the draft of your novel or short story and consider if there are any loose threads in your narrative. This could be a relationship between two characters that is left too open or a conflict that is not resolved. There may also be a theme in your novel that sort of fades into the background. Try to draw out this theme more to increase word count and make the narrative stronger.For example, maybe you have a conflict that happens mid-way in the novel. You may try to resolve this conflict by adding content to the last section of the novel so it feels more wrapped up and complete.
 Another way you can increase the word count of your novel or short story is to add in a minor character or several minor characters. Minor characters can be useful for moving plot forward and for developing your main characters in more detail. Minor characters often show up sporadically in the story or at crucial moments in the plot.For example, perhaps you add in a family member for your main character who plays a minor part in the story. Or maybe you include a best friend character to add more content to the novel.
 A subplot is a plot that is secondary to the main plot in a story. Subplots can be useful for making your overall story more complicated and engaging for the reader. They often involve minor characters and present a conflict or issue that is not as immediate as the main plot.For example, if you are writing a novel about the end of a marriage, you may have the main plot be the end of the marriage from the perspective of the couple. The subplot could then be how the marriage affects the children of the couple.

