 While at the grocery store or farmers market, choose the heaviest pomegranates to purchase.The weight of the pomegranate signifies how juicy it is. Lighter pomegranates do not contain as much juice as heavier ones.


Although you could weigh each pomegranate on a produce scale, you don’t necessarily need to do so. Just grab one in each hand and continue comparing until you have found the heaviest ones.;
, The rinds vary in shades of red, from bright to more brownishor even pink.The rind should also be glossy.While the shade of the rind doesn’t signify anything about ripeness or flavor, the deeper the color, the better., Unripe pomegranates are round, like apples. However, their shape changes slightly as the fruit ripens and the juice-filled seeds begin to expand outward and press against the insides of the pomegranates. A ripe pomegranate will have more of a square shape because the sides will be flattened (instead of rounded)., To be sure your pomegranates aren’t bruised, hold each pomegranate and gently squeeze it. The pomegranates should be hard, with no mushy spots., The rind should be soft enough to scratch. If so, you know you have a ripe pomegranate. Unripe pomegranates have very hard rinds that cannot be scratched.However, in very ripe pomegranates, the rind will be splitting open because the seeds are filled with juice and are expanding, which puts pressure on the outside of the pomegranate, causing the rind to split. You’re more likely to find pomegranates like this at the end of Autumn, when they are ripest, and at your local farmers market (rather than the supermarket)., Before de-seeding your pomegranate, you may want to grab an apron or change into an old shirt that you don’t mind getting stained. The juice from pomegranates will stain your clothes, so you might not want to wear your favorite outfit while removing the seeds!, To get to the edible part of the pomegranate, you’ll need to cut into and through the rind. Cutting the pomegranate into quarters rather than halves will give you better access to the seeds.
 Select a bowl in which you can submerge your pomegranate quarters. A medium size mixing bowl should be deep enough. Leave enough space in the bowl to place your hands into it without causing the water to overflow., Thus, the seeds will sink to the bottom of the bowl, and the membrane will rise to the surface.Alternately, you can remove the seeds over the bowl and let the flesh and seeds drop into the bowl (rather than submerging the pomegranate in the water).This way, you can immediately dispose of the rind when you have removed all the seeds.
Removing the seeds underwater, however, lessens the risk that you may drop part of the pomegranate onto your counter top and stain it., While submerged in the water, hold the pomegranate quarter with one hand, and run the thumb of your other hand around the clumps of seeds.


Once you have removed all the seeds, you can skim off the membrane from the top of the water with your hands or a small strainer. Remove the seeds from the bottom of the bowl in the same manner.Enjoy eating the plump seeds or prepare for storage!

, Refrigerating your pomegranate rather than leaving it on your counter or in your fruit basket will help keep it fresher longer.You can expect your pomegranate to last for about two months if you keep it refrigerated., It will last for about a month this wayand for a week at room temperature., After removing the seeds from your pomegranate, you can store them in the refrigerator for five days. Be sure, however, to seal them tightly in a container or plastic bag before storing them.,


Be sure the seeds are completely dry before freezing them.Otherwise, they will clump together.
You can also flash freeze the seeds before freezing them in a storage bag. After drying any remaining water off the seeds, place them in a single layer on a wax-paper lined baking sheet. Freeze them on the baking sheet for two hours before storing them in a freezer bag.Pomegranate seeds can be stored in the freezer for about a yearand are best if used within a year.

