 Every sewing box should include some basics, including a pair of fabric scissors, some needles, and thread. Depending on the size of your box, you could include more or fewer items. This section will give you some suggestions., Basic fabric scissors are a must. They are great for beginners and those who just plan on cutting fabric and snipping thread. There are a few other types of scissors that might make more advanced sewing projects easier, however:Pinking shears are like fabric scissors, but with a zigzag edge. Edges cut with these scissors are less likely to fray.
Rotary cutters are great for cutting long, straight lines. You'll want a self-healing cutting matt for one of these as well.
Thread snips are great for snipping thread close to the fabric when you are machine sewing.
Embroidery scissors are tiny scissors perfect for hand-embroidery projects. They are able to cut your thread close to the fabric and are easily portable.
 Sewing needles are essential, even if you only plan on using your sewing machine. You will likely come across a few projects that will require just a regular needle and thread. Sewing pins are also important. Consider getting a pack of them; one can never have too many.


If you own a sewing machine, consider including replacement needles for your sewing machine. You can also include different types of needles for different weights of fabric, such as jean, cotton, and shear.
Pincushions are great for sticking pins into during your sewing project. You can have a standard ball-shaped pincushion, or one of those with a band that you can strap to your wrist.
Thimbles are useful for those who are clumsy when it comes to hand sewing. They will spare you lots of painful, pricked fingers.
Needle threaders are great for those who have poor eyesight, unsteady hands, or are working with very tiny needles. They look like coins, but with a thin, metal loop attached to it.
 Thread might seem like a no-brainer, but it might be a good idea to have an assortment of thread, such as standard thread and heavy-duty thread. Some sewing projects will require strong, thick thread.


Standard thread
Heavy duty thread
Embroidery thread
Light, medium, and dark colors for repairs.
 Even if you are not an advanced seamstress or tailor, having a few notions, such as buttons, might be a good idea. They are great for repairs and last minute arts and crafts projects. Here's a list to give you some ideas:


Buttons, hooks, and fasteners
Ribbon and lace
Hem tape and bias tape
Elastic
Fusible interfacing
Safety pins

, If you do a lot of sewing, you might find certain items quite useful. It all depends on what you usually sew. Here are some suggestions:


Measuring tape is always useful to have around, not just for sewing. It is essential for those who work with patterns. They help you get the measurements right the first time around and lessen the chances of mistakes.
Seam rippers make undoing mistakes a lot easier and quicker. They are great for those who work with sewing machines and need to undo a lot of tiny, tight stitches.
Point turners are small tools ideal for pushing out points and corners. They are ideal for those who sew cuffs, collars, bags, and other items with tight corners.
Grommet setters and other setters are essential for those who will be working with grommets, eyelets, and other types of fasteners.
Tailors chalk or water soluble markers are perfect for those who like to draft their own patterns, or who need to make alterations.
Fray check glue, while not essential, it great when you are sewing with delicate fabrics that fray easily.

