 One of the easiest ways to have fun is to simply turn on the television, go on streaming sites such as Netflix, Hulu, etc., or watch a DVD. Catch up on a series you have been meaning to watch, or watch your favorite movie again and again.


Television can be great for watching shows that vary from cooking, to sports, to drama, and even to music. Use your remote control to find the station you usually watch, or simply can the stations to find something interesting and engaging.
Check out streaming sites online such as Netflix, Hulu, etc. Each of these sites usually charges a monthly fee. These are great places to catch up on old or new shows that have recently been on television.
Watch a movie on DVD or Blu-Ray. If you have the disk already, you simply have to put it into the disk player. If not, go to your nearest store, and find something that you think will be fun to watch. For example, watching horror movies by yourself can add to the level of engagement, and magnify the frightening parts.;
, The internet can be a great tool to pass the time and have fun. Browse, see what friends are up to, or learn something new.


Check your social networking sites (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc.) on the internet to keep in touch with your friends.
Scan news sites to find interesting stories. The New York Times, Washington Post, and other newspapers are all online. You can also check out online news programming such as The Young Turks, a channel on Youtube.
Go on music sharing sites and find a good tune to listen to. Or, you can always type something into a search engine to learn about something new that you did not know before., Comfort food is always great to eat, especially when you are by yourself. Eating and cooking can be a fun way to pass the time, as well as taste great.Get out a frying pan and cook a grilled cheese, or eggs (something simple). Perhaps make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, or use leftover meat and cheese to make a nice sub. Experiment, by mixing together ingredients you normally would not use, such as cooking a stir-fry with different vegetable or meat combinations.
Teach yourself how to cook. This could be a great time to use some of the pots and pans which never get used. Find new and interesting spices or seasonings in your cupboard. Find videos online that show how to make comfort foods with new and exciting recipes. Look for a cookbook around the house, and try the recipe yourself.
Ordering food can also be a great option. Chinese food, sushi, or pizza can be filling, and comforting. Look for a phonebook to find the nearest delivery number, or call them up on speed dial. Or you can always just pick up some snacks around the house like chips, pretzels, soda, and chocolate.
 Often times people take very little time to pamper and take care of themselves. Use this free time to relax in a nice bubble bath, and let your muscles get a break.


Turn on the bath to warm water (generally all the way to the right). Make sure the water is not scolding. Push the tab on the spigot down so that water comes out of it instead of the shower head. As the water is coming out, add a small amount of your preferred bubble bath/soap mixture.
Get in the tub and relax. Sit in the tub for a while, washing yourself, or just enjoying the warm water. This can also be a great time to read a book.If you prefer showers, turn the handle all the way to the right (if you prefer hot showers) and pull the tab on the spigot up. As the water pours out, adjust the handle to your preference of temperature. Get in the shower, and wash yourself using soap and shampoo. Or just stand there and enjoy the water releasing the strain in your muscles.
 Your chipped, broken, or worn down nails can always use a boost. Spend this time by yourself cleaning your nails, clipping them, and painting them exciting colors.If you want to paint your fingernails, first clean off any old nail polish. This can be done by either using a scrape, nail polish remover, or by using one of your other fingernails. After the paint has been removed, you will want to clip them using nail clippers (biting them can result in pain and unevenness). Afterwards, use a nail file to smooth the rough edges of your fingernails. Finally, use a smooth, clean cloth to wipe off any excess fingernail filings.
Get out your favorite nail polish, or go buy something new from the store. Spread the hand you are painting, and place it flat on a table. Using a small amount of nail polish, gently use small strokes of the brush to add the paint to your nails. Feel free to go back and do a second layer, or add designs using smaller brushes. Between coats of paint, leave your hand on the table for a few minutes so the paint can dry.
You can also do the same thing with your toenails. Get rid of the old nail polish, clip your nails, file them down, and wipe them clean with a cloth. Instead of spreading your toes (nearly impossible) try using foam separators available at most stores. Then add the nail polish of your choice and give them a chance to dry.
 When you are by yourself, this can be a great time to practice on the piano, dance to your favorite music, braid your hair, or even sew. Not only is there quiet in the house, but you can also open up and be yourself creatively.


Practice on the piano. Use music you already have, or find some interesting music selections online. Because no one is around, you won't feel embarrassed by your mistakes. Feel free to become creative, and maybe even write your own notes. Play the Piano

Dancing can be fun, creative, and exciting. Find some of your favorite songs online, or on CD's, and blast them loud. Practice those dance moves you want to use sometime in the future at a club, or just let loose.
Sewing and braiding hair can also be great skills to practice, learn, and have fun with. Create cross stitched pictures for your bedroom, or find a new hairstyle that fits you best. You can check Braid Your Own Hair and Cross Stitch for further instruction on both hobbies.
In general, have fun! While this is a short list, do what you love to do for a hobby. Open up, experiment, and be yourself.
 Too often people are bogged down throughout the day, so fun to many is having a quiet, relaxing evening. Find a good book to read, listen to soothing music, or simply take a well deserved nap.


Find music online that is soothing and calming. Some examples of these types of music are classical (Mozart, Beethoven, etc.), easy listening, and smooth jazz. Sit back on your bed, in a chair, or on the couch. Rest your neck on a pillow, and close your eyes. Get lost in the music, and stop thinking about your worries.
Read a nice book. Unless they are your thing, dense history or biology books probably are not good here. Find a good romance, short fantasy fiction, or crime detective novel. Look on your shelves for a book, or go to your local library. Dim the light so as not to distract yourself, turn off the television, and get lost in the story.
 Rest is hard to come by in this busy day in age. Shut off all your lights and your television. Close your eyes, and let your mind finally get a well deserved rest.