 Most shelters and rescue groups will not allow you to adopt multiple dogs at one time.Some shelters may allow you to adopt a bonded pair. However, you will likely need to demonstrate that you have the time and resources to care for two dogs simultaneously.After adopting your first dog, many shelters will allow you to adopt another dog in one month. Because adopting one dog can be difficult, most shelters will help you adopt a second dog once the first has successfully adjusted to your home and family.Check with your local shelters and rescue groups about their adoption policies. Ask things like “Do you allow people to adopt multiple dogs?” and “What are your policies regarding bonded pairs?”;
, Puppies, even if they are from different litters, have a tendency to form very close bonds with each other, often failing to build relationships with their owners. This makes it very difficult to properly train the puppies and socialize them. Unless you are willing to spend a significant amount of time training the puppies, the result is often an unruly pair of puppies that do not recognize your or members of your family as the alphas of the pack.Ideally, you should adopt one puppy and, once it is trained and socialized to your family, adopt another dog.
 The ASPCA estimates that caring for one dog can cost anywhere from $500 - $1,000 each year depending on its size and health.You will need to multiply that cost by each dog that you adopt. Dogs are particularly expensive in the first year when you are purchasing new toys, bedding, food, and paying for any health expenses. Look at your finances and, if you cannot afford to pay at least $1,000 a year in dog-related expenses, you should avoid adopting multiple dogs.A responsible shelter or rescue group will ask questions about your finances during the application process. If they feel that you are unable to take care of multiple dogs, they will deny your application or ask you to adopt only one dog.
 Multiple dogs will take a considerable amount of time, particularly if you adopt multiple puppies. Adult dogs may need less training. However, you will spend considerable time and resources adjusting them to your home and each other. Puppies are even more problematic because you will need to train them separately. With two puppies alone, you will double the amount of time spent simply training them. Unless you are capable and willing to spend multiple hours each day training and caring for your dogs, you should consider only adopting one animal., Before you adopt multiple dogs, talk with your family members and roommates about your decision. Bringing multiple dogs into your home will initially be a little hectic as the animals adjust. They may be extremely noisy and make multiple messes. Explain the situation and find out if everyone that you live with is okay with multiple new dogs being in your home.Be sure to check with your landlord about whether or not pets are allowed in your building. If they are allowed, you should also find out how many you can have. Depending on where you live, they may also have the right to increase your security deposit.

