 If you are 17 when you take the test to obtain a real estate license, you must wait until you are 18 before submitting your application.;
, This check is necessary to determine if you are an honest person. Individuals with checkered pasts might be forbidden from obtaining their real estate licenses. If you do not disclose your criminal history or legal actions taken against you on your license application, you could be forbidden from obtaining or applying for a real estate license of any kind.Some crimes which will almost certainly result in your application being denied include extortion, fraud, burglary, criminal conspiracy, and tax evasion.Failure to disclose charges pending against you, or convictions which were expunged, overturned, or pardoned could also result in your application’s dismissal.
 Crimes for which you’ve been convicted in a court of law are not the only sort of behavior which can disqualify you from obtaining your real estate license. If you’ve had administrative action taken against you by the state or federal government while working in a business, you could be denied a real estate license. For instance, if you were levied a fine for selling alcohol to a minor at your bar, you could be denied your real estate license.
 There are several college-level courses which you must take before obtaining your license. Courses must be completed at school accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges or a comparable agency recognized by the US Department of Education, or a private real estate school whose courses have been accepted as valid by the California Real Estate Commission.



The list of courses required for the real estate salesperson license, including the list of classes which could satisfy the optional third course, is available at http://www.dre.ca.gov/Examinees/RequirementsSales.html.
If you are a member of the California State Bar, you are exempt from the coursework requirements.
 Transcripts are typically accessible through your school’s registrar office. Some schools offer digital transcripts through their website which you can print out yourself. Applicants must send their transcripts along with their exam applications to demonstrate proof they have taken the requisite coursework.
 If you were educated in a foreign country, you must have your transcripts translated and then verified as valid by a credentialing service. There are several private credentialing services around the country which can assist with translation and verification of your transcripts. A list is available on form RE 223, online at http://www.dre.ca.gov/files/pdf/forms/re223.pdf. You must then send the transcripts along with your application to take the exam., To apply for the exam, you must submit a salesperson exam application (form RE 400A) and fee. Alternately, you can apply for the exam and submit the license application at the same time with form RE 435. This also requires a fee. Check the Examination and Licensing Fees (RE 206) for the most current fee schedule.The Exam/License Application (form RE 435) is available at http://dre.ca.gov/files/pdf/forms/re435.pdf.
The Exam Application by itself is available at http://dre.ca.gov/files/pdf/forms/re400a.pdf.
The current license fee is $245 and the current exam fee is $60.
After completing the application to take the exam, or the application to take the exam and obtain a real estate license, you will have to mail it to the Bureau of Real Estate, P.O. Box 137001, Sacramento, CA 95813-7001.
 Exams are given in Sacramento, San Diego, Oakland, Fresno, and the Los Angeles area. You have the option of specifying when and where you wish to test on your application for the exam.If you believe that you are unable to attend a testing site in any of the above-listed locations, you can attach a Reasonable Accommodation Request (form RE 413) along with relevant documentation -- such as a description of your disability and recommended accommodation you’d need -- in order to be considered for a test site closer to you. This form is typically used by individuals with disabilities., Exams are usually during weekdays. If you just want to test as soon as possible, simply leave item 11 (“EARLIEST DATE YOU CAN TAKE EXAM”) blank.You can reschedule your exam with eLicensing at www.calbre.ca.gov. You can also use the site to schedule your own examination date after being approved to take the exam. To do this, indicate your preference to schedule your own exam date by placing an “X” next to the box which reads “YES” on item 9 of the exam application. You will receive acknowledgment that you’ve been approved to schedule your test date in the mail.
You can use eLicensing to check if you’ve been assigned a test date.
 Go to the test site at the time and date specified. The test lasts three hours and fifteen minutes and consists of 150 multiple-choice questions. Answer at least 70% of the questions correctly within the allotted time in order to pass the test and acquire your real estate license application.Electronic devices, drinks, wallets, purses, and other personal items cannot be brought into the test center for security reasons. Leave them in your car or at home.
Do not cheat on your test by smuggling notes or other aids into the testing center. This is considered grounds for denial of your real estate license. Paying or enlisting the aid of someone else to take your exam is likewise frowned upon and constitutes a misdemeanor.
 Equivalent experience is defined as at least two years of full-time licensed sales experience, or the part-time equivalent of two years of full-time work. Complete form RE 226 with the assistance of the licensed broker you work for to establish your work credentials.


The full-time work or full-time work equivalent must all have occurred within the past five years, though not necessarily within a contiguous period. For instance, if you worked two years full-time in real estate sales starting four years ago, you can include that experience on your form RE 226.
You cannot offer letters of recommendation in lieu of form RE 226 and the relevant experience.
Besides working in mortgage loans, securities sales, rentals, leases, or real estate sales under a licensed broker, you might also be able to draw on experience as a subdivider, contractor, or speculative builder if you performed work relating to the purchase, financing, sale, or development of real estate.
 To apply for the exam, you must submit a broker exam application (form RE 400B) and fee. Alternately, you can apply for the exam and submit the license application at the same time with form RE 436. This also requires a fee. Check the Examination and Licensing Fees (RE 206) for the most current fee schedule.The Exam/License Application (form RE 436) is available at http://dre.ca.gov/files/pdf/forms/re436.pdf.
The Exam Application by itself is available at http://dre.ca.gov/files/pdf/forms/re400b.pdf.
The current license fee is $300 and the current exam fee is $95.
After completing the application to take the exam, or the application to take the exam and obtain a real estate license, you will have to mail it to the Bureau of Real Estate, P.O. Box 137001, Sacramento, CA 95813-7001.
 There are several locations where you can take the test. You could take the exam in San Diego or Oakland. You could also choose to take the exam in Sacramento, Fresno, or the Los Angeles area. Identify the location closest to you and select it as your test site. Most exams occur during the weekday, so you might need to take off work. You have the option of specifying when and where you wish to test on your application for the exam.In order to take the test as soon as possible, all you have to do is leave item 11 blank.
If you are disabled or believe that you will for any reason be unable to test at one of the available testing centers, fill out form RE 413, the Reasonable Accommodation Request form., After being approved to take the exam, you can use the eLicensing website at www.calbre.ca.gov to schedule your exam date. You can also use the site to check whether you’ve been assigned a testing date after being approved to take the exam, or to change the date of your exam if you need to reschedule. If you want to schedule your exam date after being approved to do so, check the “YES” box on item 9 of the application.
 The test is separated into two parts. Each part lasts two and a half hours and contains 100 multiple choice questions. In order to pass the test, you must answer at least 75% of the questions correctly before the time runs out.There is a break between the two sessions.
To ensure honesty, may personal items like phones and notebooks are not allowed in the test center. Do not bring your personal items in with you.
If you cheat on your test, you will be dismissed from the test center and immediately fail your test.
 If you take the standard pencil-and-paper test, you must wait seven business days before checking your results with the eLicensing website.


If you did not pass the exam, you can apply to retake it with the eLicensing website (www.calbre.ca.gov). There is no limit to the number of times you can retake the exam. However, if you want to retake it more than two years after submitting your original exam application, you must submit a new exam application and a new set of academic transcripts.
 Your fingerprints need to be digitally scanned with the Live Scan service. (You could choose to be fingerprinted before taking the exam, but since the fingerprint fee is nonrefundable, it’s best to wait until after you’ve received confirmation that you passed the exam to get your fingerprints scanned.) Prints taken with a traditional ink pad will not be accepted.


To get your fingerprints taken, print and complete part two of form RE 237. You can get the form online at http://www.dre.ca.gov/files/pdf/forms/re237.pdf. Bring the form with you to the Live Scan fingerprinting location of your choice.
For a list of locations where Live Scan fingerprinting services are available, visit https://oag.ca.gov/fingerprints/locations. After identifying the location where you’d like to have your fingerprints taken, contact them to make an appointment. Each location charges a fee for the service and for processing. Ask for current rates when making your appointment.
If you had your fingerprints taken before you took the examination, mail the completed form and your original license application to Bureau of Real Estate, P.O. Box 137002, Sacramento, CA 95813-7002, Attn: Fingerprint Desk.
If you are getting your fingerprints taken after passing the exam, send the license application and fingerprint form to Bureau of Real Estate, Licensing Section, P.O. Box 137002 Sacramento, CA 95813-7002.
 If you passed the exam for the real estate salesperson license and did not fill out form RE 435 (the exam application / license application combination form), you will be mailed a separate license application. If you pass the exam for the real estate broker license and did not fill out form RE 436 (the exam application / license application combination form), you will be mailed a separate license application. No matter what license you applied for, fill it out and mail the completed license application to it to Bureau of Real Estate, Licensing Section, P.O. Box 137002 Sacramento, CA 95813-7002 along with your fingerprint form to obtain your license application.
 After receiving your real estate salesperson license, you can gain employment with a licensed broker. Keep in mind that unless you are working under a licensed broker, you cannot engage in licensed real estate transactions. After receiving your real estate broker license, you can hire real estate salespersons (agents), handle earnest money deposits on properties, and establish escrow accounts.Use the CBRE’s processing timetables to figure out whether your license is late in arriving. The processing timetable is available online at http://www.dre.ca.gov/Licensees/CurrentTimeframes.html. Most applications take about one month to process, while exam / license combination applications are usually processed after about 45 days.
 After four years, your license becomes invalid. Ninety days before your license will expire, you will receive a reminder to renew your license. The renewal process can be done online through the eLicensing site.


In order to renew your license, you will need to pay a fee. Check http://www.dre.ca.gov/Licensees/Fees.html for current information on the cost of a license renewal fee.
When renewing your license, you will have to prove that you’ve taken at least 45 hours of continuing education relating to the real estate industry. This is required whether you’re renewing a real estate broker license or a real estate salesperson license. Courses must be taken at an approved college or university.
Instead of coursework, you could be eligible for receiving a continuing education equivalency waiver if you’ve written books or articles pertaining to a topic in real estate, or delivered educational programs about the real estate industry. See form RE 332 for requirements regarding the continuing education equivalency.