


Buy skull molds with a front and back section from mexicansugarskull.com or a similar online store.
Buy skull molds with a front-side only from Amazon.com.
You can buy molds in small, medium and large sizes.;
,, This is a traditional baking ingredient used to hold together sugary frosting.


CK Products, Wilton and Ateco make high quality meringue powder.
This product costs about $7 for 4 oz. For large batches of sugar skulls, you will want to buy several containers.
 Most traditional Day of the Dead recipes say that the skulls will not form properly on a rainy day., Use 4 cups (800g) of sugar, 4 tsp. (13.3g) of meringue powder and 10 tsp. (49ml) of water. You may add 2 extra tsp. (10ml) of water later.
If you are making a large batch of sugar skulls, use 10 lbs. (4.5kg) of sugar, 1/2 cup (80g) of meringue powder and 7 tbsp. (104ml) of water.
If you want to make colored sugar skulls, mix food color with the water before pouring it into the bowl.
 Make sure you continuously incorporate the water at the bottom of the bowl with the sugar at the top, since the water will settle to the bottom.


Add 2 tsp. (10ml) of water if the sugar isn’t sticking together.
 If you press the sugar together with your hands and your fingerprints imprint and stay, it is ready to mold.


If the sugar falls apart or fails to imprint, there isn’t enough water in your mixture.
 Pack it very tightly.


Smooth the back of the mold with a straight edge.
 Leave 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) of sugar on all sides.


Do not scoop out the neck portion, or it will be too fragile.
You must remove this section to ensure the skull will dry quickly and evenly.
 They should take approximately 8 hours to dry.
, Pour 1/2 cup (40g) meringue powder with 1 cup (237ml) of water. Mix well with a hand mixer.


Add a 2 lb. (0.5kg) bag of powdered sugar to the mixture.
 Stick the back and front of the skull together to dry.


Allow them to dry for 4 to 8 hours before decorating.
 Pour in drops of food coloring and mix well. Decorate your skulls with colored royal icing.

