 If you have short legs, stick to simple styles of gladiator sandals.Ankle gladiator sandals are the best height for short legs, especially if your legs are full, so that you don’t further shorten your legs visually. If your legs are long and thin, you can select styles with more details and colors, from ankle-high up to knee-high.If your legs are short and/or full, try nude ankle-height gladiator sandals that are close to your skin tone. Alternatively, any solid color with low ankles will work. Shoes with a long vertical strap and height to the heel will help to lengthen the appearance of your legs.;
, Gladiator sandals can make feet appear wider. If you have wide feet or thick ankles, select a style with diagonal straps instead of horizontal straps, which can visually widen your feet. If your feet are thin, you can opt for styles with thin straps and without a lot of detail if you want to widen the appearance of small feet. , Some styles of gladiator sandals have long straps that you tie around your legs. There are two ways to tie these sandals properly. You can tie them around your ankles, or just under your knees. Either way, wiggle your feet and legs around after tying the straps to make sure that they’re secure.To tie around your ankles, keep all of the straps below your calves. Wrap one strap clockwise and the other counterclockwise around your ankle until you have enough tie left to finish it off with a knot.
To wrap straps around your legs, make as few revolutions as possible – you may want to wrap it only once or one and a half times around your leg. The “X” of the straps should hug the back of your calf muscles so that the straps don’t fall down. Tie the straps in a knot just underneath your knees.
 Certain styles of gladiator sandals are more dressy than others. If you want to be able to wear your sandals for dressy occasions, you may want to choose a metallic finish and/or thin straps. You can also purchase gladiator sandals with stiletto heels!, The standard style of gladiator sandals – with flat soles and tie-up straps – are easy to make room for in your suitcase. Try them on first and walk around. Make sure that the soles are not so thin that your feet might hurt if you need to walk on pavement or other flat surfaces.If you plan to wear your gladiator sandals while travelling from place to place, you may want to select a zippered style so that you can take them on and off easily at airport security checkpoints., Gladiator sandals look good paired with large, abstract patterns. Select one patterned piece, such as a dress, top or shorts to wear with your sandals, and keep any other clothing pieces a solid color. Try not to choose micro prints, which can compete for attention with your sandals., Wearing gladiator sandals with a little black dress can add interest to your outfit. Wearing them with a white dress adds edge. With either option, you can transition from day to night styles using the same outfit!For this style, stick with neutral tones like white, black or brown to maintain the elegant, understated look.A solid metallic finish is also a great way to dress up a cocktail dress., Dress up denim shorts and a t-shirt with gladiator sandals and simple yet elegant jewelry, such as gold or silver necklaces and/or bracelets. Gladiator sandals also pair well with short denim skirts.You can elongate the appearance of your legs by wearing heeled gladiators with skinny jeans., Gladiators pair well with short skirts. You can also wear a midi dress, which has a hem that falls mid-calf. Alternatively, you can wear a long dress or skirt with gladiators.Choose simple, flat gladiators if you want to wear them with a long skirt or maxi dress.Try gladiator sandals with a striped, printed or chambray midi dress. You can also wear your gladiators with a shirt dress!, Mid-calf gladiator sandals look great with capri pants or a short skirt.You can pair mid-calf or knee-high sandals with a short romper or jumpsuit. These styles show enough leg to showcase the style of gladiators with higher straps., Test gladiators before buying them by walking around in them first. They should feel comfortable. If your toes are slipping out or the shoe is rubbing the arch of your foot in an uncomfortable way, look for a different pair., Don’t wear socks with your gladiators. Make sure that your feet are in well-groomed condition. Aim for styles that make your feet appear smaller rather than larger.If you have large and/or wide feet, look for styles with diagonal or vertical straps rather than horizontal.
 Try shorts that fall just below the knee.You may want to pair your gladiators with slim, tailored shorts. Gladiator sandals tend to visually shorten the leg. If you have short legs, opt for sandals that stop below your ankles. For longer legs, you can wear styles with straps that go above the ankle bones.Choose neutral tones like black or brown for your sandals. Style the rest of your look with a smart-casual vibe.
 If you don’t want to draw too much attention to your gladiators by wearing shorts, try pairing them with wide-legged trousers such as linen pants, and a simple shirt. This is a good summer or vacation look, and you can also add a lightweight linen jacket. Try this look with leather sandals in dark shades or earth tones.