 The best way to prevent hypoglycemia to know what to look for. While hypoglycemia is often associated with diabetes, hypoglycemic symptoms can be triggered by missing meals, increasing your physical activity, or drinking too much alcohol. Symptoms can appear up to 24 hours following these activities. Symptoms include:


Hunger
Shakiness
Anxiety
Sweating
Dizziness
Lightheadedness
Fatigue
Physical weakness
Convulsions;
, If you can determine if you are functional or reactive, you can better avoid hypoglycemia. Functional hypoglycemia occurs if there is abnormal glucose regulation in your body; the source of this dysfunction may not be known. Reactive hypoglycemia occurs as a response to your diet or stress.Functional hypoglycemia can be controlled by medication whereas reactive hypoglycemia can be prevented by changes in diet or lifestyle.
 Some medicines can trigger hypoglycemia, including insulin injections, certain antidepressants, and malaria drugs.Research your medication for potential side effects and speak with your doctor to understand your risk.
 If you are at risk for diabetes or suspect you have a different hypoglycemic condition, you may ask your doctor for a glucose tolerance test (GTT). You may be asked to fast for 8 hours before a blood sample is drawn and tested. Urine tests can also be used to detect glucose-related conditions., For ten days, record everything you eat and drink (including medication) as well as what time of day you consume them. As you go about your day, record the time and severity of any hypoglycemic symptoms you may feel. If you notice that you are repeatedly suffering symptoms or crashes after consuming a particular food or drink, eliminate that item from your diet for a few days and see if you improve. If you suspect your medication is responsible, consult your doctor for advice but do not stop taking it until you are advised to do so., If you have more than one hypoglycemic episode a week, you may want to see a doctor for testing or medication. Furthermore, if you suddenly suffer from poor coordination, blurred vision, or slurred speech, you may be on the verge of a severe hypoglycemic episode. Seek emergency treatment at a hospital. Severe hypoglycemia can cause fainting and seizures as well as life-threatening damage to your heart and brain.