 Children’s toothbrushes are designed in fun shapes and playful colors that appeal to children and will motivate them to brush their teeth regularly.However, make sure that the toothbrush is what your dentist has recommended for your child: it should come with a small head and soft bristles.


You can also let your child choose their brand of toothpaste as well. Many companies make child-specific toothpaste, which is often flavored and will not leave your child’s mouth with a “burning” sensation., Squeeze a pea-sized dollop of toothpaste on your child’s toothbrush, and show them how to brush across the chewing surface of their molars, along the inside of their teeth (by the tongue), and along the outside of their teeth.


Show your children that they should not mash the toothbrush hard against their teeth, and that they need to brush upwards from their gums, so they don’t damage the gum tissue.
Make it clear to your kids that it’s important to brush for a full two minutes. It will help your kids bush for two full minutes if you set a timer for them (or teach them to set their own timer).Without a timer, it will be hard for children to accurately estimate two minutes, and they will almost always stop brushing too soon.
There are some children's toothbrushes that have battery-powered lights that will indicate when your child should brush (a green light) and when to stop (a red light). This can help ensure your child brushes for the correct length of time.
During brushing and before finishing explain them not to swallow the toothpaste and teach them how to get rid of the excess in the sink.
 Flossing can be difficult for children, especially younger ones who lack fine motor skills. Teach kids to gently press down between their teeth and to work the floss against the side of each tooth to scrape off food residue and plaque.


Children are frequently uncomfortable with the sight of blood, and can be squeamish when flossing since it will occasionally cut their gums. Let kids know that if they floss regularly, their gums will stop bleeding altogether.

