 This is the easiest, most straightforward way to deter a potential trespasser. Some people assume that a property without signs is an abandoned property with an owner unconcerned about trespassing. Brightly colored “No Trespassing” signs posted at various points around the property will make your wishes clear.Place your signs all around the property’s perimeter and at every point of entry and exit.;
, Boarding up windows helps to keep out trespassers, but it also helps to protect a vacant building from weather-related damage. When compared with the cost of repairing the damage trespassers can do to a vacant property, plywood is a cheap investment.Use plywood of ¼ thickness or greater, and always screw the plywood to the windowsills instead of nailing it.
 Breaking a door lock is time-consuming and loud. In occupied properties, the noise from breaking in can attract unwanted attention from the occupants and passersby. However, in an abandoned building, there are no occupants to alert and passersby might be rarer. Therefore, add an extra layer of security and padlock every door.


There is no such thing as a thief-proof lock, but that doesn’t mean there aren’t important differences between locks. Disc-style padlocks, brass bottomed padlocks, and padlocks made with boron are very difficult to get through with bolt-cutters alone., Although burglar bars aren’t the most attractive feature, they’re a difficult obstacle for a would-be trespasser to circumvent.


Burglar bars cost roughly $150 per window installed. Burglar bars can be purchased and self-installed for about 25% of the cost.Burglar bars on the interior are usually more secure than bars on the exterior, although they’re both good. Install bars on any window less than ten feet off the ground.
Storm doors are significantly more expensive, and much more difficult to self-install. Expect to pay at least $250 per door.
 Temporary chain-link fencing is widely available for rent and purchase, and the presence of a fence creates one more obstacle to deter a trespasser.


The biggest drawback to putting up a fence is price—the cost of renting a six foot high fence is about $2 per linear foot for the first month and $1 per linear foot for additional months. Purchasing 60 feet of the same can easily cost more than $1,000.