;
, Just make a chart of the food with their nutrition values. Mark with * those food which is getting repeated for the maximum time within the week. These food items has to be given prime importance during the analysis step.
 There is a nutrition gap if your diet routine lacks fruit. Fruit is so valuable in the diet that you should make Fruit every day as one of your home mottoes.(why it is important ? find the answer in tips)
What kind of fruits should I include in my diet?

, Try finding the seasonal fruit available during the period try including those in the diet.


Apple can be one fruit that can add more value to healthy lifestyle. You will be aware of this statement.."an apple a day keeps the doctor away"..this is really true.
Citrus fruits like orange and grape are rich in vitamins which required for the proper nutrient diet.
Why does fruit sometimes disagree with us? how can we feed it to kids?
If we eat too much unripe fruit or if the fruit is not fresh, it may not agree with us. Cooked fruit can be taken by some people who cannot eat it raw, because the cooking softens the fruit and kills bacteria that might cause some trouble. Cooked fruit is better for little children than raw fruit.
Fruit juice again. Clear fruit juice squeezed from the pulp - orange juice, for instance - is given to very young children, who ought not to eat the pulp, and to invalids sometimes
Eat fruits separately don't eat along with the food for better vitamin absorption

,,, You can serve milk hot or cold .For kids adding dates and little of honey will increase the value of milk.
 Follow the steps below


First of all, don't make your diet routine boring by repeating the same diet.
Classify the days in the week with its own food habits for your kids without they knowing they are following a diet. This will make them love eating those foods
Try different variety in the healthy food you make. Make it more easy to eat and add some taste to it.( can use honey instead of sugar)

,, Make separate plan for breakfast,lunch,dinner,fruit and liquid items to be included for each day of the week. This will be a weekly chart. You can repeat the chart diet to the next week .For example the breakfast of Monday can be changed to Wednesday..Similarly the lunch ,dinner and fruits for the day. This will make the diet more flexible and not boring to the kids ,they should love the food they eat or else it is not going to serve purpose.
,,, Do simple workouts along with them. Guide them in some ground games which spends some energy.These activities will compliment the food habit.
