 Chemotherapy is a type of chemical that works to kill the cancer cells. One way to take chemotherapy is through an oral pill. While a pill may seem less intimidating, it does have the same chemicals as other types of chemotherapy, and you need to pay close attention to the instructions given to you by your doctor or pharmacist.For instance, many chemotherapy pills must be taken on a very regular schedule that you shouldn't change. You will build up a certain level of the drug in your system, which you maintain with a regular schedule. You may take them in rounds to give your healthy cells a chance to thrive.You also must keep them separately from your other pills if you use a pill organizer.
The pill form is used to treat chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML).The oral medication used to treat CML are known as tyrosine kinase inhibitors.;
, Another type of chemotherapy is injected straight into your veins. This type of chemotherapy is used to treat almost every type of cancer, though your doctor may lean on pills more for more chronic versions.To receive this type of chemotherapy, you must visit a clinic. The chemicals are dripped into your veins through an IV. Each treatment is given over a few hours or days.
You may need a cannula inserted in your hand or arm each time you come in, or you may receive a central line or peripherally inserted central catheter, which can be left in over a longer period of time. Another option for longer-term placement is rubber implanted port., This treatment is another type of chemotherapy which is injected into your spinal cord and brain instead of into your blood.This treatment is usually given if the cancer has moved to your nervous system, as traditional chemotherapy types may not reach these areas.Generally, you'll need to lay down for a while after this injection, which gives the chemotherapy drugs a chance to move into place.
This procedure is relatively rare when compared to other types of chemotherapy., Chemotherapy comes with an unfortunate number of side effects, due to the fact that it can destroy or harm normal cells along with the cancer cells. Mainly, the cells it harms will be in your bone marrow, GI tract, mouth, and hair. Because it destroys these cells, it can cause some major side effects, which you can deal with through traditional and naturopathic medicine.Some of the major side effects include sexual dysfunction, hair loss, mouth sores, nerve damage, nausea, changes in taste, heart damage or weakness, fatigue, and lowered blood cell counts.
You'll need to make certain life changes, like finding food that appeals to you to combat taste changes and learning exercises to help with the tiredness.
You may need to take medications to help you combat nausea and lowered white blood cell counts and supplements to help with cardiotoxicity.
For hair loss, mouth sores, sexual dysfunction, and nerve damage, you'll need to develop routines with the help of your naturopath and mind-body therapist to deal with the emotional and physical ramifications of these side effects.
Oral chemotherapy may also cause hand-foot syndrome, which is where you have pain and swelling in your hands and feet. If you develop this symptom, your doctor may be able to change your dosage to lessen the effect., This type of therapy uses X-rays or other methods to deliver radiation to your body to help kill the cancer cells. This therapy can be targeted to one particular part of your body, or it can be used across your body.Side effects can vary widely. You may be more tired, have stomach problems, or skin irritation. You may also develop more infections.
How severe your side effects are will likely be affected by how long and how often you have this treatment, as well as how much of your body is radiated. , This treatment is often used together with other treatments. Its benefit is it can specifically target the leukemia cells, which in turn can manage the disease.Targeted therapy is often used to help manage chronic leukemia, such as chronic myelogenous leukemia.Like chemotherapy, targeted therapy can cause some side effects. The primary side effects are fatigue and an increased chance of infections.
You may also run a fever, develop a rash, experience headaches, have nausea, or be short of breath., This type of therapy uses your body's own defenses to fight off the leukemia. In theory, your body should recognize cancer cells as being harmful or abnormal and destroy them; however, when you've developed cancer, something has gone wrong. For instance, the cancer finds a way to hide from your immune system or it disables part of the response. Biological therapy tries to make your immune system attack the cancer cells as it should.One type of biological therapy uses a drug or chemical to tell your immune system what to do.
Another option is taking some of your immune cells out of your body to teach them in a lab to attack the cells. Then the immune cells are put back in your body to destroy cancer cells.
A third option is forcing the cancer cells to reveal themselves to your immune system. In other words, if the cancer cells are using certain signals to hide by turning them on or off, the therapy helps change those signals back so that your immune system can recognize the cells.
However, most biological therapy is still in clinical trials, so you may need to get on a clinical trial to receive it. Ask your doctor about clinical trials or check with the major research hospitals to see if they have clinical trials in this area.
 A particularly aggressive form of treatment is stem cell transplant, which is generally given after you've already had chemotherapy and radiation to destroy the affected bone marrow. You'll be given healthy stem cells, sometimes your own and sometimes cells donated from another person. The stem cells can help create new and healthy bone marrow.If your own stem cells are used (autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant), they will be collected and stored before you go through chemotherapy. If another person's stem cells are used (allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant), they must undergo tests to make sure they are a match.
Once you have the transplant, you will need time to recover, usually a matter of months, and you will likely have pain in your bones, as well as nerve damage, which can lead to numbness. Other complications include graft versus host disease (GVHD), cardiac disease, infection, and secondary cancers. You can work with a doctor to help control this pain and reduce your risk of developing other complications.Bone marrow transplants, in which you receive healthy bone marrow from another person, are similar to stem cell transplants; however, stem cell transplants are now more common., Clinical trials are sometimes used when other types of treatments are not successful at curing cancer. Clinical trials have various criteria patients must meet in order to participate, such as having a certain type of leukemia or being relatively healthy. Ask your doctor about clinical trials. You can also check with the major teaching hospitals and the Cancer Treatment Centers of America.
 One of the main symptoms of leukemia is bleeding or bruising easily, as leukemia affects the blood's ability to form a blood clot.You may also have stomach pain, unexplained fevers, and constant fatigue, as well pain in your joints or bones.Other symptoms include swollen lymph nodes or enlarged spleen or liver and weight loss.
You may notice you are sweating more at night. You may also have infections more often and have petechiae on your skin (small, red spots).
 If you have a combination of these symptoms, you should see your doctor; however, many of these symptoms can point to other diseases, too, some much less serious. Don't immediately assume you have leukemia if you have a couple of these symptoms.If the doctor suspects you may have leukemia, they will check for physical symptoms, such as feeling your lymph nodes and sometimes your abdomen.
The doctor will also likely run a complete blood count to check your blood count levels.
If those tests indicate leukemia is likely, the doctor will do other tests, such as biopsies, spinal taps, X-rays, MRIs, CT scans, and/or ultrasounds., Myelogenous leukemia and lymphocytic leukemia are the two main forms, which can be either chronic and acute. Therefore, the four main diagnoses are acute lymphocytic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, acute myelogenous leukemia, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia.Chronic refers to the fact that leukemia isn't as fast-acting as acute. With acute leukemia, the cancer is attacking developing cells, so it is more aggressive.
"Myelogenous" and "lymphocytic" denote which type of white blood cells are affected.
 Once you're diagnosed with leukemia, you'll likely work with a team of doctors and specialists who will supervise your care, including an oncologist (cancer doctor), a pathologist (specializes in diseased tissue), and a hematologist (blood doctor). You'll also likely have a psychologist, a nutritionist, and a clinical nurse specialist. You may work with a naturopath, who can help you with alternative medicine solutions to side effects like nausea., You'll need tests to determine the strength and type of your leukemia, of course, but you'll also need tests to determine your overall health. Because many treatments for leukemia are aggressive, you have to be healthy to withstand them. If you are not healthy enough, your doctor will consider other treatments.You will likely have a blood test to see if your liver and kidney will hold up to the chemotherapy.
You will also have scans to determine a starting point for your treatment.

