 Girls love it when boys have confidence. To act confident, you have to believe in yourself. However, do not be cocky.
 Girls almost always fall for romantic guys.
 Girls love funny guys! But don't say disgusting things that you think are funny, as that will only gross her out.
 For instance, tell her that you are willing to help her with her homework (If she asks you to help her with homework) rather than going to your friend's party.
 Dress in cool clothes and wear some nice cologne or something, but don't go overboard.
, If she looks back at you, then the answer might be positive! But don't just keep staring at each other for an hour with nothing else to do.
 If someone speaks poorly of her, even if not seriously, do not tolerate this.
 Most girls like flirty guys. But don't overdo it. You can flirt with her by smiling a lot, tickling her softly (though some girls may not like to be tickled), complimenting her, telling her it was fun being with her or winking at her (many girls think it's really sexy when a boy winks at them, so give it a try!). You can also flirt in your own ways, as long as you don't do something that she doesn't like. Groping inappropriately will make a very bad impression.
 If the two of you have been hanging out for a week or so, and you feel like she might be into you, don't be afraid to ask her out. Have faith in yourself, and think of how much it's worth it to ask because if she agrees, you will have plenty of fun.
 Take a walk with her at sunset on the beach. That would be the perfect place to try to kiss her.
 Most girls prefer a private romantic kiss. This doesn't mean you take her to your room in your bed. Take her to a quiet, romantic looking place and she'll most probably get the message that you want a kiss. But if she doesn't want to come to a private place with you, that either means that she's not ready to kiss you, it's her first time, she feels uncomfortable with you or she's just nervous or shy. Don't force it when she's ready you will know.
 Don't hurt her feelings though, tease her in a joking and funny manner, and make sure that she knows that you're just joking. Never tease her by making fun of her.
, If she tries to come closer to you, it can signal that she's into you. If she just smiles and/or blushes, it may mean that she likes you but she's shy.
 Nothing is worse than telling a girl she's beautiful when she knows it's not true. Try complimenting her on specific things, like how pretty her hair is, or how soft her hand feels in yours.
 If she tries to come closer to you, holds your hand and squeezes it gently, smiles a lot, looks at you most of the time, snuggles to you, hugs you, pecks your cheek, then it means that she likes you and she's happy to be with you and she was really looking forward to going out with you. (If she doesn't pay much attention to you, you could make her jealous by flirting with another girl in front of her. Be cautious with this.)

