 Remember, the point of relaxing and recuperating at home is to remove yourself from stressors that might slow down your recovery. Doing everything you can to get rid of tension will help you feel better faster.
 Don't blow your precious energy on trying to keep up at work or school. Illness happens, and your superiors will probably be understanding and accommodating as long as you have a plan in place to make up the work later. For now, focus on feeling better.
 Ask a friend or relative for help with things that must still be done, such as doing a load of laundry or picking up medication from the pharmacy. Most people will be delighted to take any extra stress off of you.
 In order to hydrate yourself you should drink as much fluid as you can keep down. Stick to water or an electrolyte solution purchased at the pharmacy. Avoid alcohol, caffeine, or anything too acidic (such as orange juice) or basic (such as milk).


Sports drinks (such as Gatorade) will rehydrate you and replenish electrolytes, although unlike the options available at a pharmacy they are not guaranteed to give you all the electrolytes you need.Do not give sugary sports drinks to young children.
Make your own oral rehydration solution. If you're struggling to stay hydrated or you can't leave the house to buy an electrolyte solution at the pharmacy, make your own. Mix 4.25 cups (1 litre) clean water, 6 tsp (30 ml) sugar, and 0.5 tsp (2.5 ml) salt and drink as much as you can., If you're vomiting a lot, try to avoid foods that could be uncomfortable or painful coming back up, such as chips or spicy food. In addition, avoid dairy products for the first 24- 48 hours, as they can exacerbate symptoms of diarrhea. When you are able to advance the diet, go slowly to soups and broths and then soft foods. , Try sticking to a BRAT diet, in which you eat bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast. This will be bland enough that you can hopefully keep it down but will give you the nutrients you will need to recover quickly.


Bananas will pull double duty in providing bland nutrition and also in being rich in potassium, which will counter diarrheal losses.
Rice is bland and even nauseated folks can keep this down. You may want to try rice water, mixed with a bit of sugar, but this is still anecdotal.
Applesauce is also bland and sweet, tends to be tolerated, even if a teaspoon every 30 minutes. This requires patience, especially if treating children, as they may often only tolerate small sips or spoonfuls. You want to stick to small amounts, as large amounts will trigger vomiting, thereby countering your efforts.
Toast is bland source of carbohydrates that most can keep down.
If all else fails, eat baby food. Commercially-produced baby food is meant to be gentle on the stomach, easily digestible, and loaded with vitamins and nutrients. Give it a shot if you can't keep anything else down.
 With a few important caveats, it's vital that you get enough sleep while your body tries to fight back the stomach flu. Make time to get at least 8 to 10 hours of sleep per day, if not more.


Take naps. If you're able to stay home from work or school, go ahead and take a nap in the afternoon if you feel tired. Don't feel bad about being unproductive — sleeping is actually necessary for your body to repair itself and recover.
 If you're most comfortable hanging out on the couch where you have easy access to food and entertainment, consider setting up blankets and pillows so that you can fall asleep there whenever you're ready, instead of moving everything to the bedroom.
 As tempting as it may be, stay away from the sleeping pills while you're still actively sick. Being passed out on your back and vomiting over your nose and mouth can be life-threatening.
 As soon as you start to feel like you're going to throw up, move quickly. It's better to get up for a false alarm than to make a mess on the couch.


Stay near a bathroom. If you can make it to the toilet, flushing is a lot easier than having to clean a floor.
Vomit into something you can clean easily. If you have a few large, dishwasher-safe mixing bowls that you use infrequently (or don't plan to use ever again), consider keeping one with you throughout the day and when you go to sleep. Afterward, you can simply rinse out the contents in the sink, and wash it by hand or put it into the dishwasher.
 Set up a fan so that the air blows over your body. If you're really hot, set up a metal bowl of ice in front of the fan.


Put a cool compress on your forehead. Wet a strip of cloth or a dishrag in cold water, and dampen it as often as you need to.
Take a lukewarm shower or bath. Don't worry about soaping up, just focus on cooling down.
 If you can't do anything but lie down and watch a movie or television show, avoid the weepy dramas and select something cute and humorous. Laughter can help ease feelings of pain and speed your recovery.
 As you begin to recover, add your usual tasks back to your daily life. Start with taking a shower and getting dressed as soon as you're able. Then move on to doing chores, driving, and getting back to work and school when you're ready.

