 Research several local contractors and determine if their estimates are usually accurate or if they finish projects with overages. Ask the companies you’re thinking of working with for references and check for reviews of their services online. Send your design specifications to reputable contractors and choose the one that sends you back the lowest estimate.


Look into each contractor’s availability as well. They may be scheduling their work as much as six months out.
Be sure to choose a company with a reputation for finishing their work within the allotted time. Only a certified general contractor should build your home.Make sure to ask to see the contractor’s certificate of liability insurance and also verify with their insurance company that they are insured. You can also request that the insurance company include you as a certificate holder. This will ensure that you will be notified if there is a lapse in policy.
 If you have the know-how and the time, you can save a lot of money by building your home yourself. Act as your own general contractor and you could save five to ten percent on the costs of building your home., Many contractors have barter systems in place where people can work on the house they’re having built in exchange for a slightly reduced rate. If you feel comfortable swinging a hammer, painting the exterior or interior, or doing some basic landscaping, you could propose the idea to your construction company. You might ask, for instance, “Would it be possible for me to contribute to the home-building process in exchange for a reduced contract cost?”


You don’t need to build the whole house yourself. You could choose to just take on particular tasks you know you can handle, such as the painting or lighting installation.Don’t take on tasks you don’t feel adequate to tackle.
 Plan ahead by talking with your developer or construction contractor about alternatives that still satisfy your needs and priorities, but don’t make as big a dent in your pocketbook.For instance, grouping your appliances in a central location will make it easier for the developer to install the right wiring and connections for the home.


Look into your options for energy sources. For example, you might want to look into alternative energy sources and consider how much these sources of energy might cost or save you over time.
 When you change the work order, you’ll add both time and money to the home-building process as the new materials are obtained. Once you’ve developed a plan to build your house and received an estimate, you should stick to it.In addition, carefully monitor the progress of the home’s construction. The contractor may realize that the costs will exceed the estimate in some necessary, unavoidable way.

