 Life is busy; it’s easy to eat whatever is in the house or to head for the nearest drive-through and order something that sounds good. Instead, resisting the urge to eat junk food, plan what you will eat each day. To keep yourself on track, buy the necessary groceries to get you through a few days or a week.


In the beginning, this exercise will be harder because you won't be very good at estimating which foods have which calories. After a few weeks of being strict with yourself, you should be a pro at estimating how caloric certain foods are.
 Healthy foods may not taste the greatest, but they usually have far fewer calories in them, meaning that you can eat more of it. On the flip side, unhealthy foods usually have more calories; a large cola at McDonald's weighs in at over 300 calories, about the same as a McDonald's cheeseburger.That's a lot of calories for a drink. When looking for foods, generally choose:


Lean, white protein (chicken breast, fish, tofu) instead of dark, fatty meat

Colorful, fresh fruits and vegetables instead of dried fruits and vegetables

Whole wheat grains (brown rice, whole grain bread) instead of processed grains (white rice, white bread)

Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats instead of saturated and trans fats

Omega-3 fatty acids, such as flaxseed, cod liver oil, and salmon
Nuts, seeds, and grains instead of sweets and candies


, Water is essential for the health of your body's organs. It also takes up space in your stomach, suppressing your appetite. Best of all, water contains absolutely no calories. That's like stealing calories each time you drink. (Your body spends calories digesting food and water.) If you're serious about losing weight, drink water and stay away from any sweetened drinks like "energy" drinks, sodas, or fruit juices. Unsweetened green tea is acceptable to drink.
 Whether it’s bread, snacks or packaged frozen foods, check the product’s number of calories per serving and choose the one with the lowest reading.


If you're younger, go with your parents when they go grocery shopping. It'll be a bonding experience, and you'll get to pick out healthy, nutritional foods for yourself, with dietary information that you can understand.
Pay attention to serving sizes. If a nutritional label says the entire package has about 4 servings, then divide the entire contents of the package into 4 even groups. One group is equal to one serving.
 Not all foods have packaging that shows the number of calories, but there are many websites that tell you the calories of nearly any food. Just make sure that after you check the calories for a 4-oz. piece of fish, for example, you eat only that much.
 This way, you will know you really are putting exactly a tablespoon of creamer in the coffee or ¼ cup of cheese in scrambled eggs.
 You can use a computer spreadsheet program to make this easier. Record what you eat (even on a scrap of paper), and plug the information into your spreadsheet at the end of the day. Then, total up the calories. Not only does writing it down help you to stay motivated and on track, it is also helpful to look back and see the calories of certain foods you eat regularly.


One plus of having a food journal is that it will help you remember healthy dishes that you really liked. Put it down in your journal and you're less likely to forget that grilled asparagus with quinoa is actually pretty darn good.
 In the beginning, when you don’t know the number of calories of any food item, counting calories requires quite a bit of time and research, which can be frustrating. But once you automatically know an apple is 70 calories or a favorite granola bar is 90 calories, it becomes much easier.
 You can find them for less than $1 apiece on most auction sites. Increase the count every time you eat something (it's most practical to make one click per 10 calories consumed).


Alternatively, many smartphones have apps available that will look up caloric values for you, as well as calculate how many calories you should consume per day if you want to lose weight.
 Don't expect your weight loss program to happen overnight. Too often, people with really good intentions get discouraged right before they start to see real results. Had they just kept with it for a little bit longer, they would have started reaping the rewards. So stick with your program, believe in it, and be patient. You owe it to yourself.

