 When forming an opinion on something like a news topic, try to look for multiple sources. Read articles published by different news outlets, and try to include perspectives that challenge your own beliefs. Try to gather your own information rather than instinctively agreeing or disagreeing with what someone else thinks.For example, your parents might have an opinion about a news story. Instead of just agreeing with them because they’re your parents, you might search online to find articles on the subject from multiple news bureaus. After reading a few perspectives on the topic, you can form your own opinion based on what you’ve learned.
 Before getting too concerned about what someone thinks, consider their expertise and the way they express their opinion. If your teacher wrote their graduate school thesis on a particular historical event, you’ll want to value what they think over someone less informed.In addition to considering the source, think about its package: is someone informed about a subject speaking to you in a clear, thoughtful way? Or are they just hurling insults and criticizing your opinion just for the sake of disagreeing with you?
You may also consider whether someone might have a personal motivation for feeling one way or another.
 Don’t be afraid to have an opinion that goes against the norm, especially if you've put time and thought into forming that opinion. Balance evidence with your gut instincts instead of trying to conform and satisfy others. Respect what others think, and accept that not everyone will think the same way you do.For example, if you prefer dogs over cats, don't pretend to like cats more just to please your friends who think cats are better. You should form your own opinion, even if all of your friends prefer cats.
It can be healthy to challenge your core beliefs, but you should avoid compromising them just for the sake of popularity. For instance, if you were raised in a religious tradition, you might find that a healthy dose of doubt will deepen your faith in the long run. But that doesn’t mean you should change your beliefs just because someone criticizes them out of ignorance.Also, keep in mind that it is okay to disagree with people. You can express your opinion in a non-challenging manner and listen respectfully to their opinion as well. However, it is important to consider your goal for the conversation before moving forward.

