 It is natural to be enamored with someone the first few months you are dating, feeling like nothing could ever come between you. Just keep in mind that this feeling does not last forever. After the initial feelings of lust have worn off, you may have to work a bit more to keep your relationship going strong.Keep in mind that the end of the honeymoon phase is not a bad thing, but rather an important step in your relationship. Now is the time you get to know your partner better and cultivate a long-lasting, loving relationship.;
, It is important to spend time away from your partner in order to have time for your own interests and goals. Spending too much time together can cause problems in a relationship. If you spend every waking moment with your partner, then you may not appreciate the time that you have together as much. Make sure to plan activities apart and retain your independence as you continue your relationship.Try setting aside a night or day each week where you both do something on your own or with friends.
 Although it is important to have some time away from your partner now and then, spending time together is also very important. Make sure that you set aside a little time each day to catch up, perhaps over your morning coffee, over dinner, or during an evening walk.Make time to do things together like you did when you first started dating. For example, you can plan a movie night, a hiking trip, or a visit to a local museum.
 Love may fade in a relationship if one or both partners do not feel appreciated. Make sure that you tell your partner what you appreciate about him or her on a regular basis. Be specific and make sure that the things you mention are about your partner, not about you. If you appreciate your partner on a regular basis, it is more likely that you will also be appreciated in return.For example, you might tell your partner that you appreciate what a good listener he is or that you appreciate the way that she always has something positive to say when you get home from work.
 In order to ensure a lasting love, you need to be trustworthy and be able to trust your partner in return. Building trust requires you and your partner to be vulnerable with each other, keep promises, and keep the lines of communication open. Each time that you trust your partner to take care of something for you or to keep his or her word, you are providing a chance for your partner to follow through and earn more trust from you.For example, if your partner is responsible for paying the electric bill each month, don’t constantly remind him or her to do so. Trust that your partner will pay the bill. If he/she does, then you can feel more comfortable trusting your partner with bigger things.
 As your relationship progresses, you can build a deeper bond by sharing things with your partner that you haven’t yet told them. Tell your partner about your fears, hopes, and dreams for the future and ask about theirs as well.Be considerate of the things your partner shares with you, even if they seem unlikely or do not appeal to you.
 Physical attraction is not everything in a relationship, but it is important that you look good and feel healthy in order to be your best. Make sure that you are taking care of your basic needs, such as diet, exercise, sleep, and grooming, so that you will look and feel good when you spend time with your partner..

