 Assuming you have both parents' signatures to choose from, you'll need to decide on a parent whose signature you will replicate. Unlike the simulated signature, tracing will aim to recreate the signature by simply reproducing the authentic signature, so your gender and your parent's gender won't matter.
 Once you've chosen a parent whose signature you will trace, you'll need to find a written sample of that parent's signature. Look for something your parent would need to sign his or her official signature on, such as a personal check, a receipt, or some official document.


If at all possible, find something with a dark, bold signature. This will make it easier to trace that signature through whatever page you will be signing.
Be aware that tracing a signature may leave a second line of ink, or at least an indentation, on your parent's original signature. This evidence will be impossible to conceal, and may even invalidate whatever document your parent initially signed. Use great caution when selecting a signature to trace so that you do not ruin any important documents or leave behind any obvious evidence., The easiest way to trace another person's signature is by aligning the signature line of the un-signed document directly over a sample of the authentic signature. You can do this easily by securing the two documents in place with a paperclip on each side of the document. Be sure that the paperclip extends to cover all four edges of both pieces of paper.Once the real signature is aligned under the blank signature line on the un-signed document, you'll need to provide a source of light behind or under the authentic document. You can do this by holding the two papers (tightly secured to one another) over a lamp shade or on a window (assuming it's light out).
The backlighting is necessary to allow you to see the authentic signature under the un-signed document. Otherwise, unless the un-signed document is printed on thin tracing paper, you will have a very hard time tracing the signature.
 As you backlight the two pages, slowly and carefully trace your parent's signature onto the un-signed document. The traced signature has the advantage of being 100% identical to your parent's, so the height, ratios/proportions, and line starts/stops will look identical., Once you've finished replicating your parent's signature, you'll need to return the original to wherever you found it. If your parent comes into your room and sees a check, receipt, or other document bearing his/her signature lying around, it will be very clear that you're doing something you're not supposed to do.

