 Remind yourself that this happens (or will happen or has happened) to half the population of the world--every single month! Think about all the women you know. Your teachers, pop stars, actresses, police women, politicians, athletes--they've all been through this. Take a deep breath, relax, and congratulate yourself on reaching this important milestone.
 If it's the middle of third period and you just looked down to find spots of blood in your panties, know that help is not far away. If there's not a dispenser in the bathroom, you can go to the school nurse, a health teacher, counselor, or a teacher you like and trust.Until you can get a pad, wrap several layers of toilet paper around the crotch of your underwear. This will absorb the blood and act as a temporary liner until you can get a pad.Ask a trusted friend if she can lend you a pad. If there are other women in the restroom, don't be shy about asking them! They've all probably been in your position before and will be happy to help., First periods are usually very light, so it's unlikely it will seep through your pants. Still, it does happen sometimes, but it's not a big deal. Cover your butt with a sweater, hoodie, or long-sleeved shirt you can tie around your waist.


If you're at school, go to the nurse or office and ask if you can call your parents for a change of clothes.
If worst comes to worst, you can always change into the shorts of your gym uniform.
If you change your pants and someone asks you about it, just say you spilled something all over your pants and had to get a change of clothes. No big deal.
 Not all women will experience cramps, and some will only have mild discomfort, but it's possible you will feel intense cramping in your lower abdomen. The nurse can give you pain medicine, a heating pad, and a place to rest until you feel better.Exercise can actually relieve cramps. Even if you don't feel like moving, try not to skip gym class. It might help you feel better.
Try a few yoga poses to relieve cramps. Start with child's pose. Sit on your knees so your butt is resting on your heels. Stretch the upper half of your body forward, arms extended, until your stomach is resting on your thighs. Breathe slowly and relax, closing your eyes.Chamomile tea contains an anti-inflammatory that can help with cramps.Drink warm water to stay hydrated and reduce bloating and cramps., While you may not delight at the idea of sharing this information with your mom or dad, it's important they know. They can help you get supplies and take you to the doctor if you have any concerns or feel that something is wrong. If you have an irregular period, severe cramps, or acne, birth control might help get your hormones in check, and you'll need to see a doctor to get the prescription.Even if it's awkward, your parents will be happy you told them. They love and care about you, and your health is important to them.
If it's just you and your dad, don't keep him in the dark. He knows you're going to get your period eventually. Even if he doesn't have all the answers, he can help you get supplies, and may put you in touch with an aunt or other trustworthy woman you can talk to.
If you still feel shy, try sending your mom a text or writing a note so you don't have to talk face-to-face., While your period will probably be very irregular at first--it may last two days or nine, it may come every 28 days or twice a month--it's important you start to track it.Your doctor will start asking you about your cycle, and talk to you about any concerns you may have about the length, amount of flow, or time between your periods.


You can use one of many smart phone apps to track your period.
Tracking your period will make it less likely you are caught unaware. You can wear a panty liner when you know you're getting near the time of your period.
Knowing when you can expect your period can come in handy when making plans (you might want to postpone that beach trip for the week after your period).

