 Although most often the potty-training pant will be more-so wet than soiled, there will be times when it will become soiled. The amount of wetness in the pant will depend on how long you allowed the pant to be worn and how much urine was plowed into the pant before it was noticed, or it may have just been caused by sweat backing up and may not even need to be changed at the present time.

Nothing can be more frightening to a child wearing the pant if their parents feel down into the pant itself; if you peak over and see the sag of the pant from the outside of the pant or if you smell the stinky smell of urine, it's definitely time to change that pant.
;
, Few children will still fit on a diaper-changing table which is meant for babies, and you'll need to try to use something more suited to your particular child. Although you'll need to provide a suitable place for the change to take place, you'll also need some diaper rash cream, a changing pad for which to lay down underneath the child as well as the new pant itself.

Protect the changing area from a further "accident" potential wetness that may occur as a result of removing the wet pant and/or laying the pant next to the child for a few moments. Either use a towel or place a waterproof changing pad on the changing surface temporarily until the child's pant have been changed.
 Remove the excess static cling that had built up upon production at the factory. Hold onto the pant's front panel with both of your hands with a five-fingered pinching grasp as you grasp the center portion of the panel with both of your hands (one next to the other), and pull gently on the front panel section away from the back section of the new pant.

Prepare a disposable potty-training pant close to the changing area. Keeping your hand on the child is of utmost concern, so preparation before grabbing the child is the top concern, for safety is on the line.
 When a disposable potty-training pant is produced at the factory, the leakguards tend to stick to the gel-like core of the absorbent material.

Stick your hand down into the pant far enough so that the side-closing straps unfurl open.
Stop pushing down into the pant when your hand touches the bottom section of the new pant (which your child's genitals will be placed in).
Take your fingers and run them over the Leakguard areas and then pull your hand back out.
 Be firm but not too rough when pulling the static away from the sides of the pant. If you pull these sides apart too rough, you are more likely to end up breaking the pant's stretchy material connecting the front half of the pant with the back half - and that hold the pant closed when the child wears them at night!, If you don't pull the pant open far enough, it will choke the child's genitals (especially those of boys) when you try to remove the pant upon replacement time the next time it gets changed. The child may then scream that "their pant itches them" and you don't want that to happen. For girls, this tends to be less-so, however, there have been notable times when girls will tell the person that changes them "these things itch me.", Ask the child to lay back down on the bed or help to lay the child down on the bed. Use the protection mat as your centering area and ensure the child's diaper is laying in the direct center of this sheet. You won't need to be in the measured center of it, but you should really try to eyeball the center as best as you can. You may need to pick them up from underneath their arms and lay them gently down on the bed yourself so the affected wet pant area is directly on the pad and not overlapping any part of the remainder of the unprotected bedding., Although most often times the result of daywear, this can also include nightwear (when changing the child into their potty-training pant that morning). All clothing must be pushed back or removed to make it easy to access the pant which needs to be changed on the child.

Push back the upper half but try not to remove the upper half of a child's shirt unless they have become wet due to the accident. If they haven't become wet, fold them up several inches, so they don't impede the potty training pant-change.
 Many times a result of the special tapes of a Pull-Ups branded pant (which is Velcro), detach the tapes from the sides then grab the center and give the pant a slight forcible pull outward to each of their sides until the pant is laying out directly in front of them. Set this used pant to the side and grab the new pant to ready it for use.

You will hear the pant sides rip, and that's a very good thing at this time. (At this point, this sound is normal. Later on, this ripping sound will become a sound you don't want to hear, as it will signal a need for a brand new pant.)

While some potty training pants require the ripping away of the sides of the diaper-pant, some of the newer ones like Huggies Pull-Ups, have a better design that doesn't require much force at all to remove and refasten. The area is called the Pull-Away Zone, which is a reinforcement with a Velcro-like closing.
 Lift the child's legs using the Ankle-Hold Technique, and quickly swap out this pant., Try to determine what side of the pant is the front portion, and which item is the back. Although most often the result of a special logo icon, not all disposable potty-training pants have this special look, and you'll need to learn this pant's special features to see just what side is the back of the pant.

Look at the pants themselves to ensure that the child's pants will be going onto the child the correct way. Make sure the front of the pant is facing you. Some potty training pants may have tabs (like disposable diapers for a more-comfortable/custom form fit seal), while others might not (and have you pull them up like bedwetting diapers instead). Some may have icon-like tags on the back that denote the side, while others don't.

Most often though, you can tell by the size of one of the sides being deeper in the Leakguard area that is always going to be bigger in the rear. Look for the icon in the general place the tag of a pair of underwear would have been placed at, and if not, check for size differences.
 At first, you might want to think about putting the pant on in the diaper-format (using the pant tabs as the similarity to diaper-tabs and fastening that way), but for children who are further along in the training process, help the child slip the new pant on them. Put your hands on both of the insides of the pant so that you can help the child slip the pant on them without too much fuss and you can control the action.

Prepare the pants' Pull-Away Zone side tabs - if they have them. Open them up much like that of a regular disposable diaper to ensure you'll get the largest fit at first, or you can leave the pants tabs alone and continue on to the next step.
 Prepare the child's legs, so you can put the new pant onto the child. Lift the child's legs again, using the Ankle-Hold Technique you used earlier. 'The child's legs will need to be positioned in a completely straight line from their ankles to the knees and must still be at the same straight line past the knees up until their waistline. Keep the child's legs in this "lifted ankle position until after the pant has been fully pulled up.

Pull the pant up by pulling on the back of the pant, all while keeping the child's legs completely straight and in the air. You may need to use your opposite hand to help hold the edge of the pant as you pull it up onto the child.

If you can reach onto the tag and pull it up from that area, kudos to you. It's beneficial to pull it up at first by the tag area, but if you can't reach it or if something else obstructs that area, pull the pant up by holding each side of the pant until the pant stops, readjust the other side then continue switching sides until the pant stops moving completely or the child says the pant has met or is even a little tight in their groin. (You'll have to fix their pant a little if it pinches them in their groin, though.)
Use one of your hands on each side of the pants to pull the pant upwards onto your child. Stop just before it reaches the child's genital area, but must be snug to the child's skin at the end. 'Try to raise both sides consistently at the same time and to the exact same height as that of a disposable diaper which should be located at till they are at or very near to the child's waistline.
If at any point you hear a ripping sound in this new pant, you've gone too far. Even if you've just started to pull up these disposable pants when you hear this ripping sound, remove this pant and start with afresh until this mandatory specification can be met without ripping.
 Pull the Pull-Away Zone/outwards (holding the back edge of the front with a few fingers of one hand and the tab-side of the pant with the other, and bring them closer to the front, if this pant is of this new construction. Pull them in to make them a bit tighter, as you move this tab closer to the front. (If this style isn't present in the pant system, disregard this step.), Change all clothes that need to be addressed so the child can begin to feel comfortable again.,