 Closely watch the employee to see if tardiness is the only issue of concern with their job performance. If they are also sloppy in their work or disagreeable to their coworkers, then you may need to address these problems as well in your meeting. Pay attention to see if their productivity has clearly suffered as a result of their lateness.Make a quick note in your phone or jot down your observations in a small notepad that you keep on you. This will allow you to recall everything clearly later on.;
, It is key that you not allow this issue to go on too long. Begin planning a meeting as soon as you see your employee behaving in problematic way. If you wait, there is a possibility that it will only get worse. You also run the risk of alienating other employees who have to pick up the slack from the slacker., If you work at a larger business, there is likely a detailed manual to guide your actions in situations of employee discipline. Skim through the book to see if there is a section that pertains to tardiness. Ideally, you will find a statement outlining a clear, coherent attendance policy.If your place of work does not have an employee manual, then you will need to rely on your personal observations and past practices to guide your actions. For example, if the employee consistently comes in 15 minutes late, then this is an obvious violation of the schedule.
 Send a quick email, make a phone call, or drop by in person at your company’s HR Department. Tell them about the situation, ask for their advice, and ask them what they need from you in terms of paperwork. It is possible that they will need an acknowledgement signed by the employee or a summary of the conversation from you for the employee’s record.It is also possible that the HR people know something regarding the employee’s personal or medical life that you do not. For example, the employee may have approached them regarding using part of a medical leave. Ask HR to educate you regarding any company leave policies that could pertain to this employee., You’ll want to get your hands on any payroll records or timesheets showing additional absences or attendance overall. You may want documentation showing prior incidents of lateness, their impact, and the reasons provided by the employee. Having employee performance evaluations in-hand is also a good idea.