 You can start teaching your puppy some simple commands even at this young age. Simple commands are crucial for your long-term relationship, and basic obedience training will make your life together easier and more fun."Sit" is a good place to start. You will just need a few soft treats to help him along. Hold the treat in front of his nose and then slowly tilt his head up and back towards his tail. He will move back into a sitting position, and as he does this, say "sit". Praise him and give him the treat.You can teach him "down" by starting from a sitting position and holding the treat in front of his nose. Lower the treat down and he will lower down. Say "down" as he moves and then give him and treat and praise him.
You may need to keep one hand above his back to discourage him from standing up.
You can teach him "come", just by moving away from him, holding out a treat, and saying "come"., Puppies love to play tug of war, and it can be a great way to teach them to drop things on command. After playing for a while say "drop" to instruct him to release the object. If he doesn't let you take it, you can gently blow on his face. This will normally prompt him to drop the object and take a step backwards. Be sure to use the command "drop".


If blowing doesn't work, gently squeeze one of his front paws. When he feels that his paw is stuck, he will open his mouth, dropping the object, and look down at his paw.Always use a gentle voice and remember that at this age it is all about learning while having fun together. Keep the sessions short and be sure to reward good behaviour., Another great game you can play with a puppy this young is fetch. Playing this will help him learn to retrieve things and bring them back to you. Get two toys that look identical and throw one of them down the hallway. Hopefully the puppy will chase after the object and bring it back to you. If he picks it up and walks towards you but doesn't stop, the trick is to grab him not the toy. If you show that you want the toy too soon, he won't come near you next time.


Take hold of him as he goes past and praise him for returning. Then you can begin to get him interested in the second toy you are holding.
He will learn that if he brings something back to you, you will throw something else for him to chase. In the future he will be happy to give up the first toy because he knows there is going to be another one., If you playing outside with a puppy this young you need to be very attentive. It's a good idea to put him on a long-leash even if you are playing in your garden and there are no escape routes. This will help him get used to being on a leash, but will also enable you to control where he can go. Use a leash of 10-15 feet, but make sure it is light and not too much of a physical burden for such a young puppy., Remember that a puppy of ten weeks old is still very young and his comprehension is limited. Don't try to go too fast too soon, and be patient if he seems not to be picking things up. Puppies can be very easily distracted, so don't allow yourself to be frustrated. Be consistent, stay calm, and have fun. Accidents will happen in these first weeks. Don't have unfair expectations of a ten week old puppy.
 With a young puppy it's important to reinforce the positive, and ignore the negative where possible. For example, if he chews your shoe that's your fault for leaving it out. When the dog does something wrong remove the dog from the situation, and distract them with an appropriate chew toy. Puppies this young are infants and will not understand you trying to discipline them.