 Being an effective leader means realizing where you excel and where you could use improvement. For instance, you could be excellent at pushing deadlines and motivating employees, but poor at strategic planning. Make a concerted effort each day to work on the things that you are weak on.


Talk to the main members of your team or team managers to get an honest evaluation of your leadership. They may see problems in your leadership style that are not apparent to you. This is known as participative feedback.For instance, if your weakness is organizing, take at least an hour each day to organize your space.
If you are poor at communicating and motivating, search for local workshops that can help you or talk to other managers and team leaders that you know for strategies.
If your project is falling behind or your team is failing, you must take a step back, and self-assesses if you're a good leader.
 Being the leader does not mean that all the members will immediately like or respect you. Many times you must gain their trust and admiration with your knowledge, experience, and ability to settle conflict within the team.Get respect from your team members by showing your value and expertise. Resolve issues quickly and be knowledgeable in all aspects of what the team is doing.


A good leader will help fill in the gaps when the team is running behind.
Be sure to set the example on the team. If you have bad habits, chances are your team will replicate your behavior.
 As the leader of the team, you'll need to communicate to each member efficiently and clearly. Encourage transparency so that your team members tell the truth, then partake in active listening. Stop and actually listen to what team members have to say. They could be pointing out something that you've missed or they could shed light on things from their perspective.


Using silence as a communication tool will often have team members revealing much more than they originally intended about their feelings. Instead of talking, be silent and see what they have to say.
Internalize what your team members are telling you and think of solutions to their concerns or comments.
Talk to people in your team and keep regular communication with them.
Get to know members' habits and tendencies so that you can use it to the team's advantage.
Knowing your members will also help you guide their development., Drive your team towards success by giving them the encouragement that they need to do well. Motivation can come in the form of being inspired by your abilities, or by being rewarded for good work. Lead by example and show them that you're a capable leader who cares about them. Figure out what team members value the most and use it to motivate them.


You can encourage someone by saying something like, "You did a great job blocking that game Darius. Keep up the good work, I'm seeing some serious improvement!"
Some team members want positive reinforcement while others prefer monetary incentives., Your team must know what's expected of them to stay productive and work towards an end goal. Before you allow your team to start working or practicing, sit each team member down and tell them what you expect from them. You will also need to set the expectation for behavior and values within the team.For instance, if you are leading a sales team you can say something like, "We all want to make sales, and it's important to meet your quotas, however, we also need to maintain integrity. Never lie or mislead customers, rather, persuade them towards making a purchase."

