 Whether you're taking classes or learning on your own, setting a schedule will help you stick to your new pursuit. If you're learning a new skill, set a practice schedule and stick to it. If you sign up for a class, show up to every class..


Pick days and times when you feel alert and relaxed. If you're a morning person, schedule your learning in the morning
Don't cram. Giving yourself breaks aids your retention of information.Learn a little bit at a time.
Schedule time off as well as time on. If you're learning an instrument, try practicing 6 days a week and resting on the seventh.
Sleep on information you want to retain., If you want to learn, study. Write questions for yourself and try to answer them as you learn new things. Quiz yourself regularly on the new knowledge and skills you are acquiring. If you're learning a skill, practice regularly.


Use flash cards. No matter if you're learning new things for your own amusement, flash cards are still an effective way to learn. Quiz yourself or ask a friend to quiz you.Test yourself before you learn. Trying to answer questions before you have studied the answers will make it easier for you to learn the answers when you find them, because your brain is already looking for them., You'll learn better if you reward yourself as you go. Set learning goals, and meet them. For instance, you might set yourself a goal of learning a new Mandarin character every day for a month. Stick to your goal, and celebrate when you have achieved it.Give yourself a treat for learning new things. Take time to celebrate your learning milestones. You might take yourself out for a meal at a nice Chinese restaurant, for instance, on the last day of the month.
 Using what you've learned can be the best reward. If you learn how to draw, set up an exhibit for yourself. If you've learned how to code, make your own website and make websites for your friends. If you learn a new language, take a trip to the place where that language is spoken. If the cost of travel is prohibitive, apply your skills by throwing a foreign language movie night for yourself once a month.


If your new knowledge has expanded your bankable skillset, consider changing jobs or applying for a promotion that will allow you to apply your new abilities at work.

