 The help you get for your addiction depends on the type of addiction you have. Substance abuse problems will require different treatment methods than addiction to porn, sex, the internet, video games, or food. One way you can start getting help is to go see an addiction counselor.

A counselor can be a good first step for figuring out what kind of treatment you need for recovery.
You may go a therapist or psychologist, or you may start by going to one of the counselors who works at your college or university.;
, Many campuses have addiction recovery programs for their students. These programs are confidential, and the aim is to help college students through addiction recovery while staying in school and maintaining academic success.Check the college or university website or handbook. These resources should list any addiction recovery help the college offers.
Go talk to the college’s counseling or health services. If your college offers a recovery program, they will know about it.
Many college recovery programs offer educational sessions, 12-step programs, peer support groups, socials with others in the program, and other activities to help promote recovery, socializing with others in similar situations, and success.
 Some addictions, like severe substance abuse problems or eating disorders, may require medical help at the beginning of the recovery. You may need a medical detox or to go to an in-patient rehab center. Talk to your counselor or your doctor to help you decide if medical treatment is right for you.If you need a medical detox or to go into rehab, you need to talk to the college about working with you if you have to miss school. You may be able to miss a few classes if your treatment won’t take very long, or you may need to withdraw for the semester and come back in the next one. Talk to the school’s counselors and health professionals for advice, and discuss your situation with the dean.
 One trigger for your addiction may be loneliness or isolation. Because you are coping with addiction in college, you may feel different than your peers. You may feel like you can’t share your addiction with them or feel like you can connect with them. This may lead you to seek out your addiction to feel better. To help with this, find a support group so you can connect with others going through the same thing you are.Your campus may offer an addiction recovery program with support groups of your peers.
 If you have been spending time with friends who have the same addiction as you, they may not be happy you have decided to quit and go into recovery. They may try to pressure you back into your addiction. If you find yourself in this situation, it will help you to have a support network of people who want to see you through recovery and living a healthier lifestyle.Your support network may be your family, your boyfriend or girlfriend, or your friends who don’t have your addiction.
Don’t be afraid to ask your family or friends for help. Even if it’s just to talk during an intense craving, to help you make a good decision, or to listen when you need to vent about school.

