 It's important to learn to defuse a bad situation. But it is equally important to take steps to avoid tough situations altogether. Spend time thinking about changes you can make to stay away from potential fights.Go with your gut feeling. If you are walking home and see a group of kids standing on the corner, you might feel like there would be a problem if you walked by them.
Avoid the situation by taking a different route home. It might cost you a few extra minutes to change directions, but it could also help you avoid a fight.
The same is true for when you are actually in school. If you see a group of kids that look suspicious, don't engage with them. Use a different route to get to class.
 You could get hurt if you get in a fight. That is why it is important to always be conscious of your safety. It's a good idea to be aware of your surroundings.Try to travel with friends. If possible, walk with others in between class.
A bully will be less likely to approach you for a fight if you are with other kids. You should also try to sit with friends at lunch.
If you are worried about your safety, try to stick close to adults. In the cafeteria, sit at a table close to a lunch room monitor.
 You can make it clear that other kids need to respect your personal space. Setting boundaries is a great way to avoid getting in a fight. Establish clear lines that should not be crossed.If someone bumps into you try saying, "I would appreciate it if you could stay further away from me." Speak firmly and politely.
Maybe you need to leave the room and someone is blocking your path. You can say, "I would like you to get out of my way, please."
By setting boundaries, you are making it clear that you wish to avoid fighting. This is a better choice to make than shoving someone out of your way.
 Your words are your most powerful weapon. You can use your voice to help avoid potentially dangerous situations. For example, if you see other kids fighting, you can use words to defuse the situation.Try using logic. Instead of getting physically involved, you can say "You are going to get in trouble if you keep fighting. I know neither of you wants to get suspended from the basketball team."
You can also use your words to get help. Tell an adult if there is a fight starting. This is a choice that can help you to stay out of danger.
Always try to speak clearly and confidently. You want others to know that you mean what you say.
Be respectful. Do not use your words to instigate problems.Instead of mocking someone, try saying, "I know you're better than this. I don't think you really want to fight."

, One of the main reasons that people fight is because they allow emotions to get the best of them. Fights are usually caused by anger, stress, or fear. Learning to control your emotions can help you stay out of fights.There are several things you can do to manage stress. For example, you can concentrate on the positive things in your life.
Maybe you are stressed because someone in your family is sick. Instead of focusing on that at school, take a moment to be glad that you get to spend some time with your friends.
There are also effective ways to control your anger. For example, you can practice deep breathing techniques. Count to five while you slowly inhale, then count to five as you slowly exhale.
Talk about your feelings. If you are coping with some difficult emotions, speak to a friend, parent, or teacher.
 All of us have bad days. Sometimes you might feel like snapping at someone, or you might feel like you have an especially short temper. Just remember, you can choose how you handle those days.It's normal to have bad days. But you can try to minimize those occasions by focusing on the positive things in your life.
If you find yourself about to say something mean, find something else to think about. Try saying to yourself, "Ok, I'm annoyed now, but I'm really looking forward to playing video games later."
Maybe someone said something hurtful to you at school. You can use the same coping tactics for dealing with someone who wants to physically fight you.
Take care of yourself physically. Make sure to get enough rest and physical exercise. These will help stabilize your mood and help you avoid the urge to fight.

