 Purchase that food if possible. Sudden changes in diet can easily upset a puppy's stomach. You can always do a gradual change later if needed.
 It is extremely important to make sure your puppy is eating a high quality food to ensure that they are receiving the best nutrition. This doesn't mean you have to run out and purchase the most expensive bag of food, it just means you should be aware of what type of ingredients you are feeding your puppy.


Ask your veterinarian to recommend the best food for your budget.
 For very young and newly weaned pups, you can also add a small amount of water to their dry food to make it easy for them to chew and gradually eliminate it over a week or two.


Always choose a dog food that is primarily made of meat, not corn. Dogs were not meant to eat corn and it can upset their digestive system, especially in puppies. Choose to feed your puppy a grain-free diet if possible.
 Grapes, raisins, tea, alcohol, garlic, onions, avocados, salt, and chocolate are toxic to dogs. If your dog has ingested one of these things, call an Animal Poison Control Center.
 Puppies should not be removed from their mothers before they are eight weeks old. After they are eight weeks old, you can begin a feeding regimen based on the age of the puppy. The serving size will depend on the breed and the size of the puppy. Be sure to look up the specific feeding instructions for your breed of puppy.


Three to four weeks old: Begin to mix some solid food into the puppy's diet along with their mother's milk. To make it easier for the puppy to digest, mix the food in some of its mother's milk or a puppy replacement milk. Feed your puppy whenever it cries because it is hungry. Usually this will be about four times per day.
Six to eight weeks old: Feed your puppy a puppy formula dry food that is rich in protein and calcium. Again, make sure that real meat is the first ingredient on the ingredients label.
Generally, puppies less than 6 months old will need to be fed three to four times a day depending on their breed and size. You can reduce this to twice a day for most pups when they are around six months old.
 Puppies cannot handle abrupt changes in their diet and will be house trained more easily if they eat at consistent times every day. This helps them to know when mealtime is, helps them go to the bathroom at consistent times, and helps you to know how much your dog is eating.
 Measuring out food helps to prevent overeating and let's you keep track of your pup's appetite and eating habits. Allow it to eat for about 10-15 minutes and then the bowl should be picked up until the next feeding time.


Monitoring your pups weight and appearance can help to make sure you are feeding the appropriate amount. If you can see their ribs it may be underweight and if you can’t feel its ribs it is possibly overweight.
Be sure to discuss proper feeding amounts and your pups weight with your veterinarian at your puppy regular visits.
 Make sure you are feeding a puppy food specifically labeled for large breed puppies that food is designed to provide the proper nutrition to keep its bones growing healthy and strong and to help prevent some common diseases that can occur in these pups.


Again, your veterinarian is a great source of information about proper puppy nutrition., Change your puppy's water at least twice per day to ensure that your puppy is drinking clean water. Also remember to wash the bowl itself regularly.

