 If you want to avoid scratches and other damage to your lenses, make sure to clean your glasses on a regular basis. Use the right materials when cleaning your glasses to assure you avoid scratches.


If you use chemical sprays or lens cleaners, be careful when you spray your lenses. Spray from an appropriate distance, as outlined on the cleaner container, and always use sprays specifically designed to clean lenses. Never use household cleaners like Windex.Use the right cloth. Paper towel, tissue, and napkins should not be used to dry lenses. These can cause tears and other damage to the frames. You should also avoid using the corner of your shirt. If you use fabric softener on your clothes it can cause streaks on your lenses. You should only use 100% cotton wipes made explicitly for cleaning lenses.Air dry your glasses when you clean them. This prevents materials from getting caught on your lenses, which can lead to tears and other damages.;
, Oftentimes, glasses get scratched when they're dropped. It may be helpful to use two hands when removing glasses so you can remove the frame straight off your face and not bend the sides. Grip your glasses firmly when removing. Remove your glasses slowly. Not only can dropping glasses cause scratches, you could also potentially bend the frames through hasty removal., Always use a glasses case. When you're not wearing your glasses, do not simply leave them lying around. Always use a protective case. You can ask your eye doctor for advice on the most durable type of glasses case.Cases come in a variety of forms. Try to go for a sturdier case, made of leather or hard plastic, that closes completely. Cases of flimsier plastic or fabric that do not close do not provide as much protection.
 If you work with tools or engage in sports activities that could cause damage, wear protective goggles over your glasses. Invest in ski goggles or protective shields for construction work. Try on protective goggles before purchase to make sure they're roomy enough to safely conceal your glasses., Taking a nap during the day, playing with your dog, or roughhousing with your kids could result in damage to your glasses. Take your glasses off during these activities and place them in their case.

