;
, If you are using cherry tomatoes, cut them in half. For other larger tomatoes, cut them into quarters.
 This is not necessary but removing the seeds will speed up the drying process.
 Fresh herbs are a popular choice. Basil is often used to flavor sun dried tomatoes. Toss the tomatoes so they are well coated with the herbs.
 Choose a really hot day. For optimal results, the temperature should be over 90ʡF (32ʡC) with humidity less than 60 percent.
 You can use a screen made for drying purposes or an old window or door screen that has been scrubbed clean. Set the screen up on a table, and raise the screen by placing small boards or bricks at the corners. This will allow air to circulate around the drying tomatoes.
 Arrange them so there is space between the tomatoes; you do not want them touching. Proper drying requires adequate air flow for each individual piece of tomato.
 Place boards or bricks around the screen, then place the cheesecloth over this. The cheesecloth should cover the tomatoes but not touch them. Hold the cheesecloth in place by placing more bricks on top of the bottom bricks.The cheesecloth will help keep bugs off and birds out, as well as falling debris from trees.
 They can take anywhere from 1 day of full sun to 2 weeks to properly dry. Make sure to take them in at night. After the sun goes down, humidity levels tend to rise and you do not want your tomatoes to absorb any moisture (which would basically undo any drying that has already occurred).


The tomatoes are completely sun dried when they have a leathery texture and are not sticky. They should feel dry but not cold to the touch. Do not over dry them so they become brittle. The finished product will be much darker than the original.
 Drying tomatoes in the oven requires the lowest setting on your oven. If it is above 150 degrees, leave the oven door open slightly to reduce the heat.
 They will have to be turned and tossed periodically through the drying process since there is no air circulation with a baking sheet.
 This may take 6 to 12 hours.
 Pack them loosely and rid the container of as much air as possible. Keep the dried tomatoes in a cool, dark, dry place.


If you have put your dried tomatoes in an air-tight container, you can also store them in the refrigerator or freezer.

