 It can be your parents, a family member or your crazy friends… what matters is being around people you cherish in your life. We don’t always realize that we’re not giving certain persons enough time to talk, laugh and just “hang out”, so this is the time you’ll finally remember that friend you adore but can’t spend one hour with or that neighbour you always wanted to have a chat with. Find time for the people who matter, show them your support and most importantly show them that you do care about being with them because acts are certainly stronger than words.;
, For once, look for completely fresh music! We all agree that music is the most amazing thing ever, the universe itself agrees on this. It sounds crazy but it is now proven that music affects the way you conceive the world; so logically if your playlist is narrow, so is your perception. This is why it’s sometimes beneficial to search for music through the internet or on the radio or just type in random words on YouTube and see what you can tumble on.
 We’ll never say this enough: you haven’t truly lived unless you discovered how amazing books are. A proverb says: “Happiness is hidden in a book’s pages, in a mother’s arms and finally in a lover’s cuddle.”

, This is of course something to do with restrictions. You don’t even want to know all the side effects of eating too much dessert or food in general; but once in a while doesn’t hurt a bee. And don’t go on a diet, you wouldn’t want to miss this.
 Laughing is a remedy to everything! It helps the heart beat healthier, it lowers your blood pressure, it strengthens your facial muscles, it makes you look good… and you end up happier than the second before, so it’s a win win situation.
 People get more and more aware of the importance of keeping a healthy spiritual connection and how empowering meditation and contemplation can be. All your anger and anxieties disappear once you start doing these activities daily and efficiently. You start dealing with problems differently and with more confidence and stability than ever. So don’t forget that we are spirits trapped in a body, and make sure yours has peace and inner strength.
 If you’re under the same walls 24/7, don’t be surprised if nothing extraordinary happens to you. So to have action and rebounds you are actually going to have to get up, dress nicely, wear perfume and get away from home. If you don’t have money or can’t hang out with your friends, take yourself to the park, have a walk in your neighbourhood, visit friends or get them to come over… basically what you want to do is see different things, talk to different people and anticipate amazing events.
 Make your day memorable, stronger: why not making the day memorable for someone else as well? Give out your old clothes, volunteer in a shelter or association. Whenever you have the time, buy a meal for a homeless person, be polite to everyone you meet… And if you can’t go out, just help in house chores or give your mom a break at cooking for once.
 This is a very valuable advice. It will help you improve in ways you could never imagine and will keep on helping you involved as a person. Learning something new means that you need to fix a goal to yourself which is learning at least one thing everyday, and if you don’t you can pretty much double the goal next time. Learn a word’s meaning, a new ability, how to knit, the secret ingredient to your mom’s recipe, that player’s last name… Everything you add to your knowledge and experiment is useful in building your character and turning you into the person you always wanted to be. Remember to always make a recap of your day until you can fix the information in your brain. If not, they’re more likely to be forgotten.

