 Buses travel from the northern-most sections of Seattle, including Shoreline and South Auburn, and reach from the western coast to the eastern Fall City area.


As of 2015, rates for riding the bus outside the downtown area start at $1.50 for children and senior citizens and reach $3.50 during peak hours.
Bring your bike on the bus for free. Combine a bicycle tour of the outer areas of Seattle with the convenience of riding the Metro Transit bus.;
, Pronto Cycle Share has bike rental stations all over downtown Seattle. Rent a bike for 1 - 3 days! Pick up and drop off bikes at any kiosk, but bring your own helmet
.


As of 2015, $8 for 24 hours or $15 for 3 days.
Visit the Pronto! site for rental station locations.
 Between the hours of 8 p.m. and 5 a.m., you can ask the bus driver to stop anywhere along the route so you can disembark close as possible to your destination. You don't have to wait for an official Metro stop to exit the bus.
 This bus service provides quick and convenient access that stretches beyond downtown and gets you from one point to another quickly. Buses on this line electronically signal stop lights to keep them green longer, guaranteeing a faster commute.
 This mode of transportation allows you to avoid stop lights, rush hour and traffic jams while traveling throughout the Seattle bay area. As of 2015, fares begin at $4.75.


There are many other water transportation options that you can easily find in downtown Seattle. Some are strictly sightseeing cruises, while others are designed to get you from point A to point B. Seattle's bus and light rail routes connect with many water transportation services.
 You can ride the light rail for prices that start around $2.


Daily Sounder commuter rail service is offered between Tacoma, Everett and Seattle. The Central Link light rail runs all-day service between the SeaTac airport and downtown Seattle.
 You can pre-purchase fares for all of Seattle's public transit options, including the light rail, bus and water taxi, on a smart card called the One Regional Card For All (O.R.C.A). The card is available online at the O.R.C.A website, at transit retail locations, and in vending machines at many transit stations.

