 You can also use a square vase instead. You will be placing the entire rose inside the vase and then filling the vase all the way with water. Try to get a vase that is at least 12 inches (30.48-centimeters) tall. This will make your centerpiece look more elegant.


Consider wrapping a crystal trim around the base of the vase.You can find it in the sticker or scrapbooking section of an arts and crafts store.
 You will need the extra space inside the vase for the floating candle. If the rose is too tall, it will stick out of the water/vase and ruin the effect. You can trim off the leaves or leave them on.


Cut real roses with clean garden shears. Cut silk roses with wire cutters.
If you chose to leave the leaves on a real rose, rinse them off under cool water. This will get rid of any dust that might muddy up the water.
 A frog pin is a coin-sized metal disk with pins sticking out of it, like a hairbrush. You can find them in the floral section of an arts and crafts store. Try to wedge the rose's stem between the pins rather than straight into them.Consider adding a few more shorter roses into the pin.
A frog pin is not absolutely necessary, but it will help keep the rose secure. If you cannot find a frog pin, you will have to add more vase filler later on.
 For an added effect, consider turning on a submersible LED light, and adding it into the bottom of the vase as well.Make sure that the LED light is meant for being used in underwater floral arrangements. You can find them in the floral department of an arts and crafts shop.
 Scoop the filler out of the bag with your hands, then carefully spread it across the bottom of the vase. This will prevent the filler from damaging the rose's petals. Keep filling the vase until the frog pin is covered.


You can use tiny acrylic pellets or crystals, of glass gems or marbles.
If you weren't able to find a frog pin, fill the bottom of the vase with 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters) of vase filler, or until the rose stands up on its own., Stop when you are about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) away from the rim of the vase. The entire rose, including the bloom, should be submerged under water.
 Make sure that the bottom of the candle does not bump up against the rose. If it does, add more water or trim the rose down. You can use a regular round candle or a rose-shaped one.
 Consider scattering acrylic gems or metallic confetti around the vase. You can also make a few more vases that are taller or shorter than the one you just made.

