 Depending on the app you use, you may or may not need to install a separate program on your computer after you install the app on your phone. Consult the developer's instructions for specific information.


In this section, we'll use WO Mic running on an Android phone and a Windows PC. Many equivalent apps will be similar.
The free WO Mic download links for Windows and Mac are available here. For Windows, you also need to install the driver package available on the same page.
 Open the app on your phone. If you had to install a computer client, open this as well. Now, you need to connect your phone to your computer and get both programs to recognize each other. Often, in-program instructions will direct you how to do this.


For WO Mic, open both programs and select to connect via USB, WiFi, or Bluetooth on the phone. Tap "Start." Now, on the computer, click on the appropriate connection option., Getting a good USB connection between your phone and your computer is easy — just connect the cable. WiFi or Bluetooth require a little extra work.


For WiFi, ensure your phone recognizes your computer's wireless network and is connected. There will almost always be a small WiFi icon on your phone's home screen that shows your connection to a network.
For Bluetooth, ensure that Bluetooth is enabled for your device. You can usually turn Bluetooth on or off in your phone's "Settings" menu. You'll also want to enable Bluetooth on your computer via the Control Panel or your wireless connections menu. Wait for the device to pair with your computer.
 Most computer mic programs for your smartphone work exactly like normal recorder programs. There should be fairly well-labeled "Record" and "Stop" buttons that determine the length of the recording.


For WO Mic, the "Start" button is at the top of the screen. It turns to "Stop" when the mic is on. The microphone icon in the center of the screen will also turn green, showing the mic is active.
 Any sound picked up by the phone's mic will automatically be transmitted to the computer. Use your phone with any program that ordinarily uses a mic. There are many examples, but just a few popular uses are listed below:Use your phone as a mic for calling programs like Skype. This is a good way to make free calls with the handheld convenience of your phone.
Make audio recordings on your computer with a program like Audacity that allows you to save sound input.
Use your phone to communicate with teammates in your favorite online games.

