 Many cold sore sufferers know that an outbreak is coming before the actual blister appears. The symptoms vary for individual sufferers, so it may take a few outbreaks before you learn what yours are. When you know a cold sore is coming, you can use a treatment to stop it in its tracks.


Pay attention to tingling sensations or pain on your lips. The majority of sufferers report a "funny feeling" in the area a few days before the sore develops.
If you get a sore throat, swollen glands and fever, you may be about to get a cold sore.
Some people experience an increased amount of saliva or drooling before a cold sore forms.
 When you feel a cold sore coming on, fill a plastic sandwich bag with ice and wrap a dish towel around it. Apply ice to the area where you feel a cold sore forming for 10 to 15 minutes at a time. Repeat the application every hour. Cold sores require warmth and moisture to develop. Keeping the area cool may prevent the cold sore from forming.
 Soak a tea bag in hot water and allow it to cool. Apply the bag to your lip for three to five minutes every hour. Tea contains tannic acid, which is believed to possess antiviral properties. Many over-the-counter treatments for cold sores also contain tannic acid.
 Lemon balm is an herb in the mint family that has been shown to prevent cold sores from forming. When you feel the telling tingle of a cold sore coming on, apply a dab of lemon balm cream and let it soak into your skin. Reapply as necessary according to the instructions on the packaging.Lemon balm cream is available in drugstores. If you grow your own lemon balm, try rubbing a fresh leaf over the area.
Lemon balm has also been shown to help cold sore outbreaks go away faster. It is safe to apply to open sores.
 Lysine is an amino acid that effectively prevents cold sores from forming. It stops the herpes virus from growing when applied to the skin.It can also be applied to open sores to help them heal more quickly. Look for lysine cream with a 70:1 concentration. You can find lysine cream over-the-counter at drug stores. Apply according to the instructions on the packaging.
 Propolis is a resin produced by bees. It contains antioxidants and boosts immune function. Studies show that propolis stops the herpes virus from reproducing. Applying propolis ointment when you feel your skin start to tingle may prevent an outbreak from occurring., Peppermint oil is thought to have properties that prevent exposed herpes particles from entering new cells. If you already have a cold sore, applying peppermint oil may help prevent it from spreading to another area on your lips. Peppermint oil may also help the erupted sore heal more quickly.