 Biblically, her father is her protector until you two tie the knot. Make sure he gives you his blessing! (Note: if her dad is passive about it, you might want to try to seek out an uncle, brother, grandfather, pastor etc. who knows your lady very well and can give you their consent.);
, Is there a special place where you have made many memories together, or a movie you both adore, or a song you both can't live without? Try to weave what you know she loves into the proposal event. She likes the ocean? Invite her to vacation with your family, and propose there. She likes football? Take her to her favorite team's game.
 Thanks to Hollywood and pop culture, guys' romantic tricks and secrets concerning proposals are known by girls everywhere. Make sure that, in the moment she isn't exactly expecting a proposal. For example, you take her to the beach with your family. You've been dating/courting for two years. She's probably expecting a proposal by now!! Don't propose to her while you're walking down the beach in the moonlight, just the two of you. She'll probably expect it, at least a little bit. Instead, propose to her on the "fishing trip" where you actually take her and your family to a neat picnic spot. Blow her mind! (And by the way,...girls are smart. They know when you're planning something. Make sure she's surprised!)

, Don't propose to her in the line at the Nachos stand at her favorite team's football game. You can still do something surprising without throwing class, tradition, and chivalry out the back door.
 Don't do something completely out of character for yourself, or she'll suspect something's up for sure.
 That will give you some ideas, and if there's a family "proposing tradition", you'll want to know about that.
 Sure, tell her how much she means to you and that she's the most beautiful girl you know, but show her that Jesus is the foundation for your love so she knows that she knows that you're stable. Say things like, "I believe God put us together"..."I want to love you like Christ loves the church"..."Since Jesus never leaves us, I want to exemplify that by spending the rest of my life with you"..."My mission is to bring glory to God, and I think two can better accomplish that mission than one"..."Your beauty is your godliness", etc.
", give her the biggest hug you've ever given anybody. (If you're saving your first kiss for the engagement, now would be a good time to smooch. If you're waiting for the wedding day, a hug is good.)

, Sending flowers is always a classic pick-me-up, or a card is nice, or bringing her lunch at work. Show her she won't regret marrying a man with Christ's servant heart.

