 You will need ½ pound (about 227 grams) of ripe plums. Once pitted and sliced, you will have about 1 ¼ cups (313 milliliters) of sliced plums.Only buy ripe, ready-to-eat plums. Signs of a ripe plum include:


A deep, even purple color
Sweet, fruity-smelling skin
Gives slightly when squeezed
Smooth, wrinkle-free skin;
, First, run a knife along the seam of the fruit until you feel the pit. Continue slicing along the pit until you have cut all around the fruit. Next, firmly twist the two halves in opposite directions to separate them from one another.


Set the plum on a cutting board when slicing it in half. If you hold it in your hand, you may cut yourself.
 When you separate the two halves, one half will still have a pit inside. If the plum is ripe enough, use your fingers to pull the pit away from the plum flesh. If it’s firmly attached, scoop the pit out with a spoon.


Discard any plum pits that you remove from your fruit.
 Set each plum half flesh-down on your cutting board. Next, use a sharp knife to cut each half into small, even slices. Each half will yield about six slices.If you prefer larger pieces of plums, you don’t need to slice the halves. You will add them to the cake flesh-down when the batter is ready.
Remember to practice knife safety when cutting fruit.
 You will need 3 eggs, 1/2 cup (114 grams) of butter at room temperature, 1 teaspoon of lemon zest, 1 cup (125 grams) all-purpose flour, and 1/2 teaspoon of baking powder.To get room-temperature butter, leave a stick of butter on your counter for a few hours.
 First, set out two small cups or ramekins. Next, crack the egg over one of the ramekins. Allow the whites of the egg to fall into the ramekin. Gently pass the egg yolk between the two shell halves until all of the egg whites have separated. Place the egg yolk in the empty ramekin and pick out any pieces of shell that you see.If you don’t want to separate the eggs by hand, purchase an egg separator online or at your local gourmet grocery store.
It’s better to have a little bit of egg white in the yolk than to have a little bit of yolk in the egg white.
 Use a hand mixer or a whisk to beat the egg whites until they form stiff peaks. Start beating the eggs on a slow setting until they become foamy. Raise the speed slowly every thirty seconds or so until the egg whites are whipped.To avoid over beating the eggs, keep a close eye on their progress.


Stiff peaks will have a glossy appearance and stand up sharply on their own.
Use a metal or glass bowl to beat the eggs. Plastic bowls can affect the whipping process.
If you overbeat the eggs, they will start to look curdled. Throw them away and try again.
 Add the soft butter to a large mixing bowl. Use an electric mixer or a whisk to turn the butter into a creamy paste. Next, add in the sugar. Continue mixing the sugar and butter mixture until it resembles light fluffy sand.Make sure to use a very large mixing bowl, as you will be adding other ingredients to the butter mixture.
 Use an electric mixer or a whisk to incorporate the egg yolks and lemon zest into the butter mixture. When you first start mixing, the egg yolks won’t mix well and the batter will look strange. However, the egg yolks will eventually become incorporated and the batter will look smooth and creamy.


Once the egg yolks are incorporated, consider adding fragrant extracts to enhance the flavor. For example, add 1 teaspoon (5 grams) of vanilla extract and 1/4 teaspoon (1 gram) of almond extract.To further enhance the flavor, consider adding the zest of other citrus fruits as well. For example, add an extra teaspoon (5 grams) of orange zest.
 Sifting will aerate the flour and remove any lumps in the baking powder.First, hold a sifter over a large bowl. Pour in the flour and move the sifter from side to side. Once all of the flour has fallen into the bowl, pour the baking powder into the sifter and repeat the process.


If you want a slightly spiced plum cake, add a teaspoon of cinnamon to the flour mixture.After sifting, use a whisk to mix the baking soda and the flour together.
 Add about half of the flour mixture to the butter mixture and blend it together. Once the flour is completely absorbed, add the rest of the flour mixture. Continue mixing until all of the flour has been incorporated into the batter.
 Add about a quarter of the whipped egg whites into the mixture. Use a spatula to fold the egg whites into the mixture. To do so, scoop batter from underneath the egg whites and gently drape them towards the center of the bowl. Turn the bowl slightly and repeat the process until the egg whites disappear.


Continue folding in batches egg whites until all of the egg whites are incorporated.Resist the urge to stir the mixture. If you do, the cake will flatten in the oven.
 Set your oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit, or 190 degrees Celsius. Many modern ovens will alert you when they’re done preheating. If yours doesn’t have this feature, preheat the oven for at least ten minutes to bring it to temperature.
 You can use two circular 8-inch (21cm x 5cm) cake pans, a nine inch (23cm x 8cm) Bundt pan, or two 8-inch (23cm x 13cm x 6cm) loaf pans.Rub the inside of the pan and dust it with flour to create a non-stick surface. Alternatively, spray cooking spray on the inside of the pan.


Discard any extra flour leftover from greasing and flouring the pan.
 Gently pour the cake batter into the cake pans. Use a spatula to scrape the sides of the mixing bowl clean. If you’re using two cake pans, fill them as evenly as you can. To do so, add a large dollop of cake batter to each pan until all of it has been used.
 If you want to create a beautiful pattern, carefully arrange the sliced plums in a spiral formation. If you want to create a rustic, haphazard look, drop the plum slices into the batter in a random pattern.


If you are using plum halves instead of slices, set the plum halves in the batter flesh-down and press gently.
Don’t press the plums too far into the batter. The batter will rise around the plums in the oven.
 When finished, the cake will have a golden-brown crust. To test whether or not your cake is done, insert a toothpick into the center of the cake. If the toothpick comes out clean, the cake is done baking. If it’s covered in batter, let the cake continue baking for five more minutes and check it again., Once the cake is done cooking, remove it from the oven. Slide the cake out of the pan and onto a wire baking rack to cool. If you let it cool in the pan, the bottom will become soggy. Allow the cake cool completely.


While the cake is cooling, dust a layer of confectioner’s sugar over the top to add visual excitement.
 Once the cake has cooled, serve your plum cake with a hot cup of tea or coffee. Alternatively, make a caramel sauce and pour it over a slice of plum cake before serving it. Finally, if you have a strong sweet tooth, serve a slice of cake with a large scoop of vanilla ice cream.


Refrigerate any leftover cake.Eat the cake within three days of baking it.

