 It is a long process to adopt a retired police dog. Be patient and prepared to follow all the necessary steps.Fill out the initial application form. For former military working dogs, this is often a 2-page application to determine the best families to match with the best dogs.Be ready to interview with police or military staff. You’ll be interviewed to see if you’re prepared and ready to adopt a retired police dog.
Provide evidence of financial resources to take care of dogs. You may have to show that you are financially capable of providing for the animal that you adopt.
Demonstrate skills to handle retired police dogs. Show that you have the necessary temperament to handle police animals. If you have military or police training yourself, that may be beneficial.
 If you’ve been approved as a good match for adoption, you may be able to meet the dog. Visit the dog where it currently lives. Find out if the dog's a good match for you.


Go to the military base if you’re adopting a military working dog. You will likely be matched up with a dog that meets your family situation, lifestyle, and interests.Go to the police department or animal shelter if you’re adopting a retired police dog. Police dogs nearing retirement may be kept with their partner for the time being.
See if you’re a good match with the dog. Interact with the dog to get a good handle on its temperament. If you feel uncomfortable with the dog, it may be best not to adopt.
 Once you’re approved to adopt a retired police dog, start preparing your home. Think about how you can provide enough outdoor and indoor space for your adopted pet.


Make sure you have a fenced-in yard. Retired police dogs are trained to attack if necessary. Keep your dog and your neighbors safe.
Make your home police dog friendly. If your dog will spend time inside, make sure there are no stray wires it could trip or chew on. Get rid of any other indoor dangers for your new dog.
Talk to your family. All your family members need to be aware of the the benefits and dangers of owning a retired police animal. In general, it’s best not to adopt these animals if you have any children under the age of 5 or have other animals like cats.