 When you first start off in endless online, you need to get out of tutorial island. To do this kill a couple of goats (using the ctrl key to attack) and level up. After this point you may do the following:




Kill some snakes and gather items there.
Try to gain more levels before leaving.
Die or ride the boat to the mainland.

;
, On Endless Online, most money is made by hunting. go around and ask people where to find monsters to hunt and make profit. Here are 3 monsters that are useful for making a profit.




penguins: drops penguin meat
skeletons: drops skeleton bones, skull, rib, and dragon armor.
vyericyil: drops vyericyil tentacle.
 Super hunting is perhaps one of the best ways to receive gold. From monsters from octo to reaper these will get you the big stuff. From super hunting you will get expensive things like a scav bow, to oron, or even a baru.
 If you wanna make lot of cash without doing any work, then you can count on events held from admins and rich people. These people will often hold events that will drop over unimaginable gold or lots of stuff.
 Go towards the beach. If you don't know how to get there; Go to the bottom-left corner of the Aavenh map and enter the area there. Kill the sheep there, they occasionally drop gold.
 Keep going until you reach the mountain, enter it. Walk around and look for penguins. If you kill them, they drop penguin meat, which are good for making quick cash off of people.
 Spend the money you have saved up from steps 1 and 2 buying an inexpensive item (worth about 200g - 3k). First ask for a price check on global chat so you know you aren't getting ripped off!


Once you've bought the item, try to sell it for slightly more than you bought it for. If you paid 1k for it, for example, try to sell it for 1.2k. You want to make a profit, but keep the price low enough to attract customers.
It will take a bit but you will gradually earn more money. Once you have enough, start buying and selling more expensive items because you will make larger profits.
Keep repeating the process of buying low and selling high and soon you'll be rich!

