 Orientation is there for a reason, and if you blow it off, you'll be missing important opportunities. Orientation provides you with a chance to meet professors and other students, see the facilities, and learn more about the school, the resources available to you, and the possibilities you have ahead.In addition, showing up for orientation is a good way to show you're excited about being there, and your professors will notice.
 It's best to understand what works best for you when it comes to studying before you start your medical degree. Once you start, you will need to hit the ground running because you will be expected to memorize information on an unprecedented level.Glean information from your time as an undergraduate student. For instance, decide whether you work best alone or in a group. Even if you work mostly alone, make sure to have friends on hand to rely on in a crisis.
Use any aids you can to help you, such as highlighters and flash cards. Make copies of everything that will help you, such as class presentations, and if possible, get previous exams from the classes to see what the professors tend to focus on. Make sure you are organized as possible, so you can find what you need when you need it.
Try to focus on studying as much information as you can, rather than going in depth with each topic.
 You don't need to pick a specialty before you enter medical school, though if you already know what you want to specialize in, that may influence your choice of schools; however, you can take the first year to begin explore the world of medicine, getting an idea of what piques your interest.By the second year, you should be focusing in on several interests to see which one you like best. You can join specialty groups at your school, or you can go to physician panels to hear about different specialties.
You can also talk to physicians who are working in the field to learn more about different areas.
When choosing your specialty, think about your own skills and personality, as well as the environment you'll be working in and the kind of work you'll be doing. For instance, if you don't like a high-stress environment, you might want to stay out of emergency medicine.
It is helpful to choose a specialty early, but it's also important you are confident in your decision and it's something you know you will stick with.
 In year one, your schooling will be mostly class-based, and you'll take classes such as gross anatomy, histology, pathology, and biochemistry. You'll also be required to do labs connected to these classes.Gross anatomy is the study of anatomy, while biochemistry is closer to organic chemistry. Histology is focused on the cells in the human body, and pathology is where you study specific diseases.
By second year, most of your classes will be clinic-based, and in the third and fourth years, you'll move on to clinical rotations.
 In your third and fourth years, you begin clinical rotations, meaning you'll actually be working in a clinic or hospital, assisting a doctor, resident, or intern. Before you start your rotations, try to familiarize yourself as much as possible with the clinic you'll be working in.Ask upperclassmen for tips. They know the ins and outs of the clinics you'll be working in and can give you a sense of the environment of the clinic.
Make sure you know what kinds of charts you'll be using, whether paper or computerized, and what access you will have to them.
Focus on learning. While doing your clinical rotations, your main focus should be learning patient care. Observe how other doctors and nurses interact with patients, and take mental (and physical) notes on how you can use that information in the future.
Be the expert on what patients you have. When you're assigned to work under someone on certain patients, make sure you know everything you possibly can about their condition and other health problems. Read up on them when you can.
 The USMLE is required for licensure for medical students completing a Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree and the COMLEX is required for medical students completing a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO) degree; taking the USMLE is also available for DO medical students and many do sit for both examinations. These exams are actually multi-part tests that you take over the course of your medical degree. You must pass all the parts to practice as a doctor, though you can retake portions as needed.For instance, Level or Step 1 is taken after your second year, and it focuses on what you've been learning in your first two years, such as biochemistry, pathology, and anatomy. It consists of 280 questions. You spend eight hours taking the test, though it's broken into one-hour chunks.Level or Step 2 is divided into two parts, Step 2 CK (clinical knowledge) and Step 2 CS (clinical skills), and is usually taken in your fourth year. Step 2 CK covers clinical science, specifically the skills you need to care for a patient, while Step 2 CS covers your communication abilities and how well you are able to connect with a patient. Each of these two steps is a one-day exam.Step 2 CK has 355 questions, spread out in 60-minute blocks.Step 2 CS is a practical exam, where you engage with "patients" to see whether you can perform an appropriate examination.Step 3 is a two-day exam, and its purpose is to decide whether you are ready to apply your knowledge in an unsupervised environment. Generally, you take it during residency, after you graduate.You will have about 233 multiple-choice questions on the first day, divided into 1-hour blocks. On the second day, you'll have approximately 180 multiple-choice questions, as well as 13 case studies., While you're still in school, you'll apply for residency. When you apply for residency, you apply in the area you want to specialize in, so your skills should be a good match. It's now that your chosen specialty from earlier in your schooling comes into play.Much like applying for medical school, you'll also need to write a personal statement when applying for residency. You'll need to convince the hospital, doctor, or school why you're a good fit for that particular area.
Study hard for Steps 1 and 2 of the USMLE and/or COMLEX exams, as they can affect your competitiveness for residency. Medical students are often ranked by these scores.

