 It is much easier to commit to a habit if you have someone willing to work with you. You keep each other accountable, remind each other of goals, and support each other when things get tough. If you cannot find someone to join you, search online for support groups and communities. There are forums and meetings for everyone and every habit: from quitting drugs to working on your artwork once a week.


Ask a buddy to quit smoking with you.
Pick up an exercise partner to help motivate you at the gym.
Commit to sending new chapters, poems, or ideas to a writing buddy once a week.
 There are some exceptions to this rule, as you do not necessarily want to weight lift without having a rest day here and there. Still, the more frequently you practice your habit they faster it will become an automatic part of your life.


Find small ways to practice each day. While you cannot lift weights every day, you could still go to the gym and jog for 20-30 minutes to get some exercise.
This works for “bad habits” too, but in reverse. Every day you succumb to your bad habit (smoking, eating junk food, lying) you make it harder to kick. Focus on avoiding temptation one day at a time.
 Your body is an amazing thing. When you repeat the same activity at the same time and/or place every day, your brain and body begin to anticipate it and prepare for the activity, making it feel natural. This sort of conditioning is invaluable to anyone trying to develop new habits, and can be used anywhere. When building habits, routine is your friend.


Schedule the same time to go to the gym each week.
Set aside a room or desk to study or do work each evening.
 Instead of saying “I will make my house cleaner,” you could say “every day when I get home, I will clean a room of the house.” This gives your habit a trigger: every time you walk in the door you will remember to do some cleaning.You can do this with bad habits too. If you always smoke outside of the break room at work, avoid going there so you don’t feel tempted to light up a cigarette., Quitting smoking is a lot more difficult if you keep a pack of cigarettes in your back pocket. Similarly, eating healthy is a lot easier if you have healthy options with you at lunch. Think about where in your thought process the habit “breaks-down” think about ways to eliminate these hurdles. For example, you might:


Get rid of your cigarettes.
Pack a healthy lunch the night before work.
Exercise after work instead of before so that you are not sweaty at your desk.
Bring a pencil and paper with you everywhere to jot down ideas, stories, or art., Conventional wisdom holds that it takes 21 days to ingrain a habit, but this is not true. Different habits take different people different amounts of time to pick up. Some researchers have found that habits only truly become automatic after 66 days, not 21.This means it is not your fault if you struggle to make something a habit, but it also means that you must find the motivation to make a habit for much longer than 2-3 weeks.


Don’t fret if you miss a day or make a mistake – you have 66 more to go, so one day only makes a small difference.
Focus on the end goal, not the number of days it takes to reach it.