 The cake should be placed on its presentation cake board or flat platter before adding the fondant––check that it is sitting flat upon placement.


If the cake does not sit flat, consider slicing the base a little to ensure that it sits well. This is known as "leveling a cake".
If the cake seems a little crumbly, place it in the refrigerator for a few minutes to help it firm up.
 This is the same principle as filling in cracks on furniture or walls before painting––if you don't fill in any holes or cracks, the surface fondant risks sinking into the cake and leaving dents in your otherwise perfect cake!

, Popular choices include apricot, strawberry or raspberry jams. Using a pastry brush, brush this over the surface of the cake, both top and sides.
 For a very smooth surface underneath the fondant, chefs commonly use marzipan as the first layer, over which the fondant is placed. While the end result will look better, not everyone likes marzipan and it's usually not suitable for children's cakes. If you are using marzipan, do as follows:


Roll out the marzipan to a flat shape slightly larger than the cake.
Cover the cake with the sheet of rolled marzipan.
Smooth it down with a frosting smoother or similar item. Be sure to remove any bumps or joins when smoothing.
 If it has cracks, place this part under the ball. Roll out the ball on a surface sprinkled with icing/confectioners sugar or cornflour (this prevents it from sticking). Keep rolling back and forth over the fondant, rotating it a quarter of the way every few rolls to help ensure even distribution of the fondant. When it looks wide enough to cover the cake and has a thickness of about a 1/4 inch or 0.5cm, it's ready to place on the cake.


To gauge the size to roll the fondant to, measure the distance from the cake board, up the side, across the top and down the other side of the cake to the edge of the board that side.



Place the rolling pin on the center of the rolled out fondant.



Lift the rolling pin up with the fondant securely draped over it and shift the fondant over the the cake.
Carefully unroll the fondant onto the cake, rolling the fondant across and eventually removing the rolling pin.
 Push it down the sides and be sure to cover all of the cake.


Smooth down the sides to meet the cake's board or platter. Any air bubbles that form can be pricked with a clean needle; simply rub over again to remove any evidence of it.
Smooth out any bumps, pleats or unsightly bits using the smoother. You may also need to occasionally stretch the fondant with your hands.
Fondant icing can be given a good "polish" by rubbing over it with your hand in a circular motion, until it looks (and feels) like satin.
 Cut off any extra fondant around the base edge using a palette knife. Hold the flat edge against the cake and slowly work around the whole cake, turning the cake as you go. Smooth out the edges as you go.
 There are tools that will produce pretty patterns or crimping or you can be creative and use your own pattern.
 These can be attached before the fondant dries simply by gently pressing. If the fondant has already dried, use freshly made up icing/confectioners sugar as the "glue" (or a small brush of water will also work).
 The amount of time will depend on the fondant recipe. For a fruit cake with marzipan and fondant covering, this may take up to a week.

