 A revocable living trust is a legal agreement that you establish while you are still alive that you can change whenever you want.This trust will become irrevocable upon your death. In the living trust, you name a trustee to handle your assets after your death.The trust remains the sole owner of your property and possessions and remain in charge of all legal decisions surrounding them until your death. You control the property as both the “trustee” and the beneficiary, but you do not “own” it.Should you become mentally incapacitated or upon death, an appointed trustee (not yourself, obviously) will hold legal title to your property and possessions. The trustee will also execute your will, circumventing the probate process.Because the trustee is the “owner” of the trust assets after your death, the property that is subject to the trust does not count as your property for purposes of the probate estate. For this reason, the probate process is avoided altogether. Be aware that creating a living trust will not shield you from federal or state estate tax. In most states, an inheritance valued at or above $5million is subject to an estate tax.
 Creating an irrevocable trust means that once you establish it, you have no right or opportunity to change the beneficiaries or disposition of the trust assets. For this reason, most people prefer to establish a revocable trust.Generally, people create irrevocable trusts because if the trust is irrevocable, the creator of the trust no longer “owns” the assets in the trust.
This means that creditors are unable to reach the trust assets, and when the creator of the trust dies, there is no estate tax levied on the trust.
 Any competent adult whom you trust can be named as trustee, however, you may want to choose someone who has experience handling trust assets or has a financial background.


You can choose an attorney or someone who works at your bank as the trustee, or you can choose someone that you personally know well.
 Trusts can be tricky, and it can be advantageous to discuss setting up a trust with an estate lawyer. A living trust is changeable, helps you avoid probate, and helps ensure your privacy, but it isn't perfect for every situation. There are some disadvantages of establishing a living trust:


Maintaining trust books and records can be burdensome and inconvenient. Any future assets need to be tied to the trust to avoid probate of those assets, which can take time and maintenance.
An attorney can help with complicated estate tax matters.
A living trust can incur many fees. Whereas a standard will can cost you a hundred or so dollars, the average living trust will cost much more; it's not uncommon for living trusts to cost $2,000-$5,000 for a lawyer to establish.
A living trust cannot be established without the help of an attorney, which can increase the cost of establishing the trust.You will have to re-title much of your property to include the trustee. This is not difficult to do with the help of an attorney but is an inconvenience that takes time, effort, and money.

