 It should only take a few seconds to determine if running is a possibility. If the shooter is rapidly approaching your room, or if he is blocking the only escape route, start hiding or barricading yourself in immediately.


Hiding is the second option because it traps you in one area. However, most mass shooting events are over within ten or fifteen minutes. If you can avoid the shooter for that long, you have a good chance at surviving., If there are other people in the room, get their attention and assign them to the following tasks (each described in more detail below):


One person should call 9-1-1 (or the emergency number in your region).
One group of people should lock and barricade the door.
One group of people should grab anything that could be used as a weapon.
 Immediately turn off the lights in the room where you are. This will make the shooter less likely to enter the room, and slightly increase your chance of survival if he does.
 Lock the door immediately and do anything you can to make it more difficult for the shooter to enter. Remember that most shooters only have a few minutes before the police show up, and they're not interested in taking the path of most resistance. Lock the door, place a doorstop on it, and place all heavy furniture like desks and chairs in front of the door immediately to deter the shooter.


If the shooter is approaching, get away from the door as soon as you can. Stay away from all doors and windows.
If the door opens to the outside, a barricade will only delay the shooter for a moment. Building one may not be worth wasting time and blocking a potential escape route.
If you're in a bathroom that doesn't lock, loop a belt or T-shirt around the arms of the door butler (the metal hinge on top of the door that allows it to open).
 A mass shooting typically continues for five minutes before anyone calls the police. If you have other people in the room to barricade the door, calling immediately can be a big help. Once they've been called, law enforcement typically arrives within three minutes.Use a landline instead of your cell phone if possible, so the police can automatically trace the call.
If you can't reach an emergency service, look for a ceiling sprinkler system and try to set it off by holding a lighter underneath the detector. This should automatically call the fire department.
 Look around the room where you're hiding and find anything that you can use as a weapon. It can be a stapler or sharp scissors you find on the teacher's desk, the hot coffee in the kitchen of your office, beakers or dangerous acids (such as sulphuric) in a science room, or anything that is sharp, heavy, made of glass, or which can be used as a weapon. Hold on to these weapons if the shooter enters the room where you are.


Even small thrown objects can delay a gunman if a large group of people work together. While this is obviously a last resort, anyone who can't find a weapon should grab something to throw., The term cover refers to barriers that will stop a bullet. Brick or concrete walls, steel building support beams, or thick trees are the most common examples.If you are trapped in a single room, your best option is a thick piece of furniture such as a heavy desk or filing cabinet.


Ideally, find a spot that does not restrict your movement. If the situation changes, you want to be able to run to an exit as fast as possible.
 Concealment hides you from the shooter's line of sight, but will not protect you from gunfire. If it's your only option, hide behind furniture, in closets, or in any other hiding spot. Crouch low to the ground to minimize the chance that a stray bullet hits you.


Most interior walls will not stop a bullet.
 If you have time, silence your cell phone and other electronics so the sound won't encourage the shooter to approach you.
 Though this may seem nearly impossible, it's crucial that you remain absolutely silent. Tell people that whimpering or crying will only make the shooter more likely to find you. Be mentally prepared for the event that the shooter comes into the room and finds you. In that case, you'll have no choice but to fight, as described below.
 People have survived mass shootings by playing dead in areas where shots have been fired.However, some shooters are aware of this tactic and will target bodies.The only time you should try this is when both running and hiding are impossible.

