 Only people with a substantial connection to New York can get divorced here. You must meet one of the following requirements:Either you or your spouse has lived in New York for two continuous years before you start the divorce.
Either you or your spouse has been living in New York for at least one year and you were married in New York or you lived in New York as a married couple.
Either spouse has lived in New York for one year and the grounds for divorce occurred in New York.
Both spouses live in New York on the day you start the divorce and the grounds for your divorce happened in the state.;
, If you’re getting an uncontested divorce, you can complete paperwork at the New York Courts website: https://www.nycourts.gov/courthelp/family/divorceStarting.shtml.

An uncontested divorce is one where you and your spouse agree to get divorced and agree on child custody, child support, alimony, and the division of marital property and debts.If you disagree about any one of these, then you don’t have an uncontested divorce.
You might not know if your divorce is contested or not. Talk to your spouse ahead of time. In any event, you can file for an uncontested divorce initially, and then you’ll go ahead with a contested divorce if your spouse disagrees.
 Don’t use the forms at the New York Courts website if you and your spouse can’t agree on all aspects of the divorce. Instead, you should work with a New York divorce lawyer. Obtain a referral from the New York bar association by calling 1-800-342-3661.If money is tight, visit the lawhelp.org website to find low-cost legal help.
 In your paperwork, you must give a reason why the marriage has ended. This is called the “grounds” for the divorce. In New York, there are several possible grounds. Choose among the following:Irretrievable breakdown for at least six months. Basically, this is the “no fault divorce” option. Your relationship must have been over for at least six months before you file.
Cruel and inhuman treatment. Over the past five years, your spouse must have endangered you physically or mentally. Merely disagreeing a lot isn’t enough.
Abandonment. Your spouse has left you for at least a year. Refusing to have sex with you for a year also qualifies as abandonment.
Imprisonment. Your spouse has been in prison for three years in a row.
Adultery. Your spouse committed adultery during the marriage. You’ll need solid evidence, such as testimony from the person your spouse has slept with.
Other reasons. If you want, you could get legally separated for a year and then qualify for a divorce. However, if you want to divorce more quickly, then choose a different ground.
 Check whether you need to sign a form in front of a notary public. You can find a notary at the courthouse or at most large banks. Be sure to take acceptable personal identification, such as a valid state-issued ID or your passport., Go to the court in your county. This court is called the Supreme Court, and it is the only one that can grant you a divorce. You’ll file at the court clerk’s office.In some counties, you can file your papers electronically. This is a good option if you are comfortable with technology. Visit https://iapps.courts.state.ny.us/nyscef/AuthorizeCaseType to check if your county court has been approved for e-filing.
If you hired a lawyer, they will take care of filing your papers and serving copies on your spouse.
 You’ll need to file your Summons With Notice or your Summons and Complaint with the court clerk. If you have a settlement agreement, then you should file that at the same time., You’ll need to pay $210 to get an index number to start the case. Call ahead of time to check what are acceptable methods of payment.


Later on, you will have to pay additional fees. An uncontested divorce will cost at least $335, and a contested divorce will cost more. If you can’t afford the fee, complete a fee waiver form., You must provide your spouse photocopies of many different forms. This notice is necessary so your spouse can respond to your allegations and possibly contest the divorce. Make copies of the following and write the index number at the top of each:Summons With Notice or Summons and Verified Complaint
Notice of Automatic Order
Notice Concerning Continuation of Health Care Coverage
Sworn Statement of Removal of Barriers to Remarriage
Affidavit of Defendant

, Talk to your spouse and ask if they will contest the divorce. If not, you can go ahead and give your spouse the divorce papers. They must also sign their Affidavit of Defendant and have it notarized., Unless you are 100% sure your spouse won’t contest the divorce, you should arrange for the papers to be personally served by someone else. You must meet the following conditions for your service to be proper:Serve the papers within 120 days of filing them with the county clerk. There’s probably no reason to wait.
Your server must be at least 18 years old and must be a New York state resident.
If you’re serving papers outside New York, then the server must be a New York resident or someone legally allowed to serve papers in the state.
 Whoever serves papers must complete this affidavit and return it to you. The affidavit serves as proof that the papers were served. File it with the court., Your spouse will have a chance to respond. How they respond will determine the next steps you must take:If your spouse signs and returns the Affidavit of Defendant, then you should go to the court clerk’s office and ask to have your case put on the calendar.
If your spouse files a Notice of Appearance instead, then you will have a contested divorce. You might need to hire a lawyer if you don’t already have one.
If your spouse doesn’t respond at all, you can put your case on the court calendar and ask for a default divorce.

