 You can use cardstock or matte or glossy photo print paper for the main material of the bookmark. Both options come in a variety of colors and patterns to choose from to fit your unique style, or use whatever extra material you have in your own home.Your bookmark needs to have a solid base, like cardboard, to give the bookmark some structure and to keep it from bending. Thick cardstock or papers do not always need a cardboard base, but thin construction paper or regular printer paper will need a solid base.
Look to see what you already have in your home. Use cardboard from a cereal box, an old shoe box, or a moving box.;
, Decorating your bookmark is not only the most fun part of the process, but it also gives you the opportunity to be creative and make your bookmark more unique and personal. Many decorative items can be already found in your home.


Buttons, brooches, and even costume jewelry can make creative toppers for bookmarks, and they provide an opportunity to add a bit of your personality.
Pictures of family, friends, and pets add an extra personalized touch to your bookmark and make for special gifts.Stencils can help you add your own drawings or lettering. Stencils come in a wide-variety, from animals to calligraphy.
 Before you start cutting, measure the height and width of your main material and the base cardboard to your desired size, making sure all sides are equal. Trace the measured outline of your bookmark on your main material to create a stencil for cutting.


If you want to put a design on both sides of the bookmark, cut out two pieces of paper to fasten to the front and back of the cardboard base.
After determining the size of your bookmark, measure your chosen designs, either pictures or stencils, to fit the area.
 Scissors are useful for cutting long strips of paper for the body of the bookmark. An x-acto knife is useful for cutting out stencils or other fine, delicate edges or corners.
 Without gluing anything yet, place your decorations, stencils, or pictures where you’d like them on the final product. If you are drawing your own design, use pencil. This gives you the opportunity to move things around or try out different layouts before making anything permanent.
 It’s time for your bookmark to take shape, so start by gluing your main material of paper to your cardboard base. Let everything dry before attaching your decorations.


Rubber cement works great on paper, cardboard, and pictures. But hot glue is ideal for attaching your buttons, brooches, and other hard plastic or metal toppers.
Once the glue from the main material and base are dry, glue on any pictures, stencil cutouts, or decorative toppers that you’d like. Again, let these materials dry before using the bookmark or moving on to the next step.
When all the glue is dry, color in any designs or stenciling that you may have drawn. If there are any corners or areas that need more glue, apply carefully and let dry.

