 The fair use doctrine is designed generally to protect educational and nonprofit uses of copyrighted works.Keep in mind that fair use is a defense to infringement. Copyright lawsuits are complex, time-consuming, and expensive – not to mention a distraction for your business. If there's any chance you might get sued for infringement, be careful relying on fair use.
In most cases, you should attempt to get permission from the copyright owner to use the work, even if you believe fair use probably applies.
 You have a stronger fair use claim if your use substantially transforms or comments on the original work.Courts consider this the most important factor in determining fair use. This supports the goal of fair use, which is to further the public interest and keep copyright laws from being used to silence commentary or criticism of a work.
For example, suppose you read an article by a leading marketing expert and profoundly disagreed with it. You write your own article quoting heavily from the original article for the purposes of pointing out how the expert was wrong, and distribute your article to everyone who works at your company and publish it on your company's blog. You could comfortably rely on fair use to publish the quotes from the other article, as long as your quotes weren't so extensive you effectively re-published the entire article.
 Typically you have more leeway to copy nonfictional material than you do creative or artistic work.Graphic elements can significantly increase the response to advertising and social media posts. However, make sure the images you're using were created in-house, or that you have permission to use them.
Avoid using art you find on the internet, especially if you can't find the creator. Simply saying "author unknown" is not enough to get you out of infringement. Likewise, intent is not an element of infringement. This means making a disclaimer that you didn't create the work and no infringement was intended does not relieve you of liability for infringement.
 Generally, your fair use argument is stronger if you take a relatively small portion of the work relative to the whole.This factor relates closely to the nature and character of your use. How much of the original work you need to copy to make your own piece work depends on your purpose.
To return to the marketing article example, since you are responding to and arguing against the original article, you must include enough of the original article that your readers will understand what you're talking about. However, you don't necessarily need to print the whole thing.
How much of the original work you need to use to make your point is a subjective determination that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding your use – it won't be the same for any two situations.
 If your use deprives the copyright owner of income he or she otherwise would have received, you will have a difficult time claiming fair use.A lot of this assessment depends on why the original work was created. If you found the marketing expert's article and simply copied it a dozen times and passed those copies out to your marketing team, this would pretty clearly deprive the copyright owner of income.
Similarly, if you run a travel agency and you took a picture you found online to use in one of your brochures, this also would not be considered fair use. You used the photo for a commercial purpose – to attract clients to your travel agency – and this is the sort of use for which photographers typically are compensated.

