 Creative mode might be ideal if you want to build your tower without being interrupted or having to scrounge for materials.Survival mode might be a better option for bragging rights among your friends, or it might give your tower purpose as a safe place to hide from mobs., It's always good to bring along as many resources you can so that you don't have to stop your tower building prematurely. Look for abundant blocks if you want your tower to have a uniform look.


Be mindful of materials effected by gravity, like sand or gravel., If you are trapped in your tower with no way down, use your bucket of water directly beneath you while falling to prevent fatal fall damage., The upper limit of a Minecraft world is 255 blocks tall, but the tallest tower you can make will start at block one. If you truly want to make the tallest tower possible, you will need to mine a deep hole to start your foundation at the lowest elevation possible.


In the PC version of Minecraft, you can check your altitude by pressing F3.
 Break out some grid paper and start sketching a design. Maybe you want to imitate the Gothic architecture. Or do you want a simple, unmistakable square shape to rise up into heaven? Don't forget to plan a means of getting up and down. Stairs will speed your vertical travels considerably.


It all depends on taste, but keep in mind that the wider the base of your tower, the more material it will take for you to complete it. The more material, the longer the time.
 These can be your inspiration! You could even use an existing structure as the foundation for your brand new tower.
 Building such a large structure in Minecraft can be very time consuming, and your tower might benefit from additional builders working on it. Invite your friends to join you in building the biggest and best tower in the world.
 A poorly planned foundation can limit your tower's upper range. If you are modifying an existing structure, begin with the lowest possible spot before building upwards evenly. Starting from scratch? Give yourself the max vertical height by digging down first.


Use dynamite to speed up the process.Blow a low spot in the landscape to make way for your tower building endeavors.
 Don't forget your water bucket, and keep in mind the base you have planned. Lay the foundation, and then build upwards.
 The in-game height limit is set to 255 blocks. Keep in mind that block one begins deep in the earth. Building your tower from block one to block 255 will require some excavation.
 Or, if available, use the stairs you built into your tower. Be sure that your bucket is full of water before trying this or your avatar may die from fall damage. Jump off your tower looking down at the ground, and as you fall, use your bucket by left clicking.This glitch should protect you from fall damage.
 Think about installing landings, which can be used to store materials or as a staging ground for the parts of your tower high up in the sky.
 A system of ladders might help you travel the interior of your tower. A door might be nice in winter, or maybe a drawbridge if you chose a medieval theme for your tower.

