 There are many countries with rainforests, and each has special features that make it unique. One of the most popular rainforest destinations is Costa Rica and Brazil because of its variety of tours and hotels, but there are numerous other countries with rainforest in Central America, South America, Africa, Oceania, and Southeast Asia.;
, Hotels, rental cars, and flights are all available at major ‘travel’ sites, like Expedia or Travelocity. If you search for hotels in your destination country you should be able to find some pretty exotic ones.
 Think about the different types of tours, going to the beach, visiting museums, and sightseeing in towns.
 If it’s not up to date or you don’t have on the is key to do right away because they can take a long time to come in the mail.
 Check for travel clinics in you area at and for look for tips about preparing to be in the rainforest and staying healthy while traveling visit., Some big brand names for travel guidebooks are DK Eyewitness Travel and Fodor's. For phrase books check out Berlitz. Also, for overachievers try CDs to immerse yourself in the language.
 Traveler’s checks are no longer widely accepted. Try to get cash but also get a debit card to use at ATMs to get cash there and to use in stores where they are accepted. Don’t wait until the airport to exchange currency because exchange rates tend to be higher.
 Plan for hot, humid weather, and of course, rain. Also, make sure to take into account bugs. Mosquito netting is definitely a must. Check off your list as you go, making sure you don’t miss anything. Make another copy of the list to check off when you come backs so you don’t leave anything.
 Better safe than sorry.
 This means that the embassy or consulate will know where you are and can assist you in the event of an emergency. Also think about travel registration, which will allow the State Department or other relevant agency to help you if an emergency arises., International airports are larger and harder to navigate then local ones., In the rainforest, do not dispose of your garbage in bushes, rivers or anywhere else in the forest. Carry a bag for garbage with you and dispose of it in the proper receptacles.

