 Tortillas are commonly sold in packages of 8, 10, and 12, but it’s not unusual to find packages of flour tortillas that contain 20 tortillas, and packages of corn tortillas that contain up to 30. In order to avoid wasting food and spending money needlessly, calculate how many tortillas you need in advance.


For example, if you’re making enchiladas for a party, you may need two dozen (or more) corn tortillas. If you’re just planning to take burritos for lunch over the course of a week, you only need to buy a small package of eight.
 If you’re planning to eat Mexican or Latin American food for a long period of time (for example, a month or more), you may decide to buy a large package of tortillas in advance preparation. In terms of cost effectiveness, buying a larger package of tortillas will result in a lower cost per-tortilla.


If you’re undecided about how many tortillas you’ll need, buy two moderate sized packages (for example, containing 10 or 12 tortillas). Use one package immediately, and keep the other in the freezer in case you need more tortillas than the first package contained.
When you need to thaw the second package of tortillas, pull it out of the freezer a day or so in advance. If you put the package of tortillas in the refrigerator overnight, the individual tortillas should be thawed by morning.
If you need to thaw tortillas more quickly, take the frozen tortillas out of the plastic bag, wrap them in a paper towel, and microwave for about 45 seconds. If the tortillas aren’t thawed after 45 seconds, microwave more as needed.
 Common tortilla sizes include 4-inch (for corn tortillas) and 7- or 12-inch (for flour tortillas), although tortillas can be sold in sizes reaching up to 24 inches.Plan to purchase a size of tortilla that will match your culinary needs: the tortilla should be larger enough for you to fill it with as much food as you please (for example, if you’re making a burrito), but not so large that you end up throwing part of it away.


If you’re making soft tacos or enchiladas, first try using a small size of corn tortilla.
If you’re making burritos, first try making them with a standard size of flour tortilla; you can then decide to purchase smaller or larger tortillas in the future, as needed.
 Tortillas are commonly used to make wraps, which combine sandwich or salad ingredients into a neatly packaged burrito-like form. Since wraps can include large amounts of several different ingredients, plan to use a large tortilla when making a wrap. If you’d like to try making a wrap but are unfamiliar with common varieties, typical wraps include:Chicken Caesar wraps, including lettuce, grilled chicken, Caesar dressing, and shredded parmesan cheese.
Buffalo chicken wraps, including lettuce, buffalo chicken, buffalo sauce, shredded cheddar cheese, and blue cheese dressing.
A sandwich wrap, including your choice of sliced deli meats, cheeses, and mustard or sandwich oil.

