 Heart attacks can produce similar symptoms to a mitral valve prolapse. Because untreated heart attacks can be fatal, you should call an ambulance at the first suspicion of a heart attack. Heart attack symptoms may include some or all of the following:Chest pain or pressure
Pain that radiates to your neck, jaw, or back
Nausea
Abdominal discomfort
Heartburn or indigestion
Feeling out of breath, rapid or shallow breathing
Sweating
Exhaustion
Lightheadedness or dizziness;
, If you have symptoms, they may be slight at first and increase slowly. If the prolapse causes blood to leak back into the atrium (a condition called mitral valve regurgitation), you are more likely to have symptoms. This can increase in the amount of blood in the left atrium, create more pressure in the pulmonary veins, and cause the heart to become enlarged. If your condition is severe, you may have:Chest pain
An arrhythmic heartbeat
A racing heartbeat
Difficulty breathing during exercise and when lying flat
Exhaustion

, The doctor will use a stethoscope to listen to how the blood flows through your heart. When diagnosing a mitral valve prolapse, your doctor will consider:Whether there is a clicking sound as the valve shuts. If so, this suggests that the valve is bulging or prolapsing.
Whether you have a heart murmur. If the valve is leaking, your doctor may hear a whooshing sound as the blood goes backwards into the atrium.
Your medical history. If you or someone in your family has another condition that is associated with a mitral valve prolapse, you may be prone to it as well. These conditions include: Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Ebstein’s anomaly, muscular dystrophy, Graves’ disease, and scoliosis.
 Your doctor may need additional information to diagnose you. There are several tests that he or she may do to measure and take images of your heart. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant, nursing, or think you could be pregnant because that may influence which tests the doctor does.Echocardiogram. This exam uses sound waves to create a picture of your heart. The doctor can see if your heart is enlarged and examine the mitral valve. This test is likely to be done by putting a transducer through your mouth and into your esophagus. The esophagus is right near your heart so your doctor will be able to get high quality images. The doctor may also measure the blood flow and determine if you have leakage with a Doppler ultrasound at the same time.
An electrocardiogram (ECG). This test measures the intensity and pacing of the electrical signals that control your heartbeat. The doctor will put electrodes on your skin. It is noninvasive and will not hurt.
Stress test. If you do a stress test you will exercise on a treadmill or bike during an ECG. This lets your doctor examine how your heart performs under stress. If you cannot exercise, your doctor may give you a medication to make your heart beat faster, simulating exercise. If you have leakage through the mitral valve that makes it hard for you to be physically active, this test will show that.
A chest X-ray. X-rays can show the doctor the size and shape of your heart. It is particularly useful in identifying areas that might be enlarged. You will not feel the X-rays, but you may need to wear a heavy lead apron to protect your reproductive organs during this procedure.
Coronary angiogram and cardiac catheterization. The doctor puts a small catheter into a vein or artery, usually in your groin, and then moves the catheter through your body to your heart. The doctor then introduces dye into the blood vessels of your heart so they will show up on an X-ray. This test can be used to determine how much blood is leaking through the mitral valve.
 Your doctor may not recommend treatment if you have no leakage through the mitral valve and no symptoms.If you have some leakage but no symptoms, your doctor may suggest monitoring your condition rather than using medications or surgery to treat it. If you chose this course of action, be sure to attend follow up appointments as advised by your doctor.
 Most of the time dietary or exercise changes aren’t necessary. However, if the leakage through your mitral valve is significant, your doctor may recommend that you avoid activities that increase the blood pressure on the mitral valve. If the valve is weak, you may be at an increased risk of a rupture.Your doctor may suggest that you avoid weight lifting with heavy weights.
Your doctor will probably have no objection to other activities such as running, biking and swimming.
 Which medications your doctor recommends will depend on what symptoms you have, the severity, and your medical history. Medications will not prevent the prolapsed from happening, but they may reduce chest pain or stabilize a heart arrhythmia. Possible medications include:Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. These are common high blood pressure medications for mild mitral valve regurgitation.Anticoagulants such as aspirin, warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven), dabigatran (Pradaxa). Blood clots can cause strokes and heart attacks. The doctor is particularly likely to prescribe them if you have previously had either of these conditions.
Diuretics. These medications can reduce the burden on the mitral valve by lowering your blood pressure.They will also help to remove fluid that may be building up in your lungs.Beta blockers. Beta blockers reduce the rate at which your heartbeats and lower the amount of force with which it beats. This reduces your blood pressure, decreases the strain on your mitral valve, and can help inhibit irregular heartbeats.
Medications to control your heartbeat. If you have an irregular heartbeat, your doctor may recommend flecainide (Tambocor), procainamide (Procanbid), sotalol (Betapace), or amiodarone (Cordarone, Pacerone).
 This procedure enables you to keep your valve instead of replacing it. Be sure to go to someone who is experienced and specializes in mitral valve repair. Depending upon the cause of your prolapse and / or leakage the doctor may do several things:Annuloplasty. If you have structural problems with the tissue around the valve, it can be reinforced by implanting a ring around the valve or tightening the tissue.
Valvuloplasty. This involves doing surgery on the tissues of the valve. It might involve making the flaps, or leaflets, that close smaller so they close snugly. It could also involve modifying the attachments of the flaps.
 This would be done if it isn’t possible to repair the valve you have. There are two options for replacing your valve and each have pros and cons:A bioprosthesis. This is a tissue valve, usually made of a valve from a cow or pig. The major advantage is that it does not require you to take anticoagulants for the rest of your life. However, the disadvantage is that it may wear out and have to be replaced.
A mechanical valve. Mechanical valves have the advantage that they last longer. The disadvantage is that blood clots may form on the valve and then get dislodged. This means that people with mechanical valves have to take anticoagulants for the rest of their lives to reduce their risk of strokes.

