 Acupuncture is a technique used in traditional Chinese medicine where a certified practitioner stimulates points on the body with needles. Studies have shown that acupuncture helps in reducing the frequency of migraines. It may also help with the severity of migraine pain.Talk to your doctor, or make an appointment to discuss migraine treatment with a certified acupuncturist.
 Migraines are often caused by stress. By reducing your stress levels, you can reduce the frequency or severity of your migraines. Try yoga, deep breathing techniques, or meditation. Stress-relieving activities are usually part of a larger migraine management system.


When considering yoga for migraines, make sure to avoid classes with vigorous, extreme poses or excessive heat. These could worsen your migraines. Instead, try a yoga that focuses on breathing and meditation. Many find hatha yoga helpful.
 Taking supplements may have a positive effect on migraines. These natural remedies offer alternative ways to treat migraines. Always discuss these supplements or herbs with your doctor before taking them.


Magnesium may be helpful for migraines, since people who suffer from migraines often have low levels of magnesium.Some studies show that increasing Vitamin D may help migraines.Vitamin B2, also called riboflavin, may help reduce the frequency of migraines.CoQ10 and Melatonin may help, but you need to discuss these options with your doctor since they can interfere with medication.The herbs butterbur and feverfew may help with migraines. They can help with the frequency and severity. You should discuss taking these herbs with your doctor, especially if you are taking other medication.Alert your doctor if you take any natural supplements in case they interfere with medications.
 Aromatherapy and essential oils may help ease menopause migraines. You can smell the oil in the bottle, put it in a diffuser, or place it on your skin. You can also massage oils onto your temples, making sure not to get them into your eyes.Good oils for headaches are lavender, ginger, and peppermint. Try rubbing them onto your temples or smelling them.

