 When you begin to feel the adrenaline coursing through your body, one of the best things you can do is exercise. Exercise may allow you to dispense the excess energy that is a result of the adrenaline rush; however, you must be careful not to over-exercise.Limit your exercise to a 40-minute maximum, and do a combination of weights, i.e., strengthening exercises, and cardio. Aim for three 40-minute workouts per week.
Yoga is a great exercise because it burns up excess energy and relaxes the mind when done properly and consistently.
 Meditation will help you relax and improve your sense of happiness and control. Therefore, by learning how to meditate properly you may be able to reduce your body’s production of adrenaline. There are a variety of meditation techniques, so pick one that is aimed at helping people relax.Meditate for 15 minutes in the morning and before you go to sleep.
 Deep breathing techniques are great for curbing your adrenaline and regaining control in the moment. When you feel that your adrenaline is spiking, slow down and focus on your breathing.Stop what you are doing and place one hand on your stomach and one on your chest. Inhale through your mouth. As you exhale, let your shoulder and upper body muscles relax. Then, slowly inhale through your nose while thrusting your stomach out. Hold your breath for a one or two seconds. Exhale through your mouth while sucking your stomach in. Repeat this technique until you feel relaxed., Self-hypnosis and/or guided imagery is helpful for people who have trouble falling asleep at night because of adrenaline spikes. You can purchase hypnosis downloads specifically for adrenaline addicts, or you can listen to guided sessions on YouTube for free.Download the self-hypnosis tapes onto your phone or iPod, or simply look up videos on YouTube. When searching for videos on YouTube type in the search bar, “relaxation hypnosis,” “relaxation meditation,” or “guided imagery for sleeping.”

, Neurofeedback, also called EEG Biofeedback, helps some patients overcome their addiction. Neurofeedback helps to re-set the natural rhythms in the brain. When your brain's natural rhythms are re-set, you are able to change behaviors and thoughts more easily.Contact a neurofeedback trainer or professional in your area. A typical session lasts 30 minutes. The professional will place sensors to your head which are attached to a special software that reads brainwaves. You will then be given relaxing music to listen to. When you hear a skip in the music, this is the machine re-setting the natural rhythms in your brain.
You may also be able to experiment with biofeedback at home. A biofeedback device may help you feel calmer in just 15 minutes.