 Although getting into a car accident is stressful, try to stay calm. Do not yell at or argue with the other driver, even if you believe that the accident is completely the other driver's fault.Arguing with the other driver or letting your anger get the best of you will not fix your car. It may actually make the other driver angry enough to blame the accident on you or not cooperate with your insurance company.;
, If you or the other driver is injured, help as much as you can until paramedics arrive. You are not typically required by law to give help. But, you may be sued by an injured party for not helping that person if it turns out that the accident is your fault., Call 911 or make sure that the other driver or a witness called the police. Speak with the police and give an honest statement about what happened.Often, insurance adjusters will talk to police officers if there is any question about who's at fault. Not calling the police to the scene could reduce your insurance claim amount.
 You'll need the other driver's name, driver's license number, vehicle type, license plate number, name of his/her insurance company and policy number. Check the insurance policy to make sure it isn't expired.


If the insurance policy is not under the driver’s name, get the insurance policyholder's name and contact information. You'll use this information to contact the other driver's car insurance company and start a car accident claim.
 Take pictures of the scene to show your insurance company later. Take notes. Write down how you believe the accident happened and any other details you remember from the crash.For example, make sure that you write down the road conditions at the time of the accident and exactly what you were doing when the accident occurred (e.g., "I was stopped at a stop sign when the other car rear-ended me").
 They can help confirm your story. Ask the witnesses to give a statement to you or the police, and get any witnesses' contact information for later use, if necessary., If you were injured and are having trouble paying your medical expenses or if the settlement offered by the insurance company does not cover all your car repairs, consider hiring a personal injury attorney.The attorney can help you either negotiate with the insurance company or file a lawsuit against the driver who was at fault in your accident.


To find a personal injury lawyer near you: ask family or friends for referrals, search an online phone directory or search engine, or check with your local state bar association for referrals.
If you live in a "no-fault" state, you may typically only file suit if your insurance did not fully cover your injury or you suffered a serious injury.
If your insurance company fails to pay a valid claim, you may wish to speak to an attorney about a bad insurance claim against your insurance company.
 Tell the company that you are filing a claim. You'll probably be speaking with a claims adjuster or liability examiner. These employees have the insurance company's best interests in mind, so be careful what information you give.Make sure to ask about your insurance policy's terms. This will give you a better idea of what you're dealing with.
 You don't need to provide details about the accident when you call your insurance company. If the accident wasn't your fault, briefly explain how the other driver caused the accident. Your insurance company will probably want to contact the other driver's insurance company.Simply tell the claims adjuster or liability examiner that you will be filing a claim and will speak to whomever you need to speak with once the investigation into the accident is complete.
 Don't tell your insurance company if you've been injured. Inform the insurance company's representative that you're unsure about the extent of your injuries and that you're going to see your doctor. You have the right to be seen by your doctor, not one that the insurance company chooses.Don’t immediately share your medical records or medical history. An insurance company may want to go through your medical records to try to blame any injuries that you may have on something other than the car accident.
 Keep and file all receipts, reports, estimates, and claim number about the accident. Document other expenses, such as missed work and medical costs. This documentation might include medical records or work excuses from your doctor or supervisor.


Don’t give your insurance company an estimate of what you think the damages from the accident might end up being . If you do, that is essentially the amount of money the insurance company will offer you, regardless of how much your repairs actually cost.
 The claims adjuster will probably want to interview you. Consider writing down your impression of what happened in the accident so you can clearly communicate your views without getting flustered by questions. If the adjuster asks you questions that you do not know the answers to, simply communicate that.Do not speculate about the cause of the accident.
 Get the name and direct number for the person who is assigned to your claim. Try to get to know them and check on the status of your claim. Be polite and friendly to the insurance representative, even if you're stressed or anxious.Angering the person who is handling your insurance claim can slow down the settlement process, and reduce your chances for a large settlement. You want the insurance adjuster to be on your side, or at least to not have a reason to place your claim at the bottom of the pile.
 The insurance company may try to ask questions that force you to admit that the accident was your fault, since no fault has been assigned during the settlement process. If the company tries to do this, simply respond in a way that places the fault on the other driver.If you are responsible in any way for the accident, the evidence will show that. Don’t just assume you may be responsible. This will lower the value of your settlement and increase your insurance costs.
If you live in a no-fault state, this step will likely not apply to your situation. Your insurance company is responsible for covering your claims.
 Focus your answers to questions on the other driver in the accident. This will help you avoid “blaming questions” and will emphasize the other driver’s conduct.For example, don’t say “Driver X and I were in a car accident.” Instead, say “Driver X hit my car when I was stopped at a stop sign at the intersection.”
If you live in a no-fault state, this step will likely not apply to your situation.
 Don’t feel pressured to take the first settlement offer. The insurance company could offer you a settlement quickly in hopes that you don't realize the extent of your possible damages. Instead, wait until you know for sure what all of your costs will be.


Ask the insurance company to send you all offers in writing so you don’t feel pressured to make a split-second decision.Settling quickly may be convenient and save time. But you may end up paying out of pocket if the settlement doesn’t fully cover your medical bills, car repairs or other costs from the accident.
 If the insurance company makes you a settlement offer, you are free to take time to think about the offer. You can ask the company to tell you how it came up with the amount offered. If you think you're entitled to more, you can present documentation to prove your claim.


This documentation would include any medical bills, car repair bills, or documentation of any other expenses you had as a result of the accident.

