 They shouldn't wobble to the side, and the heels and toes shouldn't move when you go from side to side. Comfort is key! Someone at a general sporting goods store should be able to show you the proper fit. Children should definitely consider adjustable skates so they can grow along with them.;
, Because you're standing on carpet the wheels won't roll. The purpose here is to get used to the added height and to readjust your center of balance. Although you might not need it, a chair is recommended anyway in case you need the added support or if you begin to fall.
 You may be on carpet or grass, but you still need to get a feel for how to move your legs and feet. Take a few steps, then while standing still, move one foot forward while gradually increasing pressure on that foot until almost none on the other. Then, do the same with the other foot until you are able to "glide" back and forth the room a few times.
 Don't hurry the process and don't feel as though you're moving too slow. It's important to feel confident and to have strong mental composure. Don't get frustrated if you keep falling! Relax, take deep breaths, and focus. If you think you can do it, you will!

, Concrete is ideal due to its irregular and rough surface. Your wheels will find friction within these grooves but at the same time will allow you to move more freely than carpet. Asphalt, however, is not recommended for beginners because its smoother surface will force your wheels to roll more easily and you may not be ready for that. If you do insist on asphalt, though, choose a garage or patio so you can have something to grab on to if you fall. Also, make sure you wear a helmet and knee-pads if you are beginning!

, Practice turning, balancing on one skate, and walking. It is easier to do things slowly at first, then gradually pick up the pace until you can move faster.
 If you have to fall it is always best to try to fall forwards, sliding on your knee pads and wrist guards. If you feel yourself falling backwards, grab your knees! This will pull you forward, so you will either stay upright, or just fall forward. Make sure your wrist guards impact at a sliding angle--not straight down, as this may cause a jarring impact which can injure your wrists. If you can help it, try not to fall backwards, as you can cause damage to your unprotected back and tailbone. If you have no choice, attempt to stop your fall with your elbow and wrist pads and the soft side of your bottom--between your tailbone and hip bone--to avoid harming your back and tailbone. Try to keep your head from hitting the ground, but since this is a likely occurrence, ensure you always wear a helmet.
 Just like driving a car, riding a bike, or even running, anticipate where you want to stop. Move one foot forward and bend the knee slightly, applying pressure on your heel until you slowly come to a complete stop.
 Knowing the basics isn't enough! If, for example, your arms flail around every time you turn you probably didn't make the rest of your body turn with your feet. Putting in at least half an hour every day is a good idea.

