 If you are as young as 14, some companies will not hire you. Get a job (or at least a paper route).;
, Example: Instead of going on a date to dinner and a movie, go for a stroll through the park and have a picnic. (much more romantic anyway)

, Then you won't be pressured to go to the mall or the movies and spend money with them.
 Tell them that you would be much more encouraged to study harder and put more effort into your work if there was a cash reward. Tell them that it is your future, but you are just a kid. Kids need to work hard at school and have fun. If you had a cash reward for good grades, then you could both be happy.
 Seriously. But write down where you hid it. Or tell someone. Then only allow yourself a certain amount of money a month.
 Give yourself more time to save the money.
 Whatever you are good at you can get paid for. You can tutor kids in a subject area you're especially good at: mow lawns, babysit, clean houses, run errands, anything.
 Compare your electric bill to the same month as last year (try to get them to subtract inflation) and see if they'll pay you the balance. Also do dishes, sweep. Keep your room clean.
 Have a friend burn a CD for you or go without. Don't buy extra junk food when you aren't really hungry; wait until you get home to eat.
 For example, if you need a pen, don't buy one that is going to wear out the next day. By the same token, don't buy the most expensive pen out there.
 You may find money still in old wallets or under the bed, or between sofa cushions.
 Also, keep in mind that places such as TJ Max take clothes from name-brand stores and sell them for drastically cheaper than the original price. Thrift stores are also good for hidden treasures.
 If you have some gift cards that you won't use, but know your parents can use them to purchase household cleaning items, discount clothing, etc.,then ask them if they will pay you in cash for whatever is left on the card. This can add up if you have lots of gift cards! The second use of gift cards is to use them. Go through all of your old wallets and take out all of the gift cards you find. Put them on a surface and separate into two piles:wanted and unwanted gift cards. Use the ones you wanted to keep.This will help you save up much extra money.
, Think a penny doesn't count? Think again. Keep all of your spare change in a piggy bank of some form, and when the pig is full take it to your local bank. You'll be surprised at how quickly those loose coins add up.
 The Coin Master takes 8-10 cents per dollar which will really add up! If you originally had $100 worth of coins, then you took it to a coin star machine, it would take ten dollars or more out of your money. To get your change converted to dollar bills, go to a nearby bank and ask for some paper coin rolls. It is actually kind of fun to count all the change by hand. You never know how much it really is, and end up surprising yourself! Be sure to wash your hands when you are done.
,, Put all extra money you earn in a piggy bank. You will be surprised at how much it mounts up!

,