 Professors often pay attention to students who sit at the front of the class. Sit up front so the professor knows you are there to learn and pay attention to what they have to say. Make a point of sitting in the front row each class, with your pen and notebook ready.Sitting in the front row will also allow you to ask the professor questions and hear what the professor has to say clearly and easily.
 Showing up on time will show the professor that you are eager to learn and want to be a good student. It will also make it clear that you care about the class and want to be present for it.If possible, try to get to the class a little early so you can get a front row seat. Getting there early will give you a chance to chat with the professor before class and with your fellow classmates.
 Be present for every class so the professor knows you are a dedicated student. They will then be more inclined to be friendly with you.


If you are not able to attend class, make sure you email the professor to let them know. Try to make up for missing class by going to their office hours to show the professor you are still dedicated to the class.
 Be an active participant in the class by asking the professor questions that are thoughtful and engaging. Asking thoughtful questions will demonstrate to the professor that you are paying attention and interested in the class.For example, you may ask a clarifying question during a professor’s lectures like, “Professor, would you mind explaining the main concept in a bit more detail?”
You can also ask thought-provoking questions like, “Professor, why does the author describe female characters differently than male characters in the text?”

, Encourage your classmates to participate in class discussions by asking them thoughtful questions. Pose thoughtful questions to the room. Make interesting remarks to keep the discussion going. This will show the professor that you are a good class leader and interact well with your peers.For example, you may ask the class, “Did anyone else find the passage confusing?” or you may say, “I’d love to know what others thought of the solution to the problem.”

, Another way you can get on your professor’s good side is to complete your assignments for the class to the best of your abilities. Hand in your assignments on time. Follow the professor’s requirements for the assignments to the letter. This will show them that you are a dedicated student worth befriending.If you have questions about the assignments, communicate with the professor. Doing this will help you to build rapport with the professor and show them you care about doing well in the class.

