 As soon as you wake up, kiss your partner on the cheek to give them a reminder of your love. Studies show that starting your day off by warmly greeting and physically touching your partner leads to a better outlook on the rest of the day. Physical contact in the morning will set a positive tone for your day.Wake up just a few minutes before your partner, turn off the alarm clock, and gently kiss their cheek to wake them.
If you are apart for some reason and cannot offer physical love, try sending loving text messages for your partner to wake up to.;
, Walk around the house in just a towel or stroke their back as you walk by them. Do small acts to tease and tantalize your partner. Build their anticipation and desire for your touch.


Full body massages are great ways to build the tension and feel intimate and connected.
 Touch is the primary language of compassion, and it conveys trust and safety. When you touch your partner in public, you both receive these benefits, plus the added benefit of knowing that others know about your love. Showing your love in public, conveys that you are not ashamed of your partner, and you want the whole world to know you are together.Hold the door for your partner, and as she walks by, place your hand on the small of her back.
When you are waiting in line at the bank, face each other and embrace in a hug.
Do not be inappropriate in public, as it can be illegal when taken too far.
 Sex is a critically important aspect of a happy and long-lasting relationship.Find ways to have romantic and meaningful sexual encounters. Purchase books like the “Kama Sutra” to learn new ways to pleasure your partner.


Talk to each other about your likes and dislikes in bed. Learn your partner’s turn-ons, and do your best to make them happy.
 Sharing fantasies with your partner reveals a deep and private side to you, which will enhance your connection and intimacy.When your partner shares their fantasy, do not judge them; instead play along. You both have to be fully engaged and committed to each fantasy to increase the pleasure.