 You may already have the qualifications you need for a job in another career field. Clean up and update your resume and then take an objective look at the skills you already bring to the table.Review your skills and decide which ones could easily transfer outside of your current career field.
Take your work experience into account. If you worked closely with other departments or on projects that involved things outside of your traditional responsibilities you may be able to cite those experiences as qualification.
 Many careers require a college degree or technical training that you may be lacking. Educational limitations can put a snag in your career planning, but there’s always the option to pursue more or specialized schooling.If you have a degree, look into what other career fields may draw from your educational background.
Determine if your work experience could serve in the place of education for some jobs.
Decide if you would be willing to pursue additional education in order to aid in your career change.
 You may be unhappy in your current position because it’s a bad fit for your personality. Be introspective and try to decide what types of things your personality is well suited for.If you enjoy speaking to people, that’s an important element to take into account as there are many career fields that require regular interaction with coworkers, employees or customers.
If you are shy, it’s important to pursue work that won’t take you out of your comfort area often (unless that’s what you’re looking for).
Consider taking a personality assessment. There are many personality assessments available online and many community colleges offer free ones. These tests can help you quantify elements of your personality you may not have accounted for., People are motivated by many different things, and determining those motivations can go far in helping you choose a career field. Finding a career field that offers the types of motivation you need is a sure way to increase your professional fulfillment.Are you motivated by money? You may want to buy a home or build a better life for your family. If an increase in income is among your most important motivations that can help direct your career search.
Are you motivated by a need to help others? If you find helping others fulfilling and that’s a primary motivation for you, pursuing work in the non-profit sector may be best for you.
Are you motivated by recognition? Many career fields fall into the category of “unsung heroes” and that may not be what you’re looking for. You may want a job that gives you a bit of the spotlight, and there are career paths to pursue that can.

