 Realize and know the fact that there are actually few people who show a complete version of themselves on Social Networks and Media. On the other hand, There are people who fake what and who they really are. Some do this by fake names, fake photos, and etc. Unfortunately, there are some who fake themselves by insulting on other user pages. The thing that probably just 1% of them do in the real world. Because in the real world, if they insult, they'll probably be judged and shamed by others. So what you have to do is knowing that they're not real, and fake people are not worth judging.
 If you see an insult on a user page - whether your favorite celebrity, your friend or a simple e-Pal, know what is the comment about. If it's in other languages, translate. If it's talking about previous comments, read the previous comments. To do the right action, you have to know what the comment is about and decide whether you need to get involved. Sometimes It's better to back off while sometimes, you should react.
 Although usually, people insult on Social Media for no reason, There are sometimes that there's a fight between them. Never be part of it. Instead, ask the fighters to calm down and stop, even if there is a right person. Because Social Networks are not places to fight. If you stand by with one person and judge another ones, you're only adding fuel to the fire. So remember that you can not put out a fire with oil.
 There may be some comments that although have insults, but are trying to express a fair criticism. It's not bad to teach others how to criticize. Some people really don't know how to remove insults when criticizing. On the other hand, there are people who were just in a bad mood. Although it's not a good excuse but it happens. What you have to do is respectfully ask them to delete their comment themselves and try to express their ideas without insulting. Tell them you understand that people may have mistakes. Do not ask them to apologize. Instead, be as polite and respectful as you can so they'll immediately regret their words and apologize themselves. If they regretted, kudos to yourself and if they didn't, ask them again. If that happened again, know that twice is enough. Simply block and report them.
 There are comments that the only point of them is nothing! They don't express anything but the obsession. These comments show that these people were under emotional child abuse pressure in their childhood. The only thing you can do is to block and report these people so they'll get out of Social Media and nobody gets hurt, especially teenagers.
 Explain that trolls are like birds: if you bother to feed them, more will come.
 Send them friendly messages, find fun things to do together, and remind them how much you care. This positivity can help them stay grounded and mentally healthy despite the insults. Give them some good memories. It can help them get through this.
 Some campaigns such as "Block and Report campaign" are being created to take action against insults, especially on Social Media. These campaigns will probably decrease the number of insults on Social Media. If there aren't any campaign against insults in your country, start one.
 Realize that they don't even worth discussing. Because they may know that you're right, but are not going to confess. If you discuss with them, then what's your difference?

