 Meanwhile, prepare a 9-inch by 13-inch (23-cm by 33-cm) baking pan by lining it with nonstick aluminum foil.


If desired, you could lightly coat the bottom of the baking pan with nonstick cooking spray instead of using foil. Opt for low-calorie cooking spray to cut your calories as much as possible, but note that standard cooking spray can be used if a low-calorie alternative is unavailable.
 Lightly sprinkle both sides of the chicken with salt and pepper, then lay the chicken breasts in the prepared baking dish.


If you aren't sure about how much salt and pepper to use, start by splitting about 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) of each between all of the chicken breast cuts. Salt and pepper should only accent the final flavor of the dish, so you don't need much of either.
 Arrange the onion slices evenly over the surface of each chicken breast. Lay any extra onion around the chicken in the bottom of the pan.


If preferred, you could use chopped onion instead of sliced onion. Arrange the onions over the chicken in the same manner.
You can omit the onion completely, if desired, but including it will add more dimension to the final flavor of the dish., In a separate bowl, whisk together the ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, and diet cola until well-combined and mostly smooth.An easy variation would be to omit the ketchup and Worcestershire sauce and use salsa or picante sauce, instead.Any heat level should work, from mild to hot, and you can even look for low-calorie salsa to reduce the calories of the dish even further.
 Evenly pour the mixed sauce over the chicken breasts, covering them completely. Allow the excess to run off into the bottom of the pan.
 Place the chicken in the preheated oven and bake until cooked through. Depending on the thickness of the chicken breasts, this should take anywhere from 35 to 45 minutes.


Leave the baking pan uncovered and turn the chicken breasts after approximately 20 minutes. Turning the chicken should help minimize the risk of drying it out.
Note that you only need to cook the chicken until it is no longer pink inside. Cooking it longer than necessary will dry it out. If you choose to use a cooking thermometer, the chicken should reach an internal temperature of 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius).
 Remove the finished chicken from the oven and transfer the chicken breasts to individual serving plates. Some of the sauce should thicken over the surface of the chicken during the cooking process, but you should spoon excess sauce from the pan over each serving before enjoying it.

