 Let the conversation continue as if you were already part of it. Just because you joined the conversation doesn't mean you need to dominate it. After joining, go back into listening mode for a little while.This will help you get a sense of the people in the conversation as well as set you up as a respectful person. When ready, it is often best to start with a small comment and judge the reaction before continuing.


”That's amazing!”
”What, really?!”
”I can't believe it, that's crazy!”

, After successfully joining in on a conversation, you'll need to decide on whether or not to stay in the conversation. Reading the body language of the group can be particularly helpful in determining whether your presence there is welcomed by the group.


Glances. Making eye contact is great conversational practice anyway, so watch their faces and notice how they are looking at one another. If they are glancing at each other with odd or confused facial expressions, it may be time to make a graceful exit.
Feet position. Take a quick glance at where everyone's toes are pointed. If someone has their feet pointed in your direction, they are open, engaged, and interested if what you have to say.Change in body language. Look to see how their body language changes after you enter into the conversation. Are they remaining open, or opening more (e.g.- uncrossing their arms, moving in closer, etc.) or are they closing up (e.g.- crossing arms, leaning away, etc.)?

, Until you hit upon a topic that you can comment on or are interested in discussing further, ask questions.If nothing naturally pops up ask standard “getting-to-know-you” questions. Be careful not to stay in small talk too long as it can become tedious for everyone involved. Instead use those questions to search for a more interesting subject to transition to.


What do you do for work?/What are you studying in school?
Are you from this area?
Have you been able to travel this summer?
Have you seen any interesting movies lately?

, Always remember throughout the conversation to stay courteous and polite. If the group is talking about a subject that you are familiar with, then gently put in your input. Be careful not to interrupt or cut someone off to say what you need to say. If the group is talking about something you are unfamiliar with, its a perfect time to ask questions. Make sure you are being respectful and making eye contact with the speaker.