 Wrap the hot or cold pack in a paper towel or washcloth and place it on your back where you’re experiencing pain.


Whether you use a hot or cold pack depends on how your body responds to each type. Some people find one works better than the other. Others find both work equally well.
Alternately, you could use a hot-water bottle or heat blanket to provide warmth and pain relief on your back. Hot bath or a washcloth soaked in warm water may also help. If you do not have a cold pack, wrap ice in a washcloth to make a cold compress.
Apply cold packs for no more than 15-20 minutes. Longer than that and you risk damaging your skin., An accommodation might be as simple as providing you a different chair with better padding to sit on at your desk. You might also request a transfer to a less physically rigorous job at the same company. Be prepared to provide verification from your doctor if management requests such.


If things are really bad for you, you could request a reduction in your work hours.
If your back pain is so serious that you feel you cannot work at all, you might be able to file a disability claim. Usually, only the most serious cases can receive disability pensions through Social Security. If you believe your case is severe enough to warrant a disability claim, contact a lawyer to help walk you through the filing process., TENS is a technique in which electricity is sent to your nerves in order to block the pain signals to your brain. A TENS device is about the size of a tape cassette, and has two or more electrodes coming out of it. When you feel pain, apply the electrodes to the skin of the affected area, or as directed by your doctor. Once turned on, the device sends a low-level electrical impulse to your brain, reducing or eliminating the pain signal.


Ask your doctor what the best power settings for the device is., Dance, yoga, and other whole-body activities might help reduce your back pain.


Don’t strain yourself. Sports and strenuous physical activity -- especially anything that involves bending or lifting -- can exacerbate your back pain. Consider using an activity tracker to monitor your steps so that you don't over-extend yourself.While physical activity is important, try to avoid contact sports like hockey, rugby, and football.
Instead, go for a run or ride your bike to meet your daily activity requirements.
Losing weight (even if you are only modestly overweight) can help reduce your pain. A large belly pulls the spine into an unnatural position and causes hunching.
 By gently massaging your back in sensitive and painful areas, the massage therapist can reduce your pain. Many forms of massage therapy are acceptable for back pain relief, including:


Swedish massage
Neuromuscular massage
Deep tissue massage
Myofascial massage

