 pail. This is your working paint that will move around the job with you. For best results from brushing, don’t dip directly from the can.;
, If the boards you’re painting butt against a different paint color or a wall, you can lay a line of painter's tape against the edge, pushing it down tight against the surface to prevent the wet paint from bleeding underneath the tape.
 into the paint to load the brush. The more paint the brush carries, the faster you’ll coat the woodwork, but you want to avoid dripping. Tap the tip of the brush against the pail, like the clapper of a bell. For a drier brush, try dragging one side over the edge of the pail.
 The paint should flow smoothly onto the surface with little effort on your part. When the brush begins to drag, stop and reload. See the Tips below.
 Avoid dabbing small areas as this leaves marks in the paint. The brush will leave a slight track of parallel ridges, but they’ll lie down before the paint begins to skin over.
 Try to coat a whole board or section, but don’t let the paint sit more than a minute before tipping. Tip the wet paint by setting the tip of the brush against the wet paint at the top of the board and lightly stroking down the whole length of the board. Hold the brush almost perpendicular to the surface for this stroke.
 (This will only apply if you didn't put down painter's tape.) Learn with a smaller brush (1-1/2 in.) and go to a wider brush as you gain control. Dip the brush and scrape one side on the pail. Hold the dry side of the brush toward the line and slowly draw the brush along. Support your arm to steady it, and keep the stroke moving. Use gentle downward pressure; you want the bristles to splay out slightly as you stroke. You’ll find you can control the paint line by varying the pressure you apply to the brush. When the brush is dry, reload and start where the previous stroke ended. Sometimes you’ll have to go back over a section where the paint is shy of the line. Complete cutting in and then coat the rest of the piece.
 Wash latex brushes in warm, soapy water and rinse in clean water, then shake dry (or dry in a spinner). Smooth the bristles back into shape. Rinse oil brushes thoroughly in fresh paint thinner and shake dry. With proper cleaning, a quality brush will last for years.

