 In general, it should be zoned (if local regulations require it) for business or agricultural use. It needs to be suitable and large enough to meet your needs.;
, You will need to consider several things while planning your farm or zoo, here are a few:


Plan the way you will use your space. For instance, a petting zoo will require areas for animals to be fed, bathed, sheltered in inclement weather, and displayed to interact with the public.
Plan crops you will plant that you can harvest for sale if you choose to operate a small farm. Vegetables, nursery items like container grown flowers or seedling trees or shrubs are examples.
Plan your schedule of operations. If you are in an area with a tourist seasons, you will need to be able to operate your business when you expect traffic to bring customers to you.
Plan financial resources to allow you to survive while you establish you business, and to pay the expenses involved in the beginning, buying animals, equipment, seeds, and other products you will need.
Make plans to get help managing and operating your farm or zoo. Finding a partner or partners may be more practical than hiring people if you have limited resources.
 You will need special insurance for liability if you have public access to your premises, and you may also have to have a business license and even professional licenses to operate depending on local regulations.
 A small garden, for instance, can produce an incredible amount of long growing season vegetables like tomatoes, squash, cucumbers, beans, and others, where crops like grain, melons, and other single harvest items only produce for a short time during their respective season.
 If you are in business, either farming or operating a petting zoo, you will want to provide the public with things they want. Petting zoos typically have cute, tame, and docile animals like sheep, goats, pigs, ponies, and the like. Avoid aggressive species, and very large animals like cows and horses unless you are capable of handling them safely.
 You will need pens for a zoo, with welcoming features, walkways, bathroom facilities, parking, and possibly a souvenir shop. For a small farm, you will need storage for harvested crops, processing space, display space for selling, and the actual cropland itself.

