 Someone who has avoidant personality disorder may be unintentionally hurtful, emotionally tiring, or otherwise difficult to deal with at times. If you don't feel like you can help them as much as they would like, tell them so. Don’t feel guilty for being up-front about what you can deal with and what you can’t.Set boundaries to limit time as needed. For example, "I need to start homework soon but I can talk for 30 minutes," or "I can't talk after 9pm because I need to rest." This way, you can support them, without giving up too much time for other important parts of your life.
Honesty is important for a healthy relationship. It’s okay to say something like, “I want to support you, but I’ve been feeling a little overwhelmed lately and I need some space.” Tell your boyfriend you need to take a break for awhile. Mention to your friend that you need some time to think.
 Reach out to the person's loved ones, and encourage them to spend more time with this person. Remind the person that their loved ones would enjoy spending time together.


You should not be the only support person for the person with avoidant personality disorder, as this isn't fair to either one of you.
If you are too busy or overwhelmed to help them when they need help, you can suggest that they go to another close loved one.
Even young children can help. For example, you could say "Your big sister is having a bad day. She might feel better if she could spend some time reading or playing video games with you today."

, Being put on the spot or forced to talk to other people can be difficult and upsetting for someone with avoidant personality disorder. If you put them into a social situation against their will, it almost certainly won’t help. Also, they may be angry at you or feel ashamed of their own perceived deficiencies.


Let your loved one decide for themselves if and when they want to engage in interactions with other people.This can be especially hard if the person is your significant other or best friend. These relationships are naturally social ones; however, if your girlfriend does not like hanging in groups, support her interests and stick to smaller group settings. If your best friend doesn't want to go to a party, see if you can go with another group of acquaintances.
 For people who don’t have avoidant personality disorder, the behavior of someone with this condition may seem puzzling or hurtful. Your loved one may act friendly one minute and push you away the next, or they may go silent and refuse to interact for long periods of time. Remember that their behavior is a reflection of their disorder, not how they feel about you.Romantic and close relationships may suffer from this because, if your date or BFF pushes you away, you immediately will think you did something wrong. Just try to remember the unique traits of this person. Also, remind yourself that they have only a few social relationships. So, if they are keeping you around, they must still like you and want you in their life.
 Visiting a therapist, joining a support group for family members of people with avoidant personality disorder, or just talking with a friend can help you deal with your emotions and relieve stress. Maintaining a stable, positive state of mind will make you better able to help your loved one.


If your loved one lives in the same house with you, make an effort to get some away time for yourself often. Make plans with friends or go on a daytime outing just to clear your head.
If your loved one is a significant other, take the opportunity to get therapy, if possible. It can be detrimental to your self-confidence when your S.O. pulls away out of the blue. Get counseling to address how their personality disorder is impacting you.
If your loved one is a friend, be sure to sustain other friendships. It can be easy to get lost in this person's world, but it's healthy and absolutely OK to have outside friendships, too.

