 Spending a bunch of time sitting around on your couch is the fastest way to be super boring. By constantly getting out there and doing something, anything, you'll be making yourself much more interesting. It gives you something to talk about in conversations with other people and makes it look like you at least have some kind of life, even if it isn't the most exciting life ever.;
, Traveling is an easy way to make yourself and your life more exciting. Aside from the incredibly rewarding experiences you will have while doing this, it will also make you more confident and help teach you to cope with challenges in your life. You can travel locally or internationally, and traveling doesn't have to be as expensive as it seems. You can do it!

, Do adventurous things. Go hiking. Learn to rock climb. Try scuba diving. Maybe jump out of some planes. This is the fastest way to take your life from boring to action hero. They're also not that hard to do: all you need is some education, determination, and a certain dose of bravery.
 You can also be a bit more boring about your being exciting, by learning cool new skills. You can learn to play the piano, master those guitar skills you started in high school, take up painting, or go with really unique hobbies like leather working or falconry. The most important thing is to pursue something that makes you happy and that you can get invested in.
 Now, this isn't for everybody. Sometimes you have a family to support, or other obligations that take precedence over being more exciting. But if you have the opportunity to, get yourself into a career path that you (or maybe even other people) find exciting. It'll do you a lot of favors in the long run because you will be more invested in the "boring" part of your day because the boring part of your day will be awesome!


You could take a job overseas, work on something that's in that "cutting edge technology" category, or work with kids (who are well known for bringing the excitement 24/7).
 Use skills you already have or learn some new ones and you can get on your way to doing what humans do best: making new things. You can make things just for you or turn your craft into a whole business. Being creative lets you express who you are but it also makes you more interesting to other people. Everyone wins!

, Don't be a downer. Don't always complain or spend a bunch of time insulting or being down on other people. You can be as exciting as you want, but if you're a jerk then you're not really going to have anyone to enjoy that with. Make the most of life, even when it's handing out lemons like they're going out of style. Everyone will be better for it.
 This is an essential part of making your life more exciting and being a more exciting person. You can't be exciting if you're always doing the same thing, even if that same thing is a little exciting. You have to take risks sometimes (a piece of advice that's handy for life in general). Don't go crazy though. Look at risks in terms of potential loss vs. potential gain. If you stand to lose only a little but gain a lot, go for it. If it's the other way around, wait for something better or blaze your own path.


Don't forget, you can often make your own Option C, if neither A nor B is really going to work for you.
 And if who you are is a pointy-ear-wearing, Star-Trek-watching nerd, that's okay. No matter what your eccentricity is, run with it. It will make you stand out but it will also make you fun to be around and more interesting to talk to because you will be happy and enjoying what you do with your life.
 Constantly learn new things. Bonus points if you learn by doing! Filling your head with a world of experiences and knowledge is going to make you way more fun to talk to and you'll find that you enjoy the pursuit of knowledge along the way., Everyone is unique. Absolutely everyone. If identical twins are different from each other and are unique, you can certainly manage. Find what is unique about you, what makes you different, and embrace that. Even if it's weird. You might not have to fly pride flags everywhere, but you can certainly make it a bigger part of your life. You'll find that it generally makes you happier.
 People love people that are funny, so develop a good joke repertoire and make people laugh. Find the positive side of problems. Make life seem less serious every now and again, or at least remind people that it's okay to laugh and relax. This will make you and everyone around you a lot happier.


Your alternative is to be incredibly racist and offensive (the brand of exciting usually saved for grandparents who aren't particularly with the times), and you probably don't want to be that kind of exciting. Or maybe you do. Good luck with that.
 Don't think that constantly changing your hair or dress is going to make you seem more exciting. The same can be said of trying a thousand hobbies and professions. Constantly changing drastically from one thing to the next doesn't make you exciting, it makes people think you're frivolous and not invested in anything. You'll seem like you do it for the attention. Find what matters to you and let changes come naturally.
 Get out there and be social! Talk to your friends. Spend time with them. Go to parties. Have fun. Show your friends all of the cool stuff you've been working on (you followed the steps in the first two sections, right?). This lets you show the exciting stuff you've done if you want to but it also gives you one more way to get out there and do something more interesting than sitting on your couch.
 Now, we're not trying to say that having more exciting friends will make you more exciting. That's not healthy. But more exciting friends will invite you to do exciting things, giving you opportunities to try new things. They'll also be more willing to join you on your own adventure.
 Volunteer. Improve your community with the skills that you have. Help show other people how to turn their lives around by taking on challenges, just like you did in order to change how you were living your life. This act of giving back makes you more exciting, but it also will help others and give you a great sense of fulfillment.
 As you go around doing all of these exciting things, you will learn lots of cool or useful information. Make good use of this by educating others. You can give classes, or just have some fun facts for your friends at parties. People will enjoy living vicariously through the things you learn and tell them.
 Don't, however, boast or spend a lot of time rubbing it in people's faces. Your life is exciting, they know. If they want to know more, they'll ask, so try not to make every other sentence out of your mouth about "This one time I....".
 You're probably going to break or bend the rules, either real ones or just social conventions, along the way. This is natural, since being exciting usually means going against the grain a bit. Someone is going to find something "wrong" with what you're doing, even if they're the one who is really wrong. Learn to cope with the haters and you'll be much happier.

