 Set your oven to 350°F (177°C). In most cases, you can expect your oven to preheat in roughly 10 to 15 minutes. Make the most of your time while your oven heats by moving on in this recipe and preparing other parts of it. If your kitchen is especially hot, or if it is a particularly hot day, this can increase the temperature of your oven. In instances like these, use an oven thermometer to verify the temperature before baking.;
, Follow the directions on the box of your brownie mix for best results. In most cases, this involves mixing together oil, water, eggs, and brownie mix in a bowl with a whisk. Beat the mix thoroughly until it is smooth and consistent throughout.If you don’t have a whisk, you can use a fork in place of this kitchen implement, or you can improvise a whisk with chopsticks.
 Coat the baking sheet with thoroughly with a non-stick cooking spray. Position the bowl with the prepared mix over the baking sheet. Use a wooden spoon or similar kitchen implement to push the brownie mix onto the sheet.


You may need to use your wooden spoon to spread the brownie mix. The mix should be of even thickness., At this point, your oven should be finished preheating. Insert the baking sheet into the oven. Bake the brownies for about 28 to 30 minutes. When the edges are firm and the middle of the baked batter is set, your brownies are done baking. Remove them from the oven and allow them to cool for one hour.A hot pan can cause heat damage to your counters and tabletops. Be sure you use potholders to prevent heat damage to your home.
 Use a knife to remove the hard edges of the brownie. These can be thrown away, eaten as a snack or desert, or used for another purpose. With your clean hands, crumble the remaining brownie into a large bowl.


Alternatively, crush up the hard edges into chunks. When you dip the brownie pops into chocolate later in the recipe, sprinkle these chunks onto the brownie pops for a richer brownie pop., Line a clean baking sheet with parchment or wax paper. Use a cookie scoop to ball the brownies. Alternatively, use melon baller, ice cream scoop, or your clean hands. Place the balled brownie onto the lined baking sheet. Insert a lollipop stick into each balled brownie.


If using an ice cream scoop, be careful not to scoop too much of the brownie with it. Doing so may make pops that are too large to be supported by the lollipop stick., Freezing the brownie pops will help them maintain their shape while being dipped into chocolate. Failing to do so could result in your balled brownies breaking apart while adding the chocolate coating. Insert the pan with your balled brownie pops into the freezer for at least 2 hours., Add your dark chocolate to a microwave safe dish. Heat the chocolate at ½ power for 1 minute, then mix the chocolate. Continue heating the chocolate in the microwave 30 seconds at a time, stirring in in between heating intervals, until the chocolate is melty and smooth.


Heating the chocolate for a long interval will likely result in it bubbling. This could result in the inside of your microwave getting splashed with chocolate., Remove your brownie pops from the freezer. Dip each pop into the melted chocolate, then return them to the lined baking sheet. Insert the coated pops into the freezer and serve them when ready.


You may need to use a spoon to completely cover the pops in chocolate. Allow excess chocolate to drip back into the bowl to prevent the coating from overpowering the brownie.
If you’ve saved the hard edges of your brownie, crush these up now and sprinkle the hard brownie dust/crumbles over the chocolate coating while it’s still soft.
Your chocolate may thicken while your coating your pops. If this happens, return the chocolate to the microwave and heat the chocolate at short intervals until it is sufficiently melty., Before the chocolate coating has hardened, sprinkle chocolate chips onto the brownie pops. Mini chocolate chips work well for this. Alternate between white, dark, and milk chocolate chips to create variety in your pops.


Normal or large sized chocolate chips may not stick well to your brownie pops.
 While the chocolate coating is still sticky, sprinkle nuts over the pops to coat them. Full-sized nuts may not stick easily to the brownie pop coating. Use a food processor or a knife to chop the nuts into small pieces, and sprinkle these over your brownie pops.


So that people with nut allergies can still enjoy your brownie pops, separate the pops in half. Sprinkle nuts on one half and keep the other plain. Keep the two separate to prevent cross contamination.
 Finely shredded coconut should easily stick to the coating while it is still soft. You may only want to coat a portion of your brownie pops in coconut shavings. Some individuals may not like this topping.
 Sprinkles are an ideal topping for brownie pops. They’re small enough that they’ll stick to the chocolate coating with little effort, so long as the coating is still sticky. Dust the brownie pops with sprinkles as desired.


Alternatively, fill a small mixing bowl with sprinkles. After dipping the brownie pop in chocolate, allow excess chocolate to drip back into the bowl with melted chocolate. Roll the coated brownie pop in the sprinkles to cover it with them.