 Marriage or long-term commitment affects more than your love life. It is a financial and physical union, requiring compromise and sacrifice in order for both people feel happy and fulfilled. You want to talk about the future together: as a "we," not as an "I" to be sure this is the right on for you. Some questions to ask include:


Where do you plan to be in the next 5 years? Is she in that plan?
Have you shared your goals and dreams with each other? Does she support yours, and do you support hers?;
, Communication is the foundation, flooring, and soil of a strong relationship, and you should be able to talk about almost anything with your potential life partner. Feeling like you're holding back parts of your past, your desires, or your concerns will only lead to festering issues and arguments that will, in time, explode. If you are going to share the rest of your life with someone, make sure you're actually sharing it.


This doesn't mean she knows 100% of everything you've ever done. It just means that you feel comfortable sharing it if it were to come up.
 When you're first meeting people, silences can be awkward and uncomfortable. But those quiet moments where you don't feel like you need to impress or entertain her are incredibly important for the health of a long-term relationship. If you can just exist together for a few moments, without goals, anxiety, or worry, then you're allowed to be yourself. Feeling like you can be both yourself and still with her is a sure sign she might be right for you.Try doing co-puttering activities, such as reading or watching TV in the same room.
Make sure that you maintain your independence as well, such as by doing things on your own or with your friends., If you're unwilling to bring her around to meet those important to you, it is very unlikely that she's the right one for you. You should want to "show her off," not trying to hide her from other people in your life because you're afraid they will disapprove. If you can't wait for for her to meet everyone, then chances are good she's a keeper.If your friends and family all don't like a person, chances are she isn't right for you. Remember that your friends know you well, and they're looking out for your happiness, too., Does she challenge you to get better, helping your along your path? Do you help and challenge her to be the best she can be too? The right couples see everything as a team, even if that just means providing encouraging words when you or her goes through tough times. Does she inspire you to go out less and work on that passion project? Does you get excited for her when she publishes a new article or poem? This sort of support is obvious when she is the right one for you.


Ask yourself if you admire her. It is pretty important for couple to admire each-other. You need to like what she does and who she is in order to maintain a great relationship.
 She should be a major part of all of your major decisions, not an afterthought that you think will just go along with whatever you say. When offered an opportunity or making important choices, the right woman for you will naturally flicker into your mind. You make decisions and work together as a team naturally, becoming stronger and happier as a result., She's the right person if you feel happy, safe, and loved with her. At the end of the day, all of the other tips -- from communication to planning -- come from this simple feeling. If you feel comfortable in her presence, like there is nowhere you'd rather be, then you should stay with her. If you feel happy at the idea of spending a life with her, then pursue that life. And if you feel safe against problems, issues, or stress with her by your side, chances are good that you will be.Long relationships are never easy, but the right woman will feel like she is easy to be with. This open comfort is often the only clue you need to know she's right for you.
 Though she may feel like the best and most obvious decision you've ever made, you should still take some time and space to think through this alone. Even if she is the right girl for you, it's a lot easier to go with the flow and feel happy when you're together. But a strong relationship usually means you're thinking about her all the time -- alone and together, at home and abroad. If you don't miss her when she's gone or feel the passion fade when you separate, then it is going to be difficult to live with her 24/7.

