 If there is dirt or dust on your Bakelite, clean it off by rubbing with a dry cloth. Use a dry toothbrush to reach small crevices, grooves, and cracks.


If you are not 100% certain the material is Bakelite, use the methods in the identification section to confirm it before continuing. If you have a strong nose, you might notice a diagnostic smell while rubbing the plastic.;
, There are several products commonly used to clean Bakelite. While these are often specialized and more expensive than general purpose cleaners, using one of the following is highly recommended. Bakelite requires a slightly abrasive cleaner to remove the deteriorated surface material, but can be permanently ruined if an overly abrasive cleaner eats through to the pulpy filler material inside.Use Magnolia Glayzit or Soft Scrub for slightly faded Bakelite.
Use Brasso, Novus plastic polish, Simichrome metal polish, or an automobile rubbing compound to treat more severe fading and/or light scratches.Brasso is usually the cheapest, but may require more elbow grease.
 It's usually a good idea to wear gloves and work in an area with good ventilation. The warning label on the product you chose will provide more specific information.
 Put a dollop of the cleaning product onto a clean, soft cloth. Rub it over the surface of the Bakelite in circular motions. You might notice some improvement immediately, but you do not need to achieve a fully restored shine in this step. Add more of the product onto the cloth whenever necessary.


Do not apply a lot of pressure to Bakelite objects, especially if they are scratched or cracked, or you may wear through the outer surface and into the pulpy (and potentially toxic) filler material.
Catalin objects, which includes most "Bakelite" jewelry and brightly colored Bakelite, do not have filler material and can be scrubbed as hard as you like.
 If you are using Novus, Magnolia Glayzit, or an automobile rubbing compound, leave a thin layer of the material over the Bakelite surface until it dries to a cloudy or hazy film.Skip this step if you are using a different product.
 Use another clean, dry cloth to buff the Bakelite material until the excess cleaning product is removed and a shiny surface is left behind. Do this regardless of the cleaning product you chose.


If necessary, repeat with another layer of cleaning product.
 If several applications of the cleaning product fail to restore the shine or repair damage from scratches, you can use one of the following methods restore protection and an attractive appearance to the Bakelite. This is only recommended as a last resort, due to the possibility of damage:


Use a high speed cloth buffing wheel to lightly smooth the surface. Overuse can permanently remove the Bakelite's outer surface.

Or very lightly and evenly sand the Bakelite with finest grit sandpaper you can find (1000 grit or above). Once sanded, apply the cleaning product again, or cover the surface with paint.Again, over-sanding or using coarse sandpaper can permanently damage the Bakelite.
 This will cause many early plastics to release a distinct smell. This step is not recommended for broken items, or items with delicate non-plastic attachments. If the item is dirty, rub it with a cloth first to remove the dirt. If you have a sensitive nose, you may notice the smell simply from rubbing.


A smell of formaldehyde means the plastic is Bakelite or Catalin. You might recognize the smell from preserved animal specimens in biology labs.A rotten milk smell comes from Galalith (French Bakelite).Camphor smell (a pungent evergreen or old-fashioned mothball odor), comes from celluloid.
If there is no smell, it is probably Lucite, but could be a different plastic protected by a finish or paint.
If the smell doesn't match any of the above descriptions, it's possible the piece is a modern "Fakelite" imitation product.
 Use this method if the hot water test was inconclusive. You may use Simichrome, which can also be used for polishing, or Formula 409, which can cause damage but is a more accurate test.Either way, take a tiny dab of the material with a cotton swab, and rub it against an inconspicuous corner of the plastic that has been dried and rubbed clean of dirt. If the cotton swab comes away yellow or yellow-brown, the material is probably Bakelite.Otherwise, you may need to take it to an antique shop for identification.


Wash off the material with mild soap and water, then dry immediately.
Some black Bakelite objects, or Bakelite that has been recently re-worked, may not respond to this test.
 Catalin is essentially the same material as Bakelite, and can be cleaned and polished using the same methods. In fact, since Catalin does not contain the pulpy "filler" materials used in Bakelite production, it can generally stand up better to slightly abrasive treatments, such as metal polish or sanding.If your object could use a stronger polish, check whether it is Catalin using these guidelines:


Catalin was often produced in bright colors. Bakelite is usually brown or black unless it has been painted, but there are exceptions.Most "Bakelite" jewelry is actually made from Catalin.
 Celluloid is the only common early plastic that can be damaged by water, but if you dry it immediately after the water test, it will likely be unharmed. Use a soft cotton cloth or swab to dry the plastic, since celluloid can be easily scratched. A barely dampened cotton swab can remove small spots of discoloration, if dried immediately afterward, but further cleaning and repair may require an expert., Galalith is a white, glossy plastic made from milk casein and formaldehyde. Dust it with a soft cloth, but avoid using chemical cleaners. If it is severely scratched, take it to an antique expert for repair.
 First, rinse or scrub off dirt on the lucite surface. Use plastic polish to buff or repair scratches in this clear, acrylic plastic. To repair severe damage, you may need to use a polishing wheel.Novus brand plastic polish is likely the best-known. Use Novus 1 for buffing, Novus 2 for light to moderate scratches, and Novus 3 for deep scratches.

