 In the home screen, swipe down from the status bar to expand the notification drawer. You will see a gear icon in the top right corner of the notification drawer; tap it to open the Settings menu.


The gear icon can also be found on your home screen or app drawer.;
, The Settings menu will have settings for each feature listed under category headers, like Motions and Controls, User and Backup, and Connectivity. Scroll down until you see the “Personalization” header, and under it you will see “Finger Scanner.” Tap “Finger Scanner” to begin registering your fingerprint.
 In the Finger Scanner menu, you will see configuration options like setting a backup password and setting up PayPal compatibility. Tap on the first entry in the menu, which is the Fingerprint Manager. This menu will guide you in setting up your fingerprint. Tap “OK” in the next screen, and prompts will appear to help guide you through the setup. You will see an animation in the middle of the screen that illustrates how you swipe your finger over the sensor on the Home key.
 The key to improving fingerprint scanner reliability is in the registering of the fingerprint. The wizard will prompt you to choose a finger whose prints will be registered. With each detected swipe of the Home button, the circles with numbers will turn green. Begin swiping the chosen finger over the home screen.


Most people have been experiencing inconsistent unlocking reliability, mostly because they have been swiping the same area of the finger during this step. One of the key suggestions to making it more accurately read the fingerprint is by swiping your chosen finger at more than one angle. You will be required to swipe 10 times, so make sure that you will have swiped the whole area of your finger within those 10 tries. Users have reported more consistent detection when not swiping the fingerprint at the exact same points every time.
Another suggestion is to hold the phone in the non-registered hand in order to comfortably use the registered finger. Using the scanner one-handed does not provide the optimal positioning for the scanner to accurately detect the fingerprint.
 When all ten swipes have been detected, you can tap the “Register Again” button on the lower right corner of the screen if you want to do it again.
 After swiping 10 times, a pop-up will appear that states your fingerprint has been registered. Tap the “Done” button at the lower left corner of the pop-up to enable Fingerprint Lock as the screen lock type.
 You are able to add up to three fingerprints with the Finger Scanner. To add another fingerprint, tap the Fingerprint Manager again to see the registered fingerprints. Tap the plus icon in the upper right corner of the Fingerprint Manager screen to do the registration on another finger.


To delete a fingerprint, tap the checkbox beside the fingerprint listed, and tap the trash can icon in the upper right corner to remove it.
 Passwords have to be at least 6 characters with at least one letter and one number.

