 The USCIS may require proof of return travel arrangements prior to granting your B1 business visa. If circumstances change and you need to extend your stay, you should make new travel arrangements back to your home country.Return travel arrangements help prove that you do not intend to immigrate to the U.S., and have plans to return home after a short stay.
If your initial return travel arrangements don't take place until after your B1 business visa expires, the USCIS may interpret that as a sign that you intended to overstay your visa from the outset.
Keep in mind that if the USCIS determines that anything in your original visa application was false, it can rescind your visa. Then you must leave the country immediately or be considered in violation of your visa.
 Your passport must remain valid for the entirety of your stay in the U.S. This means if you need to extend your stay, you need to make sure your passport will be valid for the duration of the extended time you request.Keep in mind that if your passport expires while you are in the U.S., you may not be able to re-enter your home country.
If you need to extend your B1 business visa and your passport will be expiring soon, you may have to travel back to your home country to renew your visa and then return.
Keep in mind that a B1 business visa normally becomes void when you leave North America, so you'd have to apply for a new one.
Talk to a USCIS agent or an experienced immigration attorney about your ability to travel back to your home country and return with a B1 business visa.
 The important deadline is the date your I-94 travel document expires. The date of the expiration of any visa stamps on your passport is irrelevant.Your I-94 document was issued by a border patrol agent at the port of entry when you entered the U.S. If you no longer have a copy, you can download one from the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol website.
If your original B1 visa allows you to stay in the country for anywhere from four to six months, you should generally avoid filing an application for an extension within the first 90 days you're in the country.
When you file an extension soon after you enter the country, the USCIS may interpret this as a sign that you were planning on extending it when you made your initial application.
Processing an extension can take time. If you need to extend your stay without first leaving the U.S., apply for an extension at least 45 days before the expiration date on your I-94.
If your reasons for needing an extension came up at the last minute, contact an experienced immigration attorney as soon as possible – particularly if you're worried your application won't be received before your current visa expires.
 Your application must be accompanied by proof of the reasons you need to extend your stay in the U.S., that you can support yourself financially, and that you have plans to return home.You also must include documentation that proves your ties to your home country. This could be the deed to a home or an active lease.
The presence of close family and continuing employment in your home country also can prove that you have no intention of immigrating to the U.S.
Proof could include, for example, a letter from your employer in your home country that explains the reasons that you need to remain in the U.S. for a longer period of time and discusses your continued employment and pay.
 To extend the period of time you remain in the U.S. under a B1 business visa, you must file Form I-539. This form is used to adjust status, but it also is used to request an extension of an existing temporary visa.You can download a Form I-539 from the USCIS website. Fill it out completely and accurately, and submit it along with the required filing fee (a U.S. check or money order for $290, made out to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security) and supporting documentation.
You can find the address to which you should mail your application for an extension on the USCIS website. The USCIS uses lockboxes located all over the country, and which one you need to use depends on where you are located.
Make a copy of everything you're submitting to the USCIS for your records before you submit it, then mail the entire package using U.S. first class mail.
 It will take at least 90 days for the USCIS to process your application. If your B1 visa expires in the meantime, you generally will still be considered "in status" (that is, you won't be violating your visa) while you wait.You'll get a receipt notice in the mail when the USCIS has officially received your application materials.
This notice includes a number that you can use to get updated information on the status of your case.
You can register for status notifications online, or call the USCIS Customer Service Center at 1-800-375-5283.
If anything happens while you're waiting for a decision, such as an emergency that requires you to travel back to your home country or elsewhere, you may want to visit www.infopass.uscis.gov to schedule an InfoPass appointment and speak to a USCIS agent in person.

