 Older dogs are more prone to slipping and falling, especially if they have mobility problems like arthritis. For your older dog's comfort, a no skid surface is important.A rubber surface, like a bathmat, is good to prevent your dog from slipping.
You can also allow your dog to lie down. Lying down on a no skid surface can be more comfortable for an older dog.;
, In general, the softer the brushes the better. Softer bristled brushes are more comfortable for an older dog's skin. A dog's skin loses elasticity with age, so a harsher brush can really bother an older dog., You do not want to brush an old dog with a damaged brush. A bent or damaged tooth can scratch your dog's skin. As older dog's skin is more easily breakable, it's important to limit your use of damaged brushes., A bath can be very slippery for an older dog. Make sure there is a rubber bath mat on the floor of the tub if you're bathing your dog. You should also opt for a gentler shampoo as an older dog's skin is sensitive., It can be uncomfortable for an older dog to stand or sit still for grooming. Rather than grooming your dog all in one session, go for multiple short grooming sessions over the course of a few days. You can, for example, brush the dog one day and trim any unwanted or matted fur the next., Older dogs will benefit from a massage before or after grooming. This can make the experience more pleasant and decrease any discomfort your dogs feels from sitting or standing for long grooming sessions. A massage can also help reduce dry skin and a dry coat.Talk to your vet about how to properly massage your dog, especially if your dog has a condition like arthritis.
 Pay attention to how your dog reacts as you groom or bathe it. If your dog makes any noises or moves away form you, it is probably uncomfortable. You should change what you're doing to make your dog more comfortable. You may, for example, need to brush your dog more gently or slow down how fast you're rubbing in the shampoo., As dogs get older, they have difficulty keeping sanitary areas clean. You may notice fecal matter stuck near a dog's anus. If you notice this, it's a good idea to trim these areas. Less fur will lead to less accidents.You're more likely to encounter this problem on dogs with longer coats. If your dog frequently has fecal matter stuck near its anus, you should talk to a groomer about getting your dog's coat cut shorter.
 As dogs get older, they're more prone to skin problems. They also have difficulty cleaning their fur on their own. Therefore, you will need to groom your dog more often. Groom your dog multiple times a week instead of just once a week or once every couple of weeks.Remember to go for shorter sessions for your dog's comfort.
 As dogs get older, they're more likely to develop health problems. When you're grooming your dog, look for any unusual lumps or bumps. Any new growths should be evaluated by a vet. The sooner you address such issues, the better., You may need to do some additional grooming of your dog's eyes and ears. You should remove any unusual gunk or debris stuck in the eyes and ears.If you notice any discharge from your dog's eyes, wipe the corners of the eyes down with a gauze pad soaked in warm water. Do not get soap near your dog's eyes.
If you notice any discharge or unusual odor coming from your dog's ears, talk to your vet about how to safely clean your dog's ears.
 You should also check your dog's mouth. Dogs may need professional teeth cleaning when they get older. Look for redness, swelling gums, or a very bad odor. You should consult a vet if your dog's teeth appear rotted.