 This is your chance to wear deep jewel tones and dark suits. Go for a heavy material like velvet, tweed or wool that will keep you warm in the cold weather.A pant suit is acceptable for women at a winter wedding who want to stay warm. Longer dresses can also keep you covered and cozy.
Women can wear tights with a shorter dress, but pair them with close-toed heels. Don’t wear boots to a wedding.
Men can layer a sweater or cardigan between their jacket and their shirt and tie.
 It can be difficult to plan for a fall wedding, since the weather is changing. You may need to wait until you get close to the date of the wedding to decide what to wear. Have a couple of options planned out and choose one the week of the wedding. Muted colors, layers and mixing and matching are a good plan for fall.Women may or may not want to wear tights depending on the temperature. Choose a dress which can be worn either way.
Plan on carrying a nice sweater that you can throw on if there is a chill.
Men can mix up textures and patterns, like a tweed jacket and a silk tie.
 You want to focus on staying cool while still meeting the formal expectations of the ceremony. The trick here is choosing a fabric which lets the air in. Go for chiffon, silk, cotton and linen. Also match the sunshine with lighter and brighter colors.Women often wear a nice sundress, you can still wear long gowns as long as they are made of light, flowing fabrics.
Men may not need to wear a tie, but you should still wear a light jacket. You can take it off later and roll up your sleeves, but you should wear a jacket for the ceremony.
 Spring showers can make dressing formally a little challenging. You don’t want to ruin your best clothes or shoes in water and mud, so wear clothes and shoes that can survive the element. Keep your fancy suede at home. Focus the color of your outfit on the flowers blooming. Go bold with colors.Women should avoid long gowns which will drag in the mud.
Men and women can experiment with bold colors and pastels as opposed to black and white.
Men can wear colored shirts under their suit coats and even play around with fun patterned socks.

