 When you receive your credit card statement, read over it carefully. Make sure that there are no incorrect transactions, and watch for signs of fraud. Report any purchases that you did not make.

This can help you track your purchases and keep a budget as well. If you are spending too much on something, you can identify it and cut back.
 Payment history is the biggest single factor determining your credit score, accounting for about 35%. It’s simple advice, but easier said than done. Nonetheless, over the long term, it’s the best way to rehabilitate your credit.Pay debts according to the terms set forth in your contract. Make sure to pay at least the minimum payment (but ideally more) before or on the due date. Avoid paying late, and never miss a payment.
You may want to set up automatic bank drafts if you’re worried you’ll forget about payments. These will automatically take the money from your account each month.
The best way to build credit fast is to pay the full balance on your credit card each month.
 Once your credit is rehabilitated to the point that you can qualify for a loan, you should take out a small loan or line of credit in a different form than the type of credit you already have. The mix of credit is only about 10% of your total score, but it is a factor.For example, if you only have one credit card, purchase an appliance on an installment plan or take out a small personal loan. It’s never a bad idea to save up the amount of the loan before you apply, put it in a separate account, and simply have the loan payments automatically draw from that account.
 Applying for too many lines of credit may reduce your credit score. Avoid applying for new credit frequently. If you feel that you need more credit, try asking for a credit increase on a current card instead., You can get a free credit report from each of the credit bureaus once a year (meaning up to three different occasions). The report is a comprehensive picture of your credit history—what you’ve paid and when you paid it, what your debts are, and when you applied for new lines of credit. Your score is an estimate of your potential credit risk. They are two measures of your financial health, and it’s important to know both.Check your credit report at https://annualcreditreport.com.
You are able to request a free credit report from each of the credit reporting agencies (Equifax, Experian and TransUnion) once every twelve months.
 By law, everyone gets one free credit report from each credit bureau per year. Just go to https://annualcreditreport.com, provide your name and identifying information along with your addresses for the past two years. Once you get your report, examine it for any mistakes. As many as one in five Americans has an error on their credit report, so check diligently. A mistake can be virtually anything, like a bankruptcy attributed to you when you never went bankrupt, or a bill a creditor says is delinquent when it isn't.If you find a mistake, do the following:First, point the error out to the credit bureau itself. Send a physical letter via certified mail, along with a copy of the report and any documentation supporting your claim. Look at a sample letter to see how to do this.
Repeat the process with the creditor (not the credit bureau) who has filed the incorrect information. Request that the creditor send you courtesy copies of any correspondence they initiate with the credit bureau.
It's always best to put everything in writing when you're dealing with creditors or credit bureaus. Writing makes them accountable for their words, and ultimately, for their claims to you.
 After you dispute an item on your credit report, the reporting agency is obligated to make an investigation with in thirty days. Although it would be nice if the credit bureaus always did the right thing, sometimes they don't. And sometimes those mistakes are so big the consumer has no choice but to go the legal route. If you're at the end of your rope, contact the following:The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which is one of the newest federal agencies, is the watchdog organization policing the credit bureaus. If you would like to file a complaint against a credit reporting agency, you can do so at http://www.consumerfinance.gov/complaint/#credit-reporting.
Your state's attorney general or offices of consumer protection are your next best bet. All states don't have an independent consumer protection agency, but the state where you reside does, start with them first, as they have the most experience with consumer complaints. Find your attorney general at http://www.naag.org/naag/attorneys-general/whos-my-ag.php


, Emergencies can be costly, but you should avoid using your credit card to cover them if possible. Try to save up at least three months of your wages in an emergency fund. Use this money if a medical emergency or unexpected unemployment occurs.

Three month’s wages is a general guideline. Some people, especially those with families to support, may want to save up more.
To start your emergency fund, put aside a little of money from your paycheck each month.