 You might also want to carry a deodorant around with you or keep one in your locker or in your purse or bag, and make sure to brush your teeth in the morning.


Cleanse morning and night, as greasy complexions and spots are not very cute. If you have a spot or two, no worries – just apply concealer. But, applying makeup on already irritated skin isn't considered wise by everyone. Some just give makeup a break until any minor blemish or pimple vanishes all by itself which they inevitably do.;
, If you don't have money for salon treatment, you can get hot-tools and hair products at your local drugstore. There's tons of fun hair ideas in fashion magazines such as Seventeen magazine or Teen Vogue, so you could use the magazines as a reference for fun looks to try!


Some nice cuts and hairstyles are: short with cute bangs and little bows, medium length with layers, long and straight, plaits, little curls at the sides of your face, tidy buns with hairnets, two topknots on each side, messy buns.
Flower clips and headbands, pink hair elastics, those little beaded plait things are all recommended.
 Ask your parents first though since not all parents approve of makeup in middle school. P.s: Do NOT use "But all the other girls wear it!" as your reason to wear makeup. Makeup is a tool to define your finest features and a little goes a long way!!


Avoid overdoing makeup. Try a little bit of eyeliner and mascara if you want to highlight your eyes, or a swipe of gloss for a clean, polished look.
If you want to do eyeshadow, don't do bright blues or pinks unless you want you. Remember it's your face, you can wear whatever makeup you are allowed to. Do earthy tones like brown, dark green, etc if you like. Find colors that suit YOU best!
For lips, just use tinted or clear lip balm or gloss and carry it in your bag for touch-ups! Pale pink lips are an option too, but keep in mind that you're going to school, not a prom.
 This is the most important part. Although it might be tough being comfortable in your own skin be proud of who you are. Don't let anyone tell you who to be, you run your own life.
 Acting dumb isn't the way to go. Study and complete all of your school assignments. Just because there's a party you want to go to, doesn't mean you can skip studying or homework.
 You want to smell sweet, not gross. You can go shopping for your signature scents, just don't wear stuff that's too strong.
 Wear things like fluffy pastel jumpers, short (but sensible) skirts and shorts, cute short-sleeved tees and ballet flats/sandals. If you have school uniforms, you can have cute jackets, black Converse (your teachers won't notice), frilly or patterned socks and small pendants or whatever else you feel happy and comfortable in. There are no wrong or right outfits unless a dress code applies to a situations.

