 While it doesn't have to be fancy or a certain amount of calories, you should get food into your body so that you have more energy. Breakfast is the most important meal of the day, but it becomes even more crucial when you are sick and need even more energy to fight off the illness.;
, This will give you a boost of needed energy, and you will feel a little more awake. Since there are energy points in your ears that are connected to your organs and body, massaging those points will help distribute that energy.
 By keeping your body warm, your blood can circulate, which is very important to your health. It will also help your body recover quickly. You will be unable to concentrate well if you are cold, but make sure you aren't hot either. Put on a pair of fuzzy socks and a sweater, but avoid turning on the heater unless if necessary.


If your nose is clogged, rub the bridge of your nose for a minute or so until your nose feels loosened up. You could also do this.






Take medicine for your sore throat if it becomes unbearable.
 It is a simple task, but it is an important start. This will not only fill the place with clean air, but the germs won't be stuck in the room. This is healthy for you, and it could help clear your nose. However, avoid opening the window all the way in case you get cold.
 Limit yourself according to how well you feel, and make a new list of the chores that are more important to complete. However, remember that it's important for you to rest in order for your body to make a quick recovery. Therefore, don't pile a bunch of heavy chores upon yourself while you aren't feeling well.
 You might be surprised when you realize how many tasks you can quickly complete in a few minutes. However, avoid pushing yourself, and take it easy. Keep the garbage can nearby so that you don't have to walk far, and you'll have it close for easy disposal of trash.
 Lukewarm water and juice are simple drinks you can have that will do wonders for your body. Chicken noodle soup and warm tea also can be helpful, but they might take a longer time to prepare.
 Take a break for as long as you need before continuing your chores again. Remember that you won't be able to perform perfectly so give 80% effort rather than your all. It's better to complete your tasks well than to lose all your energy in perfectly finishing one chore.


If you really don't feel well at all, call a friend or a family member and ask them for help.
Don't stress yourself out. You might worsen your condition, and you'll feel pretty low! Understand that your condition is temporary, and if you are unable to complete all your chores or any of them, you are not a failure. You just don't feel well, and your health is more important than your to-do list.

