 Look at your Xbox One dashboard for the button that says “My Games and Apps”; select it with the A button. Your screen will change to your apps and settings.;
, This will list your apps on the right side of the page.
 Scroll over until you see a gear icon with the word “Settings” inside it. Tap the A button on it to open your Xbox One settings.
 This is where you will find your preferences for your Xbox One.
 Select the drop box that says “ Show Notifications,” and set it to ON if you want to get your notifications to pop up on your Xbox One. Your notifications will include things like messages, friend requests, and so on.


Allow Skype to stay on while you’re playing by clicking the Skype box. This is great for communicating with friends across consoles.
Press the A button on Messages box if you want to get notified when new messages come to your account. This is especially useful if you are looking to hear from a friend about a game that you are playing.
Selecting the Party option and picking “Yes” or “No” will allow you to get party notifications. It will tell you when someone leaves or joins the party.
“Sign In and Broadcasts” is the final notification box. You can set your system to let you know when favorites, all friends, or no friends sign on. All you need to do is hit the A button on the box and pick your preference.
 You can Allow the following for your systems and apps:


“Play for streaming,” which allows you to stream directly from apps such as Netflix and Hulu.
“Allow broadcasts,” which lets you broadcast from Twitch. This is basically a parental feature.
“Allow streaming from other devices,” which lets you stream what you are doing in your games from apps such as SmartGlass.
All three options have check boxes. Select the ones you want to use by hitting the A button over the box by each option until you see a checkmark inside. You are able to pick all three if you want them to all be active at once. Essentially, they are for either parental control or data conservation.
 Select your final option, which is how your Xbox One handles Smartglass. Smartglass is a mobile app that interacts with your Xbox. You can choose between “Do not allow,” “Allow select devices,” and “Allow all devices.” Press the A button by the option that you choose to allow for your Smartglass.

