 Negative thoughts and attitudes are draining and if you give in to them, they will become stronger. Seeking out the positive in any person or situation will help shift your mindset to a positive one.Even in the worst situations, there is always something positive. It might take some time to recognize, but being able to see the positive aspects in anything will help you avoid negativity.
One study showed that a positive attitude contributes to success more than anything else, including knowledge or skills., Being grateful will help cultivate a positive attitude. Listing all of the things for which you’re thankful will help you counteract any negative thoughts that may arise.


In situations where you feel negative, read the list of things for which you’re grateful. This will remind you to stay positive.
 The language you choose significantly influences your attitude and emotional outlook. Using positive words and statements throughout the day will help you stay positive and counteract negativity.Use phrases like "I am hopeful” or "we will find a resolution". These will help you—and others around you—stay positive.Giving yourself a positive affirmation every morning when you wake up will set off your day on a positive path. For example, you can say to yourself “today is going to be a great day. I feel good and I’m ready to make a difference.”
Write positive quotes and put them in strategic places. If you have reminders of positive things, you’ll be more likely to have positive thoughts and feelings throughout the day., Having supportive people around you who can put things in perspective is important to cultivating a positive attitude. Surrounding yourself with positive people will counteract negativity and help you change your attitude., Simple acts of kindness and helping others can do wonders for your attitude. Not only can put things in perspective about your life, but it can distract you from problems and generally make you feel more positive.Consider volunteering at a hospital or soup kitchen. Realizing that you are healthy and have the means to support yourself will put your life in perspective. Doing this can also help you to actively choose to change negativity in your life.
Helping friends and family members can also help you change a bad attitude because you’re making someone else feel good, which in turn will make you feel good.
Giving and receiving love and support will make your perspective on life increasingly positive.