 Also choose your genre whether it be reality, comedy, sci-fi, serious, just pick something!;
, Once you are ready and have a solid idea. You need to have a plot outline for the season. Do this EVERY season. Write the plots for all the episodes you plan on doing. Try a minimal amount of episodes for the first season. Most do 6 for small. But if you are sure it is going to be great you can do 12.
 NEVER create a series and not plan it or release anything before the series is done.Keep in mind of what's available to you. You cannot afford to blow up a building. Think in mind of things you have that you can use in the show. Keep the episodes under 10 minutes or less.
 Camcorder, Tripod(optional), Computer, DV tape. If you have an HD camcorder it will be better quality for your show but is not necessary.
 Cast and crew. Your friends are not always the best choice. Try to ask people in drama if you go to school. Or put up flyers for an audition. If you don't own the camera then let the person who owns it operate it. If it is yours don't trust it with anyone you don't know. Make sure your cast and crew are dedicated and will do another season.
 Film your first episode then edit it. After that do it with all the other ones. Shoot the take a few times from different angles. If there are two people talking have two close ups and a wide shot. So do three takes.
 So you shot everything, all your angles. Now put it all together. Use Windows Movie Maker if you don't already have an editing software. When somebody talks cut to then if the character says something shocking cut back to the other person for their reaction. If you think your done then save it as an AVI or WMV.
 Then cut a trailer using all the episodes and put it on YouTube. Leave it until it gets a bit of interest and views. Build hype. Then if you get people interested enough put out the release date for the series. Then put out an episode every week when the series is supposed to come out.
 Then count all the views together that the episodes have and decide if you think you have enough to go for another season , or if fans are begging for more. If you think and everyone else thinks it's a good idea then repeat all this again. Have fun. And if you want to do a lot more episodes next season here is a fact, real tv series have 22 episodes per season.

