 Flirting is a fun and obvious way to let a man know that you like him. It’s best to use this method in conjunction with another. You want to send a clear message that you’re attracted to him and not simply flirting for fun.When you’re talking, face him and lean your body towards his. This lets him know you have his full attention, and will stroke his ego a bit if other guys are around.
Casually and lightly touch him to seem more sensual or playful during conversation. If neither of you moves in for a hug when you say hello, lightly touch his arm. You can touch his hand to add excitement to your conversation.
Let’s say you have something incredible to tell him. Lean forward excitedly, and while touching his hand exclaim, “And you won’t believe what happened next!” You can also touch him on his shoulder or knee while being playful or teasing him. Lightly push his shoulder with your fingertips while saying, “You’re so silly.” Or touch his knee while telling him how funny he is.
 Looking into someone’s eyes for an extended period of time is an immediate way to forge a connection. But it takes confidence to hold someone’s gaze for longer than a couple seconds. It’s easier to look into someone’s eyes while you’re having a conversation. Stare into his eyes for at least 7 seconds at a time when you’re talking to him or when he’s talking to you. You can glance away here and there, but you don’t want to spoil the moment by looking down at your phone or across the room while he’s telling a story about his childhood pet.
 Flirting is about grabbing his attention and enticing his eyes. You don’t need to revamp your entire wardrobe. Simply make more of an effort to look nice when you’re around him. You can wear more form fitting clothes to accentuate your features. Take your outfit a step further by applying makeup to emphasize your looks. But don’t overdo it. You want to highlight, not hide your true appearance. Wear a bold lip color, like red, which is a sensual color. And apply mascara and eye shadow to make your eyes pop.
 Generic compliments can come off cheesy and seem half-hearted. To compliment him in a way that shows that you like him, pinpoint something specific about him that you can praise. A couple examples: “That shirt looks really nice on you.” “You’re a great drummer. I loved watching you play.” To make your compliments sound flirty, move closer to him and lower your voice as you talk.
 Send him texts that let him know you’re thinking about him. Depending on how well you know each other and the type of person he is, you don’t want to annoy him by sending several texts throughout the day. Keep it light by texting him good morning and telling him you hope he enjoys his day. You can text him a joke or something intriguing you might have heard that’s related to his interests. And you can also compliment him. If you just saw each other the evening before, you could say: “I had fun last night” or “You look nice in blue.”

