 There are three components that attach bones to each other. Ligaments, bursae and tendons can all be affected by normal wear and tear, which can lead to joint pain. Common symptoms include mild to severe pain, inflammation and serious infection. Further agitation of severe symptoms can ultimately lead to tumors in joints.Stiffness and inability to move a limb are all common warning flags of arthralgia.,


In some extreme cases, unfortunate accidents can lead to exposed tendons or bones. If any joints have been damaged, or bleeding has occurred, an emergency room visit is necessary. Take action to prevent further advancement of symptoms if any of the above has happened. Doctors may need to take surgical action to assist in healing and rehabilitation.
If any joint inflammation or unusual warmth has occurred, then it is advisable to make a doctor’s appointment for the near future. In the meantime, taking over-the-counter medications such as aspirin or Tylenol are adequate before seeking medical assistance.In some cases this may alleviate symptoms completely and reduce pain. Swelling can also be eased with the help of an ice pack. Doing this a few times a day can be done before seeing a doctor or seeking emergency medical assistance.
 There are multiple causes of joint pain including bone cancers, fibromyalgia and bursitis.Joint pain can be a leading indicator to a more serious problem. Lyme disease, Lupus and osteoporosis show their early symptoms through the onset of joint pain.If you think you could be suffering from one of these ailments, it's wise to consult a family doctor if the indications do not subside.
 While searching the Internet for explanation of symptoms is useful, seeking a professional opinion is an easier and more reliable option. In the case that symptoms do not subside, professional advice can help accurately pinpoint the causes and associated treatments for joint pain.


Keep track of the frequency of joint pain symptoms as well as the intensity of the pain. If it’s sharp or acute, will help the doctor make a more accurate diagnosis.
X-rays or cat scans can also be used in identifying because of joint discomfort. Different angles and multiple views will aid in showing fractures or degenerative joint diseases.
Ultrasounds can provide live images of joints in movement and pinpoint the cause and further rule out perilous diseases.
Current technological advancements have allowed the usage of 3-D imaging in identifying leading causes of joint pain. Magnetic resonance imaging or MRI for short enables doctors to closely examine soft tissue, muscles ligaments and their connecting tendons.
 Milder cases of joint pain can be alleviated with over-the-counter medications. However, these medications, when taken excessively over a period of time, can lead to liver damage or further gastrointestinal complications.Doctors therefore may prescribe stronger medications such as narcotics or sedatives that can have minor side effects.These side effects can include nausea, impairment of mobility and confusion.Injections are a more intrusive form of treatment available from some clinics. Cortisone can be injected into joints and the inflamed area to provide relief.Antidepressant drugs also assist in the blocking of pain receptors, and stimulate the endorphins in the brain., There are other treatments available if powerful medications do not alleviate your pain symptoms. Steroid injections are an extra step that can be taken when medications fail.These injections are made of corticosteroids that ease the inflamed tissue faster than pain medication. This is most effective against osteoarthritis and joint degenerative diseases.Symptoms can be alleviated almost instantly with steroid injections directly in the pain area. Some doctors make use a syringe to extract extra fluid from the joint. Sometimes excess fluid can cause joint discomfort and increase the risk of infection.
 Doctors may also recommend physical therapy in order to alleviate joint pain. Cold and heat therapy can be used to treat persistent joint pain while cultivating a bigger range of motion. Electrical nerve stimulation, or a TENS unit has been shown to alleviate joint discomfort for patients., Another hidden culprit of joint pain and discomfort can be attributed to obesity. Having excessive weight can increase chances of hypertension and add extra stress and pressure to bones and joints.Enlisting a healthy diet and participating in light exercise are cheap and efficient ways of alleviating joint pain. Losing as little as ten pounds can relieve loads of pressure felt on already tense joints.


Some foods can actually make joint pain better or worse and should be noted. Fish oil contains anti-inflammatory fighting Omega 3-fatty acids, which are great for assuaging joint pain.Fried and processed foods should be avoided as they can inhibit the bodies’ natural defenses.Cutting down on these foods has shown decreased cases of inflammation and can prevent disease., Healthy lifestyle choices will help reduce the risk of an emergency room visit. Making the decision to cut out tobacco can reduce the risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis by 68%.People who consume large amounts of alcohol are can develop gout and osteoporosis, which can create further complications for joint degenerative diseases.

