 Make sure that you are using the unscented kind. The scented kinds often don't taste very good.Remember, you can always add in your own scents and flavors.


You do not need to use the Vaseline brand. You can use just about any type of petroleum jelly, as long as it is plain and unscented.
 Stir the Vaseline between each interval. Depending on the strength of your microwave, it may take up to 1 minute and 30 seconds total.Don't worry if the lip gloss is too gooey and liquid-y. It will become more firm as it cools.
 This will help the Vaseline finish melting as well as smooth out any lumps. Be careful when taking the bowl out of the microwave. It will be very hot. Use a potholder to handle it., When the Vaseline starts to become solid again, cut off some lipstick, and stir it in. Start out with less than you think you'd need. A little bit of lipstick goes a long way, and you can always stir in more if you need to.


If you'd like a shimmery lip gloss, use shimmery lipstick.
 Lip gloss is usually just for looks, but you can make it double-up as lip balm by adding a little bit of nourishing oil to it, such as almond or coconut. Avoid adding too much, however, or your ingredients will start to separate!If you are using almond oil, start with 2 to 3 drops.If you are using coconut oil, start with ¼ teaspoon of coconut oil per 2 tablespoons of Vaseline., This is not necessary, but it can make your lip gloss taste better. And who doesn't like a little sparkle? Here are some ideas to get you started:


3 to 5 drops of candy flavoring will give the lip gloss a nice, subtle flavor.A few drops of peppermint extract will give the lip glass more flavor.You can also use vanilla extract instead.
A sprinkle of cosmetic-grade glitter will give your lip gloss some sparkle.Do not use crafting glitter; even the scrapbooking kind is too thick.
 Keep stirring until everything is mixed together, and there are no streaks or swirls. If you added some cosmetic-grade glitter, be sure to scrape the bottom of the bowl from time to time.
 You can use just about anything that is small for your lip gloss container. Something that is about 1-inch (2.54 centimeters) wide would be ideal. Whatever you choose to use, make sure that it is clean and dry. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Tiny jars meant for storing beads
Tiny jars meant for storing paint
Contact lens cases
Pill boxes with tight-fitting lids

, This will take about 20 minutes or so. Leave the cap to the contain off during this time.The lip gloss is ready to use after this. Keep in mind that, unlike lip balm, the lip gloss will always be sort of mushy. It will never harden and become wax-like.


Once the lip gloss hardens, you can take it out of the fridge and use it. You don't have to keep it in the fridge any more.

