 Because emotional and physical pain are strongly linked, making yourself comfortable and using soothing techniques may help relieve your pain.Many studies have shown that a placebo is often as effective as medical treatment. This may be because of your expectations: if you expect a treatment to work, it may be more likely to. This is why things like chicken soup can actually help you feel better.Think of the things that caused you to feel better when you were sick as a child. There may be certain foods and drinks that you link with comfort, love and the easing of pain.
 For some types of pain, feeling too hot or too cold can exacerbate the feelings of pain. Keeping warm by adding a blanket, a sweater, a hot water bottle or taking a hot bath might help in some cases. Or, if you're feeling too hot, having a cool shower, going for a swim, sitting by a fan, putting a wet cloth on your forehead, etc., might be ways to alleviate the pain.


A heating pad can be useful for the neck, back, and other strain-type pains.
An ice pack is useful for sprains, scratches, bruises, and cuts.
 Find a room or area that is away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life and simply sit or lie down for a while on your own. Relaxing is a way to reduce your stress, which can aggravate pain.The American Chronic Pain Association has a short five-minute relaxation exercise that can help you control pain. You can find it here: theacpa.org/Relaxation-Guide


, If clothing is constricting or pressing on a painful area of your body, you won't feel relaxed and the pressure being applied can intensify the pain. Find clothes that do not constrict the area of pain, even if this means wearing a larger size for a time. If you don't have comfortable clothing, you can get some from second-hand stores, thrift stores, etc.; you don't need to spend a lot for comfort.
 There are various ways in which breathing can both control the pain and help keep you relaxed. Controlled breathing (the kind practiced by yogis and athletes) can assist with pain relief. This helps you to relax and focus, often making the pain easier to handle.Some examples of this include:


Inhale from the stomach, slowly filling yourself with air up to the collarbones. Then exhale from the stomach, repeating the same process in reverse. Make sure your exhalations are longer than your inhalations. Try to inhale to the count of four and exhale to six or, if you can, eight. As you continue breathing, try to make your inhalations and exhalations longer.
Try inhaling for four seconds, then exhale for six. Then hold with empty lungs and repeat this procedure. This should help you to calm yourself and also distract you a little from the pain.
 Distraction is all about doing something else, to take your mind off the pain. It is often recommended by medical professionals to help control pain.Different things work for different people, so you may need to try a range of things until you find something that helps you tolerate ongoing pain., Acute pain that feels unbearable requires fast distraction methods. Distraction won't remove the pain, but it might provide you with the strength needed to handle it until its severity subsides. Creating minor pain and irritation can help to divert your mind's attention to major pain. Some quick distraction techniques include:Stroking, rubbing or vibrating the skin above or around the painful area.
Massaging the painful area.
Clutching an ice cube in your hand or holding to a part of your body to provide an alternative shock of pain to distract from the real pain.
Clapping your hands together tightly to change the focus to your hands; clap harder to create minor, temporary pain in the hand area to distract from the real pain.
Gripping onto something such as a pole, a stuffed toy, a chair back, etc.
Swearing or cursing can help reduce pain., Research has shown that active distractions (ones that require you to do something) are more effective than passive distractions (e.g., TV) in controlling pain. If your pain is acting up, try playing a game, doing a puzzle, or doing some other activity that gets you involved., This is useful for distracting and clearing the mind. Imagery works especially well when combined with pain medications.Try imagining the pain to be smaller. For example, if it's a headache, then decide if the left or right side hurts worse. Does the front of that side or the back of that side hurt worse? The upper of that side or the lower? And so forth. This can help to minimize the pain by making it seem smaller.
Try picturing a beautiful, relaxing place in your mind. Then, imagine that the pain is an object that you can remove from that place. For example, your pain might be a rock that you throw far out into the ocean., Music can relieve stress and anxiety. Stress and anxiety often make our experience of physical pain worse. Listening to calm, relaxing music can help you control emotional and physical pain.Classical music and other music that has approximately 70 beats per minute is best for relaxing you and relieving pain. You should avoid listening to music that is too fast or driving, as it could actually make you feel more pain.Relax in your favorite chair or resting spot. Ensure that you are as comfortable as you can be (taking the type of pain you're suffering into account), and then listen to the music for a good half hour or so.
 Find people who care about you and spend time in their company. Sometimes pain is amplified by feeling lonely and left out. Studies have shown that emotional and physical pain use the same brain pathways.If you have good friends or supportive family members around whom you feel good and energized, this can be a great way to distract yourself from the pain, and to restore your sense of being connected and cared for.

