 Click on "About The World Clock," which will give you some good-to-know information, including the types of world clocks and when the world clocks were moved to timeanddate.com. , It should be at the top, where the other buttons are. This will allow you to see what time it is all over the world.
 Click on "City" from the 'Sort By' selection bar, and type a city in the "City Name..." field. Click on "Go" once you have typed in a city. You will then get the results for the city's current date, time, standard time zone, information about whether daylight savings time is currently occurring in that city, the weather forecasts, the sun and twilight, information about the moon, the dialing codes, coordinates and airports.
 Click on "Country" from the 'Sort By' selection bar, and look at the results given for the date and time. You can also search for a city in a country by following the process previously mentioned.
 Click on "Time" from the 'Sort By' selection bar, and view the times given all around the world. See if there are any times you need to compare for any purpose.
 Just click on "Settings" to the right to start customizing your settings. Here are the following settings you can manage:


Name Display - This can be automatic, by city, or by country-city.
Time Format - This can be automatic for country/language, one of the US formats can be chosen (11:55 PM, English or 23:55, Spanish), or one of the general time formats can be chosen.
Display Seconds - Decide if you want seconds to be displayed when looking at times. Click on Yes or No.

Columns in World Clock List - You can choose the Automatic option, request that there are no columns and that the world times be displayed as a list, or choose a certain number of columns (2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8).
Display Time Zone - Decide if you want the time zone to be displayed. Click on the selection bar, then click Yes or No, based on your preference.
Mark DST - Decide how you want daylight savings time to be marked. Choose "Automatic" if you want it marked the automatic way, "No" if you don't want it to be marked at all, "Mark with *" if you want it marked with an asterisk and "Mark with DST text" if you want it marked with DST text.
 Click on "Custom Clock" above the results for times and dates. Here is what you can customize:


Continent - Decide whether dates and times will be shown in all continents, Africa, North & Central America, South America, Australia and Pacific Islands or Europe.
Sorting - Decide whether dates and times will be shown by Place/City, Country or by time.
Amount - Decide whether every place will be shown, most places will be shown, everything will be shown in default view, only the largest cities will be shown, or only the capital cities will be shown.
 Use this option to show the locations you use most frequently. Click on the "Available Locations" selection bar and you will see a bunch of locations. Click on the locations you wish to use in your personal world clock. Then, click on "Add Selected Locations" and your locations will be added.


You can also use the other options. Check the box "Show weekday?" if you want the weekday to be shown, "Show time zone abbreviation (EST, PMT, GMT...)? if you want the time zone abbreviation to be shown, "Show asterisk (*) for Daylight Saving Time" if you want the asterisk for daylight saving time to be shown, and "Show seconds for each city?" if you want seconds for each city to be shown.
Choose the options for columns. You can choose "Automatic," "No columns (display as list)," or a certain number of columns (2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8). This is the same process for choosing columns as that in personalizing the world clock settings.
Customize the country and state options. You can choose "Do not display country/state" if you don't want the country or state to be displayed, "Display country name" if you only want the country name to be displayed, and "Display country and state" if you wish for the country and state to be displayed.
This information is anonymous, but it is recommended that you create an account (by clicking on "Register" to the right), so you don't lose the personal world clock you made!

, This allows you to view the dates and times in even more cities! Wait patiently for it to load, as this list is long.

