 If you intend to rip audio from a lot of different videos, it may be more convenient to download a conversion program. These typically work faster and allow you to get more videos converted in a shorter amount of time. Conversion programs may also provide a higher-quality audio file than online converters. Popular programs include:


DVDVideoSoft YouTube to MP3 Converter
MediaHuman YouTube to MP3 Converter
YTD YouTube Converter & Downloader

, After downloading the setup file, you will need to run it to begin installing the program. Be very careful when installing these programs and read each screen thoroughly. Oftentimes these programs attempt to install browser toolbars and other adware unless you specifically uncheck boxes during the installation process.


If adware gets installed without your permission, use this guide to get rid of it.
 Load the video that you want to extract audio from and copy the URL from the browser's address bar.
 Open your newly-installed downloader program and paste the URL into it. The video will be loaded and you will be shown your download options.
 Most conversion programs will allow you to specify the quality of the audio. The highest quality files will also take the most space on your drive, so weigh the benefits and choose the quality that works best for you. If you don't like how it sounds, you can always download and convert it again at a higher quality.
 MP3 files have tags that identify Artist, Album, Release date, and more. Most programs will try to fill these tags automatically, but you can edit them yourself if you'd like. Before you start downloading, select "Tags" from the Downloads menu and fill out the fields as you see fit.
 By default, converted audio will be placed in your Music folder. You can change this by clicking Tools and then selecting Options. Click the Output tab, and then specify the folder that you want converted audio to be sent to.
 Once you have chosen your quality settings, you can start the download process. The video will be downloaded and then converted. Depending on the length of the video, this could take a few minutes, but will almost always be faster than using a web interface.


You can queue multiple files by pasting multiple URLs into the downloader program. Each program handles multiple files in different ways, but in general they all allow queuing.
Your file will be downloaded to the folder that you specified. You can then add it to your media library or transfer it to your Android phone or iPhone/iPod.

