 Your citizenship determines whether you are able to join the Royal Air Force. You must be a British, Commonwealth, or Irish Republic Citizen. If you have dual citizenship with another country, this does not necessarily revoke your nationality eligibility. You must also have resided in the UK for the five years preceding your application. During those five years, you must not have lived outside of the UK for more than 28 days per year.If you meet the nationality requirements but do not quite meet the residency requirements, contact an RAF recruiter for more information on whether you may still be eligible to apply.;
, Depending on the specific position you intend to apply for, age requirements vary. The youngest possible age at which you can join is 15 years and 9 months. At the upper end of the age spectrum, candidates up to age 55 can serve in specific positions. Age requirements are not flexible.If you’re applying before the age of 18, get your parent or guardian’s legal consent before beginning your application.
 Depending on which position you intend to apply for, you may need to specific academic experience. Some positions, however, have minimal academic requirements. Once you consider all of the eligibility requirements, consider your academic history and performance when deciding which specific position to apply for., Training in the RAF requires all candidates to be physically fit. You will undergo multiple fitness assessments during the application process. Requirements in terms of the minimum level of performance will vary based on the position you’re applying for, your age, and your gender.See the RAF Fitness Test website at https://www.raf.mod.uk/recruitment/how-to-apply/eligibility-check/?rid=19.1542 for specific information on the marks you’ll need to achieve in specific exercises – such as pushups and sit ups – as well as a video that will familiarize you with the tests.
 You must also be healthy to join the RAF. Health is determined according to your Body Mass Index (BMI), your eyesight, and any medical conditions you may have. If you are over 18, your BMI will need to be within 18 and 28. Eyesight requirements widely vary, and correctional lenses do not hamper your eligibility. If you have certain medical conditions, including some common ailments, you may not be eligible for application.The RAF website provides a calculator to help determine your BMI.
You may meet the health requirement with a slightly higher BMI by undergoing an additional assessment with an RAF doctor.
If you are under 18, your BMI must be within 17 and 27.
See the RAF website for a non-exhaustive list of medical conditions that will likely render your ineligible to apply. Understand that you will have to pass several medical assessments to be admitted to the RAF., If you have any convictions on your legal record, declare then when you first contact an RAF recruiter. Certain convictions may prevent you from being eligible to apply. The RAF will undertake a background check on you in order to determine your eligibility for admittance, as well as any potential security clearances.While a legal record may not prevent eligibility to apply, it may disallow you from serving in certain positions.
 Certain factors may automatically remove you from eligibility. In particular, certain tattoos or other physical adornments, extreme political views, a history of drug abuse, or pending court appearances will render you ineligible to apply. You may also be ineligible if you have recently declared yourself bankrupt. If uncertain about these criteria, contact a recruiter.Previous or current membership in any organization known to condone racial hatred or violence will likely disqualify you.
Tattoos must not be visible above the neck collar nor below the cuff while wearing an RAF uniform. Piercings, such as gauges, that have resulted in permanently open holes may also disqualify you.
 Before beginning your application, choose between a full-time and spare-time commitment to the RAF. This will determine whether you will be applying as a Regular or Reserve. Further, you’ll also need to determine which “area” of the RAF you are interested in. Within your area of interest, you will choose a specific role to apply for.Areas of the RAF in which you may serve include personnel support, medical and medical support, logistics, force protection, communications and intelligence, aircrew, air operations support, and technical and engineering.
 For help determining which roles you are eligible for, contact a recruiting office directly. The “Contact” section of the RAF website provides a form to contact a recruiter via email, though you may also visit an RAF office, attend an event (listed on the “Contact” page), or call 0345 605 5555 about Regular service or 0345 606 9069 about the Reserves., There are seven specific roles within the area of personnel support that you can apply for as a Regular or Reserve candidate. These roles include positions related to personnel training and support, human resources, and physical training. If you are a musician, chaplain, or have legal experience or training, consider applying for a role in personnel support., The six roles that fall into the logistics category essentially include moving, storing, and cooking. You can serve either in either the Regular RAF or the Reserves as a chef, driver, mover, or specialist in catering and hospitality or storage and distribution., You may wish to serve in the police branch of the RAF or in the RAF regiment. Positions in these areas are available to both Regular and Reserve service people. To serve as a firefighter in the RAF, you must join the RAF as a Regular., Aircrew positions are only available to Regular servicepersons in the RAF. Aircrew roles include working on remotely piloted aircraft systems, operating weapons systems, and piloting airplanes., There are several roles available to both Reserves and Regular RAF servicepersons. These include several positions inflight operations. Several positions in this area require you to serve as a Regular. These include roles involved with cartography, air traffic control, and aerospace systems and battle operations., You can work as a photographer, intelligence analyst, or in the RAF’s cyber unit by choosing to apply for a role in this area. Positions are available to Reserves, though more positions are available to Regular service people., There are a large number of roles for both Reserves and Regular RAF servicepersons in the medical and medical support area of interest. Registered nurses, medics, pharmacy technicians, and dentists are needed for both full and part time positions. Paramedics can serve as a Reserve, while radiographers, environmental health specialists, and biomedical scientists are needed as Regular RAF personnel., Want to actually work on aircraft and other vehicles, buildings, or weapons. This may the area of interest for you. Both Regular RAF servicepersons and Reserves also need communications infrastructure technicians, cyberspace communication specialists, weapons technicians, and electricians. You can apply for a survival equipment specialist role as a Regular only., From the “How to Apply” section of the RAF website, access the Regular Registration Form or call the RAF information line at 0345 605 5555. Filling out this form only takes a few minutes. It does not require you to join the RAF.The form requires you to indicate the role you are interested in applying for and your personal information, including your address and other contact information., From the “How to Apply” section of the RAF website, access the “Reserve Application Form” or call the Reserve information line at 0345 606 9069. After providing you name and email address, you will be sent an email containing logon information. This information will allow you to access the Application Zone, where you will provide the necessary information to begin your application.Registering does not commit you joining the RAF in any way.
You must be living in the UK or overseas with a British Force Post Office address in order to complete the online application.
 The order of operations for passing aptitude tests, health assessments, and fitness tests varies based on the role you apply for, as well as whether you’ve applied as a Regular or Reserve. In both cases, you will also undergo a series of selection interviews.


The specific order of operations for completing the application process according to your application will be provided to you, likely via email.
If you applied as a Regular, you will complete all aspects of the application before being accepted into service and beginning training full time. You will begin by taking aptitude tests.
If you applied as a Reserve, carefully mark the day, time, and location of your Squadron Information Day. Further information regarding your specific application process will be shared with you then.

