 You can reduce the amount of water you waste when you're washing fruits and vegetables by filling a bowl or the sink instead of leaving the water running. Fill the bowl with just enough water to cover the produce, and use a vegetable brush to scrub fruits and veggies clean.


When you're finished washing the produce, you can reuse the water to water plants in the house and garden.
Running faucets can waste around 4 gallons (15 liters) of water per minute.;
, Some people defrost foods by running cold water over them, but this is very wasteful. Instead, plan ahead and defrost foods in the refrigerator the day before. If you don’t have time for a refrigerator defrost, you can quickly defrost frozen items in the microwave using the defrost setting.Foods should never be thawed at room temperature, in warm water, or in the sun, as this can lead to food-borne illness.
 One-pot meals have the advantage of being easy to prepare and easy to clean up, and this means fewer dishes to wash and less water for cleanup.Great ideas for one-pot meals include:


Lasagna
Casserole
Curry
Stroganoff
Pasta
Roast
Risotto
Pizza

, Steaming food requires significantly less water than boiling, and it helps preserve more nutrients in the food. For dishes that require water-based cooking methods, opt for steaming.You don’t need a special appliance for steaming, as long as you have a steamer basket or insert that can be used in a pot.


When the steaming process is finished, let the water cool and reuse it to water plants.
 It’s sometimes unavoidable that you'll have to boil certain foods. But you can still save water by reusing the water you used to cook the food in the first place. When you're done with the cooking water, drain the water into a bowl. Set it aside to cool, and reuse it to:Boil other foods
Cook rice and other grains
Make bread
Make soups or stocks
Water plants

, Reducing the size of the pot you use when you boil foods will reduce the amount of water needed to fill the pot. When you're cooking foods like pasta and potatoes, choose the smallest pot possible, and only add enough water to cover the food.To prevent evaporation and the food from drying out, place a lid on the pot during the boiling process, and stir regularly as the food boils.
 Bottled water is a very resource-heavy consumer product. To create a single liter (34 ounces) of bottled water, at least 1.4 liters (51 ounces) of water is needed, because plastic production uses a great deal of water.Instead of buying bottled water, outfit your kitchen tap with a filter if you're concerned about water purity. Fill reusable metal or glass water containers to have water on the go.
 Many people prefer drinking cold water, but this often means having to let the taps run while you wait for the water to get cold. Instead of running the water, fill a pitcher with warmer water from your tap and chill it in the refrigerator to get it cold.You can even fill and store your re-useable water containers with warm water and store them in the refrigerator to get the water nice and cold.
 While it may seem that a dish-using appliance like a dishwasher will use more water than you do, newer dishwashers are very water-efficient. In fact, whereas you'll use around 20 gallons (76 L) of water hand washing a load in the sink, the dishwasher will only use 4.5 gallons (17 L).Some dishwashers are also equipped with special fast or economy cycles that use even less water, and these are ideal for lightly soiled dishes.
 Even if you use a water-saving dishwasher, it’s still important to wait until the appliance is full before turning it on. This is because the dishwasher uses the same amount of water no matter how full it is, so you can maximize water use by only running full loads., When you do have to wash dishes by hand, you can save water by putting in the plug and filling the basin with soapy water rather than leaving the water running. Only fill the sink with as much water as you need to wash the dishes.


Similarly, rinse dishes in a sink full of clean water rather than running water over them., Even a minor leak in a faucet can add up to 3,000 gallons (11,356 L) of wasted water over the course of a year.To prevent this waste and save the water, address a faucet leak as soon as you discover it by fixing it yourself or calling a plumber.


While you wait for the leak to be fixed, catch as much dripping water as possible by installing a bucket under the leaking water. You can use this water for cooking, cleaning, and in the garden.
 New water-friendly faucets are low-flow models, and this means they use less water per minute than conventional faucets. In fact, you can reduce the flow rate of the water coming out of your faucet by over 3 gallons (11 L) per minute by switching to a low-flow faucet.When shopping for a new faucet, look for terms like low-flow, water-efficient, water-smart, and water sense.
 Motion sensors on the faucet can also help you save water in the kitchen because they automatically shut off when you pull your hands away. Because of this, it’s not possible to leave the water running when you don’t need it!Automatic faucets are also great for cleaning and sanitation, because you don’t have to use your dirty hands to turn the faucets on.
 Adding more insulation to water pipes helps prevent heat from getting lost through the pipes. This can help you save water because hot water will get to your taps faster, and you won’t waste as much water waiting for the hot to arrive when you're doing dishes and such.


When you do have to let the water run to get to temperature, use a bucket or pitcher to catch the water and use it for cooking, cleaning, or drinking., Garbage disposals may be convenient, but they waste a lot of water. To use your disposal properly, you have to run water before, during, and after each cycle, and this adds up to a lot of water over the year.


Instead of using the garbage disposal, try composting your own food, or take advantage of neighborhood green waste programs if possible.