 Anxiety often occurs when we worry about the future or past. Spend a few minutes actively focusing on the present. Choose one simple task, such as washing the dishes or making a cup of tea. Take five minutes to focus intently on that one task, taking in as many details as you can. At the end of these five minutes, you will find yourself more at ease., Taking deep breaths is an excellent way to bring your focus into the present moment. Furthermore, focused breathing has been shown to slow your heart rate and lower your blood pressure, which both have a profound effect on your stress level.Take 5-10 slow deep breaths.
Concentrate on making your inhale the same length as your exhale.
Inhale through your nose and exhale through either your nose or mouth.
 An affirmation is a positive statement about yourself. Affirmations can be written out, or recited in your mind, but they have the greatest impact when spoken aloud.Prepare some affirmations ahead of time. Do you experience anxiety when you try to write? A good option might be “I am a good writer.”
When anxiety and stress bubble up for you, calmly state your affirmation.
It may help to look in the mirror as you do so.
Other affirmation ideas include: I am a good person; I deserve to be happy; I am good at my job; and I am beautiful.
 Laughter has been proven to stimulate the production of beta-endorphins in the brain. In fact, even anticipating a laugh can stimulate this production. If you find yourself in a stressful moment, take some time to locate something funny. Even if you don’t laugh out loud, the anticipation might be enough!Look for a humorous video.
Recall a funny experience with friends.
Listen to a comedy podcast.
 The idea is to bring awareness to each part of the body; not to judge or even to change it.


If you have space, lie down on the floor. (If you don’t have space, that’s okay. You can perform the body scan seated in a chair.)
Close your eyes and begin by noticing any part of your body that is touching the floor (or chair).
Relax any part of your body that is holding tension (usually the jaw, neck, and shoulders).
Starting at your toes, begin scanning your body, part by part.
Imagine that you are taking a tour of your body, not evaluating, simply observing.
End your scan at the top of your head.

