 When you exercise, your body releases these chemicals responsible for lifting your mood and making you feel happy. Exercising to release endorphins may help with hypomania and depression.Depression is the dominant form of bipolar disorder and not everyone exhibits mania. In fact, hypomania, which is a milder form of mania marked by excitability, mild elation, talkativeness, and irritability, often goes with depression in bipolar disorder, especially in women.If you feel like a depressive episode may be coming on, go for a run, bike ride, or do other physical activities. Your body’s endorphins can help alleviate symptoms.
 Create a schedule to exercise for 30 minutes at least five times a week. Keeping a scheduled routine also helps with the interpersonal and social rhythm therapy., Staying motivated is an important part of sticking to an exercise routine. When you enjoy the exercise you are doing, you are more likely to stay motivated. Choose physical activities that you are excited about. Try more than one to see what exercises work best for you.Running, swimming, biking, hiking, rock climbing, playing a team sport all are effective exercise to release endorphins.
 Yoga can help to improve your mood and keep you in shape. At the same time, yoga can also help to reduce your stress levels and help you relax. Enroll in a yoga class and give this meditative practice a try.The combination of physical activity, meditation, and breathing techniques may help you to feel calmer and more in control of your emotions.
 When you do not get enough sleep, your body and brain have a harder time controlling cycling, stress, and other symptoms of bipolar disorder. Because of this, it is important that you try to maintain a regular sleep cycle.Consider keeping a sleep diary. A sleep diary can help you to track what helps you to fall asleep, and what can keep you up at odd hours. Write down things such as how much sleep you got the night before, how often you woke up, how long it took you to fall asleep, and what you did right before bed. This way, you can also target problems to fix in order to sleep better.

