 Make sure you have a lot of notebooks, binders, pencils, pens, erasers, highlighters and so on. You must aim to be organized. Have a pencil case with everything so your pencils don't break in the bottom of your bag, and everything is easy to find. Label your notebooks and try to use the color coding system so you can quickly pull out your green math book if you come in late.;
, Take the time to look at what you will be learning in classes and use your summer time to learn and get ahead. Memorize the definitions for certain words, review your notes from last year, watch videos of history, and practice your language skills. The more you know before the actual class starts, the easier it would be when you are actually in the class. This prevents less stress because everything is not completely new or foreign to you.
 That's "write"! Even if you type quickly, having a laptop with wifi is not a good mix. Students tend to update their Facebook statuses or check out their twitter during lectures. Take away the tempting distraction and take notes on a piece of paper. Listen well and analyze what the professor is saying, then write down the important or emphasized points. Have a voice recorder to go back to if you miss or couldn't hear a part. After, rewrite the same notes in your notebook. This way, you process what you have learned and your notes are clean and usable.
 In university and college, you will have up to a month to complete a project or essay. Do not let this time go to waste! If you cram, your work will more likely be trash. If you start ahead, you can take your time. You can prepare and plot, and even get professionals to edit and help you with it. Trust me, it is much better knowing you are 98% done a week ahead of time than forgetting about it and realizing you have to do a 8 page essay in two days.
 It is much easier and less stressful if you study and memorize everyday rather than being a passive learner and expecting to remember everything for the exam. If you review every night, and go back every so often, everything is already in your mind, and exams would be a breeze.
 Most classes come with a tutorial or a certain time when you can go to your professor or teacher’s assistant (TA) to ask questions. Use this time wisely. If you are ever confused about something, don't choose to leave it that way! They are there to help you! Some teachers would even over look your essays and work if you show it to them. Ask for explanations and even ask what would be on the exam. There are somethings they won't say in class or during the lecture, but are willing to give out if you ask about it.
 From the start, pick classes you are interested in. Even if there are some mandatory classes, make sure your electives are classes you would enjoy. If you find your class boring, maybe start a study group to keep you going, or search deeper for something you really like. For example, WWII may bore you to death, but you really like Italy or Japan. Use this to your advantage.
 This is your last chance to socialize and have fun before hitting the serious world of debt and careers. Go out with friends once in a while and eat with people. Join a club and do things you really like. Explore campus and eat at different places. Plan a flash mob. Stay focused on your classes, but if you follow the above steps, you will have a lot of free stress-less time, so have some memories, then get back to the boring stuff later.

