 Gooseberry fruit extract contains powerful antioxidants that help to repair damaged skin, as well as phenols that inhibit tyrosinase activity to lighten skin.You can purchase gooseberry oil or make your own.


To make your own, grate the gooseberries and squeeze out the juice from the gratings. Add coconut oil to the juice in a 1 part juice to 2 part coconut oil ratio. Simmer for 10 to 15 minutes. Skim off and store the resulting oil.Add the oil to honey and yoghurt to create a mask, or add it to another fruit mask.
Alternately, you can dilute the oil with moisturizer and apply that once a day.
Be very cautious using homemade extracts, as you will not be sure of the exact strength, and too much can cause an allergic reaction.
 Bearberry bushes are a common ground cover that you can grow yourself on exposed, acidic soil. The fruits, and even more so the leaves, contain arbutin, which has been shown to whiten skin.You can mash up the fruit and apply it in a mask with honey, purchase bearberry extract or make your own.To make your own extract, chop up some bearberry leaves and fruit. Place them in a large jar and cover with vodka or diluted ethanol (about 40% abv). Seal the jar and place it in a dark place at room temperature.
Shake the bottle once a day for two weeks. At the end of that time, place a cheesecloth over the bottle and pour the extract into another container.
Dilute the extract with moisturizer and apply it to your face twice daily.Be very cautious using homemade extracts, as you will not be sure of the exact strength, and too much can cause an allergic reaction.
 Grape seeds contain proanthocyanidin, a powerful antioxidant that has been shown to inhibit tyrosinase production and whiten skin.Proanthocyanidin also has a range of other health benefits, including reducing the risk of diabetes and heart disease.


You can purchase grape seed extract in pill form or make your own from red grapes.You can also get proanthocyanidin by drinking red wine or eating red grapes with seeds.

