 You want to make sure you select a pot rack that fits in the space you have chosen. Before purchasing a pot rack, get a tape measure and measure the area where you're planning to hang the rack. Most people hang pot racks somewhere in the kitchen, often above a stove or counter. See how much space you have and select a pot rack that will fit within that space., After measuring your area, you'll need to find ceiling joists. These are horizontal supporting members above your ceiling. You will need to install screws to fasten the pot rack into the ceiling joists. A dry wall ceiling, on its own is not strong enough to support a pot rack. To find ceiling joists, you can use a stud finder, which you can purchase at any hardware store.A stud finder is a small handheld device that you run across a surface like a wall or ceiling. When a stud or joist is located, the stud finder usually lights up or makes a noise.
Run your stud finder along the ceiling until you locate a ceiling joist. When it lights up, you've found a joist. You should find at least two joists, as you'll be drilling four or more holes in a rectangular shape to hang your pot rack.
 Once you've located the ceiling joists, mark their location. You can use a pencil or place a line of masking tape running along the joists., Take your pot rack out of the its box. Get a large piece of cardboard and place the rack on top of the cardboard. Make sure the piece of cardboard is big enough to fit the entire rack., From here, you want to basically create a template of the rack on the cardboard. You will use this template as a guide to drill holes in your ceiling. Trace the outline of the rack with a pencil. There should be four or more hooks on your pot rack, which is where the chains are hung to secure the rack from the ceiling. Mark where the hooks are located on the cardboard. Use a sharp object, such as a knife or a pair of scissors, to make a small hole where each chain will be hung., Take your cardboard template and place it against the ceiling. Make sure to line the template up on the ceiling so the holes fall on the ceiling joists. Use a pencil to lightly mark where you'll be drilling., Remove the template from the ceiling. Now, you can drill four holes into the ceiling.You will probably need to use a power drill to drill the holes. If you don't have one, you can purchase one at a local hardware store or borrow one from a friend.
You will need to insert an appropriate sized drill bit into your power drill. Refer to the instructions manual that came with your pot rack to see what size drill bit you need. There is no standard size drill bit for hanging pot racks. In depends on your specific rack.
Once you've drilled the holes, you can screw the hooks that came with the pot rack into the ceiling. You may be able to get by using a screw driver, but if the hooks don't go in easily, use pliers to give yourself a better grip.
 Once you've drilled the holes, the process of hanging the pot rack is fairly quick. Attach the chains to the hooks. Then, lift your pot rack up and attach it to the chains.Pot racks can sometimes be very heavy. You may have to get someone to assist you in lifting the pot rack.

