 There are two kinds of habitats: vivariums and free range habitats. Vivariums are the more traditional type of chameleon habitat, and are similar to the lizard cages you might see at the zoo. Open range habitats, by contrast, provide a whole room for your chameleon to wander around in freely.If you have the space in your home available, consider giving your chameleon a room of its own.
Free range habitats give the chameleon more freedom to move around and more opportunities for stimulation than a vivarium.
Animals kept in vivariums might end up with rostral abrasions (injuries on the nose or snout caused by rubbing against the glass). Rostral abrasions can be painful and cause infection.
If you have other pets like cats or dogs that could get into the chameleon room, choose a vivarium.
Only small leaf chameleons can thrive in vivariums.;
, The room you house your chameleon in should have at least one large window, preferably one facing east.If the window faces west, be sure to provide cool areas where the chameleon can get out of direct sunlight, since afternoon sun can be hotter than morning sun.


North-facing windows are not recommended because they do not provide any direct sunlight.
South-facing windows are also not recommended because they can get too hot. However, they are acceptable if you provide enough cool retreats for your chameleon.
 If your chameleon cannot be housed in a room with natural light, you'll need to provide an artificial ultraviolet light as well. Install both ultraviolet and basking bulbs outside and on top of the cage, or in a location where the chameleon can easily access them if it is housed in a free range habitat.


In the natural world, chameleons get ultraviolet light naturally. Ultraviolet light helps them digest food properly.
The basking bulb, on the other hand, helps chameleons regulate their body temperature.
Ensure you place a climbable object (a rock, tree, or stable branch) close to the basking bulb so the lizard can access it.
Ultraviolet lights need to be changed every six months, even if they still provide visible light. They lose their ultraviolet properties over time.
Turn off all lights at night.

