 Dealing with schizoaffective disorder can be extremely difficult. Your loved one is dealing with psychosis, which is when you lose contact with external reality. Your loved one may also experience mood problems, like depression and mania. You can help by being there for them and being understanding. Having your loved one know that you will not leave them or think differently of them because of their condition can help them a lot.Supporting your loved one means being there for them during the good times and the bad times. It’s important to treat them like usual during symptom-free periods and be understanding during episodes.
If your loved one needs additional support, then there are other outlets. There are call centers that provide emotional support that may be helpful for your loved one if they are feeling alone or depressed.
Further, there are Certified Peer Support Specialists (CPS). A CPS is person that suffers from mental challenges themselves, while serving and helping others deal with their problems. They can be an excellent peer support for you and your loved one in the course of their recovery. If you are interested in getting peer support for your loved one, then look online. Your county may have a peer support center. Some hospitals and mental health clinics have peer support services. You will need to get a referral from a professional in the healing arts to get connected with one.;
, Just because your loved one has schizoaffective disorder doesn’t mean they should be excluded from activities with family and friends. You may have to alter certain activities based on triggers. Make sure your loved one knows what activity you are doing and where you are going so they can make a decision about whether or not to come along.


Don’t get upset if your loved one doesn’t want to come to an event or place. Respect things that make them feel comfortable or uncomfortable.
 Your loved one may have problems sleeping or calming their thoughts. You can help your loved one learn relaxation techniques. Relaxation can help calm your mind and body. Reducing your stress may help lessen symptoms or relapses.Your loved one may do yoga or other light exercise. They can try deep breathing exercises and meditation.
Enjoying calming activities, such as gardening, crafts, painting, writing, cooking, or listening to music may also be relaxing.
 Exercise is a common exercise management technique for schizoaffective disorder. Exercise can help reduce the hallucinations associated with schizophrenia, and it can also help boost sad moods associated with depression. Exercise improves overall health and self-esteem.People with schizoaffective disorder are at a higher risk for type II diabetes, so exercise can help combat that.This is because the medication that schizoaffective disorder patients take makes them gain weight, resulting in the development of diabetes.
Exercise with your loved one. Go for walks, join a gym, taking classes, do yoga, or ride bicycles. Find ways for the family and your friends to stay active.
 Healthy eating is very important when you have schizoaffective disorder. Regulating blood sugar levels can help your moods stay stable. Healthy eating can also increase your energy and keep you from gaining weight as a side effect to medication.


Healthy eating can also help protect your loved one from developing type II diabetes.
 Though you may be part of their emergency treatment and their advocate, you should always let your loved one be in control of their own decisions. Support them in what they want to do and encourage them to make their own decisions and take control of their life.If you don’t agree with their decision, discuss it with them. Avoid trying to force them to do what you want.
 When your loved one has a delusion, you should acknowledge that the delusion for them is real. Don’t get angry or annoyed that they are having a delusional. Stay calm and gently tell them that the delusion is not the same reality for you.


Refrain from telling your loved one that they’re wrong. This may just upset your loved one.
Focus on what your loved one is feeling. This can help you and your loved one find common ground to discuss as you work through the delusion.

