 Clues are often other people mentioning that you seem tired or upset. You may notice that you have lost your temper quite a lot recently or that you have 'not been with it' today.;
, Common areas of tension are shoulders, back and neck but by stopping and thinking about how your body feels you will learn about how your body is coping.
 If you have kids it may not be practical to go for a long walk right now but build it in to tomorrow's schedule or even for the weekend. The action of planning what to do may help to relieve the tension. Exercise is a very good way of de-stressing and team sports or a game of tennis will help you to have a target for your stress.
 A new hobby to take up, a place you've never been to before (even if its the local art gallery), speaking to a friend from 10 years ago. A new activity will help to take you out of the auto-pilot routine and may give you a new energy for life.
 It may be a family picnic so make sure everyone is free. If it something you want to do alone hire a babysitter for the kids or tell your parents where you are going and that you need a break. Put yourself in their shoes - they are watching you in auto-pilot and want to know that you are taking steps to feel better.
 We can learn so much from other people if we just ask and a lot of the time they may be able to give you very simple tips to apply.
 Progressive Muscle Relaxation (PMR) is often successful for noticing which parts of your body really need to relax and you can teach yourself how to do this. Another very simple technique is to lie face down on the floor and see how you feel - being at your lowest physically can give you the drive to know you need a break.
, Once you have learnt how to recognise that you need a break it will get easier every time.
 If they look stressed or over-worked politely suggest that they take a break or plan something to do with them or for them, like going to the cinema or sharing their work-load. The action of helping others will help you even more to recognise and act on your own stress.

