 This way you may know which is rogue and which is legit. A few legit antiviruses are McAfee, AVG, Avast!, Norton, and Kaspersky. Some of these are free (like Avast and AVG) and some of these have a trial version and a paid version (like Norton or McAfee).;
, Here is an incomplete list of rogue antiviruses that you can find on Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_rogue_security_software

, Some rogues use fake Windows Security Center alerts or popup ads that mimic Windows notifications or claim to have scanned your computer. The people who make them are crafty. If there is a "Don't Download" or "Cancel" button on the fake error message, don't click it; that would still download it. If something like that happens, it's not too late- go to Recycle Bin and delete the rogue and do a hard shutdown (press and hold power button on computer for 10 seconds) immediately. (Legit antiviruses don't use these ways of advertising.)


Most rogues have extremely outrageous security results. Most legit antiviruses are honest and don't point out these non-existent viruses. On the contrary, rogue antiviruses claim that critical system processes (such as Task Manager) are viruses. This is because programs such as Task Manager can cut off its function, making it vulnerable.
Some rogue antiviruses claim that the money you pay goes to a charitable cause. Green Antivirus, a rogue, claims that $2 of the money you paid goes to a foundation to protect the Amazon Rainforests.
 Rogues can make you pay a lot of money for the fake!

, If the "Antivirus" section was red and "OFF" -- but now has a green circle with "ON" written next to it, the program is legit. If it still says "OFF," chances are this software is a rogue (although the good free antivirus is not necessarily known by Windows).
 If there are links that redirect to an online virus scan. DON'T EVEN BOTHER TO CLICK ON THEM.
 There are some sites that download rogues which pretend to be McAfee, Avast, and AVG.
 A website, GOGGLE.com (which pretends to be GOOGLE.com) downloads a rogue called Spy-Sheriff without your permission.
 The totally FREE shareware "SpyBot Search&Destroy" is also a good detector of the rogue malware antivirus. Either may be downloaded FREE for example at majorgeeks.com without joining, or at cnet.com, if you join to download software -- both longstanding sites that have tested/scanned programs.





