 Since this greenhouse is modular and the size is completely up to you, the number and lengths of the necessary pipes will vary to a certain degree. You will need to measure the dimensions that you want and determine the amount of pipe that you need from that. Try to break up the larger structure into 2’ sections. This will give your greenhouse greater stability and strength.
Use relatively thin PVC pipe, no more than 1.5” wide. A good size to use would be closer to ¾”.
Also, be sure that your joints and PVC pipe are sized so that they will fit together. This should be labeled, but you can test in the hardware store to be sure or you can ask a hardware store employee for help and advice.
 You will form the base and the walls together, out of connected sections of pipe. Begin by connecting vertical pipe sections at two foot intervals to horizontal pipe sections with T pipe joints. Form corners in the horizontal bottom section by attaching a T joint to an elbow joint with a very small section of pipe.


When you are done, you should have a horizontal rectangle or square base with posts coming up from the T joints at regular intervals. The corner posts should come from the the last T joint on the long sides, with the elbow joints and short side of the base protruding out from the “wall”.
 Next, you will need to connect the wall pipes to the roof pipes and form a roof. It is important that the roof not be flat across, as this will diminish the amount of light which can get through, as well as cause rain and snow to build up on top of your structure.


Form the central roof structure by creating a line of PVC pipe identical to one long side of the base. The pieces should be connected with four-way joints at the same intervals as your wall posts, except for the ends which will be capped in T joints. From the T joints and four-way joints, place short sections of pipe and cap them in 45° joints.
Next, place 45° joints at the top of each of your wall posts. After that you will need to measure how much pipe you need to join the 45° joints of the wall to the 45° joints of the central roof structure. Cut this pipe once measured and fit it between each of the 45° joints.
 Place the greenhouse on the raised or ground bed that you want to cover. You can attach it to the ground with stakes and ties or to a raised bed with a conduit anchor but be sure to only attach one long side. This will allow you to lift the structure to water and care for your plants.
 The final step will be to cover the structure with plastic or cloth, depending on why you need the cover to begin with. If using sheet plastic, use thin clear plastic and cover the whole structure with one large sheet if possible. Whatever material you use, wrap the structure and then secure with tape (duct or packaging). You’re done!

