 If you’re planning on starting your honeymoon immediately after the reception, be sure to change into clothes comfortable enough for traveling. Traditionally, couples changed into clothes for the plane ride before their big exit. In addition to the dramatic appeal of a costume change, newlyweds often change into outfits that are more suited to drinking, eating, and dancing., Your designated helper should quietly let you know when your exit time is approaching. This will give you a few minutes to give out hugs and personal goodbyes before your grand exit.Alternatively, they can let you know that people are getting tired, talking about leaving or having to get up early in the morning, and other reasons that would justify bumping up the exit time.
 Be sure that your limousine, cab, horse and carriage, or whatever means of transportation you’ve chosen is in position to pick you up after your exit. Have your emcee or stage manager give a signal to your driver to bring the car around or call a cab. Make sure this is done just before the five minute warning, or even earlier if necessary., Have the emcee or DJ make an announcement just before the last dance. They should offer instructions both before and after the dance.Have them say, “Good evening everyone! We’re about to have our last dance of the night. Immediately after, we’ll be sending off the newlyweds into married life! Please make your way to the front steps at the end of the song.” Have them tell guests whether they’ll be throwing or waving anything at the send-off.
After the song, have the emcee or DJ once again instruct guests to make their way to the exit area. Have your wedding party or other helpers hand out rice, confetti, white clothes, sparklers, or any other items that are part of your grand exit.
 While you make the most of your party, have your stage manager, wedding party, or other designated helpers keep an eye on the the crowd. Have them keep track of the tone, if guests are talking about leaving soon, and other causes to tweak your schedule. Proceed with any festivities left on the schedule, and have your helpers begin to prepare the send-off.Have them report to you if they hear that important guests or a significant number of people mention getting back to the babysitter, having to get up early for work, or other reasons for leaving soon. Your designated helpers should tell them, "Don't worry, stick around a bit. The newlyweds will be making their exit soon." Then, they should report to you and ask if you're ready to start to wind things down.
They should also keep an eye out for rowdy guests. If too many people have taken advantage of the bar, they should ask the bartender about cutting people off, politely handle any issues, and inform you that it might be time for people to move on to the bars if they wish to continue the party. Both you and the venue should help arrange any necessary transportation to prevent your guests from drinking and driving.
Remember that you've most likely rented out your venue for a specific amount of time, so try not to cut festivities too short unless it's necessary. If you still have two hours of rental time left, it might be better to take full advantage of your investment rather than worry about having a maximum number of guests send you off.

