 If you have a very neutral, but edgy outfit on, you can mix it up a bit by adding in a pair of pink shoes. They can be in whatever tone looks good with the rest of your outfit, and they can be whatever style you like. High heels for a big night out might work well. Try flats for a more laid back day time look.Your shoes say a lot about what kind of style you are trying to go for, so look for shoes that express your personality and personal style.
If you are wearing pink elsewhere in your outfit, try to choose shoes that are a different shade of pink to mix it up.
 A scarf will probably be easier to pull off than a pink hat, but if you find a pink hat that you love, then go for it. The trick with pink is not to over-do it. A scarf or hat is a great way to dress up an otherwise boring outfit.You can also try pink hair accessories. Try a pink headband, clip, or even a bow if you like them.
If you do want to wear more than one piece of pink, try varying the shade of each piece to give your look some character.
 If you’re wearing a neutral outfit (e.g. a white dress or plain denim jeans with a white/khaki top) carrying a pink bag with you can add a bit of flair. Try to keep the bag in line with the style you are trying to present. For example, if you are going for an elegant look, opt for a more neutral or pale shade of pink.If you want to go for an edgy look, find a bag that is in a bold, bright pink.
 Pink is a classic nail color choice, and you can find nail polishes in every shade of pink you can think of. Choose a shade that you like, or, if it is for a particular occasion, choose a pink that matches the tone of the event. For example, a soft pastel pink could be great for a more professional event, while a hot pink would be great for a big night out.


If you can’t decide, you can also try out a trend that is called ombre nails. This involves using a small sponge to paint each section of your nail a slightly different shade from bottom to top. This creates a sort of gradient appearance with dark colors at one end of the nail and lighter shades of the same color at the other end.

