 The chest flye helps build your pectorals, deltoids and biceps, while also providing a good stretch for your chest. This exercise also can help warm up your chest muscles before you do additional exercises to strengthen your chest and back.Start by sitting on your stability ball with a dumbbell in each hand. Your legs should be out in front of you with your feet about hip-width apart.
Roll forward on the ball until it is behind your shoulders and your knees are at right angles. Your body should be roughly parallel with the floor.
Press your weights together over your head, with your arms extended straight over your body towards the sky. Keep your elbows slightly bent. As you exhale, lower your arms in a slow and controlled manner until your palms are facing up. Take care not to simply let your arms drop – make sure you're actively controlling the motion.
Then inhale and lift the weights back to starting position. Do 10 to 15 repetitions of this exercise in one set.
 The flye ball exercise is another medicine ball exercise that you can do on a stability ball to build the strength in your chest and shoulders. You also can do this exercise using a dumbbell if you don't have a medicine ball available.Lie on your back with the stability ball, on your back with the stability ball underneath your shoulders and your head at the top center of the ball. Hold your medicine ball or dumbbell over your chest with both hands.
Make sure that your hips are lifted and your knees are at right angles with your feet pressed firmly against the floor. Your body should be roughly parallel with the floor. Then extend your arms over your head, so the medicine ball or dumbbell is directly over your shoulders.
Shift the ball or dumbbell to your left hand and leave your right arm extended overhead. Exhale, slowly lowering your left arm straight out to your side. Inhale and bring your arm slowly back to the center.
Switch the weight to your right hand and repeat the same exercise with your right arm, lowering it straight to your side as you keep your left arm extended overhead.
Do 10 repetitions of this exercise, or five on each side, to make one set. Build up until you are doing two to three sets.
 If you have difficulty with push-ups, you might want to start with chest presses, which work the same muscles but allow you to control the amount of weight more than you can with a push-up.Take one dumbbell in each hand and sit on your stability ball with your legs out in front of you and your feet about hip-width apart.
Slowly roll forward until your knees are at right angles and your body is roughly parallel to the floor, with your back flat and the stability ball under your shoulders and head.
Press the dumbbells upward until you are holding them straight over your shoulders. Your arms should be extended up straight, your palms toward your feet.
Exhale and lower the weights, opening your elbows until they form right angles at your sides. Your forearms should be straight up, roughly perpendicular with the floor.
Inhale and raise the weights back to the starting position in the center. Do 10 to 15 repetitions of this exercise to complete one set.
Incline chest presses, in which your hips are lower, will target and challenge your upper chest muscles more than regular chest presses., This exercise is an intermediate level exercise, so you may not want to add it to your routine until you have some experience on the stability ball and are confident of your overall strength.Start this exercise on all fours with the stability ball underneath your body. Your hands and feet should be flat on the floor. Make sure your hands are directly below your shoulders, then extend your legs until they are straight out behind you and your toes are on the floor. Stretch through your heels.
Try to keep your abdominals from touching the stability ball as you breathe, which will engage your core.
Walk yourself backwards with your hands until your feet are flat on the floor and your arms and chest are resting on the stability ball. Keep your shoulders pulled down and back, and your back neutral.
As you exhale, bring your arms slowly overhead. This is the "I" position, because when done correctly your body will look like a capital letter "I." Then inhale and bring your arms back down to your starting position.
On your next exhale, bring your arms up and out diagonally so that you're making a capital letter "Y." Inhale and bring your arms back down to the starting position.
Continue the same exercise while bringing your arms into the "T" and "W" positions. Take care not to crunch or shrug your shoulders. The whole series represents one repetition. Try to do three to five slow repetitions to build the strength in your back and shoulders.

