 Know when it’s time to get a doctor involved. If you are experiencing chronic anxiety and feel you may have an anxiety disorder, make an appointment with a psychologist or a psychiatrist.It’s very difficult to treat anxiety disorders without the help of a doctor, and the sooner you see one, the faster you’ll feel better.


Although “diagnosis” can be an intimidating word, a diagnosis of a mental-health disorder—such as anxiety disorder—will help your therapist or psychiatrist know how to treat your specific case of anxiety.
To find a therapist, start by talking to your medical doctor. He or she may have recommendations on where to find a good mental-health professional. There are also online resources to connect you with a therapist or psychiatrist in your area: the ADAA (Anxiety and Depression Association of America) website lets you search for therapists in your area.It’s important that you trust your therapist, and feel relaxed and comfortable when speaking to them. When searching for a therapist, you should also check in with your health-insurance provider to see if therapy, psychiatrist, and medication expenses are covered by your insurance.
 Be as specific as possible when describing your anxiety symptoms to a therapist or psychiatrist. They’re there to help you, and will already be familiar with a range of mental-illness symptoms and manifestations of anxiety. If you have specific triggers that set off your anxiety, be sure to mention those. Anxiety disorders respond well to therapy, but only if your therapist has enough information to help you.Try saying something like:


“Normally I’m fine, but whenever I have to be in a crowd, my breathing and heart rate increase and I’m suddenly very anxious.”
“I have so many anxious thoughts going through my head that it’s hard for me to get through the day.”

, CBT is a type of psychotherapy where your therapist teaches you how to cope with your anxiety while reframing your way of thinking. For this therapy, you will meet with a therapist once every week or two. It can be used in combination with medication and other forms of therapy.Your therapist may give you exercises to do between appointments. Always do these exercises to help improve the effectiveness of therapy.
CBT can take up to a few months. You must remain committed to the therapy for the entire duration for it to work.
 If you experience prolonged anxiety that affects your ability to sleep and go about your day for an extended period of time, ask your psychiatrist about medication that could reduce your anxiety. Many anti-anxiety drugs can have negative side effects or be habit-forming, so be sure to try methods such as therapy, exercise, and mental strategies before jumping into medications.Panic attacks, extreme social anxiety, and other symptoms can be effectively treated with a prescription drug that suits your needs.
 Certain herbs, teas, and supplements are said to decrease symptoms of anxiety. Although homeopathic methods are not proven medically, herbs and teas can be useful in soothing and calming you.Try the following options:


The chamomile flower is traditionally used to treat anxiety, stress, and an upset stomach. It has properties that are similar to anti-depressant drugs. It can be brewed into tea or taken as a supplement.Ginseng is said to help the body reduce stress. Try taking a ginseng supplement daily for its anxiety-fighting effects.
Consider trying Kava kava. It is a Polynesian plant said to have a sedative effect that relieves anxiety if used short-term.However, long-term use is not advised, and some people report it can actually make their anxiety worse. If you're interested in trying it, see if your local health foods store carries this supplement, or order it online.
Valerian root is popular in Europe for its sedative properties. Take it when you are experiencing difficult bouts of anxiety that you can’t seem to overcome.

