 Pack your backpack and lunch with all your necessary supplies, including homework, water, books, snacks, and a pencil bag. Put all your bags somewhere where you will remember them for the next day.;
, Plan your clothes, shoes, makeup, hairstyle and breakfast for the next morning. Layout any necessary supplies/clothes for an easy morning. If any work was not completed in the night, make a list of work to be done in the morning. Plan extra time to do these tasks(wake up earlier).
 Use either math or a sleep calculator to find when you should go to be to make you feel the most awake. Get ready to sleep 30-60 minutes before your bedtime. Make sure the bedtime you chose is not too late.
 Don't hit snooze and go back to sleep. With an average sleep cycle of 90 minutes, it will be much harder to get up later. Instead, open the blinds or turn on the light to make you feel like the bright of day has started.
 Start your morning happy and get motivated. Play your favorite music and do a relaxing activity such as yoga, breathing, meditating, or reading.
 Breakfast is an important meal to eat. Be sure to chose foods high in nutrients. If you do not like to or have no time to, take a bag of fruit or a granola bar on your ride to school.
 Take the full two minutes to carefully brush your teeth. Make sure to use toothpaste and mouthwash. Rinse your mouth with water.
 Take the time to splash your face with cool water to help wake you up. If you use any type of moisturizer or acne wash, apply it now, following the directions on the packaging.
 Change out of your pajamas and into the clothes you picked out the night before. If you see any reason to change your outfit, do so. Put away your pajamas neatly.
 If you planned your hairstyle the night before, go for the style you chose. Make sure you look nice but are not spending a whole lot of time on hair.
 Makeup, an optional part of your routine, should be applied carefully, but quickly. Find out ways to eliminate unnecessary products to quicken this step.

