 One of the best resources for improving your child’s homework performance is their teacher.They may have some additional advice or insights on how to help your child do better. It also shows that you are aware of the problem and are trying to addressing the issue.


Have regular contact with your child’s teacher so that you can be aware of your child’s progress, challenges, and successes.
Let the teacher know that you are concerned about your child’s performance and would like to work as a team to make it better.
For example, you might send an email saying, “I’ve noticed she is having trouble completing the homework. I’d like to work together to improve her performance.”
You might ask, “What suggestions do you have for how I can support her with her homework? What are some things my daughter can do to improve herself?”

, One way to improve your child’s poor homework performance is by using apps, software, programs, and devices to assist with homework. The resources can help your child learn new concepts, review material, practice skills, and more.Many schools and teachers have webpages that contain valuable information about school events, deadlines, guidelines and more.
Online calculators, sample problem generators, video examples, and more can be used to support children with homework performance.
Visit Common Sense Media to find reviews of apps, games, and websites for children and adolescents.
 Sometimes it takes outside help to support your child in improving their homework performance.Resources like tutors and learning centers can work with your child on specific assignments, as well as overall challenges with studying or learning.


Some schools offer free or low-cost before and/or after-school tutoring programs for students. Check with your child’s teacher to see if this is an option.
Consider allowing a peer or sibling to help. Monitor the session to make sure that it is actually tutoring and not playing or otherwise.
Ask your child’s school for the names of some tutors or learning centers that they recommend.
Consider using a site like SylvanLearning.com or TutorZ.com to locate a tutor, learning center, or online resources.
 If your child continues to have problems with homework performance or also has problems with school in general, you may want to have them evaluated for a learning disability.


Talk to their teacher about having an evaluation completed through the school.
Identifying a learning disability can help explain some of the problems your child is having with homework.
It can also help you get additional resources, like individualized instruction, to help your child be successful in school.

