 Concealers come in many forms and sizes. Each of the six types of concealers is formulated for specific skin types and coverage. It is common to use more than one kind of concealer at a time.Selecting the correct concealers for your skin type and problem areas will guarantee optimal coverage.


Stick concealers come in tubes similar to lipstick and are used to provide full to medium coverage for dark eye circles.These thick, creamy concealers are ideal for the individual with normal, dry, or sensitive skin. Stick concealers go on thick and often contain oil so the user can easily spread and blend the makeup. Therefore, avoid stick concealers if you have oily skin.Cream concealers come in a small pot, compact, or palette. This medium to full coverage concealer is ideal for the individual with normal, extremely dry, combination, or sensitive skin. Its thick texture provides wonderful coverage for individuals with extreme discoloration.If not blended and set properly, this concealer can sit very heavy on your skin.Cream-to-powder concealers come in compacts. This light to medium concealer is ideal if you have normal, semi-dry, combination, or sensitive skin. Cream-to-powder concealers are designed for use any where on the face.However, you should never use this concealer to cover a blemish or patches of dry, flaky skin. The oils and ingredients found in these products tend to make breakouts worse and emphasize dry skin.Creamy liquid concealers come in small squeezable tubes or tubes with wand applicator. This type of concealer is formulated to provide light to full, even under eye coverage. It is ideal for individuals with normal, combination, oily, or sensitive skin. It also provides excellent coverage for blemish-prone skin.Unlike stick concealers, creamy liquid concealers are less likely to crease. Their light formula allows for buildable coverage.Matte-finish liquid concealers come in small squeezable tubes or tubes with wand applicator. This type of concealer provides light to full coverage. Matte-finish liquid concealers are ideal for covering blemishes. You may also use them as the base for your eyeshadow. It does not crease or slip; it also outlasts cream and powder concealers.Color-correcting concealers are available in liquid, cream, or stick form. When flesh-toned concealers fail to provide adequate coverage, use a color correcting concealer. To mask the concealer’s hue, first apply your color-correcting concealer, followed by your foundation, and a layer of flesh-toned concealer. The five colors offer solutions for five distinct problems:

Lavender is used to conceal sallow or yellow-toned skin.
Yellow conceals deep purple tones, such as under eye circles or scars.
Green conceals redness.
Pink conceals the bluish hint that commonly accompanies lighter skin tones.
Orange or salmon conceals blue, gray, and purple blemishes.;
, Applying a concealer that is too light or too dark counteracts the product’s purpose. It will only draw attention to your problem areas. To ensure that you select the right shade, test the product in the store. Swipe or dab a small amount of concealer onto your hand. After blending in the product, examine the results. If the product is visible on your hand it is either too light or too dark. If you can not see the product, you have selected the right shade.Try to match the shade of your general coverage concealer to the shade of your foundation. This will result in a flawless, well blended look.An exception to this rule pertains to the concealer you will use under your eyes. Your under eye concealer should be 1 to 2 shades lighter than your foundation and general coverage concealer. This will highlight and lighten the dark area., When applying conceal, you will use a variety of tools, including the clean pads of your finger. Purchase a natural hair concealer brush—this is a flat, oval shaped brush.You will also need Q-tips and makeup sponges on hand., Before applying moisturizer and makeup, always thoroughly clean your face to remove dirt, oil, and makeup. Use eye makeup remover to wipe off mascara, eyeshadow, and eyeliner. Douse a cotton pad with cleansing water. Gently wipe your face with the saturated cotton pad to remove makeup., The level of coverage you require will vary from day to day. After cleansing your face, observe your skin in the mirror. Note the areas of your face you would like to conceal. Gather the tools and makeup required to conceal these problem areas.


Do you have dark circles under your eyes?
Is the area around your nose red?
Do you have a zit or a breakout?
Are there any scars or patches of discoloration visible?

, Face lotion combat dryness and the sun’s rays throughout the day. Squirt, scoop, or dab a small amount of face lotion into your hands. Warm-up the moisturizer by rubbing it between your fingers. Apply a light, even layer over your face.


If your skin is oily, use a gel based moisturizer., The area under your eyes is very delicate and prone to dryness. Eye creams provide extra protection and moisture to this area. Use the pads of your fingers to dab a small amount of eye cream under each eye. Carefully rub in the cream and allow it to dry.You can apply eye cream to your eyelid too., Concealers’ most common application is under the eyes. Instead of drawing a semicircle under the eyes, create a triangle. The triangle method, which you may apply with your fingers, a brush, a wand, or a sponge, will highlight and lift your face.Begin at the inner corner of your left eye. Draw or dab a diagonal line of concealer from the inner corner to the top center of your left cheekbone.
From the top center of your cheekbone, draw a diagonal line up to the outer corner of your left eye.
Use your tool of choice to lightly blend the concealer down and outwards.
Repeat on the right eye.Avoid pulling or rubbing on the skin under your eye., Use a cream concealer and concealer brush to mask scars and dark spots. Dip the brush into the full coverage cream concealer. Use the brush to dab the concealer directly onto the dark spot or scar. Apply one layer of highlighting concealer. Dab the area with a damp sponge to blend the makeup., Although it is not possible to cover puffy eyes, you can mask the puffiness with a concealer and highlighter. Combine a small amount of liquid concealer with a drop of highlighter. Use your fingers, a brush, or a sponge to dab the mixture onto the puffy area. Blend the makeup down and out., To conceal redness, use an oil-free cream concealer, a damp sponge, and loose powder. Use your fingers to dab the concealer onto the red areas. Blend the makeup by dabbing the area with a damp sponge that you’ve dipped in loose powder., When concealing a zit or textured blemish, use a concealer pencil. With the point of the pencil, go over and around the zit or blemish. Dab the area with a damp sponge, followed by a light coat of loose powder.


If the zit or blemish is red, use a green concealer., To conceal varicose veins, use a flesh-toned concealer pencil. After applying your foundation, trace over the varicose veins with your concealer pencil. Use your fingers to blend in the makeup. Apply a second coat of foundation to further blend the makeup. Complete process by dabbing a damp sponge dipped in loose powder over the area., You may choose to apply your foundation at various points in the process. For full coverage, apply your foundation before you put on any concealer. For less coverage, apply your concealer followed by your foundation.


Pour or squirt a quarter sized amount of liquid foundation onto the top of your non-dominant hand.
Dip a natural hair foundation brush into the foundation.
Begin applying the foundation at the center of your face and blend out, up, and down., Blending is the key to a flawless look. Dampen a makeup sponge. Run the damp sponge over your face in long sweeping motions. This will blur the lines between your foundation and your concealer, making it difficult to tell where one starts and the other begins., Setting your makeup with a loose translucent powder will combat shininess caused by oil. Dip a small natural hair powder brush into your loose translucent powder. Tap the brush on the side over the container to remove any excess powder. Gently sweep the brush between your eyebrows, down your nose, under your eyes, and around your chin.
