 Riding a train, such as the primary carrier Amtrak, to your vacation depends a lot upon the length of your vacation. Train travel is much slower than flying. It has its perks, though – you get to see a lot along the way, you have more elbow room, the seats are designed to recline back pretty far with a kick-up leg rest for a good night’s sleep and many trains have sleeping cars. Amtrak has a variety of vacation packages, but if you’re riding it to travel to your destination alone you can also take advantage of certain deals.


You typically get the best rates if you book your ticket 1-2 weeks in advance. With that said, you can save 25% on Amtrak tickets by using its SmartFares deal. The downside is that you must use the ticket within 1-2 weeks of purchasing.Other 10-20% everyday discounts include those for children, seniors, veterans, military personnel and their families and AAA members., Driving to your vacation spot is also largely dependent upon where you intend to go. But it also may be that your vacation is a road trip with stops along the way. Either way, driving can become expensive, though there are some tricks to keep down costs. Your best bet for cheap gas is at truck stops or travel center chains, like Petro, Flying J and Love’s. Another option is getting a credit card from a major gas station chain, which will give you discounts on gas.


When driving, the slower the better in terms of gas mileage on the highway. Gas mileage rapidly declines over 55 mph.
Make sure your tires are always properly inflated to prevent blowouts and to increase gas mileage.
Try to avoid buying food and drinks every time you stop for gas or to go to the bathroom. Buying fast food adds up quickly, too. Instead buy and pack food and beverages., Again, deciding to take a bus to your vacation is greatly impacted by how far you’re going. It’s also a decision often based upon how much money you have. Riding the bus is pretty cheap. While buses haven't had the best reputation for awhile, many bus lines have taken steps to upgrade, adding Wi-Fi, more legroom and larger and better-reclining seats. You can get the best rates for all by booking your tickets online.Check their websites for student, military and senior discounts or for discounts by signing up for discount cards. Some of the big companies are Greyhound, Chinatown Bus, Megabus and Boltbus.