 Start with a clean and dry face. Quickly massage your face to reduce puffiness and clear away excess fluid. Apply your moisturizer of choice to your face and neck, making sure to apply the moisturizer to the center of your face and smooth outwards.If you’re feeling a little pale, use a tinted moisturizer to add a little color.
Apply the moisturizer either using a brush or your fingers. Using your hands will give you shearer coverage across your face.
 Liquid highlighter is used to give your face dimension and glow and can be applied very quickly. Draw stripes on your face under your eyes, chin, nose, forehead and in between the bottom of your nose and the top of your mouth.For your eyes, draw a series of diagonal stripes under your eyes and above your cheekbones.
For your nose, draw one single vertical stripe spanning the length of your nose.
For your Cupid’s Bow, draw a single vertical stripe centered directly under your nose.
For your chin, draw a single vertical stripe centered directly under your mouth.
 Use your preferred concealer and a concealer brush to blend the sides of your nose, under your eyes and any other areas of your face that are sporting redness or blemishes.If you’re especially tired or if your eyelids tend to skew red, rub an eyelid base across your lids to help you look more awake.
When blending your concealer, do not rub, but instead pat your skin gently.
 Brush a loose powder across your face to help set your makeup. Do not spread the powder across your face, but instead try to strategically brush it across the areas where you did not apply highlighter. When you’re finished applying powder, add your blush on top of that.Blush should be applied using a blush brush and should be applied to your cheekbones.
To isolate your cheekbones, try smiling. Then apply the blush to the apples of your cheeks by moving your brush in a c-shaped motion.
When you finish applying the blush, blend the makeup upwards using either your hands or a makeup sponge.
 If you still have time remaining, complete your normal makeup routine. Add mascara or lipstick. If you like using eyeliner, apply that now. Your skin should look dewy and luscious at this point, so try to keep the extra makeup to a minimum, so as not to disguise from your simple and clean beauty.


It’s better to make a statement on just one portion of your face. So if you’re adding mascara and eyeliner, steer clear of lipstick. If you’re adding a pop of color in your lips, leave your eyes naked.

