 Being shy is an emotional obstacle that you can overcome with effort and practice. If you needed to lose weight, you would create a plan to follow a diet and exercise. To overcome shyness, you can also create a plan.Come up with a plan to help yourself overcome your fear of talking to a girl you like.
Use the plan to create short term goals that culminate in being comfortable approaching her.
 The first step in your plan to overcome your shyness should be to practice engaging with people at home. Get comfortable saying things out loud like introducing yourself or giving a pleasant greeting.Practice can make giving a greeting or an introduction a matter of muscle memory, so you don’t really have to think about it when meeting with people in person.
Practice in front a mirror so you can see what you look like when you interact and make adjustments to present a more confident demeanor.
 Shyness often comes from a fear of being rejected. It’s perfectly natural to take rejection personally, but that doesn’t mean that you should. Instead of thinking of rejection as a personal failure, see it for what it really is: a learning experience.More often than not, being rejected has less to do with you than it does with the other person. People have bad days, experience bad moods, or struggle with their own insecurities when it comes to dealing with others.
Rejection won’t kill you. In fact, if you adopt the right perspective, it may not even hurt. Instead of seeing rejection as a failure, see it as a chance to learn from your experience and develop a better understanding of how to interact with others.
 A fear of rejection comes from the common practice of trying to predict how events will occur before you experience them. Humans developed the ability to imagine worst-case scenarios as a survival skill, but this trait can be difficult to overcome in situations where danger isn’t a factor.Don’t allow yourself to ruminate on all the ways approaching a girl you like could go wrong.
If you can’t help but imagine the ways a social interaction may go, try to focus on imagining it going well. This can increase your confidence and make you come off as a more self-assured person.

