 Before you even leave for the salon or barber shop, make sure to wear a shirt with a collar. That way, you can turn the collar inside your shirt before the stylist begins working. This helps catch stray hairs before they can drop any farther and cause any itching. , Be sure not to go to the salon with any kind of moisturizer on your skin. It acts like a magnet for loose hairs. , If you don’t have a collared shirt – or even if you do and you want some extra protection – ask your stylist to clip on a neck towel. It will catch many of the smaller hairs that drop around you as your hair is being cut, before they can fall down your shirt or inside the neckline of your salon smock. , One way to minimize itching from stray hairs is to ask your stylist to rinse or shampoo your head in a basin right after they finish giving you a haircut. This will help flush away any stray hairs that might be clinging to your scalp or the back of your neck. , Once your hair is washed or rinsed, ask the stylist to blow dry your hair and neck on a cool setting, if they don’t do so automatically. Then, make sure the stylist uses a dusting brush to spread some baby powder or talcum powder on your neck. This will help neutralize any itching and will loosen the hairs still clinging to your skin.Another helpful powder to apply to your neck area is cornstarch. Put some in an empty shaker container (such as the ones used for parmesan cheese) and sprinkle it on any affected areas. , After your haircut, go directly home and rinse off completely. This is the best way to make sure all loose hairs are removed. , If you don’t have time for a shower, put on a clean shirt. This won't remove all hairs, but will cut them down substantially. Then be sure to wash the shirt you wore to the salon. If you don't, you'll be covered in hair when you put it on again.
 Before you take a nap or go to bed on the day of your haircut, be sure you’ve gotten rid of all loose hairs. If you haven't, they can fall onto your pillow and stick there, causing even more discomfort.

