 To understand bitcoin wallets, you first need to understand that they don't hold actual currency. Rather, they give you a key to represent those bitcoins or two keys, actually. Think of them as a bank account number and a serial number. The bank account number, called an address or public key, changes each time you use it, and it tells others how to find you. The other one, the private key, is somewhat like a serial number on a dollar bill, unique to the bitcoins you hold, you have to keep private, as anyone who has that number can claim those bitcoins., Bitcoin wallets don't technically hold bitcoins, as bitcoins are not physical objects. What bitcoin wallets do is hold the information needed to access and use the bitcoins owned by the owner of the wallet. This information includes the private key that assigns ownership of the bitcoins in the wallet. In essence, the wallet safeguards the owner's access codes and prevents others from gaining access to it.Bitcoins wallets provide much-needed security in an online market where hackers can steal private keys to obtain bitcoins, owners can be defrauded into giving away bitcoins without receiving anything in return, and whole bitcoin exchanges are liable to collapse.
 A bitcoin wallet is a bit like other services that act as a mediator between your financial information and merchants, such as Apple Pay or PayPal, though they don't work quite the same. One difference is that bitcoins are totally digital, and more susceptible to security issues. Therefore, you want the most secure option you can to protect your bitcoins, keeping in mind that you will likely only be keeping part of your bitcoins in your wallet.You have four basic options for wallets: software wallets, web wallets, cold/paper wallets, and hardware wallets.See how to create an online bitcoin wallet for more information on the different types of wallets and how to create one.
 These two types of wallets are usually the most secure. A software wallet is one that keeps your keys secure on your desktop. A cold/paper wallet is anything that is not hooked up to the internet. The upside to a software wallet is that it is somewhat more secure than a web wallet, as your private key is stored offline rather than online.However, the downside is you can only access it from your computer.Some software wallets are mobile phone apps, so they can be more portable.
The upside of a cold wallet is it can't be hacked on the internet, since it's not connected. It can be a jump drive, a piece of paper, or your brain. For instance, if you use your brain, you simply memorize the key code, which is secure, but not so great if you forget the number, as you can't recover the bitcoins., A web wallet is accessed through the web, much like PayPal. A hardware wallet is actually a device, usually a thumb drive or something of similar size, that you can carry with you. Both of these wallets, then, are fairly portable.A hardware wallet only releases information when you tell it to and when it's in contact with a device to take the information.A web wallet is not quite as secure as a software wallet, but you can access it from anywhere., Within each type of wallet, you have choices about the one you pick. For instance, Bitcoin Armory is a type of software wallet, while Coinbase is a web-based wallet.Bitcoin's website has some recommendations for wallets to make your choice simpler if you don't know where to begin.Bitcoin's website has a checklist of items when it comes to choosing a wallet. For each wallet that it lists, it will show you whether you have control over your money, whether validation is centralized or decentralized, if the wallet shows its coding or not, if it offers a secure environment, and whether or not it provides basic privacy.For instance, some wallets offer shared control over your money, meaning the company has to verify the transaction, too. If validation is decentralized, that means that your transaction is validated through the wallet, not directly on the network.A wallet with a non-secure environment means it can be downloaded on computers that contain malware, which in turn means your bitcoins are less secure. However, you can protect your bitcoins by making a strong password or by moving part of your currency to a cold wallet.As far as privacy goes, a wallet can make it more difficult for someone to steal your bitcoins by rotating addresses for you. Privacy can also mean whether the wallet provides information to a third party or whether or not you can use Tor, which can help prevent attacks., Securing a bitcoin wallet can take some know-how, as some wallets are less user friendly than others. However, some bitcoin wallets do more of the work for you, such as the aptly named Bitcoin Wallet., If you use Bitcoin's website, you can download many wallets straight from their site. Otherwise, they have links to other sites you can find them. Usually, you will use the wallet's main site to download your wallet.When it comes to cold wallets, you can use a software wallet then disconnect it form the Internet with a jump drive.
To use a paper wallet, you still must use an interface to create an address to receive bitcoins. One you can use is Bit Address (look for the .org URL). When you want to receive bitcoins, you'll use something like this interface to generate your address., In your wallet, you should have a place for receiving bitcoins. It may be a tab or a different section altogether. Finding that section is the first step in receiving bitcoins.Each wallet is going to be a little different in how transactions are done, though the basic transaction should be the same. It's just with different interfaces, it's going to look a little bit different.
 When receiving bitcoins, you need to send your address to the person or company who's giving you bitcoins. Your wallet should generate addresses for you, and you just click on one for each transaction.Addresses are usually a string of 26 characters, including letters and numbers and beginning with a 1 or 3. However, it can also be a QR code that someone can scan.Bitcoin recommends that each address only be used one time. The reason is that every time you make a transaction, it is recorded or mined on the public ledger, which releases some information about you. Each time you make a transaction, the wallet should generate a new address for you to use., You may need to send the address manually, but more likely, the wallet will do this step for you. Make sure you do not send your private key, just one of the addresses generated by your wallet.If you need to send it manually, just copy the code and send it to the person through a message or email.
If you're using a QR code on your phone in person, the seller usually just scans the code with their phone., If you're using an exchange to get bitcoins, you will need to pay for them. An exchange is much like a stock exchange, where people buy and sell bitcoins. Many reputable trading sites will place the amount of bitcoins in escrow as soon as you submit the payment. The payment method can vary based on the trader's preference. Whether you pay with PayPal, a bank transfer, or cash face-to-face depends on what you and the trader agree to.If you create an exchange account, you can usually hook up a bank account to it., As transactions are sent, they are confirmed on the blockchain through mining. Every 10 minutes or so, the transaction will be confirmed again. Each confirmation makes the transaction more secure, as it acts as a verification by all the people on the network. Once it's been confirmed a certain number of times, it pretty much guarantees that those bitcoins can't be sent or sold again. In other words, confirmation guards against double spending.Double spending means that the same bitcoins are fraudulently spent more than once. This can result in merchants being unable to receive payment, as the bitcoins used for payment have already been spent.Some companies wait as long as 6 confirmations before confirming the order, especially on large transactions.How many confirmations you wait for depends on you and the type of transaction. If you're receiving bitcoins for a product and it costs a lot, you may want to wait for more confirmations. If you're just receiving bitcoins for a small transaction, you can probably wait for fewer confirmations.,Bitcoin recommends six confirmations for large transactions and at least one confirmation on a smaller transaction. How many confirmations you wait for can also depend on the security of the wallet you're using. For instance, one may be enough on a very secure wallet, while three would be better on a lighter weight wallet.Your wallet should have some way of tracking confirmations, though how it shows those confirmations depends on the wallet interface., Bitcoins are actually created by using Bitcoin software on computers to solve very difficult math problems. Think of it as your computer earning you money by doing the hard work, though in this case, it's actually minting the money, not just earning it. The catch is that it takes high-powered computers to solve the problems, so you either must have a specialized bitcoin machine or combine your computer with others to work together.Mining has become more complex and less lucrative as the number of bitcoins issues have grown. It is late in the game to begin mining.
Single-machine mining is not particularly lucrative. You'd need a dedicated high-powered computer, and it's likely the computer would cost more than what you'd get back.You can also buy a dedicated hardware miner, such as an AntMiner S7, a Avalon6, or a SP20 Jackson, though these will cost you a bit, too.Consider joining a pool, such as Slush Pool, where you can join with other miners to help generate bitcoins faster.In addition, you'll need a miner app, such as 50Miner for Windows, which does the actual mining for you. Both of these work with your graphics card.However, that doesn't mean there will be an ever-growing amount of bitcoins. In fact, bitcoins will be capped at 21,000,000, plus fewer and fewer bitcoins are given out over time, due to how the system is designed., Another option is to buy bitcoins with a recognized currency. To buy bitcoins, you use a market exchange. Some notable ones are Bitcoin.de in Germany, VirtEx in Canada, Bitcurex in Poland, CampBX in the United States, and BTC in China.Remember that these exchanges are not regulated as well as, say, the stock market. Therefore, make sure you trust the exchange before putting your money into it.The risks inherent to these exchanges are that the exchanges are liable to fail or that certain national government may move to regulate or ban bitcoins.
 If you want to accept bitcoins as currency, you can use an app or software to add it to your website. That means that instead of selling your product for dollars, you'd accept bitcoins in their place. You can add a widget to your website or simply use an invoice to request payment through bitcoin.Remember that bitcoins are worth much more than a dollar. Therefore, they are divided into decimals. You will likely only receive a small fraction of a bitcoin for most products.The value of bitcoins is volatile, so transactions need to checked each time against current market values.
 Some websites and games allow you to get small amounts of bitcoins for free just by using their website or playing a particular game. Others may have you read books or roll dice. Like any website that provides things for "free," it can take a while to accumulate bitcoins on these types of sites.Faucets pay out a certain number of bitcoins at regulated intervals, though they are usually overrun with advertising to pay for those bitcoins.