 Another great use of citrus slices in a centerpiece is to dry them and use them to decorate large candles. These centerpieces are great for great for fall or winter events, and give your tables an intimate and romantic feel. Select as many large candles as you need, keeping in mind that you may want a few candles for each centerpiece.Choose squat, wide candles that have a lot of space to decorate.
Use neutral color candles, or candles that compliment the deep yellow, orange or green colors of the dried citrus fruit. Consider using deep colors like burgundy or dark purple, especially if you are using them for a fall or winter event like a Thanksgiving dinner or a fall wedding.
 Begin making these centerpieces by slicing your citrus fruit of choice into 1/8 inch (0.31 cm) rounds. You'll likely need 5-10 rounds per candle, depending on the size of the candle. You may decide to use one kind of citrus fruit, or a mixture of lemons, limes and oranges for extra color., To begin the drying process, preheat the oven to 250 degrees F (121.11 C). Place a wire rack on top of a cookie sheet, then place the citrus rounds on top of the wire rack.Placing the citrus rounds on top of the wire rack as opposed to directly on the cookie sheet allows them to dry thoroughly.
Drying the citrus rounds deepens the color of the fruit and preserves the slices so that you can make these centerpieces well in advance.
 Once the oven has preheated, place the tray of citrus slices inside and let them dry for two hours. After two hours, take the tray out of the oven and let the slices cool.If the slices still aren’t dry after a few hours, turn the oven off and leave the citrus slices inside overnight. By the next morning, the slices should be dry.
 One the citrus slices have cooled, apply hot glue to one side of the citrus slices and glue them to the wide candles. Use several citrus slices on each candle, overlapping them or spacing them as you please.Don’t apply hot glue directly to the candle, as the heat can melt the wax.
 You don’t need to stop at the citrus slices when you decorate your candles; you can also add other decorative elements like dark leaves, herbs, beads or ribbon to offset the color of the citrus fruit., Once you are done decorating the individual candles, place the candles in groups of two’s or three’s on the table or surface you are decorating. Consider adding leaves, sprigs of herbs, or dried flowers around the candle clusters to add another visual element to the centerpieces. Light the candles or leave them unlit so that you can use these centerpieces again!