 This may require a bit of psychology. Ask the seller if the motorcycle "is fast." If he replies "I've had her up to 75 mph (121 km/h) all the time," you have your answer. Consider why people sell Royal Enfields, often with very low mileage. It may be because they didn't realize stock Royal Enfields cruise best under 55 mph (89 km/h). The seller may have abused the motorcycle by trying to keep up with friends on faster bikes.;
, Royal Enfield valves can be heard opening and closing but they should not clatter. If the seller explains excess noise by saying "Oh, they are just out of adjustment," suggest that he adjust them for you right there and then, "so you can learn how." It is a bad sign if he won't do it, or can't. If he suggests you "take it to the dealer" for that, ask "can we take the cost of that off the price, then?"

, If the teeth show any sign of narrowing it will have to be replaced. You can't see the front sprocket, but it will be just as worn and reaching that one is a tough, messy job if you do it. It is several hundred dollars if you pay a mechanic to do it. If you see wear here (and you will if the bike is near or beyond 30,000 miles (48,000 km) for sure) figure that into the price.
 If it starts, stops runs and rides the way a motorcycle should there are only two special things to check for while test riding a Royal Enfield. Any "pinging" on acceleration is a bad sign. It is easy to adjust the timing to get rid of that. The danger is that the seller may have been riding the motorcycle with pinging, potentially damaging the piston. Listen, too, for a slight knocking noise in the motor that comes only when you are riding and let off the throttle. If it's consistent and unmistakable it could mean a bad main bearing, a very expensive thing to repair.
 Cables are not extremely expensive to replace but Royal Enfields are notoriously hard on clutch cables and a broken one can strand you. Ask the seller if he has a spare cable he can "throw in" to help make the deal. He won't need it anyhow.

