 Primarily it's a dominant 7 with a #9 in a particular shape - and in particular the E7#9 which among other places is featured heavily in ‘Purple Haze’ (the other 2 chords of the song being the bars as above on 3rd and 5th frets (G and A)).
 Notice the two E-strings are played open, resulting in a very ‘guitaristic’ sound. 1st finger fourth string 6th fret; 2nd finger fifth string 7th fret; 3rd finger third string 7th fret; 4th finger second string 8th fret.
 Refer to the photograph.


The 5th string is not strummed. Notice the pinky poised.
Then add the 7 and 9 to the chord:
This is simply an E-major triad, with ‘bluesy' ornaments added in a pinky-finger barre (optional, use the 3rd and 4th finger for each note) on the 1st and 2nd strings. The 7 of an E-chord is the D-note (3rd fret second string), the 9 is the G-note (3rd fret first string).
This formation and ornament can be played anywhere up the neck, but as a bar-chord (see above). Again, in Purple Haze Jimi would wrap his thumb around for the bass on the 6th string (functioning as the nut does in open position) while muffling or not strumming the 5th string.
Another chord and sound particularly associated with Hendrix which some call ’the Hendrix chord’ - featured very prominently in the sliding chords which open and close ‘Castles Made of Sand.’
As in ‘Castles,’ the first chord is a Gadd9 (also called ‘Gsus2' in poor rock and roll music theory) at the 3th fret (actual first chord is debatable because the maneuver is faded in, but the home key is G): 1st finger second string 3th fret; 3rd finger fourth string 5th fret; 4th finger first string 5th fret; note: second finger does not feature here (some people online think otherwise), and the third string is played open, requiring the 3rd finger to be rather arched.
Jimi slides this formation up and down the neck, always with the 3rd string remaining open. This provides a drone effect which, along with the interval of a 5th in the two highest strings, can be considered alternatively ’psychedelic’ or, in musicological terms, East Indian in flavor (the Beatles’ encounter with Indian music and spirituality made this a popular thing at the time).

