 Soap making takes some practice to get the ingredients and process right. Use the soap yourself and give it as gifts to get some feedback about your soap.;
, Various ways to make soap include cold process, hot process, melt and pour kits and glycerin soap making. Experiment with different methods to find the one that is easiest and fastest.
 The type of molds, colors and scents you use in your soap will appeal to different customers. Soaps for kids or parties will appeal to parents or grandparents, soaps with natural ingredients will appeal to earth conscious customers, and soaps that are packaged with other beauty products or in boxes could appeal to corporate gift givers. These are just a few of the possible target customers. Who you sell to will determine where and how to start selling homemade soap.
 Give them out to customers and mail updated catalogs periodically to get repeat business and referrals.
 Many web hosting companies offer inexpensive e-commerce sites with templates for easy design. Etsy is a popular site for selling craft products with low fees. There are many online craft malls to sell your products. Find ones that appeal to your target market.
 Find out how to rent a booth and what supplies you'll need to bring. Some festivals will provide a table and canopy.
 It may be possible to rent a canopy for outdoor sales; check with local party supply rental companies. You'll need a table, a table cover and a cash box at the minimum. Create a more appealing booth with decorations, ways that show how your soap is used, and displays that put your soaps at eye level.
 You'll cover more territory with a larger product.
 Soap making is a lot different from soap selling, so it may take some practice to get comfortable with sales. Your soap may sell itself online and at farmers markets, but you'll have to work on being forceful and persuasive to get more aggressive sales. Consider partnering with someone with proven sales skills.
 Put the soaps in a small basket or soap dish that has your business card attached.
