 Depending on where you purchased your computer and what options you selected, you may or may not have the following items:


CPU Tower - This may be all you have if you just purchased a tower. If that's the case, you will need to obtain a monitor, mouse, and keyboard before you can use the computer.
Monitor - Not all computers come with a monitor. If you're upgrading your computer, you can usually use your old monitor.
Mouse and keyboard - Most complete systems come packed with both of these, though you may want to consider upgrading for higher-quality peripherals with better ergonomics
Speakers - These are sometimes built into monitor, and are not always included.
Printer - Some systems come packaged with a printer, though typically this is purchased separately.;
, Place your CPU tower near its intended location with enough room for all of the fans to move air. Towers typically have fans on the rear of the case, and sometimes have fans on the sides, front, and top. Avoid placing the tower between sets of drawers or inside of a cabinet. If you are using your computer as a home theater PC, make sure that its spot in the home theater cabinet has plenty of air on all sides, and that the cabinet is not enclosed.
 Plug the monitor or TV into one of the monitor ports on the back of the tower. Most modern computers have an HDMI port, which is the easiest to connect. Monitors typically use DVI or HDMI connections, but some older ones use VGA.


The monitor will also need to be plugged into a power outlet.
If you have a dedicated graphics card, ensure that your monitor is connected to the graphics card and not the motherboard. You will not be able to take advantage of the graphics card unless the monitor is attached to it. The monitor ports for your dedicated card will be located lower on the back of the tower.
 Virtually all mice and keyboards plug in via USB. If you are setting up an exceptionally old PC, you may need to connect the mouse and keyboard via the PS/2 connectors. These are typically located at the top of the back of the tower, and are color coded to match the keyboard and mouse plugs.
 Plug your speakers into the back of the computer using the color codes as guides. Ensure that all the channels are placed on the correct sides, and that the speakers are plugged into an outlet if necessary.


See this guide for more details on setting up computer speakers.
 If you can, plug it into a surge protector or uninterruptible power supply (UPS). This will help protect the computer in the event of a power surge or power loss.


You may need to flip the switch on the power supply to ON. The switch is usually located near the power cable.
 Press the Power button on the front of the computer to turn it on. If you bought the computer with an operating system such as Windows or Linux preinstalled, you will be guided through the first-time setup process for the operating system. Follow the prompts on the screen to enter your location and create your user account. If your computer did not come with an operating system preinstalled (this is rare), you will need to install it yourself.


See this guide for details on installing Windows.
 Before you can download any programs or start using the internet, you will need to connect your computer to a network. You can either connect wirelessly if you computer has a wireless network card, or you can connect to your router or modem via Ethernet.


See this guide for details on setting up a wireless connection.
If you want to connect via Ethernet, connect the Ethernet cable to your computer and to your router or modem. You won't need to perform any additional setup. See this guide for details.
 Chances are that your installed operating system and programs have been updated since the computer was built. You may be prompted to download and install updates, which is essential for keeping your computer secure and stable.


See this guide for details on installing the latest Windows updates.
You may be prompted to restart your computer to complete the update process.
 Now that you are connected to the internet and Windows has been updated, you can start installing your essential programs. If you're upgrading computers, don't just install all the old programs you used to have installed. Instead, take some time to evaluate what you really need. Only installing the essentials will help keep your computer running smoother.


Antivirus - This should be the first program that you install, no matter what. An antivirus helps protect your computer against malware and other malicious software, and is essential if your computer is connected to the internet. See this guide for details on installing antivirus software.
Favorite browser - Windows comes installed with Internet Explorer, but many people prefer other browsers. There are a variety to choose from, including Chrome, Firefox, and Opera.
Word processor/productivity - Most people use their computers as a home office, which includes installing a word processor and possibly a spreadsheet program. Microsoft Office is designed to integrate into Windows, and you may have a trial already installed on your computer.
Games - Everyone likes to relax once in a while, so consider installing a game or two! Windows supports the most games out of any operating system, and there are countless ways you can find and purchase them. Some of the most popular storefronts include Steam, GOG, Origin, and Desura.
 Once all the boring stuff is out of the way, you can start making your new computer yours. You can change your desktop background, install new cursors, change the fonts, or even completely change the way Windows is organized using special software.


See this guide for details on completely customizing your Windows desktop.

