 Measuring spoons are small metal or plastic spoons that are connected on a ring. They usually come in the following sizes: 1 tablespoon, 1 teaspoon, 1/2 teaspoon, 1/4 teaspoon, and 1/8 teaspoon. You'll need measuring spoons for small amounts of dry ingredients like salt, baking powder, and baking soda.You'll probably want to buy two sets of measuring spoons so you don't need to stop and wash them if a recipe calls for the same measurement twice. You can also use measuring spoons for liquid ingredients, since the amount called for will probably be very small.;
, You'll need measuring cups to measure a variety of dry ingredients, like flour, sugar, brown sugar, rice, or oats. Most measuring cup sets come with these measuring cups: 1 cup, 3/4 cup, 1/2 cup, 1/3 cup and 1/4 cup. You can choose light plastic measuring cups that are easy to handle or heavy ones made of metal.


Choose measuring spoons that have strong handles. If you scoop into a firm ingredient using a measuring cup with a weak handle, it may snap.
 The most common way to measure dry ingredients by volume is to dip your measuring cup into the dry ingredient so that the cup is overflowing. Take the back of a knife or a flat spoon handle and sweep the excess across and off of the measuring cup.You can also use the dip and sweep method for small amounts of dry ingredients measured by spoons.
 Some cookbooks may recommend taking a spoon and filling your measuring cup with a dry ingredient before sweeping off the excess. Depending on how heavily you spoon in the ingredient, you may end up with a lot more of the ingredient than you need.To find out what your cookbook or recipe recommends, read the introduction by the author. The author will explain what tools and basic ingredients you'll need, as well as helpful techniques (like measuring ingredients).
 When you read an ingredient list for a recipe, you probably scan it for what ingredients you'll need. However, the ingredient list can offer useful clues about how to measure the dry ingredients. Pay close attention to the language used. Here are a few examples of measurement clues in the ingredient list:


"1 cup of flour, sifted" means you should dip and scoop 1 cup of flour and then sift it.
"1 cup of sifted flour" means you should sift flour and then measure out 1 cup of it to use in the recipe.
"1/2 cup of packed brown sugar" means you should compress the brown sugar into the 1/2 cup measuring cup rather than scoop out 1/2 cup of brown sugar and then pack it down.
 Many people have grown up with measuring cups and spoons, but measuring by volume is usually something that people learn when baking. Baking often requires more accuracy so things rise, set, and react properly. Measuring ingredients by weight is more accurate than measuring by volume. You'll just need a small digital scale.


A digital kitchen scale usually has a small flat platform on the top where you can set bowls filled with ingredients for measuring. Some scales have raised containers that you can measure directly into.
 Place your digital scale on a firm, flat surface and turn it on. If it shows another number or reading, be sure to tare it. When you tare it, the scale should read 0.Read the owner's manual that came with your digital scale to learn about the features on your scale.
 Even simple digital kitchen scales offer a variety of measurements. You'll need to select if you want the scale to measure using ounces, grams, pounds or even a ratio of ounces to pounds.


Some scales will let you adjust or switch between measurements while the ingredient is on the scale being weighed.
 Place an empty bowl on the scale and tare the scale. When it reads 0, add your dry ingredient to the bowl until you get the amount needed for your recipe. You can tare the scale again and add another ingredient that you need to measure. Only add more ingredients to the bowl if that's what the recipe calls for.If you're unsure about combining the ingredients while weighing them, you could measure them in small separate bowls. This is useful if the recipe doesn't call for adding all the dry ingredients at once. Just remember to tare the scale after each measurement.
 Take a dry measuring cup and scoop it into a container of brown sugar. Use your fingers, the palm of your hand, or the back of a spoon to press the sugar down as much as you can. This will give you an accurate measurement.The brown sugar should keep the shape of the measuring cup when you dump it out. If it spills out like sand, it wasn't packed down enough and you don't have enough sugar in your recipe.
 Since flour can pack down as it sits, stir it a little before measuring. This will break it up and introduce a little air. Dip your dry measuring cup into the flour so the cup is overflowing. You can then level off the excess by using a bench scraper or another flat kitchen tool or handle.You can stir the flour using a spoon, a knife, or a whisk. Just use something that will move the flour around a little and break it up.
 You'll usually see sifting mentioned when baking with powdered sugar. This is because powdered sugar forms a lot of little lumps as it sits. Avoid scooping and measuring powdered sugar while it's still lumpy or it won't mix into your other ingredients well and you'll end up with small lumps of powdered sugar. Always sift powdered sugar before measuring or weighing it.For example, if you don't sift the powdered sugar, but just mix it into butter for a frosting recipe, you'll end up with small white lumps of sugar in your frosting.

