 Is it a baby shower for your sister's boss? Or maybe a birthday party for your mom's best friend? Whatever the case may be, knowing the purpose and crowd for which you are entertaining is important.;
, Is it expected that you will compile the guest list, send invitations, reserve caterers, and play the host? Or is it simply that you have the largest house and it made sense for you to host? Be sure that it's clear before you accept the position.
 Decide on an invitation that goes with the theme of the party and send them out (or email if you've chosen e-vites) about 2 months before the event. This gives guests plenty of time to save it on their calendar and purchase gifts if they are customary for your specific event.


Be sure to include an RSVP card or number to call and give guests a timeline so that you have ample time to prepare. (Usually 2 weeks before is enough time for you to get your menu together and grocery shop).
 Pick out light music that will compliment the mood of the party. Make sure you choose something that won't overpower conversations, it is a party after all!

, Are you throwing a casual BBQ with lots of sides? Or is it an early tea with light sandwiches and cake? If you're booking a caterer, make sure that you do so way in advance (especially during summer and holiday seasons). If not, plan your menu and then make a detailed shopping list with all your ingredients on it. Once all of you're RSVPs have come in, you can start deciding how much you should make of each thing.
 You don't want to be stuck in the kitchen cooking while guests arrive so be sure that you have ample time the day of to be finishing up or you can try to find someone to help you with last minute things....a spouse or roommate perhaps?

, If the majority of the party will be indoors, be sure that ALL common areas are neat, tidy, free of dust, and vacuumed. If it's been quite sometime, you may want to consider having your carpets cleaned, or renting one for a day.


Make sure that your bathroom is clean (shower doesn't have unsightly hard water stains, mirror doesn't have toothpaste spots). Stock the bathroom with plenty of soap, hand towels, toilet paper, room spray, maybe a small basket of feminine products, and some lotion on the counter.
Adding a little bowl of wrapped mints is a nice touch too. Your bathroom is a very personal area so creating a space that is welcoming and refreshing is comforting to guests, especially if they've never been in your home before.
 For instance, if it's a bridal shower you can have everyone write their name and their relationship to the bride. If it's the type of party that you're playing games, you could encourage guests to play a name game to get to know each other a little better. Make your guests feel welcome by introducing yourself when they arrive and offering to take their coat/hat/purse and get them a drink.
 It's always a bummer when a guest points out that the punch is too low. Save the embarrassment on your part and keep a mental note to watch food and drinks. If you're hosting a full-on dinner party, then you should keep track of timing with when dinner will be served.
 Remember to thank everyone for coming at the end of the event. If the occasion calls for it, giving out little party favors are always a nice touch. If gifts were involved, be sure to keep a list of the gifts received and the person who brought it so that thank you notes can be sent out about a week following the event.

