 Nicky Minaj always looks like her skin is impeccably smooth and dewy. Correctly apply your foundation to achieve this look by using a foundation brush. Brush in a downward direction and out. The downward direction keeps you from lifting any peach fuzz while giving your face a micro-fine finish.Use a beauty-blending-sponge to top off the finish of your foundation. Purchase a beauty-blending-sponge online, from your local beauty supply store, or even at your local dollar store. This sponge produces a fine finish with your foundation by gently patting it across your face. Make sure the sponge is dampened first as it will soak excess pigment and blend your look.;
, While Nicki often chooses bold colors, you may start with black or choose a colour you are more comfortable wearing. Liquid eyeliner works best when going for the smooth cat eye shape. To apply, start at the end of your eye where your cat eye will end its shape. Angle the rest of your liner pencil toward the inside of your eye and swoop across your eyelid.You want the tip to move in one fluid motion from the outside of your cat eye to the inside of your actual eye. You may also leave small dashes and only use a fluid motion for the winged end of your cat eye, making sure to carefully fill in the spaces between the dashes.If you’re struggling you may use a pencil first because liquid liners are harder to control. Make sure to go over the pencil with a wet eyeshadow or liquid liner to deeply set the colour once you're satisfied with the pencil outline.Clean up excess liner with a tiny amount of petroleum jelly on a cotton swab to get rid of any thick or messy lines., Nicki creates an eye-popping look thanks to false eyelashes.Purchase false eyelashes online, at your local beauty supply store, or even a dollar store. Create a curl shape so that they fit the shape of your eyelid by wrapping them around your finger. Use a thin line of adhesive to place them along your eyelash.Wait until the adhesive gets tacky before applying it onto your lash with your fingers.
Don’t apply your false eyelashes too close to your tear duct. Leaving some distance when applying your inner lash can make your eye look wider. Applying it too close to your tear duct can make your eyes look narrow or crossed.Before applying your fake eyelashes, trim your real ones to prevent them from going past the edge of your eye or getting near your tear duct. Do not attempt to trim your eyelashes if you have never done this before. It may be extremely dangerous especially if your eyelashes are short or if your hands are not steady. Consult a beauty care specialist for help., Nicki will often wear bright pink lip colour. Choose a bold colour that suits your skin tone. For a paler complexion, try a pink or coral lipstick. For a medium complexion, experiment with different, even wilder colours as your tone suits any colour. If you have a darker complexion, try a colour with berry accents or a deeper shade of what you normally wear.To emulate Nicki’s pink lips, choose a pink with "undertones" suited for your skin tone. For example, if there is a tinge of yellow to your skin, choose a pink with a cool tone and blue undertones as the veins in your skin appear green. Veins tend to look blue for people with pink undertone. In this case, try pink lipstick with a warm red undertone.Wear your colours around the house for a few hours. This may require choosing several different colours before settling for the right shade that you're comfortable with while still keeping the bold Nicki vibe., Apply liner, colouring your lips entirely. Remove any messing chunks and make sure that your lips are smooth by dabbing a tissue or simply using your fingers to pluck off any colour chunks. Apply your lipstick and smack your lips to keep the colour even and natural looking.Remove excess colour with a cotton swab. Dab a cotton swab over a spot with a concealer after you have removed excess colour with the other end of the swab.Freshen up your lips by massaging some lip balm before using lipstick to prevent unevenness from clumping.