 Surfers spend a lot of time in the sun, leaving them with that sun-kissed look to their hair. Even if you don't spend as much time at the beach, you can get this same look in the salon.Go for an overall lightening, but avoid getting too platinum.
Highlights are a great way to make you hair look like it’s been in the sun.;
, It seems amazing that surfers can get out of the ocean and when their hair dries, it looks effortlessly amazing. The secret here is the salt water. You can get this effect of crunchy waves by using a sea salt spray on your hair. Towel dry your hair. Spray on some sea salt spray, scrunch your hair with your hands, and let it air dry.


There are several sea salt sprays available. Choose the one which most appeals to you.Another option is making your own sea salt spray by mixing 1 cup of hot water with 1-2 teaspoons of sea salt (not table salt) and 1 tablespoon of coconut oil in a spray bottle. Shake it well for a minute or two and its ready to use.
 A popular style for surfer girls is mixing up bold colors and prints. This make sure you stand out in the crowd and represent your own style. Surfer bikini bottoms tend to have a mid-rise cut to them. The tops are focused on staying on and usually have a sporty look like a criss-crossed back or racerback, similar to a sports bra.When mixing and matching, try using different patterns with the same color scheme, or similar patterns in different colors.Try wearing a solid bikini bottom in a bold color, and matching it with a printed bikini top.
 There are a lot of surf brands which have clothing lines.Some of the most popular brands are Billabong, Hurley, Rip Curl, Quiksilver, RVCA, and O’Neill.Roxy is a popular female clothing line which is an offshoot of Quicksilver.


These brands provide high fashion, and high quality swimwear, which will keep you in fashion and a durable suit.
Consider wearing a tank sporting one of these brand names with your bikini top underneath., Layer your wrist with bracelets! Don’t be shy about adding 7 or eight bracelets at a time. Choose bracelets woven out of brightly colored fibers. You may also want touches of seashells and beads.A more formal option could be a thin metal bracelet with sea glass.
Cinch the fiber bracelets to different sizes so that they run up your forearm, rather than lying on top of each other on your wrist.
 If you are not on the beach, make it as barefoot as possible with a strapped sandal to keep that nearly bare look going from the beach to the street.A more casual option would be simple flip flops. Many come with floral and beach prints on the sole.
If you need more coverage, choose a slip-on canvas shoe with a floral print.

