 Physical abuse may be easy to spot if the child has no way of concealing the injury, but there are also some more subtle signs. Common symptoms of physical abuse include:Having injuries such as bruises, cuts, or burns that the child either cannot or will not explain
Having injuries that are patterned (such as looking like the injury is from a belt)
Acting anxious or always on guard
Flinching at sudden touch or movement, and may be averse to being touched
Showing signs of discomfort when movingWearing inappropriate clothing to cover arms and legs, such as long sleeves on hot days;
, Emotional abuse can be difficult to spot, as it doesn't leave physical markings; however, it is extremely important to keep an eye out for. Some symptoms of emotional abuse include:Having low self-esteem or self-confidence
Seeking affection from others
Being distrustful or fearful
Having trouble with emotional regulationStruggling with social interactionActing older or younger than is appropriate for the child’s age, such as thumb sucking or taking on care of other children, Sexual abuse can cause severe emotional problems for a child that may last for his or her lifetime. Children who are sexually abused often feel like the abuse is their fault, and many children are ashamed to come forward.Some signs of sexual abuse include:Sexual knowledge or actions that don't match the child's age group
Trouble walking or sitting down
Unwillingness to change clothing in front of others
Fear of certain places or peoplePregnancy in adolescent females

, Neglect is when a child’s basic needs are not being met, such as food, clothing, hygiene, and affection. Neglect can be difficult to notice, or it can be obvious. Signs of neglect may include:Consistent uncleanliness, including body odor
Lack of weather-appropriate clothing
Requests for food or other necessities, and hoarding these when possible
Being underweight or malnourished
Having untreated physical or psychological problems, Most children exhibit behavioral changes under stress, so it's a good idea to look for changes in behavior when attempting to identify a victim of child abuse. However, keep in mind that these symptoms can apply to a child under stress that isn't related to abuse; don't assume that just because you see these symptoms, they're being abused.


In older children, you may see behavioral regression. Behavioral regression is when a child reverts back to old behaviors that they did when they were younger. Examples include thumb-sucking, bedwetting, and emotional problems such as throwing tantrums.
Notice changes in eating habits. Does the child eat much more than he or she used to, or does the child seem less interested in food? Is the child gaining or losing weight?
Is the child scared of a certain person or group of people? It's normal for children to be afraid of some people, such as those who may look frightening, but if the child seems to be scared of an older child, a group of children, an adult, or a group of adults, then the child may be being abused.
Is the child vandalizing property or stealing? Sometimes, children may be stealing out of necessity, such as if they are being neglected. Pay attention to what the child takes because taking food or money can be a sign of neglect., If the child loses friends rapidly, withdraws from social activities, suddenly closes off from trusted friends, or begins spending all their time with an older child or adult, these may be indicators that the child is being abused. Keep an eye out for aggressive behavior as well. Children who are being abused may start fights, whether verbal or physical.Try to find out why the child's friends are no longer spending time with the child. If the friends describe the child as becoming secretive, moody, or devoting all of his or her time to another person, take a closer look at the situation.
If the child didn't have many friends to begin with, watch for signs of bullying. Bullying can contribute to symptoms of abuse, but the child may be being abused as well.
 A child who is being abused can become anxious, jumpy, depressed, angry, or show a combination of emotions.Children who have been emotionally abused may also have trouble controlling their emotions and have large breakdowns or emotional outbursts that may frighten other children.
 The child’s grades may also drop. However, don't assume that a child with great grades isn't having home trouble. A child can be abused and still keep up with schoolwork - and keeping up with schoolwork may be forced by the abuser.
 In some cases of child abuse, the child may resort to self-destructive behaviors or may even become suicidal.If the child has admitted to you that he or she engages in self-destructive behaviors, seek help for the child immediately. Self-destructive behaviors include:


Self-injury, such as cutting or burning
Suicidal thoughts or intentions
Drug or alcohol abuse
Intents or threats to harm others

, If you know an adult who you suspect has been abused during childhood, recognize that most adults are not willing to talk about it. An adult who has been abused during childhood may be secretive about his or her past. It will be necessary to take a closer look at the adult in question unless he or she trusts you enough to tell you.
 Child abuse has been linked to increased risk of physical health problems, though it is uncertain why this is.Adults who were abused in childhood are at a higher risk of developing heart disease, diabetes, liver problems, hepatitis, arthritis, and more.Be aware, however, that physical health problems can occur in people who haven't been abused, so it shouldn't be your sole piece of evidence.


Don't ignore smaller problems such as headaches or stomach pain. While these may seem too common to be a symptom of past abuse, if they are occurring frequently, it may be the body's stress response.
 Victims of child abuse may have trouble regulating or feeling their emotions.They may develop or suffer from mental illnesses such as depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), dissociative disorders, and personality disorders.Research has shown that children who are abused are more likely to develop depression or PTSD than children who weren't abused.


Adults who were victims of child abuse are more likely to engage in self-injurious behaviors or attempt suicide than those who weren't.Eating disorders can also be a sign of an abusive past.
Be aware that most people aren't going to open up about their mental health to you, especially if you don't know the person well.
Do not confront this person over his or her behavior unless you have reason to believe that he or she is suicidal. If the person is showing symptoms of depression, though, you may still want to reach out and offer your support. Even if you have reason to believe that this person is suicidal, be careful about how you talk to them about it.
 Victims of child abuse are more likely to engage in violent and criminal behavior than those who are not victims.If this person has a history of cruelty towards people, animals, getting arrested, and abusive behavior towards their partner or spouse, they may have been a victim of child abuse.


Child abuse has also been linked to development of personality disorders, such as antisocial personality disorder.However, it is important to remember that someone's past does not justify their current actions; it merely serves as an explanation for why the person has certain behaviors.
 Keep in mind, however, that just because someone rejects social advances does not necessarily mean he or she was abused. Other mental illnesses, such as depression and anxiety, can cause a person to go into social isolation.
 Abuse has been proven to cause abnormal stress responses - more specifically, the level of cortisol released in the brain is less than usual.Victims of child abuse can develop symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, or even PTSD itself; one of these symptoms is hyperarousal, or fight-or-flight mode. Symptoms of hyperarousal include:Sleep disturbances, such as insomnia or nightmares - the affected person in question may be constantly tired
Irritability, anger, or aggression
Impulsiveness
Constantly feeling unsafe

, While you can't go back in time and get the person out of their past abusive situation, you may be able to help the person recover in adulthood or intervene if the person is suicidal. Keep an eye out for any signs of suicidal intent, abuse of alcohol or drugs, extreme self-injurious or reckless behavior, or violence towards other people.


If the adult who is a victim of child abuse has stated that he or she intends to commit suicide or harm others, contact emergency services immediately and try to distract the person until help arrives. Avoid leaving the person alone.
 The term child abuse is often used to cover many different types of abuse. In order to truly identify a victim of child abuse, you will need to understand the types of child abuse and where it comes from.Physical abuse is abuse involving physical actions such as slapping, kicking, pushing, hair-pulling, choking, and more.

Emotional abuse is abuse involving emotional manipulation, threats, and put-downs - for example, a parent telling his or her child that the child is worthless and threatening to kick the child out.

Sexual abuse is abuse of a sexual nature, such as rape, sexual touching, or taking pornographic photos of the child.

Neglect is abuse involving a lack of care for the child. A neglected child may have poor hygiene and ill-fitting clothing and seem to be constantly unsupervised.
 To identify a child that has been abused, you might have to dispel certain misconceptions about child abuse. Common misconceptions include:Child abuse is only violent or Physical abuse is more severe: Victims of child abuse who were emotionally abused or neglected can carry the memories of abuse for as long as those who are physically abused. No form of abuse is "worse" than another form.

Children lie about being abused: Many statistics, such as police and court statistics, show that it is very rare for children to claim that they have been abused when they haven't. It has also been found that it is more common for children to say that they aren't being abused when they really are.They did something to deserve it: While parents do have to set rules and sometimes enforce them for their child, a parent who abuses his or her child is the one at fault, not the child. Even if the child has been severely misbehaving, the parent's job is not to hit, threaten, or belittle them. A child who has been dressing "older than his or her age" isn't responsible for sexual abuse, a child who has been misbehaving isn't responsible for physical abuse, and a child who is emotional towards their parents isn't responsible for emotional abuse.

Disabled children aren't at risk for abuse: Researchers have proved that disabled children are actually at a higher risk for abuse than children without disabilities.For this reason, it's a good idea to keep an eye on disabled children and watch for signs that they may be being abused.

Children who are abused should be removed from the home: In cases of child abuse, the child is only removed from the home by child protective services if keeping the child at home would be dangerous, as removing a child from his or her home can distress the child. Most of the time, the child is kept at home while outside help is provided for the family.

Sexual abuse is done by strangers: Sexual abuse of a child is not limited to strangers. Most children who are sexually abused are abused by people that they know.
 Children who are abused are often found to suffer from adverse effects, such as increased risk of substance abuse, physical health problems, mental health problems, and problems with interpersonal relationships.If you suspect a child is being abused, do not blow off the situation; child abuse has been proven to cause problems that can extend well into adulthood.


Children who have been abused have a heightened risk of self-harming behaviors as well as suicidal thinking. Other effects of child abuse are depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), personality disorders, eating disorders, and dissociative disorders.Not getting help for an abused child can result in severe problems for the child later on in life.

