 Men love to be pampered from time to time, so pick an evening to treat your husband or boyfriend to a relaxing massage.


Choose a day when your man is feeling particularly tired or stressed out and get yourself set up with massage oil, candles, music -- anything that makes the experience more relaxing.
Ask him to undress and lie face down on the bed, then work your magic. Gently knead his back, neck and shoulders, avoiding the spine. If you're feeling adventurous, you can attempt a full-body massage.
Be generous with your time -- try to keep it up for at least 15 to 20 minutes until your man has completely relaxed. Be warned though -- all that skin-on-skin contact may leave your man feeling more turned-on than relaxed!

, Whoever said that the way to a man's heart was through his stomach never spoke a truer word. Men love food, especially when it's lovingly prepared by their other half.


Pick a recipe (or steal one from his mother) and prepare it some evening when he's least expecting it. Make it an occasion -- set the table nicely, open a good bottle of wine and pretend you're eating out at a restaurant!
By the way, we're not advocating 50s housewife behavior here: "you must have a hot meal on the table when your man arrives home from work." We're talking about cooking a nice meal for you man because you want to and because it's a nice thing to do.
If you're a terrible cook, improvise! Order his favorite take-out but serve it on nice dishes or take him out to his favorite restaurant for dinner, your treat!

, If you're in a long-term relationship, it's easy to let routine take over and stay in watching TV every Saturday night. Keep your man happy by doing something spontaneous or different instead!


Inject some fun into your man's life by planning date nights -- get concert tickets, go rock climbing, organize a wine tasting, go to an art exhibition, host a games night with some other couples -- anything as long as it's different.
If you're feeling adventurous, plan something really crazy like a joint skydive, a whale-watching trip or a vacation or road trip. Take care of as many of the details beforehand as possible, so your man doesn't have to stress on the day.
 Again, we're not advocating a 50s housewife approach here, but taking some pride in your appearance and looking good for your man is definitely a good thing. You want him to feel proud that you are his wife or girlfriend!


We all have days when we want to laze around in our pajamas, with no make-up on and hair scraped back, but every so often it's nice to get dressed up for no other reason than wanting to look good for your man. He'll appreciate the effort!
You should also make an effort to do the things you used to do when you first met -- whether that means shaving your legs, getting your hair styled once a month, or keeping your weight in check. Try to be the girl he fell in love with!

, No discussion of how to keep a man happy would be complete without some reference to sex! Although this may vary a little, most men love it when their lady takes charge in the bedroom.


This means something different in every relationship, whether it's simply initiating sex (especially if you don't normally) or tying your man down, dominatrix style.
Give him a freebie every once in a while -- in other words, a sexual favor where you expect nothing in return. He'd prefer that to an actual gift any day of the week!
Remember that being intimate (whatever that means for you) is an important part of any healthy, happy relationship -- it brings the two of you closer together and allows you to express your love for one another in a deeply personal way.

