 Use this phrase when someone tells you "Jag älskar dig" and you feel the same way. "Med" can be used as the preposition "with" in other situations, but here it means "too" or "also.""Jag älskar dig med" is pronounced roughly "Jah elskuh day mah." Note that the first three words are exactly the same as in the section above. "Med" has a silent d and uses a short a sound (like the a in "apple"). It sounds like the word "mad" with the d removed.
 Just like in English, the meaning of this phrase is slightly different than "I love you." You can love close friends, family members, pets, and even objects, but if you're in love with someone, it should definitely be your romantic partner.


This phrase is pronounced "Jah eh SHAAAHD ee day." The letter k has "sh" or "ch" sound when used before some vowels.The r at the end of "kär" has a sound like a light d (almost like an r in Spanish).
Finally, note that "kär" is emphasized and pronounced for longer than the other words. This is important — in Swedish the length of the sounds you make in a word can be part of its proper pronunciation.
 If you enjoy the time you spend with someone but you're not ready for romance, use this phrase. It carries much less weight than saying you love someone.


This phrase is pronounced "Jah teek-ed OHMMM day." Here, again, the r gets a light d sound made by flicking the tongue against the roof of the mouth. "Om" uses a long o sound as in "blow." The word sounds just like the "ohm" sound made by people who are meditating. Stress this word and hold it for slightly longer than the others.
If someone says this to you, you can use "Jag tycker om dig också" to say "I like you too." This is pronounced the same except for "också," which sounds like "oak-soh."

, If you want to impress your romantic partner with a flowery Swedish compliment, try this phrase. It's not the sort of thing you might here Swedes say every day, but it can make a striking impression when used wisely.


This is pronounced "Jah LAANG-tahd efteh day." The ä in "längtar" gets a long a sound (as in "ray"). Stress the first syllable of "längtar" and hold it for longer than the others.
 Though Swedes generally consider it consulting to give lots of insincere compliments, you're bound to receive at least a few if you're dating.When you do, you can respond politely with "tack!" ("thanks!")


This word is pronounced similarly to the English word "talk." Don't stretch out the "ah" sound like is common in some English dialects. The word is a single quick, crisp syllable.
 to ask if someone wants a baby. The rough translation here is "Do you feel like having a baby?" Use this phrase with caution! You'll only want to pull it out when it's clear you're going to be with someone in the long term (or if it's clear you're joking, of course).


This is pronounced "SHEEN-eh doo for en behbess?" Don't forget to stress the first syllable of "känner," which is pronounced with a short e sound (as in "red").

