 Pluck the strings at the fingerboard. The highest note is E. The lowest is G. The second lowest is D and the second highest is A.



Put rosin on it. Make sure to scratch newly bought rosin with sandpaper, a key, or a coin so it's no longer smooth. You will need to rosin your bow about every time you practice. After practicing, make sure to wipe your violin with a clean cloth to get rid of any sticking rosin.
 Make sure your wrist is straight, not flat. Remember, "no pancake hands! Make your wrist straight as a carrot!" Flex your fingers and touch the strings. Put the chin rest under your jaw and align the violin with your arm. Don't put the violin right on your arm, a bit beside it.
 Put your thumb just next to the frog. Place your middle and ring finger together on the frog. Make sure they don't go around the frog. Your pointing finger should rest on its side at the second knuckle about four centimeters above your middle finger. Lastly, place your pinky finger next to the scroll. Always remember that your pinky should not go around the bow; it's the only finger that stays on top.

It might also be beneficial to place your fingers near the balance point of the bow. To do this, lay out your middle finger (since it has the most balance) and place the bow on it. Move the bow to the right or left until it stays on your finger without falling off. Then put all of your fingers in place - your finger positioning stays the same, you are just placing your hand in a different place.
 Be sure that your bow stick is parallel to the bridge. Start with E, the string closest to your right. E is the highest string. Rest the bow on the E string and start at the bottom of the bow. Put the hair on the string and slowly pull the bow down. Flex from your elbow.


Remember not to put pressure on your hand; use the weight of your arm to pull the bow.
 The key is to know where to put your fingers. Put your finger right at the edge of the fingerboard. It's an F. Move it down one fingertip. That should be where you put your first finger.
 Many violin teachers mark the spot so that you always know where to put your finger, although you will get into the habit of looking at your fingers and not relying on your ears.
 Start right beside your first finger and move it down one finger tape. Mark this with tape as well. This note is a G. Play.
 Move it down only half a fingertip. Mark this as well. It is an A. Play this note.
 It is the second highest. It is called the A string. Play this. Now. You should already have the tape marking where all the notes are. No fingers is A. First finger is B. Second finger is C. Third finger is D.
 Open string: D. First finger: E. Second Finger: F. Third Finger: G.
 Guess the next note. If you guessed G, then you're right. The notes on the G string in ascending order are: G, A, B and C.
 Keep practicing and use the help of a teacher.