 It's better to layer short hair when it's wet, so that you can cut the hair with greater precision. Wash and condition your hair as usual, then towel it dry in preparation for the haircut.



Layering short hair is more difficult to do by yourself than layering long hair, since you're creating each layer individually. Take a look at your hair and decide exactly where you want the layers to be and how short you want them before you begin.
Plan to cut your hair in a well-lit bathroom with at least two mirrors, so you can check your progress often and see the back of your head as well.
 Short hair must be divided into sections before layering. Use a comb to carefully divide your hair in the following way:



Make a "top box" section by creating a part on either side of the crown of the head. The two parts create a section of hair in the middle of the head.
Comb this "top box" forward and comb the hair to either side straight down, so that the sections are clearly delineated.
Divide the top box into two parts: the first part extends from the crown of your head to your forehead, and the second part extends from the crown of your head to the nape of your neck.
 Lift the hair at a ninety-degree angle from your head and hold it straight between your forefinger and middle finger. Your fingers should be perpendicular to your forehead.
 Use a sharp scissors to trim the tips of the hair extending from between your fingers. Let the hair fall, then use the comb to lift another section of hair in a slightly different spot. Hold it at a 90-degree angle from your head between your forefinger and middle finger, then trim the tips to the exact same length as the first section of hair you trimmed.



Continue trimming hair from the top until you've trimmed the entire front and back sections of the box.
Use a spray bottle filled with water to keep the hair wet as you go.
Pay careful attention to which sections of hair have been cut and which still need to be cut. When you're working with short hair, cutting the same section twice can make a big difference.
All hair should be trimmed to the same length. When the cut is finished, it will be layered in appearance.
 Once the entire top box has been trimmed, change the part of your hair by combing it to the sides so that you have a part straight down the middle.
 Working from the front of your hair around the side to the back, lift sections of hair straight from the top of your head and hold them between your fingers. Hold your hair so that your fingers are perpendicular to your forehead. Use the scissors to trim the tips of your hair, then move on to the next section. Repeat until you've trimmed the top layer of hair on the side of your head, then do the other side.
 If you see a spot that is uneven, or you want shorter layers, use the scissors to carefully trim your hair a small section at a time.


