 Find some oil dry and an oil pan to collect any leaking power steering fluid or any other fluids that might leak out during the job. Make sure to play it safe and perform this task in an open environment with plenty of personal space, such as a garage. Other materials you will need include:

18 mm wrench
metal pipe
socket wrench
13mm socket
12mm socket
10mm socket
pliers
bent hanger (optional)
18mm line wrench
pulley removal kit
air gun;
, Disassembling of the pump from the car will require that the belt tensioner be taken off. Acquire a wrench large enough to fit over the tensioner in order to pull it back. This will allow for the tension on the belt to loosen and removal of the belt to follow. Use an 18mm wrench or larger. In order to pull the tensioner back with ease, use a metal pipe that will fit over the handle of the wrench. This will apply the leverage needed to pull the tensioner back with ease. The tensioner is located directly to the left of the pulley wheel.
 The pulley bolts are placed at 6, 9 and 12 o’clock when looking directly at the wheel. You will need a 13mm socket and socket wrench.
 It is located on the opposite side of the pulley wheel. The bolt is a 12mm socket.
 The coolant hose is mostly just in the way and a hassle to work around. The power steering hose needs to be disconnected in order to remove the power steering pump. Use some pliers to remove the hose clamps. In order to stop too much coolant from leaking out, prop up your coolant hose. As an example, a bent hanger will do the job. Simply take an unused hanger and bend it so the hook feeds through the clamp on the coolant hose. Place the other side of the hanger wrapped through your cars hood latch. This will allow the hose to rest in place and out of harms way.
 To help with this, remove the 10mm bolt that is holding the hoses down.
 The power steering line needs to be removed next. Remember to use an 18mm line wrench. It’s important that it is a line wrench. Using any other tool may strip the power steering line when you are attempting to take it off.
 Purchase a power steering pulley removal kit. When you purchase this tool it can be returned for 100% your money back.


Removing the pulley can be kind of tricky at first. Don’t be afraid to beat on the tool a little bit in order to get it on and off the pulley.
 There should be 2-3 bolts depending on how well the filter was previously attached to the pump. Use a 12mm socket to remove the bolts.



When placing the filter on the new power steering pump, remember to pay attention to the O-rings. There is a specific O-ring around the larger of the two holes in the pump where the filer attaches. It is crucial this O-ring is replaced so that there are no leaks at the pump when everything is reassembled. The O-ring should wrap around the larger end of the filter before attaching it to the pump.
 The only thing left to do is to retrace the above steps and begin reassembling the power steering pump the way it was, but with the new pump in place.