 Oftentimes, dogs will defecate in their crate if it's too big. If the crate is large enough that your dog can comfortably poop in a corner he might choose to go in his crate rather than wait to be let out.


Your dog's crate should be just big enough for him to stand up and turn around in and lie down with his legs straight. Anything bigger might make him tempted to use the crate as a bathroom.If you have a puppy, choose a crate with his adult size in mind. Crates can get expensive and you do not want to have to keep replacing a crate, but you can block off the excess crate space with cardboard paper, styrofoam, or other puppy safe materials.;
, Chances are, your dog would prefer not to defecate in the same space where he's fed. Feeding him in the crate can help.


You do not need to close your dog in the crate at meal times, as the stress of being locked in may interfere with his ability to eat. Just set the food inside his crate and leave the door open.Your dog might be wary to enter the crate to eat at first, as he may suspect you're leaving and are trying to lure him in. If you leave the food out and go about your regular activities he should eventually eat., Changing the types of blankets you provide in the crate, or adding extra blankets, can potentially make your dog stop going in his crate.


If you don't use bedding currently, adding a nice bed or some blankets to a crate may make your dog less likely to use the crate as a bathroom. Your dog will not want to defecate in an area if he enjoys cuddling and sleeping there.Conversely, if you do currently use bedding, and your dog buries his feces under it, remove the bedding. Your dog may be less likely to defecate in his crate if he feels he cannot easily cover it up.Paper padding should not be left in a crate, especially if your dog is paper trained.
 Each time your dog defecates in his crate, clean the area thoroughly. Use an enzymatic cleaner from a pet store or grocery store. Eliminating the odor caused by elimination may make your dog less likely to choose the same spot to poop again.