;
,


Some companies include an installation paddle with the tires, or sell them separately. If you don't have one, just find another long, durable object you can use as a lever. A tire iron or oversize screwdriver should work.
 Then remove the tire from the rim.


Pry out both the old tire and tube with a tire iron. Your foam tire will replace both of these components.
 Pick any point along the rim and do your best to squeeze the foam tire into it. It doesn't need to fit perfectly yet, but it should stay seated in the rim without having to hold it down., Once the tire is seated into the rim in one location, fasten it at that spot to keep it from slipping out during installation. A zip tie is the easiest way to do this. If you don't have a zip tie, tie it in place with string or fasten with duct tape.If the tire keeps popping out as you install, use more zip ties to fasten each section of the tire.
 Working around the diameter, you will find that somewhere past the halfway point, it gets difficult to push the tire onto the rim any farther. At this point, there are a few things you can do.

You may need to hit the tire in place with a rubber mallet, or squeeze in the edges with a durable plastic pry bar.Wipe the rim with liquid soap and water (optional). Some tires are more difficult to install than others. If you're having a tough time pulling the tire on, mix ¼ cup (60mL) liquid hand soap or dish soap with 2 cups (480mL) water. Wipe this onto the rim before you continue installation.Double-check that the tire is the correct size for your rims. Measure the width of your rims using calipers, and compare the result to the product info for your foam tires.
 Place the paddle between a loose section of tire and the rim. Hold the paddle end against the rim, and lever the paddle upward to stretch the tire onto the rim. Once it snaps onto the rim, repeat with the rest of the tire until the whole thing is seated on the rim. Work your way around slowly, only stretching on the next couple inches (several centimeters) at a time.