 Before you clean your Xbox, you'll want to make sure that there's no electricity running through it. Unplug the console and make sure that there are no frayed wires or broken ports. Work on a flat, static-free surface, like a kitchen table, when cleaning your console.
 Flip the console over and pick out the rubber feet on the corners of the console with your fingers. You can also use a flathead screwdriver to get the feet up if you are having issues.Note that using this cleaning method will void the warranty on your Xbox.
 Once you get the feet off, you'll see four screws under each of them. These screws require a torque 20 screwdriver that you can pick up at a hardware store, or buy online. Unscrew all four screws that are under the rubber feet, then find the two screws in the center of the console. These will be located under the stickers.To find the last two screws, feel the surface of each of the stickers on the bottom of your console until you feel the rounded head of a screw.
 To discharge static electricity, ground yourself by touching a metal object or by wearing an anti-static wristband. This will prevent shorting out the internal components of the Xbox., Once you remove all six screws on the bottom of the console, you should be able to lift the lid of the console off of the base of the system. Be careful when doing this, as it will expose the inner parts of your system.
 Once you remove the exterior lid of the console, you can wipe it down with a damp rag and a drop of dish soap without affecting the electronic parts inside of the console. Take the lid and wipe over the surface of the console with a damp rag and dish soap.Do this far away from the electronic components of the Xbox.
You can wipe down the console with a dry cloth to maintain it over time.
 Compressed or canned air will disrupt the dust particles trapped in the console. Use the attachment to get into especially dusty areas and try to discharge the dust from the inside of the system.
 Once the exterior of the console has fully dried, you can reattach it to the other part of your Xbox by placing it over the Xbox and then screwing the screws on the bottom of the Xbox back in. Do not use cleaners on the Xbox when the protective casing is screwed into it.

