 Physical abuse comes in many forms, and it is the type of abuse that most people are familiar with from movies and TV. Physical abuse may be punching, hitting, kicking, choking, or grabbing. The abusive person may excuse this violence as “just what happens when I’m angry” or blame it on you.


There is no excuse for violence. Even “occasional” violence is a sign that the person has serious issues that require counseling. Studies show that if a person is willing to use violence once, it is likely that s/he will continue to get worse.Some people and cultures respect physical punishment as an appropriate way to discipline children. While most child development experts do not recommend this, there are still differences between discipline and abuse. If the punishment causes any impairment or dysfunction -- for example, bruising, pain, trouble walking -- it is considered abuse. Striking a child on the face or head is considered something that should never be done, even as punishment., In addition to the physical violence mentioned above, there are ways to abuse someone physically by withholding contact, too. Abuse is a way to maintain control over someone, and if the other person uses physical contact to manipulate or control you, it’s a good sign s/he’s abusive.


This may be especially common for children. Parents may abuse a child by limiting their physical expressions of affections, such as refusing hugs or kisses when a child is “bad.”Abusive people may withhold sex or other displays of physical affection from their partner as a “punishment” or as a manipulation or threat to get something they want.
 An abusive person may attempt to manipulate another person by using sex as a weapon. Abusive people may use coercion or threats to get you to have sex with them. They may force you to perform sexual acts that you do not want, or engage in sexual activities when you aren’t interested.Abusive people may also interfere with your ability to make decisions about safer sex practices, birth control, and pregnancy.
Sexual abuse can happen to men and in same-sex relationships too., Neglect is a particularly common type of abuse of children and the elderly, who often cannot adequately care for themselves.Neglect occurs when a person’s needs are not met. Signs of neglect often include unusual behavior and developmental problems.


Neglect can be physical, emotional, educational, or medical. Signs of neglect in children include slower development (possibly due to malnutrition), poor hygiene, unattended medical needs, and frequent absence from school.Neglected children may not experience sufficient emotional support from their parents or may be left isolated and alone frequently.Neglect is involved in more than half of all reported cases of elder abuse. It may be intentional or unintentional.Signs of elder neglect include things like bedsores, unusual weight loss, poor hygiene, and unattended medical and personal needs., Physically abused people will often have bruises, bite marks, or other injuries. They may try to cover these up with makeup or clothing. When asked to explain these injuries, they will often blame it on “clumsiness” or an accident.The explanations or excuses are rarely in line with the severity of the injury.
Abused infants may have respiratory problems, vomiting, or unusual behaviors or responses.