 Ideally, you should already have a tail of yarn, remaining from the crochet. If not, tie a new strand of yarn to the bottom stitch of one edge.


The yarn you use for this stitch should be three to four times longer than your finished edge.Use the same color yarn as one or both pieces of crochet work you intend to join. Unlike the whipstitch used in sewing, the whipstitch used in crocheting is meant to be far less visible, so you will usually want to hide the stitch further by using one of the colors already in the pattern.
 Insert the yarn through the eye of your yarn needle. Do not knot the ends of the yarn together. Pull at least 3 to 4 inches (3.75 to 10 cm) of yarn through the eye of the needle. You will need this long starting portion to ensure that the needle remains threaded throughout the process.


You will also need to monitor this non-working length of the yarn as you make your whipstitch. If it starts to get short, tug a little more yarn through the eye of the needle to prevent it from falling out. Should the yarn fall out during the process, simply re-thread it.
 Make sure that the two edges you want to stitch together are evenly aligned side by side.


The back sides of both pieces should face out during this process.
 Draw the needle up through the front loop on the edge of one crochet through to back loop of the edge of the other piece of crochet, not yet threaded.
 Take the yarn back through the last two loops. Pull the yarn tight to create a knot to hold the pieces together tight.The yarn needs to be pulled tightly enough to draw the two pieces of crochet snugly together. Do not pull it too tight, however, since doing so can cause bunching or similar distortions to occur in your work.
 Draw the needle through the next loop on the top crochet. then poke the needle through the following loop of your opposite edge. The pattern should look like a spiral, moving up the edge of the crochet.


Start with the piece of crochet your yarn is connected to and end the stitch through the opposing piece.You can pull the yarn through either one or two loops on each of the crochet pieces, depending upon what type of pattern you want., Insert the needle through the next set of loops on both edges, drawing the yarn taut through both sets. Continue this pattern, moving upward one set of loops at a time, until you reach the end of both edges.


Make sure that each stitch passes through the front and back loops of both sides.
Each stitch should be about as tight as your first one was. The edge should be secured well enough so that no space remains between both pieces, but do not allow the pieces to bunch up as you work., Wrap the yarn through the last loop of your opposing edge and then back through the same set of loops again. Pull this end and draw the loop closed, creating a knot.Weave the tail along the back side of your crochet work to hide it.
If you have an excess longer than 1 inch (2.5 cm), you can trim some of it off.
 Flip the joined pieces over to the front side. The whipstitch should be nearly invisible front the front.

