 Networking events are opportunities to connect with people either in your current industry, or in an industry you hope to enter. If you are looking just to build relationships with others in similar roles in your industry, your introduction and interactions may be different than those of a job seeker speaking to a recruiter., Key messages, or “elevator pitches”, are succinct summaries that describe who you are and what you do. These summaries highlight the most important, memorable things about you. Here are some questions to ask while developing key messages:


Who am I? “I am a writer.” “I am a recruiter.” “I am an office administrator.”
What organizations do I work for? “I work for an online art magazine.” “I work for a start-up software company.” “I work at a small-business non-profit.”
What do I help my organization do? “I review local art openings for an international online art magazine.” “I seek out and secure new talent for specialized software development roles.” “I work with businesses to hone their launch strategies.”

, Answering the above questions may help you identify what you value and what you are passionate about. Use this knowledge to organize your answers into short, fleshed out summaries:


“I am an online writer for an online art magazine with an international audience. It’s a great opportunity because I get to attend and review local art openings.”
“I am a recruiter at a small software start-up. I get to seek out and meet with new talent.”
“I’m an office administrator at a small-business non-profit. I offer support to new businesses who are honing their launch strategies.”

, Rather than beginning a conversation by jumping right into a pitch about yourself, ask questions. Offering others the opportunity to speak about themselves is really a means of learning about them and their needs.


Active listening is the chance for you to create a meaningful exchange. You are able to both listen to another attendee’s key messages and assess whether you might be able to offer input or fill a need.
Listening and replying with thoughtful feedback (and not just an “elevator pitch”) goes a long way to forming good business relationships. People who offer information honestly and freely tend to form real connections at networking events and maintain those relationships long after the event ends.