 Decaying wood is top food source for termites and can attract a colony of hungry termites. If you keep a lot of firewood or spare construction materials on hand, keep them as far away from your house as possible. If you bring this wood into your house, make sure to look for signs of termite presence like holes in the wood or hollowed feeling or sound.
 The chemicals in treated wood can act as a deterrent to termites. If you build something outside like a gazebo, deck, or anything above ground, treated wood can help make it less appealing to a wandering colony of termites.
 The most common way they get into your house is through wood to ground contact, such as a door frame, deck posts, or wood support beams. Address these spots by examining them for signs of termites regularly, get rid of any standing water in the area, and treat the wood with termite prevention like soil treatments that repel termites. , You can have mulch in your home but you'll want to avoid putting it anywhere that it may touch your siding or foundation. Mulch creates moisture in the soil and prevents woods from growing, both conditions termites seek. This also includes your plants. Woody shrubs that touch the wood foundation or siding of your house can help attract termites and also help hide their presence.
 This can be especially helpful if you are currently constructing a home. These are metal shields put along the foundation of your home to deter termites. These should be made of a non-corroding metal with no gaps. This can prevent termites from getting access to the wood foundations or structures of your home. , If the wood is completely hollowed out, or completely rotted, you will not be able to repair it and will need to replace the wood.


Remove the damaged wood. Once you see there are parts of the wood that are damaged or completely rotten, you will want to use a chisel to remove these parts.
 You can fill in damaged parts of wood using a wood filler or hardener. Use a putty knife to spread the filler or hardener in parts of the wood that were damaged or ate away at by the termites. Allow it to dry over night. Make sure to get any bubbles out of the filler or hardener so that you do not leave any gaps in the wood. Wood filler is best for long hallowed out groovers and hardener is good for larger gaps.
 If it is a structure like a deck, your best bet will be simply removing the affected pieces of wood and replacing them with new pieces.


You can do this yourself or call a contractor, depending on how handy you are.

