 Positive body language not only makes you look confident; it can also help you to feel more at ease. Stand up straight, keep your chin up and push your shoulders back. Even as you step into the spotlight, if you hold yourself with confidence you will feel the part too.If you are sitting during the interview, sit up straight in your chair or even lean slightly forward. If you lean back, you will look too casual.
 Even if you’re nervous, remember to smile during your interview. When you first walk into the room, smile and make eye contact with each of the judges. Like your body language, a smile can actually make you feel happier and more confident., When answering questions, make eye contact with the person who asked you the question and talk to him or her. This will make it feel more like you are having a conversation than giving a speech, and should make you feel more comfortable. The judge may even respond by nodding or smiling as you are talking, which are encouraging gestures that will help you feel less nervous.It will also make you look more personable and natural if you speak to the judges.
 Don’t put pressure on yourself by trying to act like someone you’re not. Being authentic and real will make you more memorable than saying the things that you think the judges want to hear. Still, try to show yourself in the best light, but do so in a way that stays true to yourself.For instance, if you are asked what your favorite book is but you're not a big reader, give an answer that allows you to segue into a topic that interests you more. For instance, you could say, "I love reading classic plays like A Streetcar Named Desire because theater is a passion of mine. I see plays around my city whenever I can, and I especially like musical theater."

, You can gain a lot of confidence by shifting the way that you think of the interview. Instead of think of it as an interrogation or a way to judge you, think of the interview as a way for the judges and audience to learn more about you., One of the most common fear about interviews is being asked something that you don’t know the answer to. Remember that if you are asked your opinion about a subject you don’t know very much about, it isn’t the end of the world. You can still form a reply that leaves the judges impressed, as long as your answer shows a level of intelligence and thought.


For instance, if the judges ask you for your opinion on a conflict or war you don’t know that much about, talk about it in a general sense by saying something like, “That’s a good question. This is a topic I’m still researching and learning about, and it's upsetting to hear about the devastation that this conflict is inflicting on this part of the world. All I can hope for is that each side of the conflict can put aside their differences and compromise with each other to stop the cycle of violence."

, Even you feel like you botched a question, don’t let it get to you. Move on mentally and give your whole attention to the question at hand. If you keep thinking about how you messed up or could have done better, the rest of your performance will suffer.If you mentally move on and give great answers to the rest of your questions, it’s likely that no one will even remember the question you messed up.
 The longest answer isn’t necessarily the best answer. The fact that a few succinct sentences are enough will help you to keep focus and stay calm throughout your interview.