 Walking meditation starts with your body. Start your meditation in a standing position so you’re aware of your body before you start walking.Stand quietly while feeling your body from your feet to your head. Resist boredom during this time and try to stay mentally alert.Begin your bodily awareness with the parts of you that touch the ground. Slowly relax parts of your body as you feel them move.Focus on experiencing your body rather than analyzing those experiences. You may note how your body is feeling and moving, but don’t move beyond that experience for the time being.
 In Buddhism, feelings, or vendana, means your most basic responses in terms of liking or not liking something. This can be physical stimuli or just the initial responses to the world around you.Feelings are different than emotions. Emotions are more well-reasoned or thought out, whereas feelings are your more immediate sensations or perceptions.
Recognize your feelings, but don’t try to grasp onto them or reject them. Instead, take them as they come and recognize them without clinging to them.
 Your mental and emotional state, or citta, often changes during walking meditation. During walking meditation, you want to try to be mindful and focused on the specific moment.


Allow each thing you encounter in the world to reach your citta. You may be worried by an upcoming log or feel peacefulness from the sunlight hitting the trees.
Try not to worry about other things during walking meditation. If you find your mind drifting towards external worries, center yourself so you are focused only on the present.
 Objects of consciousness, or dharma, is when you are able to classify your mental and emotional states. By doing so, you can begin to recognize and eventually reject states that do not lead to relaxation.Classifying your emotional states begins with recognizing them as they appear. Eventually, you will able to choose which states you wish to experience.
 In Buddhism, you become more aware of the outer world the more you are aware of your inner world. Calming your inner world will allow you to not be distracted and notice the external world.Balancing your experience is the last step of Buddhist Walking Meditation. Make sure that you have gone through all the stages first before you attempt to balance your inner and outer experience.
Ideally, you should not have to change how much you are paying attention to your inner or outer experience. Instead, you should be able to pay attention to both in a state of quiet awareness.

