 Never enter a fight that you can’t win. If the bully has a lot of his friends around don’t try to get physical. Avoid a fight at all costs.
 Even if you win the fight, you might need to leave very quickly. Take account of your surroundings and where you’ll escape to. , If you know the bully is stronger than you, try packing your hands. Keep two rolls of quarters in your backpack. When the bully confronts you, take them out and hold one in either hand. Your punch will be much more powerful with the weight of the quarters behind it. You can also throw the quarters at the person if you are in a desperate situation. Holding quarters will also prevent fractures. Make sure that you don’t grip your thumbs when you punch. You might break them.
 Don’t wait until you’re in a position of weakness. If the bully has pushed or mocked you, he probably won't have his guard up. If this is something he does commonly, you are entitled to fight back. Hit/kick him hard in a weak spot as hard as you possibly can, and then follow that up with multiple other hits. One of the biggest mistakes that people can make in a fight is throwing one punch, and then backing off. As soon as you enter the fight you have to stay on the offensive to avoid retaliation. You can end the fight quickly. Don’t pull your punch. Hitting someone isn’t a good feeling. We have a natural tendency to pull our punches, which means not following through on your momentum. You need to punch hard. , Unless you’re trained in wrestling, try to avoid going to the ground. If he rapidly punches, keep dodging. You cannot effectively block punches in a real fight. Duck his punches, or just otherwise avoid them.
 This means the gut, the groin, and the throat. Don’t throw a punch unless it will hit one of these three areas. , Unless you’re trained to kick, avoid kicking high. You’ll put yourself off balance and it will allow the other person to grab your leg and potentially put you to the ground.
 You’ll have adrenaline coursing through your body. Your legs might shake and your teeth might be chattering. Just keep telling yourself that you have to be the aggressor. Don’t pause until you’re sure you have won, and then get out of there quickly.


Do not be the aggressor so much that you seriously injure them. Just make sure that you have ended the fight and you can get away.

