 Make the house as safe as possible so that when sleepwalking occurs the person will be unlikely to hurt himself or anyone else. Because people who are sleepwalking can do complex activities, do not assume that they will wake up before doing something that requires coordination.Lock doors and windows to prevent the person from leaving the house
Hide car keys so the person can’t drive
Lock up and hide the keys to all weapons or sharp objects that could be used as weapons
Block stairwells and doorways to prevent the person from falling using protective, soft padded gates
Do not let a child that sleepwalks sleep on the top bunk of a bunk bed
Move things that the person might trip over
Sleep on the ground floor if possible
Use beds with side rails
If possible, set a security alarm that will go off and wake the person if they leave the house;
, Seeing someone sleepwalk may be scary or confusing for people who don’t know what is going on. If they know, they can help the person deal with it.People who are sleepwalking can often be gently led back to bed. Don't touch the sleepwalker, but try to use your voice and gentle reassurance to guide her back to her bed.
Don’t grab, yell at, or startle someone who is sleepwalking. People who wake when sleepwalking are often confused, and this may cause them to panic and be violent. If the person becomes violent, get away as quickly as possible and keep yourself safe in a locked room.
If you carefully wake her once she is back in bed, this may interrupt the sleep cycle, preventing her from immediately starting to sleepwalk again in the same sleep cycle.
 However, the person should be checked by a doctor if the sleepwalking:Starts as an adult. Most people who sleepwalk are children and they usually grow out of it without any medical treatment. If it continues into adolescence, then the child should be seen by a doctor.
Involves doing things that are dangerous.
Happens more than twice a week.
Is disrupting the household

, Being overtired can trigger sleepwalking. The average adult needs at least eight hours of sleep per night. Children may require as much as 14 hours, depending upon their age. You can reduce fatigue by:Taking short naps throughout the day
Going to bed earlier
Sticking to a regular schedule so your body will be prepared to sleep and wake at the correct times
Reducing your caffeine intake. Coffee is a stimulant and may make it harder to fall asleep.
Reduce the amount you drink before bed, so you won’t have to wake up to go to the bathroom.
 Stress and anxiety may cause people who are prone to sleepwalking to have an episode. Establish a routine of relaxing before bed, or practice good "sleep hygiene." This could include any of the following:Keeping the room dark and quiet
Taking a warm bath or shower
Reading a book or listening to music
Keeping the room cool
Refraining from using anything with a screen — television, smartphone, computer, tablet, etc. — before bed
Using relaxation techniques before bed, such as visualizing calming places, meditation, deep breathing, progressively tensing and relaxing each muscle group in your body, massage, or yoga., Develop healthy ways of coping with stress to prevent it from disturbing your sleep. Stress is frequently linked to sleepwalking.Find an exercise regimen that works for you. Your body releases endorphins which will help you relax and feel good. The relaxation will be most effective if you do something you enjoy. Try jogging, fast walking, swimming, or joining a community sports team.
Keep close connections with friends and family. They can provide you with support and help you deal with the things that are causing anxiety.Join a support group or see a counselor if there are things you need to talk to about that you can’t tell friends or family. Your doctor may be able to recommend support groups or counselors that would fit your situation.
Give yourself time to pursue hobbies that you enjoy. This give you something enjoyable to focus on and distract you from the things that are stressing you out. , This may require someone else in the household to keep a record of how often and when in the night it occurs.Make a sleepwalking diary so all the information is in one place.


If there is a pattern in when the sleepwalking occurs, it may help determine why the person is sleepwalking. For example, if the person sleepwalks after stressful days, it may mean that stress and anxiety trigger the sleepwalking episodes.
 This is a technique, where, if the person knows when in the night he usually sleepwalks, someone else can wake him shortly before that time.The person should be woken about 15 minutes before the time when he typically sleepwalks and should then stay awake for about five minutes.
This disrupts the sleep cycle and may cause the person to go into a different sleep stage when falling back asleep, preventing him from sleepwalking.
If you sleepwalk and live alone, try setting your alarm to wake you.
 Alcohol can cause sleep disturbances and may trigger sleepwalking. Avoid drinking alcohol before bed.


Women and men over 65 should drink no more than one drink per day. Men under 65 should have no more than two drinks per day.Do not drink if you are pregnant, have been diagnosed with alcoholism, have had problems with your heart, liver, or pancreas, have had a stroke, or are on medications that may interact with alcohol., Some medications may disrupt people's sleep cycles and cause sleepwalking. But do not stop taking your medications without consulting a doctor first. Your doctor may be able to recommend a different medication that will still treat your health problem but reduce the sleepwalking too. Medications that may cause sleepwalking as side-effects include:Sedatives
Medications for psychiatric conditions
Short-acting hypnotics

, Though most sleepwalking is not a sign of a more serious condition, there are a few conditions that may trigger sleepwalking:Partial complex seizures
Brain disorders in the elderly
Anxiety
Depression
Narcolepsy
Restless legs syndrome
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
Migraines
Hyperthyroidism
Head injuries
Strokes
A fever over 101°F (38.3°C)
Abnormal breathing patterns while you sleep, such as obstructive sleep apnea

, This will probably require you to sleep in a sleep lab. A sleep lab is a laboratory where you spend the night and a team of doctors run a polysomnogram. Sensors will be connected from your body (usually stuck to your temples, scalp, chest, and legs) to a computer that will monitor your sleep. The doctors will measure:Your brain waves
The oxygen in your blood
Your heart rate
Your breathing rate
Your eye and leg movements

, In some cases, your doctor may prescribe medications to deal with the sleepwalking. The following are sometimes prescribed:Benzodiazepines, which generally have sedative effects
Antidepressants, which are often helpful for treating anxiety-related disorders

