 Sit down with your kids and talk about what safety plans you need to have in place.This is a good way to help them feel safe because it involves them in the planning process, which may help them remember the plan better. It also shows them that you’re thinking about their safety.


Talk about plans to keep you and your kids safe from danger from other people. For example, you may want to develop a plan for handling it if an unknown adult approaches your kids.
Visit the Red Cross website at http://www.redcross.org/, the FEMA website https://www.fema.gov/children-and-disasters, or https://www.ready.gov/ to find out what natural disasters are possible in your area so that you can prepare for them. Choose one or two situations that are most likely to occur and develop a plan for them. Making a specific safety plan for every possible occurrence could leave your child confused and more scared.;
, In some safety plans, you may need a signal to let each other know that it’s time to follow the plan. The signal should be something everyone is aware of and can do. Let the kids have a say in what the signal for each plan will be.


Some signals may be things like fire alarms, tornado sirens, house alarms, etc.
Other signals may be words or phrases. For example, “Evacuate” or “Go to the safe place” might be signals that you use.
Some signals may be non-verbal. For instance, two hand squeezes may be a signal that one of your children feels uncomfortable around someone but doesn’t want to say so out loud.
 It can be confusing for adults and kids when an emergency situation happens. Including specific instructions for where to go in the case of an emergency should be a key part of your safety plans.Knowing that you have some place to go in the case of an emergency will also help your kids feel safe.


Designate one place as a ‘safe spot’ where you all can meet if you need to evacuate or get separated. For example, you might decide to meet by the garage or even by the restaurant down the street.
Make sure that your kids know the safest way to get to the safe spot and what to do once they get there. For instance, you might say, “Climb out your bedroom window and go to Mrs. May’s.”

, This will help your kids feel safe because they’ll know that they won’t be alone if a scary situation occurs. They’ll know who to turn to for help. Talking with your kids about who to contact, how to contact them, and how to contact each other should be something you consider for all of your safety plans.For example, you may instruct your kids to let their teachers know if they notice someone suspicious in the school.
Or, for instance, you might talk about different ways you all can contact each other if you’re separated. For instance, you might say, “If we’re separated, go to the ‘safe place’ and call Grandma.”
Discuss how to get in contact. Consider that in some situations you may not have access to a phone. Talk about alternative ways you can contact each other like email, other people, or community bulletin boards.
Talk about what information you should provide to people. For example, you might say, “If we get separated in an earthquake, find a police officer and tell them your name, our address, and my name.”

, Things don’t always go as planned in stressful or emergency situations. Having a backup plan is a good way to make sure that you have alternative ways to stay safe.It can also address some of your kids’ concerns by letting them know that you have several ways to stay safe.


Talk about alternate evacuation routes, signals, and meeting places.
You should also talk about how to know when to go to ‘Plan B’. For instance, you might say, “If the front door is blocked, Plan B is to go out of the side door. So, Plan A is front door, Plan B is side door.”
Don’t worry about having a ‘Plan C’ or ‘Plan D’ as this may get to be confusing.
 While developing safety plans can help your kids feel safe, practicing the plans may actually keep them safe.Practice as many parts of your safety plans that you can so that your kids feel confident and comfortable following through with the plans.


Practice giving the signal and how you should respond when it’s given. For example, practice what you all should do if you hear the smoke detector go off.
Start practicing your safety plans with your kids once they are about pre-school age, or four or five, and can follow two to three step directions.
Practice evacuating or getting to your ‘safe space’ quickly and safely.
Role play how you will contact each other and what information should be given when you do contact someone.
Practice your safety plans a couple of times each year or every few months to make sure everyone remembers what to do.

