 If you are sitting next to someone who appears sick, a mask may prevent you from catching an airborne illness. A mask is particularly effective against the cold, which is commonly transmitted through the air. Be sure to use a mask that covers your nose and mouth.You can find surgical masks at your local pharmacy.
 Because your hands will encounter many germ-covered surfaces in an airplane, you will need to wash them regularly. The best way to prevent the spread of harmful microorganisms is to scrub your hands with soap and running water for at least 15 seconds and dry thoroughly with a paper towel. However, you can also use alcohol-based hand sanitizer containing at least 60 percent alcohol.You should wash your hands after going to the bathroom or before eating food.
You may also want to use disinfectant wipes.
 These areas are the easiest access points for microorganisms looking to enter your body. Although washing your hands will remove many of the germs looking to enter your body, it will not get them all. In order to keep from getting sick, you should generally try to keep from touching your eyes, nose and mouth., The air on an airplane can be 55 percent drier than in a normal indoor setting. This can severely dry out the protective membranes in your sinuses. This makes your more susceptible to catching a cold or developing a sinus infection. To prevent this, you should drink plenty of water during the flight and use a hydrating nasal spray.Because airplane tap water can have high levels of bacteria, try to drink bottled water on your flight and avoid brushing teeth using the bathroom tap water.
Avoid drinking coffee, tea or alcohol. These diuretics will further dehydrate you.
Use a saline nasal spray before and after your flight to keep mucus membranes moist., Regular airflow helps prevent the circulation of airborne illnesses, so be sure to have your vents running. The HEPA filters on most planes filter out nearly 99.9 percent of airborne particles. Airplanes also circulate fresh air from outside into the cabin’s mixture.