 It is important that the owner ignores any fearful behavior the dog is displaying. While it is perfectly natural to want to reassure an animal in distress, in reality it trains the dog to give in to the distressed behavior. Retraining is doomed from the start unless you understand this.By acting unconcerned you send out a strong message that you are not worried and therefore the dog has nothing to be fearful of.
 In other words, don't take a fearful dog to a fireworks show and expect it to adjust. This is a technique called sensory flooding and it is inhumane. The dog is bombarded by what it fears and instead of overcoming that fear, the dog may become traumatized and emotionally damaged instead.
 Train the dog to remain calm during the sound by rewarding calm behavior with a treat or affection.This is different than sensory flooding because you are using very low levels of sound and working gradually.


To do this, purchase a CD of the sound the dog fears, for example fireworks or thunderstorms. The idea is to play the CD on the lowest possible volume so that the dog remains calm. Praise the dog and reward it for being calm in the presence of the sounds.
If possible, leave the CD playing quietly in the background for an hour at a time but don't leave the dog alone while it is playing.
 Once the dog is regularly taking no notice of the quiet background sounds, turn the volume up a tiny amount. This should be slightly louder than previously, but not enough to make the dog shows signs of anxiety, such as lip licking, pacing, whining, shivering, or shaking.


Again, reward the dog with love or treats for being in the presence of the alarming noise, but not being fearful of it.
Repeat this exposure until you are sure the dog is not reacting at all, and then you are ready to turn the volume up one more notch.
 If at any stage the dog becomes fearful, restart the next session with the volume one notch lower. Don't forget to act very relaxed yourself while doing this training. The dog needs to see that you are unconcerned.


It may take a large amount of time, but with determination and dedication, it is possible to help your dog overcome its fear of fireworks or thunder.

