 Have the teenage girl wear the pretty dress she wore at the prom so she looks like a fairy princess. She'll be thrilled to have a second opportunity to wear her prom dress. She will also be able to earn a few extra dollars and you will be helping kids.
 She can wear her hair down naturally and add pretty flowers and butterflies in it., If you don't have any wings left over from the holidays you can buy them at thrift stores, costume stores or even dollar stores. They can be decorated with flowers and butterflies as well. You could also make heart-shaped fairy wings from balloons., Fairy shoes are usually delicate looking shoes., A face painting kit can be purchased at an arts and crafts store for about $12. The kit includes a book on face painting., The girl could also make the heart-shaped fairy wings using the article mentioned in step 3., Talk about fairy dust, that her fairy dress is made of special fairy material using fairy needles and that she eats fairy food. The refreshments at the party could also be labeled fairy food. She knows fairy spells and has a fairy wand., It can be very confusing when you call around for prices and get all the same prices. The quality of the work plays a big part. Some companies are sending out young girls and give them a token fee as opposed to an experienced professional who earns and keeps the full amount. The person who works for $25 will do a $25 job while the person who works for $150 will do $150 job. You need to know who's doing the job and how many years experience they have. Hire the entertainer and NOT the company so you know you are getting what you are paying for or save your money and do it yourself

Part time entertainers. Some entertainment companies hire young girls and dress them in fairy costumes and they do many of the same things mentioned above in this article. They mostly provide a decorative function at the party and do very basic work which is similar to what you babysitter can do. One of the problems is that the costumes are not modest and give the wrong message to the little girls. It’s a known fact that those with less talent show more skin.
Professional entertainers. If you are looking for more elaborate face painting or balloons you will need to hire a professional entertainer. A professional entertainer will provide a much higher quality show. If you choose to hire a professional entertainer be sure they have liability insurance and a business license. The entertainers should show you their insurance certificate and their business license before they are allowed to enter the party. If the business license is in the company name, the entertainer should provide personal identification to you so you know who they are.
 Try Make Edible Fairy Wands. You'll will have fun making and eating them!