
Otherwise, save it to your Desktop. Then, minimize windows to see your desktop, and double click on it to start the installer. Follow the installer instructions to completion.;
, Type cmd into the Search field directly above the Start menu button, and click on "cmd" in the search results above the Search field.
On Windows XP: Click on the Start menu (the Windows logo in the lower left of the screen), click on "Run...", type cmd into the text box, and hit enter.
On Windows 8: Press and hold the Windows button on your keyboard and strike the "S" key simultaneous. This will open a search box. Type "cmd" in the search box and select "Command Prompt" from the list.


You now have what's called a command prompt. This command prompt is another way of navigating your computer and running programs -- just textually instead of graphically. You can run Python and Python scripts from this command prompt.
 You should see something like this:








Python 2.7.6 (r271:86832, ...) on win32









Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.









>>>







You just started Python! The >>> indicates that you are at a new type of prompt -- a Python prompt. The command prompt lets you navigate your computer and run programs, and the Python prompt lets you write and run Python code interactively.
 This will take you back to the Windows command prompt (the C:\ you saw earlier).


Open up "My Computer" by clicking on the Start menu or the Windows logo in the lower-left hand corner, and navigate to "My Computer" (for Windows XP) or "Computer" (For Vista and Windows 7).


If you're using XP, a window labeled "System Properties" will pop up. Click the "Advanced" tab.
If you're not using XP, a window labeled "View basic information about your computer" will appear. In this window, click "Advanced system settings". A window with the title "System Properties" will appear.
, A window labeled "Environment Variables" will appear. In this window, the screen is split between "User variables" and "System variables". Within "System variables", scroll down and find the one labeled Path. Click the "Edit..." button.

A window with the "Variable name" and the "Variable value" should appear. The "Variable value" will already have some text in it; click in the box to deselect it (you don't want to accidentally delete that text).
 Add the following text, and hit OK. Make sure to include the semicolon at the start!



;c:\python27\;c:\python27\scripts



,, This needs to be a new command prompt because the changes you just made didn't take effect in prompts that were already open.
Type python into the command prompt to start Python
Notice that you now get a Python interpreter, indicated by the change to a >>> prompt.
Exit the Python prompt by typing

exit()

and hitting enter. Now you're back at the Windows command prompt (C:\).

