 Mindfulness is a life-affirming practice that enables you to fully focus on the thoughts, feelings, sensations, and other qualities of the present moment. In life, you are frequently rushing off to do one thing or another, so much that you are rarely aware of what you're doing right now. Mindfulness is a way to slow down and become centered, bringing about a sense of peace and gratitude for the here and now.You can practice mindfulness in virtually any situation. Simply take note of all that is going on around you in the present moment rather than letting your thoughts wander to the past or future.
As you are brushing your teeth in the morning, notice the taste of the toothpaste on your tongue, watch yourself in the mirror, hear the sound of the bristles as they cleanse your teeth. Become fully present in the moment. If you catch yourself thinking about something else, bring your attention back to the process of tooth-brushing.;
, One powerful life-affirming ritual involves the process of chanting a meaningful phrase or quote. Doing this can bring about a positive mindset or help you achieve a desired goal. You can choose an area in your life to work on, such as personal relationships, or attempt to make yourself feel better about a situation. Whatever you choose to focus on, you’ll say statements about them to yourself each day.


For example, you can place post-it notes in the space around you so that you can see these statements each day. You can also write them down in a journal and read them daily, or you can say them to yourself in the mirror each day.Example statements relating to productivity may include: "I have the power to achieve all my goals" or "I will successfully complete all my work today."

, Regular exercise has a host of advantages that can revolutionize many areas of your life. Through the release of feel-good chemicals known as endorphins, physical activity has the power to lift your mood and make you feel more optimistic about life. In addition, exercise helps you manage your weight, reduce risk of disease, and increase your energy levels.Don't assume exercise is limited to activities you must do in the gym. In truth, exercise covers a full spectrum of life-affirming movements that allow you to support and strengthen your greatest temple--the body.
If you're not much for running or weight-lifting, try yoga, different varieties of dance, Tai-chi, Pilates, bike-riding or hiking in nature, or walking your pet around the neighborhood. Just doing 20-30 minutes of exercise each day can offer you positive benefits that continue long after your practice is complete.
 Developing a practice of gratitude is yet another powerful way to enhance your health and well-being. Yes, a simple "thank you" makes others feel good about themselves, but it also makes you feel good, too. Gratitude promotes resilience, improves the mood, increases your empathy towards others, enhances sleep quality, and helps you lead a healthier, longer life.Take a few moments each day to write down several things you are grateful for. These things can be personal, such as "I am alive and well." Or, they can be situational, such as "My family came to help me move into my new apartment." Adopting a daily gratitude practice will help you pay more attention to the silver linings in life and feel more hopeful about the future.
 While not everyone has a specific religious affiliation, anyone can reap the benefits of a spiritual connection with nature. In addition to making you feel intertwined with a higher power, nature also offers a range of health benefits. Just a half hour spent walking outside can reduce risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Plus, those who spend time in nature are known to live longer, too.Take a few moments each day to breathe in some fresh air and feel the sunshine on your skin. Hike through a national park in your area. Grab a book and lay out on the lawn. Dip your toes into a lake. Experience one of life's most beautiful and greatest mysteries.

