 Turn it clockwise by about 20 to 35 degrees. Your fingers should be loose and spread apart in a natural, relaxed manner. This is the position you will need to grasp the bow with.


If you are using your left hand, turn the bow counter-clockwise instead of clockwise.
You need to resist the temptation to "shake hands" with the bow. In other words, do not grasp it directly from a straight angle. Doing so can put your hand off-center with the grip, so the bow is more likely to twist as you use it. Moreover, you are also more likely to grab the bow too tightly in this position, which could also lead to unwanted twisting of the wrist while shooting.;
, With your hand still in its previous position, note the pocket that forms inside the palm of your hand. Lift your fingers upward slightly and slide the grip into this natural pocket.


If you are unable to feel the pocket, you might be forcing your fingers open too much. Doing this can cause the muscles in your palm to stretch and become tense, which can cause this pocket to disappear.
This pocket is the only secure spot you can hold the bow with. If you grab the bow grip with any other part of your hand, your hand is likely to change position once you apply pressure.
A more precise location of this spot is where the radius bone meets the palm, directly at the base of your thumb. It also happens to coincide with your lifeline.
 Let the fingers of your dominant hand naturally hang along the handle or grip of the bow. Your index finger should brush against your thumb, but the rest of your fingers should be relaxed and loosely curled around the handle.


Your index finger and thumb are the only two fingers that should catch the bow after you make a shot. The rest of your fingers should not press down on the bow grip at all. If you have difficulty keeping the bow steady like this, you may also use your middle finger to help hold the bow in place, but you should never use your entire hand.
You may even decide to fold the bottom two or three fingers into your palm to keep them from getting in the way.
This is the way you should hold the bow when you are preparing to shoot an arrow.

