 Wash your face using a gentle facial cleanser, and pat it dry. Apply some toner, and then moisturizer. Let the moisturizer absorb into your skin.;
, This will help fill in the pores and little wrinkles on your face. It will create a smooth canvas for you to work on.
 Even though you are doing a melted look, you still want everything to be neat. This will make the special FX easier to see. If your base makeup is messy, the special FX makeup will look messy too.Even if you are male or doing a male character, your face would still benefit from a little foundation. It will even out your skin tone.
 This is a great option for those who are going for a melted Barbie, melted doll, or melted fashion model look. If this is for a male character or look, consider doing just contouring and skipping the blush.
 If this is for a melted Barbie, doll, or fashion model look, consider doing some smokey eyes; save the false lashes for later. If this is for a male character or look, use neutral-colored eyeshadow and keep the mascara and eyeliner to a minimum.
 You can use finishing powder or setting spray for this.Setting your makeup will keep your "canvas" intact and make the finished look less messy. Don't worry, you can still add some melted makeup smears later on, if that's the look you are going for.
 Many theatrical-grade companies, such as Mehron and Ben Nye, will sell these products. You can find them in costume shops and online.


Many of these products offer a "flesh tone," which may or may not match yours. If you have very pale or very dark skin, opt for a clear product.
Some products need to be mixed first. Read the label on your product for specific instructions.
 It might be a good idea to close your eyes and pull your hair back. If you have very short hair, consider clipping it out of the way with bobby pins.
 Pick some of the gel up using the end of a makeup brush or a popsicle stick. Dribble the gel wherever you want the melting to start.


Do not let the bristles of your brush touch the gel. You won't be able to get it out.
 You can tilt your head around to "guide" the drips.If you need to, apply more gel, and let it drip down some more. Let the gel dribble naturally down your face.


Avoid getting the gel into your eyes or eyebrows.
 Each product is a little different, so refer to the label on the bottle for specific drying times. It should only be a couple of minutes. The gel must be completely dry before you move onto the next step.


Consider brushing the gel with setting powder when you are done., If the melted makeup is very different from your skin tone, you will need to blend it in, or else it won't look natural. Take some foundation, and dab it along the top edges of the dribbles. Use your fingers or a makeup sponge to blend in the foundation into the gel and your skin.


Reapply blush or contouring, if needed.
 Use a small eyeshadow brush and some bronzer (or the darker shade from a contouring kit) to fill in the grooves between the melted dribbles. Add some shadow beneath the dribbles as well., Take a look at your makeup. If it still looks flat, take a thin brush and some highlighter (or eyeshadow a few shades lighter than your skin tone), and brush it along the raised edges of the dribbles. Be subtle, and don't get too carried away.
 Consider why your face is melting. Is it because it got burned? If so, add some red or dark pink into the upper creases of the dribbles for that burnt, raw look. Is it melting because you are a spooky Barbie doll or tragic fashion model? Add some smudged mascara with black eyeshadow.Choose red, pink, or black eyeshadow. Apply it using a thin brush.
 For a melted Barbie doll or fashion model, pop on some false eyelashes. Consider applying one of the falsies into the melted part of your face. It will look like it slid off.For a gorier look, fill in the crevices between the dribbles with coagulated stage blood. Add some scars with rigid collodion.You can get rigid collodion from costume shops and online shops specializing in theatrical makeup.
 This will ensure that your makeup lasts the entire night.

