 If there's one thing we know for sure about lycanthropes, it's that they're hairy. If you want to act like one, the act will be a lot more believable with a good set of mutton-chop sideburns and some super-hairy legs. Grow out the hair on your head and other places if you want to give yourself a were-vibe.


Even if you're not the hairiest, growing out your hair and learning to tease it and tangle it can help you cultivate a werewolf-like appearance. Go to bed after washing your hair and let it dry overnight. When you wake up, you'll have a werewolf-do.
 Long and sharp fingernails are a sure sign of a werewolf. Grow them out and keep them strong with clear or dark reinforcing nail polish, and keep them filed so they won't grow raggedy. Keep them rounded, or pointy, depending on how far you want to take your impression.
 While a werewolf usually rips out of their clothes upon transformation, you can cultivate a werewolf-like wardrobe by dressing in earthy colors, dark tones, and natural fibers. Wear sizes that are a bit larger than you might normally wear to give yourself room to transform, without shredding your clothes up. Also, you can't go wrong with a good wolf-howling-at-the-moon t-shirt.


Forest green, black, and brown are the color schemes of the werewolf. Avoid bright neon colors and pastels.
Cotton, wool, and natural hemp fibers would all work well in your clothes. Avoid silky shirts and artificial fabrics, like polyester.
 The clothes of the werewolf should look lived-in, worked out, and as if they've seen some wear. Jeans with rips and tears in the knee? Perfect. Old flannel work shirts with holey elbows? Even better. Outdoorsy clothes should look like they've been beat up, not like they just came off the rack.


It's a lot cheaper and more accurate to buy used clothes, so you don't have to worry about distressing them yourself. Hit up second-hand stores in your town to find good used work-shirts on the cheap. Grass stains included.
If you want to take your werewolf impression to the next level, roll around in the grass to get some dry-dirt and grass stains on your jeans and your shirt. Maybe stick a leaf and a twig or two in your hair. You'll look like you sleep outside and spend the night running through the woods.
 No high heels or silly flip-flops for the werewolf. You've got to look like you're ready to go clomping around the woods, scrambling over rocky precipices and waterfalls at the drop of a hat. Wear chunky, practical shoes that will allow you to off-road in the great outdoors. Dark boots, hiking shoes, and other waterproof gear is all great for the werewolf.


Sandals like Chocos, Tevas, Birkenstocks, or other outdoorsy sandals would also be appropriate for the budding werewolf.

