 Comply with whatever they ask you to do, assuming of course it is within reason, and avoid arguing or complaining. Always listen to trusted adults like your parents, teachers, etc.;
, If you do all the things they ask you to do, you don't have to worry about the stuff. You may get the games and the cell phone you always wanted. Try to go the extra mile.
 Even though you might not get your own way, the more you do for them and more you respect them, the more they will want to do something for you.


Respect is not the same thing as conformity. This simply means that you can still disagree with your parents, but respect their decisions anyway.
,, It's not good for you, even if your parents or friends drink it don't drink it! Be the smarter one! Be the one who makes better choices in life!

,, Set goals for the future.
 Manners are always important.
, Give it all of your love. Spoil it rotten. These animals need a lot of loving, something that they are lacking in.
 Smile graciously, respect others and help out. It might be impossible at first, but just start off by helping out your dad paint the fence, or being a shoulder to cry on when little Sally's pet goldfish dies.
 Be responsible. Read novels and participate in class, even enter spelling bee competitions. It's not nerdy.
 This will show your parents that you are enjoying life, and are not looking for any trouble.
 It's childish and you should grow up.
,, Talk to your friends and be nice to the people you don't like also.
 Like one person at a time, sometimes we get confused about who we like and its all jumbled in our minds. You don't want to lead anyone on. That might hurt them, and you in the end.
 Respect them and their views, but don't use all your time thinking about them, take some time for your friends too!

, Sometimes if people just don't like other people, then you can always just be friends. If you´re badly upset and jealous of whoever they like, talk it out with a friend who understands.
,,,, Try to eat a balanced diet.
,,, If you don't have anything nice to say don't say anything at all. 