 The most common fry sauce is simply a mixture of two classic condiments. To make it, simply mix together some ketchup and twice as much mayo. So, if you used 1/2 cup ketchup, you'd mix in 1 full cup of mayonnaise.


For healthier sauce, try using Miracle Whip, or low-fat version mayo.;
, Looking for a little extra flavor in your fry sauce? Mix things up with some salt, pepper, and a little vinegar for an added punch. Because there is vinegar, a common ingredient in ketchup, you actually need less of the red stuff. In a bowl, mix the following ingredients well:


1/4 cup mayonnaise
2 tablespoons ketchup
1 teaspoon vinegar
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon sea salt, In order to get a little heat in your life, throw in a dash (1-2 tablespoons) of your favorite hot sauce., The base of most barbecue sauces, tomato paste and vinegar, are the same basic ingredients as ketchup. BBQ sauce simply has spices already added, and usually has a richer flavor than ketchup. Mix in 1 part BBQ and 2 parts mayo for your final fry sauce.
 It is easy to customize and change fry sauce to meet your needs, and the following spices all go well with the mixture. Try them individually, or try them all together for a rich, delectable sauce. Note that the following mixtures are measured out for a base of 1 cup mayo, 1/2 cup ketchup.


2 tablespoons mayonnaise
1/4 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon paprika
1/4 teaspoon ground mustard
1/2 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon garlic powder
2 tablespoons red wine vinegar
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, It might sound odd, but pickle juice is mostly vinegar, and it's already been established that it goes well with fry sauce. Start with roughly 1 teaspoon at a time, testing each time. The sauce can quickly become "pickley" if you're not careful., Of course fry sauce is good on french fries. But it is also incredible on burgers, sandwiches, chicken nuggets. There is, of course, no wrong way to use fry sauce, but it is generally best with comfort food or anything you would put ketchup or mayonnaise on separately.


Many other countries have made and adapted Fry Sauces, often calling them "American Sauce." In French-speaking countries like Belgium, "sauce American" is a popular condiment with fries.

