 Sometimes when you are very stressed or nervous, it can be difficult to concentrate enough to take notes or remember exactly what the instructions were later.


Ask a loved one or trusted friend to go with you to the appointments before the surgery and take notes on what you will need to do. The person will also be able to provide you with emotional support.
If you don’t understand what the doctor wants you to do, don’t be afraid to ask. It is important that you follow the instructions; the doctor will prefer that you ask lots of questions, rather than make a mistake.If no one is able to accompany you, you can take notes yourself and then read them back to the doctor to confirm that you understood correctly or you can ask your doctor if you can record the conversation. If you ask to record the conversation, explain why you want to do this.;
, It is important to discuss your medications in detail with your doctor before the day of surgery. Your doctor needs to know what medications you are on, how much you take, and when you take them. This includes prescription medications, over-the-counter medications, herbal remedies, dietary supplements, and vitamins. Your doctor will be able to evaluate whether they are likely to interact with the anesthesia or other medications that you will need.Be honest with your doctor if you abuse drugs or alcohol. It is important that your doctor know exactly what chemicals are in your system in order to plan your procedure.
Your doctor may ask specifically about medications such as aspirin or other blood thinners. You might be advised not to take them right before the surgery.
 This might include preparations to do in the day before or morning of the surgery. It might also include ways to prepare for the recovery period. Read and review the hospital’s discharge policy. If you have any questions, ask them now. Things to ask include:When should you stop eating or drinking the day before the surgery?
Do you need to stop taking medications before the surgery?
Do you need to wash with a special antibacterial soap before the surgery?
How long will the recovery take?
Are there any special arrangements that you should make ahead of time?

, Your doctor may have suggestions based on how long the recovery is likely to take. Both emotional and physical support are important for a safe and quick recovery. There are several things you might want to consider:



Cook and freeze food before your surgery so that you won’t have to worry about what to eat or where to get it while you are recovering. Then during your recovery, you can simply remove your frozen meals from the freezer, thaw them, and have something delicious to enjoy.Make changes in your house to minimize the physical activity you will have to do. If your your bedroom is upstairs, you can prepare a bed downstairs so that you don’t have to climb stairs until you are ready. You can also make arrangements to have a friend or housekeeping service help you with the housework if you need it.
If you live alone, you might consider asking a friend to stay with you for a few days to provide emotional support and help.
 This person will both be able to provide you with emotional support and help you get settled at home.Your doctor will probably instruct you not to drive for several weeks after surgery. Make plans to have friends and family members drive you places you may need to go.
 This will give you time to pack everything without feeling rushed or anxious the morning of the surgery. It will help prevent you from forgetting anything important. You should bring:A list of your medications and what they are prescribed for.
Your health insurance card. If you have extra documentation for prescription drugs, bring that as well.
Personal items such as glasses, hearing aids, and dentures
Toiletry items such as a comb, brush, toothbrush, razor
Walking aids like a cane or walker
A robe, slippers, and your favorite pillow
Loose clothing. Women should bring a comfortable, wireless bra.
Books or music that will help you relax
No electronics or valuables
A small amount of money to store in a hospital safe, if one will be available to you. This will enable you to pay for medications that you take home with you.
 Be sure to get plenty of sleep the night before and to follow any fasting instructions given by your doctor. This may include:Showering and washing with a special soap, provided by the hospital
Taking only medications your doctor has said you can take
Taking off all jewelry and nail polish
Removing contact lenses, dentures, and glasses before going into surgery
Telling your anesthesiologist if you have difficulties tolerating anesthesia

, You need to be as healthy as possible going into the surgery. This includes even minor illnesses like a cold or the flu. If you have a fever, coughing, or a stuffy nose before surgery, tell your doctor so she can evaluate if you are healthy enough for the procedure.During the two weeks before your surgery, avoid spending time with people who have the flu or a cold.
Wash your hands frequently, especially after shaking hands with people, being in public, or before preparing food.
If it is cold or flu season, ask your doctor if you should avoid crowds of people and public transportation. Avoiding crowds may help you reduce your chances of getting exposed to something.
 If you smoke, you will need to stop at least two weeks before the procedure. Not only does smoking damage your heart, but it can complicate your surgery. It may cause:Blood clots
Breathing difficulties

, A bacterial infection in your mouth can increase the risk that you could have bacteria in your blood which might cause an infection. Tell your doctor:What procedures you have scheduled
When they are scheduled
Why you need the procedures. Your doctor may have advice about when to get the procedures done. If you are having elective valve surgery, you should have most elective dental work done before surgery. If you will have major dental surgery, you will usually have to take antibiotics with the dental procedure.
 It is natural to be worried about undergoing heart surgery; however, the physiological changes that your body goes through when under stress are also an additional burden to your heart. You can ease your stress by:


Talking to your doctor to learn as much as you can about the procedure you will have. Successful heart surgeries are performed every day. You may find it reassuring to research the success rates. Contact your hospital to ask if they have information on your particular procedure, such as how long it is expected to take, how long you will be in the hospital, and the mortality rate or likelihood of complications. Ask your doctor what will happen if you don't get the surgery.
Use relaxation techniques. These methods can help you to control your emotions and reduce stress. You can try deep breathing exercises, meditation, visualizing calming images, and progressively tensing and relaxing the different muscle groups throughout your body.Consult your doctor before starting any new physical activities to make sure your doctor feels that it will be safe for you. Depending on your condition, this could include even mild forms of exercise such as taking walks or doing yoga.

