 There are tons of job sites, so you should do some research to find the job sites that are the best fit for you. Some job sites cater towards marketing jobs, some job sites cater toward retail or management. When you carefully choose which job sites to post your resume on, you'll be aware of the exact job market that you are creating your resume for.


Ask people in your field about the best job sites to find new employment.
Ask your former teachers or professors on input where to post your resume.
Some people choose to blast their resume out via every job site – which is fine – but selecting a few particular job sites allows you to be specific with each resume you send. Customizing your resume for a specific job or employer increases your chances of being called.
Search the internet to find the right job sites for you. If you're looking to work in marketing, search "Best job sites for marketing." You'll get some good search results to look through.
Some of the most popular job sites include Indeed, LinkedIn, CareerBuilder, Monster, ZipRecruiter, and The Ladders.;
, Job posting sites are slightly different from job sites, as the employers list the jobs they're looking to fill themselves. These type of sites allow you to filter what type of employment you're looking for (full-time, part-time, freelance, etc.) in your specific geographic location. When you find jobs you're interested in, you can send in your resume directly to the employer (usually by email or upload form).


Some examples of job posting sites are Craigslist.com, SnagAJob.com, and USAJOBS.gov., Don't limit yourself to just one job website, as that will limit the number of responses from potential employers. Each job site lists available jobs from particular websites or companies, so posting to multiple job sites will give you access to a larger amount of job openings. Each job site also has a different set of search options that will give you different results.


There are some job sites that are specific to certain industries. If you find job boards for your industry, be sure to post your resume on them to increase your odds. For example, MarketingJobs.com and TalentZoo.com are great job sites for the marketing industry.
The more job sites you are on, the higher your chances of being found by your future employer., All resumes should include your contact information, your employment history, your education, and your special skills. Your resume must have all of these components for it to be seriously considered by a potential employer.


For your contact information, include:

Your full legal name
Your email address
Your phone number

Do not include your physical mailing address in resumes you plan to post publicly online.


For each job, list:

The name of the company you worked for.
Your start and end date.
What your job responsibilities were.
Your major accomplishments at that job.
Your manager's name and contact information.


For your education, include:

The name of the college you attended.
The year you graduated.
Your major and minor.
Any honors you achieved while at school; i.e. the Dean's List.


If you have any notable skills, list them in your special skills section. These skills may include foreign languages, musical talents, computer programming knowledge, writing skills, etc.
 Keeping your resume 1-2 pages long is ideal. Potential employers don't want to look through lengthy resumes, so it's best to only include the most recent and relevant information.


Use a professional font (Helvetica or Times New Roman, for example), and keep the text between 10pt font and 12pt font., Some of the components of your resume will remain the same with every job you apply to, but some elements should be changed to better fit the job. You should cater your resume to highlight your skills for each type of job you apply to.


For example: If you are applying for a job in HTML, highlight your HTML and computer programming skills. But if you are applying for a copywriting job, highlight your writing experience, and list your knowledge of HTML as a skill.
 If your resume is long, you may want to consider preparing multiple specialized resumes for each type of job you would consider. This allows you to customize your resume to a specific type of job.


Instead of highlighting all of your skills on one resume, highlight the relevant skills to a particular job on each specific resume. This will be more appealing to potential employers.
For example, say you have experience in the restaurant industry and in the marketing industry. Cater one of resumes to your restaurant experience and one of your resumes to your marketing experience., To do this, you must first create your resume on your computer. Programs like Pages or Microsoft Office usually offer pre-made templates for you to follow while building your resume. Once you've created your resume, be sure to save it to your computer so that you can easily upload it onto job posting sites.
 Many career building sites have what they call a Resume Builder section. These resume building platforms help you to include all of the necessary information in a proper resume format.


You'll need to gather your job history and past employer's contact information, your education, and your special skills., Many job sites have automatic search engines that look for jobs matching your interests. Many career sites can also be setup to email you a list of matching jobs as they are listed.
 A resume posting service does the work of actually posting your resume to numerous job sites, saving you a great deal of time. Using an outside service also allows you to focus your time on less tedious methods of job searching, such as sending in specific job applications for your ideal jobs.


Most of distribution services cost between $50 - $100.
 Some sites send your resume out by email to employers and recruiters, some sites fax your resume to employers, and others actually post your resume online as if you had done it yourself. You may want to use one or more of these types of services., If you're applying to a variety of jobs, you'll want to cater your resume to each type of job. However, if you're applying to numerous jobs in the same field, this type of service may be right for you.


For example, if all of the jobs you're applying for are in retail management, your resume will most likely be the same for each job. In this case, it's a good idea to use a resume posting service.

