 Measure the size of your cake using the bottom of your cake pan and cut a piece of cardboard the same size. Tape this with a single piece of tape to your spinning cake plate., Cut a large piece of wax or baking paper and place it over the cardboard and cake plate. It should completely cover the plate, and leave edges sticking out on the sides. Tape these to the bottom of the cake plate so that the paper doesn’t slide around while you’re frosting., Use your offset spatula to spread a thick layer ½-1” thick of frosting directly to the wax paper, Completely fill in the area of the wax paper under which the cardboard cutout is placed. If necessary, add a little extra frosting around the edges., Remove your crumb-coated cake from the fridge, and flip it over onto the frosting. Make sure to place it slowly over the frosting, centering it so that the entire cake is placed on it., Add a significant amount of frosting to the sides of the cake using your offset spatula. Add more than you will probably need, as you will be wiping the excess off with your bench scraper after it has been coated., Take your bench scraper and hold it steady to the sides of the cake as you slowly spin the cake plate. As extra frosting gathers on the scraper, wipe it off and dip it in warm water. Wipe off any excess that might be on the wax paper on the bottom as well., Without shifting or adjusting the cake at all, place the whole cake plate into your fridge or freezer and allow the frosting to set. Depending on the temperature, this could take anywhere from half an hour to several hours total., When the frosting is firm to the touch, remove your cake from the fridge. Un-tape the wax paper from the sides and slide the cake off the cake plate. remove the cardboard cutout on the bottom, and flip your cake over onto the cake plate. Then, slowly peel back the wax paper to reveal a perfectly smooth surface.

If your frosting begins to peel off with the wax paper, it hasn’t been cooled enough. Replace the cake with the wax paper/frosting back in the fridge for at least thirty more minutes.
If there are any holes in the frosting from air bubbles, use your offset spatula to fill in the spaces with a bit of warmed frosting, and smooth over afterwards.