 There are two ways to import video clips to the program. One is to click the “Add Files” button to browse and add targeted clips. The other is to directly drag and drop the clips saved on your computer to the software. Batch conversion is supported so you can add several clips in one go.;
, Select the proper file format as output format from “Profile” list. The program provides a variety of output file formats including common video and audio file formats like MP4, MOV, AVI, FLV, SWF, WebM, MP3, AAC, M4A, etc. You can find them on the “Common Video” or “Common Audio” categories. To make it easier, you can check it on other categories like “Apple Device”, “Samsung”, “iMovie”, “Web share” etc categories to choose the right output formats.
 Next to the “Profile” list, there is the “Settings” option. Click it to adjust the output parameters like video resolution, bit rate, frame rate, audio sample rate, bit rate, channel.
 If you want to capture screenshots, you can highlight the targeted imported file and play it at the play area on the right of the main interface. And then click the camera icon to capture the screenshot. To get the captured screenshots, you can click the folder icon next to the camera icon.
 There are three ways to trim.


Drag the handles at either end of the clip selection to set the start and end time.
Use the left and right brackets to help.
Click the up-down arrows of the “Start Time” and “End Time” and then press "OK."

, The following are optional things you can do in the Edit window.



Crop - Highlight “Crop” to remove the unwanted area of the file, such as the black edges.

Effect - Add special effects like Old Film, Gray or Emboss to the clip or to adjust the video brightness, contrast, and saturation.

Watermark - Add image watermark or text watermark.

Audio Effect - If needed, you can adjust the volume of the audio in video or add audio fade-in/fade-out effect.

3D Effect - Click “3D” to apply 3D effect. From 3D Effect, you have four options including Turn off 3D Effect, Red Blue, Green Red, and Yellow Blue. Please choose one according to your 3D glasses. And please adjust the depth of 3D effect by drag the handle on the “Depth” bar.

Rotate - If you want to rotate the clip to make it be at the right direction, you can rotate or flip it.
 You can split it according to duration or to split average.
 After everything is ready, you can click the orange and round button to start the conversion. After conversion, you can deal with the converted clips with great ease.

