 For the normal cascade, you've been moving your right hand in a clockwise motion and your left in a counter-clockwise motion; in other words, you've been scooping them toward the inside. To do an over the top throw, you simply reverse the motion. When a ball lands in your hand, instead of scooping it in, reverse and throw it out and over.









Start by doing this with just one ball. Then, when you get good at one specific ball being thrown over the top, do it with them all. Some will refer to this as "outside throws."

, Now that you've got the cascade and over the top methods down, start catching your balls different ways. If done right, it can almost look like magic.









Use the claw catch. This is when you catch them higher from above, working overhand instead of underhand. Be sure to flick your wrist up when throwing to give the ball its vertical trajectory, working at shoulder height. Start with one ball, catching and throwing with the same hand.

Imagine a cat juggling. You'll look half Tom Cruise in that wicked scene from Minority Report and half juggling cat.


Try catching the balls on the back of your hand. This can be done mid-trick or at the end. Once you do that, can you catch a ball on your head?!

, When you started with two balls, you know how you threw one horizontally? Same concept with three. You have one hand doing all the catching and one hand doing all the throwing.


With this trick, you need to employ more height. You'll have two balls in the air following each other, so more height is necessary to give them adequate time on their own paths.
 With this one, one ball is always being thrown between your two hands horizontally. The second ball always stays in your right and the third ball is always staying in your left. This three-sided throw gives it the "box" look.









Start with two balls in your right. Throw a ball from your left up in the air -- as soon as you do this, throw the second ball from your right to your left. And as soon as your left catches it, throw up the second in your right and the ball in your left, catching the horizontal ball when your right is free.

