;
, This menu contains information about your carrier (e.g., Verizon or Sprint), your phone model number, and your IMEI number.
 Your service provider will need your International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number to issue an unlock code to you.Your service provider may also need your phone number, your full name (as it appears on the account), your current subscription information (prepaid or payment plan), your carrier-registered email address, and/or the last four digits of your social security number. If you bought your phone used, you will need this information from the original buyer., This will depend on the state of your account and may be specifically outlined in the phone contract you signed. Most Verizon network phones are sold as unlocked. Phones that are not can usually be unlocked after 6 months.Sprint will unlock your phone if it has been active on the Sprint network for at least 50 days, if the conditions of your agreement have been fulfilled (i.e. the phone has been paid in full), and your account is in "good standing".AT&T will unlock your phone if all contract service commitments have been resolved.T-mobile will unlock your phone if it has been paid in full and your account is in "good standing".Be sure to ask your service provider about compatibility. Some phone hardware isn't compatible with other cellular networks, When you install your new SIM card, you will need to enter this number into your phone.
 To activate the unlock code input, you'll need to replace the current SIM. You can find SIM cards at their respective carrier stores (e.g., a Sprint SIM card would come from a Sprint store).
 Turning off your phone will prevent the SIM card from being damaged when you remove it.
 It should be located on the side of your phone, on the same side as the Power button.
 The SIM card tray should slide out.Your card removal tool should have come with your phone, but you can also use a bent paper clip for this step.
Your service provider can also open your SIM slot for you.
 Set it aside in a safe place, such as a plastic bag.
 It should only fit one way, with the gold strips pointing down (away from the screen side of the phone)., This should turn your phone back on.
, Your phone may reboot after this point, so let it restart as needed.
 If you switched from AT&T to Verizon, for example, the service provider name in the information bar at the top of your screen should say "Verizon" instead of "AT&T".

