


Since the vast majority of chili is tomato-based, adding additional tomato paste to the chili does not introduce much new flavor to the chili. It can remove some of the "kick," however, so you may need to bump up the amount of seasoning you use to balance things out.
Since tomato paste can be somewhat bitter, you may also want to add 1 tsp (5 ml) to 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of granulated sugar to the chili, as well. The sugar will balance out the bitterness and add a mild sweetness to the chili.
If you only want the chili to become a little thicker, add the tomato paste slowly, using about 1/3 of the can every 10 minutes or so. Stir well after each addition. This will give you an idea of how thick the chili is becoming and can prevent your chili from becoming too thick.
 Return these beans to the chili, mix in, and let cook for a few minutes, stirring occasionally until well warmed.Be careful when pureeing hot food, especially if using a blender. The puree can spin out of the blender and cause burns if you do not keep the lid held down with a thick towel.
If you expect the chili to be too thin before you start making it, you can make the process easier on yourself by pureeing 1/2 cup (125 ml) or more of the beans before adding them to the chili.
Add home-cooked or canned beans. They do not need to be mashed up in order to make your chili seem thicker. Use a can of pinto or kidney beans.
 Inexpensive canned "No Beans" chili, thick and popular for hot dog topping, is not all meat. Its non-meat ingredient is oatmeal! (Really, read the label). Dried oats, for oatmeal, absorb a lot of liquid and form distinct moist kernels transitioning to soft but not completely mushy ones as they cook. Check the canister for the amount of finished oatmeal a certain amount of dried oats will make by absorbing liquid, and add conservatively. Cook for at least a few minutes for "quick" (parboiled) oats; at least a half hour for "old-fashioned" oats.
 Sometimes the liquid itself is thick enough, but the chili has too few solid ingredients and is not chunky enough. In these instances, feel free to alter the recipe simply by adding more solids. But bear in mind that many "solids" have a lot of liquid in them and will soften with or even release it in cooking. Adding precooked items like drained tomatoes, onion, corn, beans or okra, etc. toward the end of the cooking makes the chili chunky, but adding them midway through and cooking much longer can bring out additional juices and make the chili soupy.


Add uncooked noddles to simmering chili to take-up liquid. Let it simmer for 10 to 15 minutes to heat and check the noodles until they are as tender or al dente (firm) as you like.
Add diced tomatoes -- either canned or fresh. Let this to simmer gently for 10 minutes or so to heat well, or longer to soften the fresh tomatoes, if you wish.
Use diced peppers, such as 1/2 to 1 bell pepper, diced, for a mild, sweet flavor. Use 1 chili pepper to add more heat to the chili, if desired. Let it simmer, gently, for an additional 5 to 10 minutes.
Stir in minced or powdered, dried onion and let it simmer to absorb water. Onion adds a spicy sweet flavor but does not linger on the breath like raw onion would do.

