 If you live with violent parents, getting yourself somewhere safe should be your number one priority. Identify places where you feel safe such as a friend's house, a relative's, your school, a shelter, or anywhere you feel protected, and go there.It should be a place where there are other people who can care for you and keep you safe. Let them know why you are there and what is happening at home.


If you can't leave the house, and your parents are being emotionally abusive to you, go to your room and close the door.
If you feel you are in immediate physical danger and you cannot get out of the house, then you should make yourself as protected as possible. Barricade your door, lock the windows, and hide if it makes you feel safer. Call Emergency Services and wait for the authorities to arrive.
If you can leave the house, but are unsure of where to go, make your way to the nearest police station.;
, Your greatest tool in protecting yourself will be your ability to call for help or talk to someone you trust. Make sure that you keep your phone with you at all times. If your parents take away your phone frequently, have a pre-paid phone hidden somewhere you can get to it easily. If you are worried about your safety or the safety of others in your home, call the Emergency Services. Make no hesitation to do this, it not only will help you, but will help everyone in your home as well.


In addition to use your phone to call Emergency Services you can also use it to call domestic abuse hotlines, or helplines such as 1-800-4-A-CHILD., If your parents are violent with you, you should talk to an adult you trust about it. In situations like this, the child often does not notify anyone because there is fear and shame involved. If you are fearful or afraid of your parents, that is a big sign that something is wrong. You need to talk to someone for help. Remind yourself that you didn't do anything wrong. Try talking to multiple adults such as friends, other trusted family members, guidance counselors, teachers, or doctors.
 Living with your violent parents has a lot of challenges. One of them may be the inability to leave the house when you are upset. It may help to distract yourself while you are around them, until you can get somewhere where you can talk to someone. This may be especially helpful if your parents are mentally or emotionally abusive to you or towards each other. Try the following activities to help distract yourself.


Write in a journal. Writing will help protect your emotional health and help deal with the negativity your parents send your way. Your journal is a place you can express whatever you are thinking or feeling without consequence.Listen to music. If you parents are frequently fighting with each other, that can be upsetting to hear. Try distracting yourself with some headphones and your favorite music.
Engage in an activity that you enjoy such as art, movies, or reading. It may help you take a break from what you are struggling with, even if just for a little while.

