 You can purchase either trainer’s tape or kinesiology tape to help relieve your shin splints. Tape will limit your range of motion and may allow more blood to flow to the injured area.You can get trainer’s and kinesiology tape at most pharmacies and sports stores, and even some larger retailers.
Some professionals suggest black tape, which may adhere better to sweaty skin.Though duct tape may work in a pinch, as it is as supportive as trainer's tape,duct tape was not meant to be used on skin, and therefore the adhesive is much stronger. If you tape your legs with duct tape, you risk blistering and shearing of the skin.;
, Clean any oils, sweat or dirt off your skin with a mild cleanser and some water. Make sure to dry it thoroughly with a towel. Washing and drying your leg can help ensure that the tape adheres effectively to your skin.You can use any kind of mild or simple soap to clean your leg.
 If you don’t want to use an underwrap or are especially hairy, consider shaving your leg(s). Shaving can help the tape adhere better. It can also be less painful to remove the tape from your leg.Make sure to shave carefully so that you don’t cut your skin and cause further injury., If you prefer not to place the tape against your skin, consider placing an underwrap between the tape and your skin. Be aware that using underwraps is not as effective as using tape only.Underwrap and skin adhesives are optional.Simply apply the skin adhesive and the underwrap to the areas of your skin you plan to tape.You can get underwrap and skin adhesive at most pharmacies and possibly some sports stores., Depending on whether you purchase trainer’s or kinesiology tape or strips, you’ll need to cut the tape before you wrap your shin. This can help ensure you use the right amount of tape to effectively treat your shin splints and will keep you from wasting.Cut pieces of your tape to a length of 12–18 inches (45.7 cm) depending on how tall you are. If you are smaller, use less tape, and if you are taller, use more.Round the edges of the tape for easier application.Remove any backing from the tape before you wrap your shin., Flexing your foot can help the tape stay on your skin more effectively. Once you’ve done this, place one end of your tape on the top of your foot just below your pinky toe.Flex your foot to a 45 degree angle., From the top of your foot by your pinky toe, wrap the tape under your foot and then across your arch at the highest point, angling the tape upwards towards your skin.The tape should be taught but not tight. You don’t want to cut off your circulation.If your skin gets very red or starts to throb, you may have wrapped it too tightly., Wrap the tape in a diagonal fashion upwards across the front of the leg. You can tape your entire shin or just the areas affected with shin splints.Tape around the leg two more times, overlapping each previous band of tape slightly. The tape should cross over the part of your shin that is in pain.Do not wrap your calf muscle., Walk around before exercising. If the tape is too tight, remove it and repeat the taping process, wrapping the tape more loosely in the same fashion.
 In addition to basic shin taping, you can try a couple of other different taping methods. These may be more effective than basic taping for your shin splints.Wrap using the “X” arch taping method by holding your foot at a 90-degree angle with your toes curled slightly downward.Use one strip of tape around the ball of your foot as an anchor. Place additional strips of tape at the base of each toe and extend them up your shin. You can opt to put tape strips around the arch of your foot for added support.Wrap using the “lateral taping” method by starting tape at the front area of the ankle and continuing to wrap it around the back. Then wrap the tape up the outer calf and shin area at a 45-degree angle. Repeat this process four times for a support., After you’re leg begins to feel better or once you’re done exercising, take the tape off of your shin and foot. This can help your skin breathe and keep it from getting infected.


If you chose to not shave your legs before taping, you may experience some discomfort.
 Give you body a chance to rest or switch to lighter activities. Immobility and/or doing lower-impact activities can help heal your shin splints.If you do high-impact activities such as running or tennis, switch to lower-impact options. You can try biking, walking, or swimming to stay active while giving your legs a rest.You may also want to rest your legs completely for a while.Begin gently moving the affected area if you take a few days of full rest to help prevent stiffness unless it causes too much pain., Use an ice pack on the painful area of your shin. This can help reduce swelling and relieve pain.You can use an ice pack as often as necessary for 20 minutes at a time.You can take a slush bath by mixing ice and water in a bathtub. Soak your legs for up to 20 minutes.You can freeze a plastic foam cup full of water to gently massage the affected area.If it is too cold or your skin gets numb, remove the pack., Consume pain relievers for severe discomfort and/or as necessary. These medications may help alleviate pain and possible swelling.Take over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen, naproxen sodium or acetaminophen.Ibuprofen and naproxen sodium may also help alleviate some of the swelling.Aspirin should not be taken by anyone under 18 without a doctor's permission, due to the risk of Reye's syndrome.
 If home treatment and other options don’t relieve your shin splints, see your doctor. Shin splints are very common and very treatable, and getting a medical diagnosis can help you get proper treatment.You can see your regular doctor or visit an orthopedist, who specializes in treating disorders such as shin splints.Your doctor will conduct a physical exam to check for signs of shin splints and will also likely ask for a health history, including factors such as what type of activities you do and what type of shoes you wear., Choose footwear that is appropriate for your sport and activity level. This can help ensure that your foot and legs have proper support and cushioning. It may also help prevent shin splints.For example, if you run on roads, get shoes with ample cushion. In addition, replace your shoes about every 350 to 500 miles (560 to 800 kilometers).Most sports stores and specialty stores can help you find the right shoes for your activity.
 Think about wearing supports in your shoes. Arch supports can help prevent the pain of shin splints, especially if you have flat arches.You can get arch supports at many pharmacies and most sports stores.
 Try cross-training with lower impact sports, such as swimming, walking or biking. This can help relieve shin splints while staying active and may help prevent future bouts of them.Be sure to begin new activities slowly and increase them gradually., Shin splints may occur when your shin and/or calf muscles are weak. Add some strength training exercises to help strengthen your calf muscles. This may also help prevent getting shin splints in the future.Toe raises may help strengthen your calves and prevent shin splints. Stand up and slowly rise up on your toes. Hold for two seconds and then slowly lower back to the ground. Repeat 10 times or as many times as you can.As you get stronger, you can add weights to toe raises.Leg presses and leg extension may also help with shin splints.