 This document must contain a number of legal documents in order to fulfill its obligations to the Pennsylvania Secretary of State. This is an optional step, but highly recommended by the Pennsylvania Department of State.;
, In order to be accepted by the Pennsylvania Secretary of State, they will need to follow these guidelines:


The document must include the names and addresses of all incorporators of the business. It must list the name of the business, which has been checked to ensure it is unique to the Pennsylvania Corporation Bureau.
It must also include the Pennsylvania physical address of the initial registered office of the corporation. Post office boxes will not be accepted. It must also include the principal office and mailing address if those are different from the initial registered office.
The document must state whether the business is formed on a no stock or stock basis. If the company plans to issue stock, it must describe how much stock it can issue, the class or series of issued stock, and how the board of directors will issue stock.
The Articles of Incorporation must include a statement that the company will abide by the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law (BCL) of 1988.
It must list the effective filing date if it is in the future. It must also specify the date that the corporation will dissolve, if it is planned from the beginning.
The articles must be accompanied by a docketing statement. The docketing statement describes the general business activities of the corporation, the person who will be responsible for tax reporting and the Employer Identification Number (EIN). As a courtesy, make and sign three copies, sending all to the State.
 Find the section for "Forms." Choose the "Articles of Incorporation" form.


There are different forms for profit, non-profit and non-profit collective corporations. Choose the appropriate form.
 Include all applicable business details, the names of the incorporators and a signature testifying to the legality of your business. Print all forms on 8.5 x 11 inch paper.
 They must be delivered by 1 of your incorporators. The address is "Department of State Corporation Bureau, 401 North Street, Room 206, Harrisburg, PA 17120."

, Payments can be made by check or money order to the Pennsylvania Department of State.
 This advertisement must include the corporation's name and the fact that it will be incorporated according to the BCL of 1988.

