 High intensity interval training (HIIT) switches between bursts of intense activity and brief periods of less-intense activity. HIIT burns a high amount of calories in a short time and continues to burn calories after the workout.A good twenty minute HIIT program is to do forty-five seconds of each the following exercises: push-ups, squats, butt kicks, tricep dips, and lunges. After one round, rest for 15 seconds, and repeat. Do three rounds total.A good HIIT program can help you lose belly fat, which will help reduce your love handles.
 The bicycle is a strong move designed to get rid of love handles and can be included as part of most workout sessions quite easily. This exercise has you quickly shifting from side to side, which works the love handle muscles and keeps the stress on the oblique muscles.


Lie on your back on a hard floor surface and raise your legs in the air at the waist. Support with your hands by placing your elbows under your lower back so your legs are raised fully off the ground, and perform cycling motions with your legs in the air.
When performing this exercise make sure to maintain a nice slow movement pattern, as this keeps maximum tension on the oblique muscles.
 This movement is done with an exercise ball, and is especially effective to target love handles because of the prone body position. Your muscles have to work hard to keep you balanced and this is where the toning up comes in.


Lie on your stomach on an exercise ball. Roll over the ball from side to side, moving your body to stay balanced on the ball so you don't fall off.
Each time you squeeze the ball into the side of your body you should feel it in the oblique muscles.
 A fun exercise that really tones up that troublesome love handle area is using a hula hoop, sold at most fitness stores. Put on some music and swivel your hips, maneuvering the hoop higher and lower up and down the column of your waist area. After a while you can really feel your oblique muscles kicking in, meaning that you are starting to have some effect on strengthening the muscles below the love handles area.
 Just perform a set of normal sit-ups, but twist to alternate sides as you rise from the floor and reverse the position as you lower back to the start position.


Lie on your back with your knees bent and your feet firmly set on the ground.
Raise your torso, focusing on twisting as far to one side as you possibly can.
Lower back to the floor slowly, as this helps work the muscles across the full range of motion.

