 You can make a sparkling lemonade using sparkling water instead of regular water. If you are making old-fashioned lemonade, use regular water when making the simple syrup, and sparkling water instead of regular water for the rest of the recipe., When making classic lemonade, use ½ cup (175 grams) of raw honey instead of 1 cup (225 grams) of sugar., When making the simple syrup for the old-fashioned lemonade, add one tablespoon of dried lavender flowers (food-grade) to the sugar-water and let the syrup cool for 30 minutes. Pour the syrup over a strainer when adding it to the lemon juice. The strainer will catch the lavender flowers, but will let the lavender-infused syrup drain through. Discard the flowers and stair the lemonade.The lavender-infused lemonade will not be purple. If you wish to give it a lavender color, add one to two drops of purple food coloring and stir. If you do not have purple food coloring, add one drop of red food coloring and one drop of blue food coloring. Be sure to stir the lemonade well to blend all of the colors.
 When making the simple syrup for your old-fashioned lemonade, add ½ cup (15 grams) of fresh basil, thyme, or mint leaves to the sugar water and bring it to a boil. Once it comes to a boil, take the saucepan off the burner and turn the stove off. Let the herbs sit in the sugar-water for 30 minutes, then pour the herb-infused syrup through a sieve into the lemon juice. Take the sieve off the pitcher, and stir the lemonade., Puree 2 cups (400 grams) of chopped strawberries in a blender. Pour the pureed strawberries into the lemonade and stir until blended.
 Add three slices of ginger to a pitcher of lemonade for a more refreshing drink., You can make your lemonade look more interesting (and give it a hint of extra flavor) by adding some fruit or citrus directly into the lemonade. You do not have to cook or smash anything. You can use whole raspberries or blacked berries, or halved strawberries. You can also slice up lemons or limes.
 Take about 8 leaves of mint or basil (or a few sprigs of thyme) and add them to the lemonade. Crush the herbs against the sides of the pitcher with a long spoon or spatula. Leave the herbs in the lemonade; the longer the herbs remain in the lemonade, the more flavors they will release., When serving the lemonade, you can add some garnishes to the glasses to make them look more sophisticated. Here are some ideas:


Slip a short sprig of lavender or thyme to each glass before pouring in the lemonade.
Drop two to three fresh mint or basil leaves on top of the lemonade after you pour it into the glass.
Cut a lemon or lime into thin slices, then cut a slit into each slice. Slip each slice onto the rim of the glass. You can also cut a slit into a strawberry and put the strawberry onto the rim of the glass.
Serve the lemonade in mason jars and add a colorful paper straw for a rustic touch.
Serve the lemonade in a tall glass with a paper umbrella and a maraschino cherry for a classical touch.
 You can make your lemonade more flavorful by substituting some of the water for another fruit juice. You can also add a few drops of extract or flavoring, such as lavender extract, orange blossom water, or a bit of ground cinnamon.
