 Is the review labeled as an "Amazon Verified Purchase"?


If the reviewer indeed purchased the item on Amazon, and nowhere else, then after 2009, (but not necessarily in 2016), his/her review of this item should carry the "Amazon Verified Purchase" tag.
The caveat here is that Amazon appears to omit the tags on Kindle Unlimited purchases and can, at their option, omit the tags for anything they consider discounted purchases.
More importantly, according to Amazon FAQ, "When you write a new review, you will be given the opportunity to mark your review as an Amazon Verified Purchase. If the tickbox doesn't appear, we were unable to verify that you purchased the item from Amazon." That means that a real buyer could have failed to check the box, which is fairly common, or could have gotten their product as a gift.
Does this mean the review with the "Amazon Verified Purchase" tag has generated a genuine review for sure?  No, it just means that it is more difficult for the seller to manufacture fake reviews in any meaningful volume; it is certainly easier to ask friends and families to do a "favor" without the need for them to actually purchase it.
Does this mean that a review without the "Amazon Verified Purchase" tag is a fake?  Not entirely true either.  If the review has the "REAL NAME" tag, then it is more likely to be real. Because reviewers showing real names, matched to the names on their credit cards, are unlikely to post fake reviews. The caveat here is that not everyone wants to advertise their real, or even full name on Amazon and they don't have to. Also, there are people purchasing the book elsewhere and there are reviewer copies. Amazon Verified Purchase is partly a way of incentivizing publishers to discourage a purchase of the product anywhere else because the lack of such a tag tarnishes the reviews in some people's eyes.;
,


The seller needs to manufacture fake positive reviews to jump start newly introduced items to make them more visible and attractive. Does that mean that early reviews are not real? No. Some people are excited about being among the first to "discover" a new product; the proof of their discovery is enshrined for all to see. Amazon encourages this because most people don't trouble themselves to write a review at all.
The seller also has to continuously manufacture fake reviews to maintain a high rating for the product to remain competitive.
This means that the fake review production may be more rampant in an early stage and spontaneous (a few in a short period) in the maintenance phase when the product rating needs a rescue. Then again, the flurry of reviews could also result from perfectly legitimate sales generated in a strong promotion or advertising campaign.
 Check the following factors:


How many of those 5 star reviews without the "Amazon Verified Purchase" tag and their % allocation in the total number of 5 star positive reviews will tell how significantly they have altered the product rating.
How many of those unverified 5 star reviewers have the REAL NAME tag. This type can be excluded.
How many of the unverified 5 star reviewers haven't written any other reviews?
Comment: It is easier for a seller to create high volume positive reviews that is:  Not Verified |  Not Real Name | Only one review; for efficiency.



Statistically, if all unverified reviews are genuine, the % allocation of unverified reviews either 5 star or 4 star or 1 star should be in similar range in its category; because it is unlikely that only happy buyers who purchased from other places would come to Amazon to post only 5 star reviews.
If a product has a much higher % of unverified 5 star reviews than those unverified ones from 1 star to 4 start, then it is certainly suspicious.
On the opposite side, if a product has a much higher % of negative unverified reviews than positive unverified reviews, then this product may be the victim of hostile attacks.
There are sellers out there who not only created fake positive reviews to promote their products, they also manufactured fake negative reviews to attack their competitors' items.



Remember, sellers can often manufacture low-to-medium-volume fake reviews are to get ahead of their competitors through these deceptive acts or to overcome hostile attacks by competitors. High-volume fake reviews, however, would be virtually impossible, especially in a volume to tip the balance in their favor.
Comparative study can be very powerful.  For example, cross check the reviews of top similar products from their competitors. Usually, variations in the review profiles of similar products from different sellers can clearly illustrate the picture.
How to find their competitors? On Amazon, in the lower part of the product page, there is a "What Other Items Do Customers Buyer After Viewing This Item" section, it typically contains the competing products.
In some cases, the conclusions are self-evident.  The overall Amazon product rating score of such product simply can't be trusted, as it is manipulated by the seller.



This type of seller does not just cook positive reviews for one or two of their products. This is their business model, marketing engine and core success ingredient. They will do the same for many (if not all) of their products to maximize the return, and more likely to focus on their best selling products. Then again, if it's a best selling product it is likely to be good.

