 Audacity is a free, open source software program available for download off their website. Follow the download instruction, then install Audacity. Once installed (a computer restart may be necessary) open Audacity and click File, then Open, or press Ctrl+O (Command-O on a Macintosh).;
, Click Open. Two large, blue oscilloscope-like shapes will appear on the screen—one for the left channel (bottom) and one for the right (top).
 Press pause, and then zoom in on that section.


Continue zooming and rewinding until you can place your cursor on the exact part of the blue line that begins the foul word.
 Verify you have the right selection by clicking on the green Play arrow.
 Click "Generate" on the popup window to complete the silence.

Tone—This selection will make a tone with a pitch that you can vary in the window which appears. This is a "television style" edit. Use the settings shown:
If you're musically inclined, you can set the pitch of the beep to be the same as the key of the song. For example, if the song is in the key of A (major or minor), set frequency to 880Hz.
Keep the Amplitude low to begin with, especially if you don't choose Sine wave—you can always undo and make it a bit louder if it's too soft.
You can also click the Effect menu and select Wahwah, setting resonance to 6.0. This makes the voice make another traditional radio edit sound, while leaving the beat rather than silence, although it does not work for all curse words.
 Take care so that the inserted section is the same number of samples as the deleted section, and if possible, make sure the waveforms line up at the beginning and the end.
 If you inserted a tone, for example, you'll see what looks like a solid block:

, Rewind to a few seconds before the word, then press the play button to hear your effect. If it's not to your liking, simply undo, then try other methods till you find something acceptable.
, Then, click the effects button again and at the top it will say Repeat Sliding Time Scale/Pitch Shift. Click that button two or three times more and for the f word it will make a sound like 'fuwwww' or for the b word 'bewwww'.

