 You should always wash a nectarine, or any other fruit, prior to eating it. Run your nectarine under tap water, and turn it around in your hands until the full surface has been rinsed. If there is there is any dirt or debris on your nectarine, make sure to wipe that off while you wash it.You should also wash your hands prior to washing a nectarine.;
, To cut a nectarine into neat slices to eat, you will want to make a series of incisions. Do not attempt to separate the nectarine. Just slice into it gently with a knife, leaving the fruit intact. You will separate the sections when you get done cutting your nectarine. To start, cut the nectarine in half around the pit.Start your incision slicing the nectarine on the end where the stem is located. Move your knife inward until you feel it hit the pit.
Allowing the pit to guide your knife, bend your knife around the nectarine. Make an incision circling the full nectarine that cuts around the pit.
 Hold your nectarine so the pit is facing upwards. On either side of the nectarine, make three small cuts.Make the first cut about half an inch from the line wrapping around the center of the tangerine.
Proceed to cut the sides of the tangerine into three even sections of about half an inch each.
 Now that the nectarine has been cut into sections, you can make another line slicing the nectarine in half. Again, cut into the nectarine until you feel the pit. Then, use the pit to guide your knife around the nectarine., Once all the cuts are made, use both hands to grasp the nectarine. One hand should the end with the stem. The other should hold the bottom of the nectarine.Twist the nectarine in your hands. It should begin to come apart.
Pick apart the sections of the nectarine. You should be left with a nice pile of evenly sized pieces of nectarine.
 You can now eat your nectarine. You can eat the slices on your own using your fingers. However, you can also add them to many dishes.Throw the slices into a bowl of plain yogurt and eat it as a snack.
Use the slices in a fruit salad.
Use the slices, as well as other fruits and vegetables, to make a healthy smoothie.

