 Both of you may find it difficult to have a conversation about sexuality. For your husband, this might be the first time he’s talked about his bisexuality. He may have been anxious and worried about you finding out, about keeping his feelings a secret, or about what other people will think. As for you, you may undergo worries and anxieties of your own, including feelings of inadequacy, concern about your relationship, or concern for how your family might react.


Being patient and understanding with each other is the best starting place for a conversation. Know that you love each other and want each other to be happy.
 For your relationship to work, you need to communicate honestly with each other. Set aside time every day or every week when the two of you can talk without being interrupted. Talk about your concerns in an open yet supportive way.This might include asking if and when your husband is making connections with other partners.Being bisexual doesn’t mean that your husband will automatically cheat on you. But if he is going to be with other partners, you two should be open about that. Lies and deception are not a good foundation for any marriage.
 When one partner is bisexual, the other partner may worry that the husband will be unfaithful. If your husband wants to be non-monogamous, and you agree to it, then support him in that.Many bisexual partners are in long-term monogamous relationships. Determine what you want for your relationship.
 Determine what you want in your relationship. This may involve setting some ground rules about other partners, or sexual activity that you’re both willing to participate in.Are you okay with your husband being with one other partner, or are multiple partners okay? How much do you want to be involved?

, As you and your husband begin to understand life together in this new phase, you may choose to share some of this information with family and friends. If you have children, think about how you’ll talk with them about bisexuality.


Remember that when you “come out” to your children, have an ongoing conversation about it so that your kids can ask questions and understand your feelings. Be patient and give them time to process the information.