   They will pack everything for you in same-size stackable boxes and wrap up fragile items in paper. They will load your things on a truck and take them to your new home without any worries. This would be the fastest, but maybe not the most cost effective method, for moving without planning.;
, While the moving company personnel are packing your things, or even before they get there, make phone calls to make the move go more smoothly.


If you have children, make sure their school records are transferred.
Call all utilities for the new home: telephone, cable, Internet, electric, water, sewer, gas. Call the appropriate agency or company to find out when your trash pick-up day is scheduled.
Call a trash pick-up or haul away service to have your junk removed from your property.
Acquire any permits that the new location requires. If you are not sure, call city hall.
Hire a company to clean and ready the new home, or, better yet, do it yourself.   Make sure the closets have shelves and the necessary organization needed for your belongings.If not, a quick trip to Lowe's or Home Depot can get you the shelves you need.
Call the post office and have your mail forwarded to your new address.
Call all people that are involved in your health, education and finances to change your address.   If you are moving far away from your accountant, doctors, dentist, etc., then notify them that you will be leaving their practice.  They may give you suggestions on who is available in your new home city.
Contact your auto insurance company, your bank and credit card companies to transfer records and update information.
Update your address for your magazine subscriptions.
Notify your home care services that you are moving.



Keep a notepad (or electronic device) handy so you can write down important information. Do not rely on your memory for your important information during this move.
Consider downloading a mover's checklist to help you with all details of the move. Even though the checklist might be organized by weeks prior to a move, the list will help you stay on top of everything.

