 Just like you have problems that other people don't know about, everyone has problems you can't see. You never know who might need a pick-me-up. Here are some ideas:


Give random compliments

Hold doors open for people
Pick things up when people drop them
Smile at people
Surprise people with little gifts;
, It's very helpful for them to have a shoulder to cry on. Validate their feelings and let them know that they matter to you.Here are some useful scripts:


"Do you want to talk about it?"
"That sounds really tough."
"I can see why you're so upset. That's a difficult problem to deal with."
"Is there a way I could help you with that?"
"Would it be helpful if we told an adult about it?"

, Hug someone who looks upset, draw them a picture, offer them gum, or pick them flowers. This will help them recognize that people care about them.


If you're shy, that's okay. Silently handing them a piece of candy or sweet little note can cheer them up.
 People love to hear that you appreciate them. Thank lots of people: your parents, your teachers, guest speakers, the school janitors, anyone who makes the world a better place.


A helpful rule of thumb is that when you have a nice thought about someone else, it's good to share it. It will brighten their day.
 Everybody loves to feel like an expert, and asking for them to teach you lets them be helpful. Also, you can learn new ideas and pieces of wisdom from them.
 It's hard to be helpful and sweet if your own needs aren't being met. Pay attention to yourself, and it'll be easier to be kind to others. Your health comes first.


Eat healthy food and get at least 8 hours of sleep.
Give yourself some quiet time to relax each day.
If someone is bullying or upsetting you, tell an adult. Your feelings matter.
Never smoke, drink, or try drugs.
 It's good to be kind, but it's not good to be afraid to upset others. It's okay not to please everyone all the time. You don't have to do everything that people ask you to do, and you always have the right to say no.


Speak up if you see something that you think is wrong.
You don't have to hug people or smile if you aren't in the mood.
Practice scripts like "No, thank you" and "I would prefer not to."If a situation feels weird or wrong to you, even if you don't understand why, talk to a trusted adult about it.
If someone doesn't listen when you say no, tell an adult you trust.


