 Heavy metal yoga is specifically used to release dark moods. Think about what troublesome moods you want to release. Do you need to release anger? Sadness? Heartbreak? Ask yourself why you're doing metal yoga and what you hope to achieve. This can help you select matching music.It can help to write down a list of all your negative emotions. You can consult your list while choosing your music.;
, After figuring out what kind of moods you're targeting, assemble a playlist. Add your favorite metal bands and specific songs that address your darker moods.Do not be afraid to pick loud, fast-paced metal for your mix. Unlike conventional yoga, heavy metal yoga is meant to evoke intense feelings. It's okay to pick music that is not serene.
Choose popular heavy metal bands like Black Sabbath, Metallica, Behemoth, and Darkthrone.
 If you don't listen to much metal, you may struggle to come up with a playlist on your own. Websites like Spotify and YouTube can provide you with free heavy metal playlists to chose from. You may even be able to find something specifically designed for heavy metal yoga., Choose songs with a strong, somewhat steady drum beat. This will help you move to the music as you go through your yoga poses.Try songs like "Master of Puppets" by Metallica, "Welcome to the Jungle" by Guns N' Roses, and "Electric Eye" by Judas Priest., Most heavy metal yoga routines start off with a release of anger. You can scream, grunt, or slap your yoga pad while you think about what is causing your anger. Do this for a few minutes before you begin to do your yoga poses.Be careful if you live in an apartment. Do not get carried away with screaming or hitting your mat, especially if you have downstairs neighbors.
 With any type of yoga, start slow. Do some warmup moves, like child's pose, to get your body stretched and relaxed. Some people prefer not to turn on their music during the early poses.Warmup moves include moves like child's pose, low lunge, and warrior II pose., As you move through your yoga moves, learn to express your anger. Heavy metal yoga is meant to help you work through a dark place. Feel free to grunt, yell, and express aggression as you engage in your yoga.Think about your dark moods while engaging in your yoga routine. Part of heavy metal yoga is engaging and working through negative emotions.
Focus on the music and the moods it evokes. Allow yourself to feel your feelings as you engage in dark yoga.
 As you feel negative moods during heavy metal yoga, move more intensely. Allow yourself to work up a sweat shifting between moods and poses. Move a little quicker than you would with regular yoga when doing heavy metal yoga.After doing poses like child's pose and downward dog, transition into more challenging moves that require you to lift your body. Try things like firefly pose, king pigeon pose, and shoulder pressing pose.Be careful not to strain yourself, however. Yoga does require control and balance, so make sure you do not move so fast you're losing control of your body.
 If you're new to yoga in general, a professional instructor can help guide you through basic moves. Heavy metal yoga classes can also help you incorporate aspects of heavy metal into your yoga routine. Look online or check posters at local community centers to find heavy metal yoga classes in your area., If there are no classes in your area, you may be able to find guided routines online. Look for heavy metal yoga routines posted on sites like YouTube. Some yoga instructors upload their content online for anyone to use., Invite friends to do heavy metal yoga with you. If you cannot find a heavy metal yoga class in your area, create your own classes with friends. Reach out to friends who you know may be struggling with dark moods or anger. Heavy metal yoga can help your friends cope with their own negativity.