 Mindfulness is associated with focusing intentionally on the present moment. Mindfulness may be particularly useful for individual who suffer from anxiety and panic attacks.Instead of worry about a possible future panic attack, or thinking about past panic attacks, you focus solely on what is currently going on in your own awareness (sights, sounds, sensations).


Start by being in a relaxing environment and trying a basic mindfulness exercise. One exercise is to slowly and very intentionally eat a small piece of fruit; Pay attention to how it looks, feels, and tastes. You can do a mindfulness exercise anywhere including the room you are currently in. Just pick an object in the room and focus your attention on it. Look at the object and make observations about it. How does it look to you? Do you like it? What color is it? Notice all of the tiny details and shapes on the object. Then go to the object and touch it. How does it feel? What is the texture? Is it cold or hot? By doing this, you are training yourself to focus on one tangible thing in that moment and to fully experience it.
 Through a technique called progressive muscle relaxation, you can learn to intentionally control the relaxation of your muscles throughout your body.This exercise can be particularly useful during times of heightened anxiety or stress. Using this technique can reduce the likelihood of a panic attack.


Put yourself in a safe and comfortable place, preferably laying down with your eyes closed. Start by tensing your feet and toes for 5 seconds or so, and then releasing for about 10-15 seconds. Then tense your calf muscles for 5 seconds and release. Continue working your way all the way up your body, tensing and releasing each muscle group as you go along.
 Engaging in deep breathing exercises can be very helpful in reducing the anxiety associated with panic attacks.Deep breathing can assist in the reduction of pressure.If you are new to deep breathing, try a simple exercise by first putting yourself in a calm and relaxing environment. Then, focus on your breathing and take deep breaths in through your nose and out through your mouth. Make sure to slowly exhale and breathe all of the air out.
Try practicing your deep breathing technique by blowing one big bubble using a bubble wand and a bottle bubbles. This process requires that you control and steady your breathing to produce the large bubble.
 Grounding exercises are useful while you are experiencing an intense emotion or physiological reaction such as a panic attack. It allows you to focus yourself on something else in order to cope with intense emotions or pain.There are different types of grounding including mental and physical techniques.


Mental grounding is done in your own mind by thinking about something specific. For example, a useful grounding technique would be to identify all of the animals that you can think of and list them in your head. Simple counting to ten is another grounding technique that works well.
Physical grounding is conducted with your senses and body. An example of a physical grounding technique would be to make funny faces, shake your legs around, or run cold/warm water over your hands.
You can research all kinds of grounding exercises online and try new techniques.