 The first component that makes up the Carolina Rig is the hook.  The hook should be an off-set worm hook and the size should compliment the size of the bait that you will be using.;
, The only bait that you should use for the Carolina Rig is soft plastic bait.  It doesn't have to be any particular soft plastic bait, just one that has performed well for you in the past.
 The leader is the fishing line that is tied on from the hook to the swivel.  It should be about 12 to 48 inches long, dependent upon the distance the fish are staying from the bottom at that instance in time.  A fish finder can help determine that distance, but is not necessary if you want to use the good ole trial-and-error method.  If you find that the fish are about 18 inches form the bottom, then you make your leader 18 inches long.  Its that simple.  If you are ever unsure, 18 inches is a good rule of thumb length to use.
 The function of any swivel is the keep the line from twisting.  However, its main function on the Carolina Rig is to serve as a stop for the weight.  The only factors to consider when choosing a swivel is weight and stealth.  Therefore, it is best to use a brown colored swivel to make it invisible in the water and as light as you can for the fish you are trying to catch.  An 80 pound brown swivel is usually a good universal choice.
 Its main purpose is to drive the line to the bottom of the body of water you are fishing. A bullet weight works best and it should be about 3/4 oz. However, depending on conditions, such as shallow water or fast current, you may need to use a little lighter or a little heavier weight.
 The glass bead should be put on your main fishing line (line that goes from the swivel to your fishing pole) just below the weight and sit between the weight and the swivel.  It should have a hole through the center and simply just slide it onto the line.  The glass bead serves two purposes:


knocks against the weight causing a noise that attracts the fish
protects the knot tied onto the swivel form being damaged

, There are several different fishing knots, and all of them are sufficient to use. Just tie your favorite fishing knot.
  With your Carolina Rig complete its time to go fishing and catch some fish.

