;
, You may want to change the name of the spreadsheet to reflect the changes you’ve made.


For example, if a spreadsheet is called “Marketing Department Reports 132012,” you may place your name before the name to indicate you have changed it to your specific needs.
 Pay special attention to the column and row headers.


The rows are indicated by a number. They are listed on the vertical tabs on the left hand side of the page.






The columns are indicated by letters. They are listed on the horizontal tabs on the top of the page.






You can use the same method to unhide columns as you do to unhide rows.
 This is your first indication that rows have been hidden in the spreadsheet.


For example, when you have a hidden row, the row numbers may skip from from “15” to “17.” In this case, “16” is a hidden row.






Or, adjacent rows to a hidden row will have numbers written in blue. Browse the rows in your spreadsheet to see if any of the numbers are blue.



The “Select All” button is located at the very top left corner of your spreadsheet. It is a box with a small triangle located at the apex of the first column and first row.






You can also select all by pressing down “Control” and “A” simultaneously twice in Windows Operating Systems (OS).






You will press the “Command” and “A” buttons simultaneously in Mac OS.



In most versions of Excel, the tabs are green and horizontal. You will find “Home” next to “Layout,” “Tables” and “Charts” tabs.
 It will be near the right hand side of the options.
 Drag your cursor down to select it.


You can also go to the View Menu in the horizontal toolbar at the top of your screen. Look for “Hide” and “Unhide.” Select “Unhide.”







, Scroll through your spreadsheet to see new data.
,


For example, if you want to view a hidden row 16, you would need to drag your cursor at the top of the page between row 15 and row 17.
Remember that you must select the rows using the numbered tabs at the side of the page, rather than the individual cells of the spreadsheet. This will allow you to control all the information in the row, rather than a single cell.
, Select “Unhide.” Row 16 should now be visible.

