 Pregnant women who are already on medication for their depression, in general, should continue taking it. Deciding you don’t want to expose your unborn child to the medication and stopping abruptly could not only cause severe withdraw effects, but could cause you to get deeper into your depression. Talk to your therapist and your obstetrician about the medications you are on, and if there is any reason to switch it to one that is safer for your baby.


Anti-depressants that are typically safe to take during pregnancy include Zoloft, Prozac, Wellbutrin, Celexa, Pamelor, Cymbalta, and Effexor XR. However, talk to your obstetrician about any potential problems taking them during your pregnancy.If you are worried about the effects that your medication may have on your unborn child, talk to your doctor to evaluate the risks. You may want to ask them about alternative treatments during pregnancy. Do not stop taking your medication until they give you approval.;
, There’s a common misconception that all women who are expecting are overjoyed during their pregnancies. However, many often experience depression, even if they didn’t before the pregnancy. This means that women who are already depressed can become even more so. Talk to your therapist about any changes you are experiencing. You may need to adjust your medication to combat the effects of pregnancy on your depression., Those with depression often isolate themselves and shut out the world. Finding yourself in bed for a few days or backing out of social obligations are often the norm. When you’re pregnant, however, you can’t neglect what’s important, including going to your OB checkups and taking your prenatal vitamins. Visiting your doctor regularly will detect any problems with you and the baby that may keep you both safe and healthy., Parenting brings up a variety of different emotions and thoughts for expectant parents, including how they feel about themselves. But along with any negative feelings you may have, also realize that parenting can enrich your life, as well as the way you feel about yourself. Becoming parent can positively affect your life for the better.


Before you take on the role of parent, but especially after, you’ll likely find that you become more mature and responsible. This may also help you to feel better about yourself and get rid of some of the fears you may have about your approaching parenthood., The thoughts of becoming responsible for a newborn baby or even a developing stepchild are often overwhelming. Just about everyone can feel frightened and uneasy about this major change, especially parents who are depressed. This is normal, however, and you’ll likely find that your fears are unfounded and you’ll feel much better after you see what a wonderful job you do with your child.


While feeling uneasy about becoming a parent is OK, feeling extremely uneasy and scared may be something you should talk to a professional about. He or she may be able to help you work through your fears, which can help you feel better about yourself., It is OK to accept help as a parent, and you may need some extra support from your family and friends. Before the baby is born, take some time to plan out what types of help you may need to care for both the baby and yourself.Get someone to care for the infant for a few hours a day to give yourself a break. This could be your partner, a family member, or a paid professional.
Ask your therapist to coach you on how to interact with your baby when you are feeling stressed, withdrawn, or overwhelmed.
 Don’t allow your condition to define you. Just because you are depressed doesn’t mean you won’t be a happy and fun parent. And along with being depressed, you are also a number of other things, you may be a spouse, an aunt, a friend, a daughter, and a variety of other valuable people. You are much more than a mental illness.Make an effort to recognize all of your positive qualities by building a list. Maybe you'll write down "Graduated from law school" or "Started my own business." Whenever you start feeling doubtful about your abilities, refer to the list to remember all the different obstacles in life you have already overcome.
 Don’t worry about getting everything done, having a clean home, or anything you feel makes you perfect. Parenting is rough sometimes for everyone. Everyone messes up, and you likely will, too. But, that's not just because you are depressed, but because that’s a part of being a parent.Go to some other parents who have gone through what you are and ask them about how they got through the situation. Chances are, just talking to your friends will help ease your mind. They will likely share stories about their own fears or mistakes as parents and you will see that your anxiety is not unique. While everyone has these concerns, the only way to overcome them is to push forward and strive to be the best parent you can be despite your depression.
Reach out to other parents with depression for assistance. You can join a support group or visit online forums for parents with depression.
 Although biological parents usually don't have this issue, it's quite common for adoptive or step-parents to be troubled by feelings of comparison. You might wonder if the child will respect you, admire you, or even get along with you, considering that you did not conceive them yourself. Know that these are all common fears and anxieties.You can help yourself and your family navigate some of the difficult issues that may arise during adoption or while blending a family by going to family therapy. Under the facilitation of a professional, you can share some of your concerns with your partner and any older children and problem-solve these concerns.Plus, seeing a therapist with your family can also help them learn more about your depression and how to care for you in times of need.
 Just about every parent, whether they have depression or not, needs help, and you won’t be any exception. Find people who will be there for you when times are tough. Having a team can help you if you can’t get out of bed some days, or don’t have the energy to handle your parenting responsibilities.


The type of people you need in your support network are those who won’t judge you and who truly care. These could be relatives, friends, or even very close co-workers. If you aren’t able to find someone you need to help, consider hiring a personal assistant, even if it is just for a day and to have on-call. Spending this little bit of money may be very helpful in the long run., If you have a partner, share your feelings with them. Allowing them to know what you’re feeling lets you both be on the same page, and you may receive the support you need that helps you combat your feelings. It’s important to be honest here, because holding back will only hurt you.For example, you might say, "Honey, I'm excited that your kids will be moving in with us, but I'm worried I won't be able to be a good parent with my depression." If you start a dialogue about your concerns now, you two will have a greater opportunity of brainstorming solutions to address them.
 Find a group of people who are experiencing the same feelings and situations you are in a support group. There are support groups for new parents, adoptive parents, and step-parents. In these groups, you will see that you aren’t alone in your transition. Knowing that can be very helpful in alleviating some of your concerns. You may also learn tips and coping mechanisms to help you during your hardest times as a parent.


Ask your therapist about groups that meet near you. You can also find online groups if none are near you, or you’d rather remain anonymous.