 Choose 1 that is extensive, such as a version of the Oxford English Dictionary. This may be the most expensive acquisition at the beginning of your reference library, because it is necessary for research.
 These should also be fairly new because countries and cities change regularly. Collect detailed atlases of any specific areas you plan to study.
 Public and school libraries must regularly update their collections in order to stay current. You can get the last edition of many common library books for a low price, because they may be sold for a few dollars a piece.
 You may be able to get a full collection for less, if you research bulk book sales on the Internet or through local estate sales.


You can also choose to invest in an online encyclopedia that you store on a disk, on your library computer hard drive, or on the Internet. Popular encyclopedias like Encyclopedia Britannica offer online subscriptions to their content.
 You can find discount subscriptions of many publications on the Internet. National Geographic, Scientific American or the Smithsonian include articles that are valuable to a reference library.


If you do not have room to store these magazines, then opt for an online subscription to their archives.
 These are part of a complete reference library. Visit your local library and make photocopies to develop your collection.
 This is a great place to look for primary sources, such as journals. Pay extra attention to editions, modifications and the fragility of the book.
 Often these books are not selling quickly enough, so the publisher sells them at a deep discount to make space in the warehouse. Non-fiction books are often remaindered by publishers.
 They can keep you up to date about new reference book editions or rare books.
 Most genres have a yearly award, such as the Pulitzer Price for History, the George Washington Book Prize or the Phi Beta Kappa Award in Science.
 Make a list of books you want to acquire and place them on your acquisition schedule. Ask them how often they replace the books, in case you can get them at library sales.
 They can instruct you on how to condition leather, repair spines and more. This can save you from needing to ship a book to a professional book binder.

