 Is it going to be a good sized elephant, such as for display on your bookshelf? Or is it going to be a very small one, suitable for hanging off a bracelet as a charm?


The smaller the elephant is made, the fiddlier it will be to shape it, so keep this in mind when making your decision. If you don't like fiddly projects, make a larger elephant.;
, Do you want a normal shade for the elephant's body (gray) or would you perhaps like the infamous pink elephant? Other colors are fine too, such as red, blue or green. For the sake of an example, this elephant is going to be blue or gray on its body, with pink ears and a blue or gray trunk. The face pieces can be made from black or white clay, to provide adequate contrast.
 Mold the elephant's body, ears and legs:


Roll a round, elongated shape for the body. The example elephant would have a blue body.
Shape little legs. Make one stocky sausage shaped roll from the clay. Cut four exactly same sized pieces to form the four legs for the elephant.
Roll and flatten out two small pieces for the ears. Use a clay cutting tool to shape the ears in the traditional elephant ear's shape, cutting away excess clay.
Make a smaller version of the ears. This time make them out of pink clay. Stick the onto the ears.
 Roll small pieces of an alternative color clay (black or white) into tiny balls for the eyes.


You could also make a mouth, that's up to you.
Tusks are another possibility, from white clay. They're not essential, as your figurine is representative, but if you'd like to add them, then feel free to do so.
 Each time that you add a piece of clay, use the clay tool to help smooth the pieces into each other, so that the end result looks seamless. Test that the elephant is standing firmly. When you're happy that it's balanced, add the next items.
Attach the ears, once again smoothing the clay pieces together neatly. Shape the ears so that they are standing outward and look realistic.
Add the eyes. Simply stick these on; don't press too hard or their definition will be squashed.
 Make a thin sausage roll shape from the blue or gray clay. Roll it to the length that will fit with the elephant as now assembled.


Gently attach this to the elephant's face, under the eyes. Smooth the clay into place.
When you're happy that it's properly attached, use the clay tool to add small cuts down the length of the trunk, to make it appear wrinkled, as elephant trunks appear in real life.
 Follow the packaging instructions for the type of clay you've used. Some air dry, some require baking. When you've finished, your clay elephant is ready to be used as a display item (if made large) or as a jewelry charm (if made small).


If using for jewelry, be sure to attach a finding piece or loop before the charm is dried or baked, so that it stays in place firmly.

