 Examine all the parts, and learn their name and function. If you are in a class, the instructor should review this with the class. If you are learning how to use a compound microscope on your own, you may have a diagram that came with your microscope which provides this information.Your microscope should be placed on a clean, level surface near an electrical outlet.
Always carry your microscope with two hands. Hold the arm with one hand, the other hand used for support under the base.;
, This will require plugging it into an appropriate outlet. The switch is usually located on the microscope's base.The electricity is needed for the illumination components found in a compound microscope.
Make sure your power source is appropriate for your microscope. Commonly, compound microscopes require a 120-V power source.
 The head holds the optical elements, which include the eyepiece and eyepiece tube, the nose piece, and the objective lenses. It is also known as the body of the microscope.The eyepiece, or ocular, is what you look through to see the object beneath the microscope.
The eyepiece tube holds the eyepieces in place.
The nosepiece holds the objective lenses.
The objective lenses are the main lenses of the compound microscope. There can be 3, 4 or 5 lenses on a compound microscope, depending on its level of complexity.
 The arm connects the head to the base. There are no lenses found on the microscope's arm.When carrying a compound microscope, hold the microscope at the arm and the base.
The arm provides support for the microscope's head.
 The base holds up the microscope and provides the stage onto which samples are placed. The base also contains the focusing knobs (both fine and coarse).The focusing knobs may be either separate or coaxial (meaning the course focusing knob is found on the same axis as the fine focusing knob.)
The stage is where the slide holding the specimen will be placed. A mechanical stage can be used when working with higher magnifications.
Stage clips should be used when stages are adjusted manually.
 The compound microscope provides its own light sources for optimal viewing. These light sources are found in the base of the microscope.Light enters the stage through the aperture, which is a hole through which the base light reaches the slide.
The illuminator provides light for the microscope. Typically, low-wattage halogen bulbs are used. Lighting is continuous and variable.
A condenser collects and focuses the light from the illuminator. It's located beneath the stage, often together with the iris diaphragm.
The condenser focus knob moves the condenser up and down to adjust the light.
The iris diaphragm is located below the stage. Working together with the condenser, the iris diaphragm controls the focus and quantity of light provided to the specimen.
 A slide should always be prepared with a cover slop or cover glass to protect the specimen you're viewing with the microscope. This will also protect the lens of your microscope from anything that might press against it.Position your sample between 2 pieces of glass to make a slide.
Place the slide on the center of the stage over the glass hole.
Move the 2 stage clips over the sides of the slide to secure it into place.
 This is usually found just under the stage.You want to have the best amount of light to reach the slide and the lenses.The iris diaphragm shouldn't be used to control the light, but to optimize the level of contrast and resolution for clearer viewing.
This is generally used at lowest magnification.
 Start with the lowest level of magnification. This will allow you to select the part of the specimen that offers the most interest. Once you've located this, you may increase the magnification so as to better view this part.Turn the nose piece turret until the shortest lens (4x) is above your sample. It should click and feel rigid when it is in place. The shortest objective lens is the least powerful and is the easiest level to begin when magnifying an object.
Twist the coarse focus knob (the large one) on the side of the base so the stage moves upward toward the short objective lens. Perform this without looking into the eyepiece. It's important to make sure the slide does not touch the lens. Stop twisting the coarse knob just before the slide contacts the lens.
 Looking through the eyepiece, arrange the illuminator and the diaphragm to reach the most comfortable level of light. Move the specimen slide so that the image is in the center of your view.Arrange the illuminator until you've arrived at a comfortable level of light. The brighter the illuminator shines, the better you will be able to see your specimen.
Twist the coarse focus knob the opposite way as you had before, so the stage moves away from the lens. Do this slowly until the sample begins to focus.
 Use the course focus knob to get the specimen in view, and the fine focus knob to bring the adjusted slide into focus. You may need to reposition your slide as you magnify.When using a compound microscope, the correct viewing technique is to keep both eyes open. One eye should look through the eyepiece, the other looking outside the microscope.
When the 10x lens is being used to magnify the image, it may help to lower the amount of light for better clarity.
Readjust your illuminator and iris diaphragm as needed.
Switch lenses by rotating the nose piece turret to a longer lens.
Perform necessary focusing adaptations.
Once you've found a clear image, change to a higher power objective lens. This should be a simpler process, requiring only minimal use of the focusing adjustment.
If you can't focus on your specimen, repeat the steps suggested above.
 Dust can cause great damage to a compound microscope. It can scratch delicate lenses, clog adjustments, and clutter the images visible through your eyepiece.Always turn off the power when you're finished using your microscope.
Lower the stage, remove your specimen and cover the equipment with a dust-repellent cover.
Avoid touching any lens or glass with your fingers.
Always carry the microscope carefully with both hands.

