 Align the pencil tip with the tip of the needle. Place the point of the compass down on the paper. Set the distance between the pencil and needle equal to the radius of the circle that you would like and draw. Swing the compass around 360° to complete the circle.Make sure the hinge is tight so it doesn’t slip while drawing.
Also make sure the pencil is securely in its holder so it also doesn’t move while drawing.
This first circle is the main circle that you will be dividing.;
, Place the needle of the compass at any point along the edge of the main circle. Keep the distance between the needle and pencil the same as the first circle. Swing the compass around to complete the second circle.The second circle should overlap with the first circle and the edge should cross through the center of the first circle.
If the distance between the needle and the pencil changes at all, the circle will not be divided equally.
 Place the needle at the intersection of the first and second circle. There are two intersections and you can use either one; this will be the center of a third circle. Use the compass to complete the third circle.Again, keep the compass at the same distance for every circle you draw.
At this point you should have three overlapping circles. You should notice that the two outer circles overlap with the center of the first main circle.
 Just as you did to draw the second and third circle, use the intersection of the third circle with the main circle as the center point. Remember, going clockwise around the circle, you will use the intersection to the left of the circle. Place the compass on that intersection and draw a fourth circle.You are halfway done with drawing circles.
 Using the intersection of the previously drawn circle with the main circle as the center, draw the next circle. Continue the next three circles until you have a total of six circles all around the main circle.The inside of your original circle should now look like a 6 petaled flower.
 This is the first of three lines you will need to draw to divide the circle into 6 parts. Every line, including this one, should cross the exact center of the circle and divide two of the six inner "flower petals" of your drawing in half.
 This line will bisect two opposite flower petals and will go through the exact center of the circle., You now have a circle divided into 6 equal parts.

