 If their profile picture looks professionally done and can be found on a modeling website, chances are the person stole the picture. Sure, they may just be a lonely model, but how likely is that?;
, If someone is desperate to sound good, they may not remember that something like 6' and 95 lbs is not proportional, unless their diet is insane.
 It's up to you whether you're willing to get involved in an affair or not, but just remember this: if they've lied about their marital status, what else could they be lying about?

, A scammer's occupation is usually some type of "Engineer" for men and a "Model" for women. It's just another way to make themselves sound like a good pick. Engineers make heaps of money, and models normally look beautiful. Now doesn't that sound amazing?

, Use this to do a Google search to see if shows up on other websites. If the profile is for another photo or perhaps man or woman, this person may be using the words verbatim and is a fraudster.
 For example, ask things such as "What is your favorite character on the TV show?" that they listed.


If they list they have a specific car or boat; check what kind of mileage they get or brand of boat.
Ask about a particular restaurant in the city and Google the address.
Ask how to get there from another easily accessed address close to this; for example, McDonalds is on First Street there, so is that next to the XXXX? Google Maps will usually show street names and even a street picture to help you gauge the accuracy of the response.
 Scammers often use the phrase "Remember the distance or color does not matter, but love matters a lot in life". That phrase is used in a lot of love scam emails.
 Although they could simply enjoy IM chatting more, what they say in IM may not be reportable to the website, allowing their profile to stay up so they can draw in other people.
 While plenty of people have bad grammar or spelling, see if it's inconsistent with the way people speak from where they claim to be. Also, if it is audio chat, see if his/her accent is what he/she claimed it to be (if the scammer happened to mention that before, of course).
 Scammers do not like to answer personal questions about themselves and will often misspell the cities they say they are from. If they are unfamiliar with any of the local landmarks and attractions, this is another sign. If they claim to be from a foreign country, steer clear immediately, no matter how charming they are.
 At the very least, it will show you that they are the person in the picture. Even better, video chat with them if they have a webcam. It does not, however, mean that everything they say is the truth. Services like Chatroulette can be manipulated to show a photo of, say, celebrities, instead of their real selves.
 Early on if the relationship is getting 'established' it is not strange to ask your "friend" for a phone number or address where you can call spontaneously. Marrieds have to worry about spouses or children intercepting the call/visit. This will put most marrieds off quickly. As well, phone numbers and addresses are easily reverse engineered. Modern people finding sites can tell you if a 50 year old John Doe has ever resided at that address in their lives! If someone lives in Denver, Colorado, why do you need a country code for an African nation?

, This may include using pet names (e.g. hon, love, babe, sweetie, etc.) immediately, or discussing marriage after a few IM chats. They may also claim that destiny, fate, or God brought you guys together and that they can't live without you. Most of this is all things to lure you in.
 They often claim they are in the hospital and the doctor will not perform the operation they need until you send them money. They could also say that they're so in love that they need to see you, but they need money to come visit you.

