 Becoming an authorized user on a credit card can be a quick way for you to get access to credit. However, you, as the authorized user, and the primary user whose account it is, must be able to trust each other completely. By failing to make any payments, each person has the ability to damage the other one’s credit rating.The most common authorized user arrangements are between parents and their children. The parent will obtain the credit card, or use one that already exists, and add the child to the account as an authorized user.
 The card issuer can establish a credit limit for the authorized user, which is separate from the credit limit that the primary account holder has for the whole account. When considering this arrangement, discuss with the primary account holder and the card issuer what limit you believe you will need and can manage., An arrangement as an authorized user is generally intended to be temporary. Your objective, most likely, is to use this account to build your own positive credit until you can apply for your own credit card. Before you begin the arrangement, find out if and how you will be able to remove yourself from the account in the future. Also ask how your payments are credited to your own credit report., As an authorized user, you do not have control over the payments that the primary account holder makes. You will want to review your credit report regularly to ensure that the account is getting paid on time and that payments are reported positively to your credit report. If you see a problem, you will want to discuss it with the primary account holder as soon as possible., When you become an authorized user on someone else's credit card account, the credit reporting agencies see you as an equal credit holder. Between yourself and the primary account holder, you may be only an "authorized user," but to the vendors you use and to the credit reporting agencies, you are just another borrower. As long as the account is used responsibly and the payments are made on time, your credit history will be enhanced.