 Acid reflux is triggered by different foods for different people. You can avoid common irritants, but it will benefit you to know your specific food triggers. Keep a food record – write down everything you eat for two weeks and make note of how you feel and what symptoms you experience. Note what time of day you ate.


Once you have enough data to cross-reference, review your notes. Look for any foods that appear over and over at times when you experienced symptoms. Experiment with cutting those foods out of your diet to see if you get relief.
Continue to add to your notes if you encounter new foods that trigger your reflux.
 The symptoms of acid reflux can be similar to those caused by other more serious conditions. Visit your doctor for a physical exam to be properly diagnosed if you experience symptoms including heartburn, burning sensations in your throat, chest pain, difficulty swallowing, a dry cough, a sore throat, or regurgitation of food or sour liquid.Frequent or untreated reflux can lead to such severe throat irritation that it causes bleeding, narrowing of the esophagus that makes it harder to swallow, and even cancer.Your doctor might prescribe an antacid or other medication to help your symptoms and prevent complications.
If your symptoms occur at least 2 times per weeks, you should consult with a doctor as you may may have gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)., If you continue to struggle with reflux or identify so many triggers that you don’t know what’s best to eat, consult a professional. Your doctor or a nutritionist can help you develop a new food plan based on the findings from your two-week review. This will ensure you are getting all nutrients you need while avoiding triggers.
 Allow at least 3 hours between eating and going to bed, or even lying down.In fact, try to take a walk for several minutes after you eat, to encourage digestion.


A food that causes reflux when you eat it before bedtime might not give you any trouble if you eat it earlier in the day., If you can, have 4-5 small meals spread throughout the day rather than 3 large meals. Eating smaller amounts at a time may improve reflux symptoms.If this doesn’t work with your schedule, avoid overeating by decreasing your portion sizes during meals and having light snacks in between like nuts or fruit.

