 Empirical research does indicate garlic is a powerful natural antibiotic and also has anti-fungal properties.Some believe this means garlic could fight off bacteria in the skin, which may cause acne and blemishes. Try slicing a garlic clove in two and then rubbing it into your pimples. Let the juice sit for 5 minutes and then wash off in lukewarm water. You can repeat this process as needed to clear skin.As with any natural remedy, there is no guarantee this will work. If your skin feels itchy or irritated after your first attempt, you may want to stop trying with this method. You do not want to do anything that may cause your skin problems to get worse.
 There is some research that suggests cucumber contains chemicals and vitamins that help with healthy skin.Some believe this makes cucumber a fast-acting acne cure. There are several ways you can use cucumber to attempt to clear skin fast.You can grate some cucumber and apply it to the problem area. Let it sit for 20 minutes and then remove.
You can slice a cucumber and place it in clear water. Let it soak for an hour, allowing nutrients to seep into the water. Then, strain the solution. Use the water to wash your face.
You can also make a face mask. Grate a cucumber and mix with a cup of oatmeal. Mix in some plain yogurt until you form a paste. Apply the mask to your face, let sit for 30 minutes, and then wash off with lukewarm water.
 Some believe honey has certain properties that promote healing of the skin. However, studies conducted were largely inconclusive, showing little evidence that honey helps heal skin issues.However, anecdotal evidence indicates honey has cleared skin fast for some. If you want to try to clear your skin in a day, wash your face with honey instead of a regular cleanser. See if you notice a difference., Steam treatments may help skin clear faster, as it forces out dirt, dust, and oil without making pimples and blemishes worse. Place your face over a pot of boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes and see if you notice your skin clearing.Be careful not to lean in too close over the water, as this may burn your skin.

