 This method for treating upholstery uses the cleaning power of rubbing alcohol to eliminate mildew colonies that have taken root in your furniture. To begin, first use a vacuum cleaner to remove as much of the mildew as possible. Most vacuums should come with a hose or similar attachment which should make it easy to remove mildew even in tough-to-reach cracks.


If possible, move the furniture to an outdoor area with good ventilation before beginning to reduce the danger of inhaling mildew spores.
It might be a good idea to wear a dust mask for this step, so as to avoid breathing in any microscopic mildew spores.
 Next, mix 1 cup (240 milliliters) of rubbing alcohol with 1 cup (240 milliliters) of hot water. Soak a sponge in this solution. Wring most of the liquid out of the sponge, then gently rub the solution into the affected area of the upholstery. Avoid using too much moisture. hen you're done, the fabric should be damp, but not soaking.


Note that rubbing alcohol can damage some fabrics. To make sure your upholstery can stand the rubbing alcohol used in this method, try dabbing a little of your solution in a hard-to-see spot on your upholstery, then letting it sit for 15 minutes. If you observe any discoloration or damage, use one of the alternate cleaning solutions in this article (like the borax soak above or the home-made remedies below.)

, When you've thoroughly applied your water/alcohol mixture to the mildew-affected spots on your furniture, give it a chance to do its work by leaving your upholstery alone for about 30 minutes (or longer). Over time, the alcohol will gradually soak into the fabric and kill the mildew colony.
 Dampen a sponge or rag with clean water and dab it onto the affected area to partially rinse the alcohol solution away. Next, use a dry paper towel to blot up as much moisture as possible. If the mildew appears to be completely removed, allow your furniture to dry. If not, you may need to re-apply your cleaning solution and repeat the cycle.


If possible, dry your upholstered item outside in the sun. If not, open a window and/or use a fan to circulate the air in the room. Good ventilation is important while the furniture dries—without it, it's more likely for mildew to re-appear.
If there is a lot of moisture in the fabric, you can try using a wet-dry vacuum cleaner to soak up the excess moisture.
 Unfortunately, not all mildew is treatable. If the mildew in your upholstery is so bad that it's made its way deep into the padding or has left a permanent stain, it may be impossible to get your furniture back to normal. In this case, you may need to throw the affected furniture away to keep your home's air free of dangerous mildew spores. While professional cleaning services are also an option, these are seldom cheap.

