 Most colleges and universities offer counseling services. If you are struggling with depression or even just going through a rough period, a counselor can help you develop stronger coping skills and may be able to connect you to additional resources. If you’re not sure how to access counseling services on your campus, check your school’s website for information, visit the student affairs or student resources office, or ask your academic advisor or RA to help steer you in the right direction.
Talk to your counselor about any past history of depression, and what kinds of treatments you may have used in the past (counseling, medication, etc.).
 Visit the student health center on campus and set up an appointment with a doctor or nurse practitioner. Explain that you are feeling depressed and would like to get help. Your doctor may give you a referral for a counselor, psychiatrist, or other mental health specialist, or offer tips for maintaining a healthy lifestyle that can help reduce symptoms of depression., If your campus offers mental health services, they may be able to help connect you with support groups for students dealing with similar issues. A support group can offer emotional support and coping tips, and can help you connect with other people who are in the same boat as you.
 Your advisors and professors are there to help you. If you are struggling academically because of your depression, it may help to talk to your professors or your academic advisor. They may be able to help you come up with a strategy for making your academic work more manageable, or connect you with resources that can help you.


Go to your professor or advisor’s office hours, or schedule a time to meet with them privately.
Try saying something like, “I’m struggling with depression right now, and it’s making it really difficult for me to stay on top of my work. Can we talk about my options?”

, Loneliness, homesickness, and social isolation can be major contributing factors in the development of depression. If you have family members or friends that you feel comfortable talking to about your feelings, don’t be afraid to reach out to them.Tell a trusted friend or roommate how you’re feeling. You may find that they are going through a lot of the same things you are.
Take time to call or Skype with your family or with friends back home.
If you’re having trouble making friends on campus, joining a support group or getting involved in a student organization may help you connect with other people who are struggling with similar issues.
 If you have thoughts of taking your own life, you need to get professional help right away. Your campus counseling center or health office probably has a 24-hour crisis line you can call to speak to a counselor. This person can help you resolve negative thoughts or feelings, or get connect you with emergency services.


If don’t know the number for the campus crisis line, you can call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255, or contact your local emergency services department.