 Unwind the ends of three separate yarn skeins. Lay the ends together, then tightly tie them into a single overhand knot.

Tie the knot within 2 inches (5 cm) of the yarn ends. Keep the knot tight to prevent it from coming undone.
Use three different colors. Consider choosing a metallic or glitter-accented yarn for one or two of the colors to make the piece more visually interesting.
You can technically make this necklace with only one strand of yarn in one color, but using three colors will make the necklace sturdier and more aesthetically complex.;
, Attach all three strands of yarn to the crochet hook using a slip knot, then work one chain stitch from all three strands.

For this pattern, you'll need to treat all three strands of yarn as though they were one strand instead of working with them separately.
Work your knots and stitches like you normally would, but hold the yarn strands taut so that you can stitch simultaneously and at even intervals.
 Continue working simultaneous chain stitches from all three strands of yarn until the resulting chain is long enough to wrap around your neck several times.

Keep the strands taut. You may need to occasionally straighten them out to prevent them from twisting together as you make the chain.
The exact number of chain stitches will vary depending on how many wrap-arounds you'd prefer and how snug you want the necklace to be.

For a short necklace that wraps around your neck four times, you'll need approximately 90 chains.
For a long necklace that wraps around your neck six times, you'll need approximately 270 chains.
Scale the necklace accordingly to create another size falling within this range. You can check the length by periodically wrapping the chain around your neck as you create it.
 Once you reach the desired length, slip stitch the last chain together with the first, creating a large loop., Cut the yarn, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.

Using a yarn needle, weave the excess yarn ends into the stitches to prevent them from unraveling.
 The necklace should be finished and ready to show off. Slip the chain over your head, then wrap it around your neck several times and arrange as desired.