 If you are away from home, eating out at a fast food restaurant often seems like a quick and easy way to have a meal when you're busy. However, it takes a lot of time to decide on a restaurant, wait in line to order, then wait for your food to be cooked. If you have prepared yourself a meal ahead of time you can save yourself a lot of time.;
, If you are going to eat an orange, peel it and separate the slices in advance and bring them along in a container. When you get home from the store, wash and chop up some vegetables like carrots or celery so you have them ready to go.Prepping your food ahead of time can save you valuable minutes when you don't have much time to eat.


If you find you are always short on time in the mornings, prepare your breakfast the night before. Likewise, you might benefit from prepping your food at home if you struggle to find enough time to eat at work.
 It takes approximately 20 minutes for your vagus nerve to stop telling your brain it is not hungry anymore.If you eat your food too quickly your brain will still think it's starving. Eating something small 30 minutes or so before your meal can help shut off those signals. This way you can eat a smaller meal, which will take you less time, and you will still feel happy and full when you finish.
 Eating fast often leads to eating too much. You can avoid this by only bringing along or ordering a reasonable amount of food. If there isn't too much in front of you, then you can still have a relatively healthy lunch even if you're eating too fast.


Look for pre-packaged, single-serving portions of foods like greek yogurt, crackers, and string cheese. These items are all easily transported and can help to moderate your portions.
 Stay away from soda, junk food, and sweets and eat a meal full of healthy foods that will give your body the nutrients it needs to get through the day.


Hard-boiled eggs can be eaten in a minute or two and are really filling and nutritious.
Nuts are also a great, quick snack that will keep your belly feeling full longer than a bag of chips.
Cheeses are also filling, healthy and can be eaten quickly.
Fruits like apples and bananas can provide a little natural sugar kick and might satisfy your sweet tooth.
 When you make food, cook in large amounts. This way you will have some leftovers which can make for a quick and easy meal when you are pressed for time., Protein shakes are quick and easy to make. They can really cut down on the time it takes you to eat a meal. It's also the easiest way to eat on the go if you run out time.


Select a protein drink that is rich in protein, carbs, and fats with sufficient calories to satisfy your needs.You may just want to use a shake to replace part of a meal. Supplement the shake with a snack of fruit or veggies to assure you get the necessary nutrients.
 Don't focus on getting the food down fast. Instead, get in the habit of planning your meal ahead so you aren't wasting what little time you have to eat. If you prepare your food ahead of time and make good meal choices you can still eat fast and eat well.

