 Before you sit down with your family, take some time for self-reflection and explore how alcohol affects your life and your personal relationships. This will help you to understand yourself better, but also help you explain in words how alcohol has taken over your life.For example, you might try writing out a list of all of alcohol’s negative effects on you and your family. What has the addiction cost you and your family already? What might a drinking problem cost you in the future, in terms of finances, career, and relationships?
What areas of your life does alcohol affect? Does it affect your social life? Has it touched your emotional and spiritual wellbeing? Has it hurt your health yet?;
, Try to learn more about alcoholism and addiction as an illness. You can do this on your own, using resources online like the Mayo Clinic or Cleveland Clinic, or by contacting an addiction specialist. They can help you understand your behavior and also options for treatment. You might try opening up with your normal doctor about the problem. She should be able to refer you to an addiction specialist or even to a treatment center.
There are over 3,500 board certified doctors that specialize in addiction in the US. You can also search for a specialist in your area with the American Society of Addiction Medicine website’s search tools. The American Academy of Addiction Psychiatry also has a referral program.
 How will you approach your alcohol problem? Treatment for alcoholism should involve short term and long term goals and can use a variety of approaches. Do you need detox, for example, or to spend time in a residential rehab facility? Will you seek psychological counseling and join a support group in seeking long-term sobriety? These are all questions you’ll need to address.Ask a doctor or addiction specialist to help you form a plan, with short-term and long-term goals. Short-term goals might be to detox and complete a rehab program for several months. Longer-term goals may include learning healthier behavior patterns and getting to the root of your use with a psychologist, or supporting your sobriety in a group like AA.
Think about practicalities in your plan. For instance, how will you get to a treatment facility? How can your family help in the transition? It is also possible that your family will need separate treatment, too, with a support group for families of addicts.
You can also call the US Department of Health and Human Services’ National Drug and Alcohol hotline at 1-800-662-HELP (4357) for advice on how to move forward with your treatment.
 You may feel like admitting your alcohol problem is a very hard thing to do. You may be afraid of how your loved ones will react or that they will judge you. But reaching out is still worthwhile as a step toward recovery. Chances are that your family already knows something is wrong, too, whether from a gut feeling or from your behavior.Ask your family for a sit-down talk. Addiction is not something to casually mention but a discussion you should give plenty of time. Pick a moment when your family members are free from distractions, like after dinner or in the evening after work.
For example, you might say, “Hey guys, I have something serious I want to talk to you about. Could you sit down with me and listen for a while?”
Try to have the conversation at home in or a private place. Telling your family about your addiction may be emotional and you’ll need privacy to open up.
 You’ve admitted the problem to yourself and chosen to seek help. Those are the key first steps toward recovery. But you won’t help anyone if you sugar-coat the problem or aren’t completely honest with your family about the alcoholism and its severity. Be honest so that your family can help you as best they can.Tell your family members that you’re an alcoholic, i.e. “Mom, I have a serious problem with drinking” or “Dad, I think I’m an alcoholic.”
Your family also deserves to know the extent of the problem, i.e. “I’ve been struggling with this for the last three years” or “My drinking started to spiral out of control last summer and lately I’ve been drinking a six pack a day or more.”
Be honest about the situation at present, too. If you are still drinking, tell your family. People think they can hide addiction better than they actually can, and your family probably already knows that something is very wrong. Don’t insult their intelligence.
 Alcoholism affects the addict as well as the people around the addict. Your attitudes, behavior, and actions may have caused your family a good deal of distress and anger, whether emotional, physical, or spiritual. Acknowledge this and apologize. Acknowledging errors can begin the process of healing relationships.Say something like, “I know that I’ve done very hurtful things to all of you and I’m sorry” or “Please forgive me for the choices I’ve made and the things I’ve done to you.”
Tell your family that you care about them and don’t want or mean to injure them. At the same time, though, ask for understanding: i.e. “I just want you to know that this behavior isn’t who I really am – it’s the addiction and the alcoholism.”

, If you are struggling to express your feelings and to talk about your alcoholism, try writing an open letter to your family. This is not a replacement for having a sit-down talk. Think of it instead as an aid. You can write out what you want to say beforehand and then read it aloud, or have your family members read it in your presence.


The letter can be as short or as long as you need it to be. But be sure to include an acknowledgement of your problem, the fact that you want your family’s help, and, if need be, an apology.
Bring the letter to the talk with your family. Say something like, “I wrote something down that I’d like to read to you.” Or “Mom, I wrote what I want to say down in a letter. Could you read it, please?”

, The point of talking with your family is to acknowledge your alcoholism but also to show willingness to get better. You’ll need to show your family that you’re ready to get help now – today – and that you want to start a treatment program. Here’s your chance to talk about a plan and how they can help.Ideally, you have already put some thought into how to get help. Let them know what your vision is, whether it’s rehab, detox, Alcoholics Anonymous, or some combination of treatments.
Having a “blueprint” will help you stay on topic, i.e. getting help, and not get sidetracked by emotions or anger. You may not have all the answers for how, when, or where you’ll start treatment, but you’ll convey that you’re serious about getting help.
 Your family will probably have questions for you. They might also have conflicted emotions, including anger, hurt, confusion, or resentment. Try to be patient and avoid becoming defensive or angry. Above all, remember that your family loves you and wants to see you get better.Try to answer your family’s questions as best you can. Be ready to talk about what you think fuels the addiction – what behavior, attitudes, actions, and circumstances contribute to it. This information can help your family members avoid “enabling” the addiction or unwittingly supporting it.
Tell them how they can help you in concrete terms: is it finding a treatment program? Taking you to an inpatient rehab facility? Supporting your morally and emotionally?
If any family members get angry, make it clear that you aren’t asking them to support your alcoholism. Just to support you in recovery.
 Talking about your addiction to small children or your own kids could be very hard. But even small are affected by addiction and can sense that something is wrong. Whether or not you decide to explain your alcoholism and treatment to children, the most important thing is for them to have stability and routine in their daily lives.Infants and small toddlers will not understand a conversation about addiction. But you should try your best to make sure they have love, emotional support, and stability. If you can’t offer that right now, consider enlisting a sibling, parent, grandparent, or good friend to help with care while you get treatment.
Children over 3 should usually understand the idea of illness. You can explain your treatment in terms of being sick – that you have an illness and have to go away for a while to see a doctor. This may ease a child’s feelings of self-guilt and let them know that you will return.
By grade and middle school, most kids have an idea about drugs and substance abuse and will be able to understand a conversation about alcoholism. Explain it again in terms of an illness that needs proper medical treatment.
While using age-appropriate terms, be honest and focus on the idea of addiction as an illness. That way, kids won’t worry that they somehow “caused” your alcoholism.

