 Dropbox is the most recommended way to share photos privately, because it is not a social media website and does not create public photo albums.Complete the sign up form right on the Dropbox home page.
The download should pop up automatically within a few seconds, and it will add Dropbox to your desktop. Follow the instructions for download and installation based on your computer; it will be different for a Windows PC versus an Apple computer.
 This will automatically back up your photos as long as you are signed into it and connected to WiFi.


Search for the Dropbox app in your App Store or Play Store, depending on whether you own an iPhone or an Android phone.
Sign into your account when prompted.
 Now you can start adding photo files.


In the top right corner, you will see a piece of paper with a plus sign (+) and a circle around it. Click on that icon to upload a file. When the new window pops up, click the blue “Choose files” button. Find the photos you want to upload and select them. Click “Open” when you are ready.
 This allows only particular people to see your photos and does not post them publicly.


When your uploaded photo appears in the list of files, you can click somewhere on its row where there is no text. This will highlight the row of that photo file, and on the right side, you should see a button appear that says “Share.” Alternatively, you can click on the photo, and a separate window will pop up with the photo. You will see a blue “Share” button in the top right corner.
Copy and paste the link to the photo file wherever you would like to share it, or you can enter email addresses for people to whom you want to send the photo. You can add a message, and then click the blue “Send” button whenever you are ready.
You can also share folders, if you add several photos to one folder. With a folder you can invite others to collaborate on the folder, or you can send the link for people to view that folder by entering their email addresses and a message. Click the blue “Send” link when you are done.
 This will allow you to have all of your photos backed up with Dropbox.


Once you sign into your account in the app, you can enable your photo gallery. If you already have a lot of photos on your smartphone, it will take Dropbox time to upload all of the photos into its gallery.
To share a photo from your phone, go to to files in your “Camera Uploads.” Choose the photo you want to share, and tap the square with an arrow pointing straight up out of the top. This will give you a variety of options for sharing the photo directly from the app.

