 Line a baking sheet with nonstick aluminum foil.


If desired, you could coat the baking sheet with nonstick cooking spray or grease it with a little oil instead of using foil.
 Use the prongs of a fork to pierce each sweet potato about 6 to 10 times, spacing the piercings apart in a relatively even manner.


Piercing the sweet potato allows more heat to penetrate the inside of the vegetable while also preventing pressure from building up inside.
 This should take about 75 minutes. The insides will need to be very soft.


With an oven mitt, gently squeeze the sides of the sweet potatoes. They should feel notably “soft” and should indent easily with the pressure of your fingers when done.
 Let the sweet potatoes cool enough to touch with your bare fingers. Use a sharp knife to slice a thin slice from the top of each potato and dig out most of the pulp with a metal spoon. Place this pulp in a mixing bowl.


The “top” in this instance should be taken from a long side, not from one of the short ends. Cut off a slice no bigger than 1/4 inch (0.625 cm).
Make sure that you do not accidentally strip away any skin from the sides of the sweet potato as you scoop out the pulp. You need enough skin to maintain the general “shell” form, but most of the pulp should be scooped out.
 Add the cream cheese to the sweet potato pulp and use a potato masher to mix them together until evenly blended.


For super-creamy sweet potatoes, use an electric mixer to quickly blend the sweet potatoes and cream cheese together instead of a standard potato masher.
 Stir the brown sugar and cinnamon into the mashed sweet potato until evenly blended.


Even if you used an electric mixer to mash the sweet potatoes, you should mix the sugar and cinnamon manually, using a fork or spoon.
 Place the mashed sweet potato back into the sweet potato skins, dividing it among the remaining skins evenly. Top with chopped pecans.
 Place the sweet potatoes back into the oven, still heated to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius), and cook for 15 to 20 minutes.


Leave the dish uncovered so that the sweet potatoes and pecans both have a chance to turn a little more golden and more fragrant.
 Let the sweet potatoes cool for a minute or so but enjoy while still steaming hot and fresh from the oven.

