 To create pin curls, you must start with evenly damp hair. Although you can just spray your hair to wet it, washing it will give you a clean slate and your curls will last for longer.


Towel dry hair after your wash to remove excess water.
If you have very thick hair, give a little time for your hair to air-dry before creating the curls. You may need to mist the ends lightly to get even dampness in this case.
The goal is to have your hair completely dry before removing the pins, so if you feel it is too wet let it dry a bit first. This goes even if you hair is not incredibly thick.
You can also apply a light-hold hairspray, setting lotion, or thin styling gel to help the curls hold.;
, Take small sections between ½ -1 inch (2.5 cm) wide, and wrap them between your thumb and forefinger to create a small loop. Continue rolling upwards in a spiral until your reach your head. Use 1-2 bobby pins to pin this spiral to the roots of your hair. Alternatively, you can use pin curl clips. These can be found at beauty supply stores and won’t leave lines.









For regular pin curls, these spirals should lay nearly flat against your head and should not stick out at all. But you can also make “stand-up” pin curls – these have more volume, like curls made with a roller.
If you use strands of hair that are too thick, the bobby pins will leave indentations when you remove them. If you have thick hair, use thinner sections to twirl.
Don’t twist your hair into rope-like strands before spiraling it inwards. Think of it more like a ribbon – wind the hair up without twisting.
Work from the top down, so that you don’t miss any strands of hair.
 Work your way around your head until all of your hair has been pinned to your scalp. Make sure that there are no loose strands, and that all the bobby pins feel secure.
 This will prevent your hair from becoming frizzy and any of the pins from coming loose.


Try using a cotton scarf or bandana, so that it will absorb some of the moisture from your hair. This will also reduce the static cling created from the friction of the scarf on your hair.
If you put your pin curls in at night, sleep with the scarf in. Make sure that it is secure enough that it won’t slip from your head while you snooze.
 It is easiest to create your pin curls at night before you go to bed and then sleep on them. You can also just sit around and wait for them to dry. Regardless of when you set your curls, be sure that your hair is completely dry before you remove the pins.


Avoid using a hair-dryer on your pin-curls, as it will make your hair frizzier and lose its curl. If you’re in a hurry, use a diffuser on your dryer to minimize frizz. Make sure the dryer is on the lowest setting.
If your hair is still damp, give it more time to air dry.
Test one of your curls to see if it is dry enough. Remove the pins from the single curl, and unravel your hair. Check to verify that the entire strand is dry. If it is, your pin curls are ready.
 Starting from the back and bottom of your hair, take all the pins out and slowly unravel each curl. They may immediately appear too spiral-esque, but don’t fret. When you finish removing all the pins you can style the curls to fit your preferences.
 Once all the pins are removed, the curls will need to be lightly brushed through to give that classic pin-curl look. This will also remove the piecey appearance they probably have.









If your hair is very fine or thin, start by simply finger-brushing your hair to break apart strands.
For thicker hair or a more vintage look, use a boar-bristle brush to comb out your strands directly.
Use a little pomade rubbed between your fingertips to add texture to your hair and reduce frizz.
Add hairspray to add extra hold to your hair for the whole day.