 The company that made the phone hardware gave your device its own serial number. This is usually just labeled "Serial" wherever it is found.;
, Each wireless device with phone capability also has a second number, unique among all phones in the world. This will be labeled IMEI, MEID, or ESN.Use this number when reporting a stolen phone, and authorities can block all calls to and from the device.
 The MEID number can be displayed in two different formats: a 14-digit "hexadecimal" MEID and an 18-digit "decimal" MEID. If you can only find one and your service provider asks for the other format, search online for an "MEID converter" to transform it.
 Visit your dial screen, where you enter phone numbers to call. Enter *#06# and wait for a code to appear on the screen. This will work for most smartphones, but not for most non-smartphones.


If the code does not appear within a few seconds, press the call button. If the serial code still doesn't appear, move on to the next step.
 If nothing happens when you enter *#06#, restart your phone and enter it again. If it still doesn't work, move on to the next step.
 On most phones, you can find all the relevant serial numbers in the same location in your settings. Check in one of the following places, depending on your phone model:



iPhone: Settings → General → About


Android phones: Settings → About Device → Status

On the Samsung Galaxy and some other models, you'll need to click More in the Settings menu before you can reach About Device.



Lumia phones: Settings → About → More Information


Nokia X phones: Settings → About Phone → Status


, A few devices, notably iPod Touches and iPads, have the manufacturer's serial number, MEID, and/or IMEI engraved on the back of the phone. This is usually in tiny print, so look carefully.
 The phone's original packaging or the receipt of purchase often displays one or more of its serial numbers. They are often printed on the barcode sticker.
 If you are using an iPhone, connect it to your computer. Launch iTunes and click on your device name to open the Summary tab. The serial number will be listed next to a thumbnail image of your phone.


Right-click or command-click the serial number field and select Copy to add it to your clipboard.
 If you still haven't found the number you're looking for, contact the company who made your phone to find out where it is located. Contact the manufacturer, not the service provider. Samsung, Lumia, Windows, and Apple are all examples of phone manufacturers.

