 While you may be excited to start your own organization, make sure you know what other groups are already out there. Maybe you are really interested in cleaning up waterways. There may be local groups that do environmental cleanup, but focus on cleaning highways or forests. Choosing something different will give you a niche, and give people a reason to join your new club. If your group isn’t different, or doing something that others aren’t, it will be hard to get traction., Your club doesn’t have to exist on its own. Consider working with local organizations that do service, or otherwise like to get involved in the community. These groups can be a good basis for finding new members, as well as providing volunteers, meeting space, and advertising.Some good groups include service organizations like the Lions Club, Boy and Girl Scouts, local libraries and community centers, or colleges. You should consider church groups. Some denominations, such as Lutherans, Reform Judaism, and Episcopalians, put emphasis on local community work and are interested in helping the environment.You should also consider contacting local politicians. Cleaning up the environment can look good to voters, so politicians will be willing to help as a way to improve both the community and their chances of getting re-elected. Plus, they will likely know local laws and groups you need to work with and around., Once you have some people gathered, you’ll need to figure out how your club should be structured and run. It shouldn’t just be one person doing all the work and deciding what happens. Instead, create some rules for how the club decides what to do, and choose some officers.If you can, try to give your club a statement of purpose, a couple of sentences that explains who you are and what you are trying to do. This is important to help explain to people what your club believes in, and why they would want to join up.
Your first meeting might be a good time to decide the kind of officers you want your club to have rather than picking him right away. Some positions to consider include a president, project coordinator, secretary, treasurer, and public relations coordinator. Make sure your club is clear about what holding these positions will entail, so you can find the right people for them.
 Once you have some people together, you need to figure out where you are going to meet. Look for common spaces like community centers or libraries. People generally know where they are, and this can be better than trying to meet in someone’s house. If you can find a large place to meet for free, that is a good choice.Your partnerships and sponsorships with other organizations can be really helpful in doing this. Many of them may already have spaces that you can use or rent out, as long as they aren’t doing something else there at that time.
This location should be somewhere you can meet regularly. If you can only reserve the space for one meeting, and have to keep moving, it will be difficult for people to keep track of where you are, and you’ll lose potential members. Consistency is important.
When you get your meeting place, make sure you can reserve it for a time when people can show up. You may have found a great location, but if you can only have meetings at 10:00 am on Wednesdays, you probably won’t get too many people to show up. Availability will dictate some of your meeting times, but make sure you put them at a time when many people can show up. Consider talking to your members about good days and times for your meetings.
 You want to do this before your first meeting so that you have some new people who will show up when you start. Once you have your basic club in mind, and a time and place for your first meeting, find ways to advertise what you are planning. Make sure any advertising or announcing you do includes the name of your organization, the time and place of your next (or first) meeting. You should also include some contact information for you so that people can contact you if they have questions, or want more information.


Remember that your target audience is people who care about the environment, and would be interested in volunteering for your projects. Make sure your advertising reaches those people, so look for existing environmental clubs, service organizations, and places where you might find others interested in the environment.
At first, you’ll probably want to keep your advertising cheap, if not free. Get your friends to spread the new by word of mouth, post fliers in strategic locations, and put announcements into newsletters, community calendars, and church bulletins.
A social media account, like a Facebook page, is a good way to reach many others. These can also be good platforms for people to communicate with you and learn about what you want to do.
 Once you’ve got your club up and running, get in contact with other environmental groups in your area. Look for ways your group can help with projects they have in mind, and think about how they can help you with your ideas. You may even find some people who want to join your club.One really good way to do this is through your social media account. Use that page to follow and communicate with other club’s accounts. Even if you have a slightly different focus, you’ll probably reach a few more people who care about your issues.
 Once you have some people interested, and a place to meet, have your first meeting. Get people to show up and talk about what the club will be doing. Talk about what you want the club to accomplish, and how everyone will be involved.The most important thing you can do at this meeting, along with making sure people know about your club, is to get contact information. If someone shows up, make sure you get people’s names, phone numbers, and emails. This way, you’ll be able to keep in contact with them when trying to schedule future meetings. Be sure to also give them some contact information for the club, so they can contact you if they need something.
One good way to encourage people to show up to the first meeting is to provide snacks. If you are going to have food, make sure you mention it when you tell people about the meeting, so it will encourage them to come.
 Once your club has started, you’ll want to start doing projects to carry out your environmental goals. Your probably started with one or two ideas in mind, which is good. These are things you can get started on something quickly, which will keep your new members interested.


Part of planning projects may include raising money to pay for those projects. Some projects cost money, as you will need supplies and other things that aren’t free (like volunteer labor). When you think about projects, think about how much they will cost, and where that money will come from. If it is more than you have readily available, consider adding fundraising projects to your list of things to do., There are many different ways you can do environmental work and help create a cleaner Earth. Some of those projects will take a long time and many hours of outdoor work, while others might only take a day or two. Create a plan of events and projects that your club can work on. A big project might include the creation of a community garden, or the cleanup of a highway. These are long-term projects that will take a lot of effort and time from a lot of people. Depending on where you live, you might not be able to work on them all year round, either.
Shorter-term projects could be something like a letter-writing campaign to local officials, or decorating posters to advertise an upcoming event. These are things you can do in the course of a single meeting, and can fill the time when you can’t work on your bigger ideas.

